Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3137 CM
Development Credit Agreement
(National Agricultural Extension and Research Program Support Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 23, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3137 CM 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 23, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from the International Fund for 
Agricultural Development (IFAD) a loan in an amount of seven million nine hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,900,000) to assist in financing part of the 
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the IFAD Loan 
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and IFAD; 
(C)
the Borrower has contracted from the African Development Fund (ADF) a 
loan in an amount of seven million Units of Account ADF (UA ADF 7,000,000) to assist 
in financing Part B.3 of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an 
agreement (the ADF Loan Agreement) dated December 8, 1998 between the Borrower and 
ADF; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15): 
“12.
“Participating Country” means any country that the Association 
determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution 
No. 183 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on June 
26, 1996; and “Participating Countries” means, 
collectively, all such 
countries.”; and
(b)
the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not 
a 
Participating Country or for 
goods produced in, or services supplied from, such 
territories; 
or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is 
prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the United Nations.”.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Beneficiary” means any public or private sector research organization, 
university, or any other qualified person or organization involved in agriculture, 
livestock or fisheries, to whom, and for whose benefit, a Research Grant (as 
hereinafter defined) is made or proposed to be made;
(b)
“DPA” means Direction de la Production Agricole, the agricultural 
production directorate within MINAGRI (as hereinafter defined);
(c)
“Fiscal Year”  means the Borrower’s fiscal year, which begins on July 1 
and ends on June 30 of each year;
(d) 
"CFA Franc” or "CFAF" means Franc de la Communauté Financière Africaine,  
the currency of the Borrower;
(e) 
"IRAD" means the Institut de la Recherche Agricole pour le Développement, 
an établissement public administratif established and operating under the Borrower’s 
Decree No. 96/050 dated March 12, 1996;
(f) 
“MINAGRI-MINEPIA Cooperation Agreement” means the Convention Générale de 
Collaboration, dated September 2, 1997, between MINAGRI and MINEPIA (as hereinafter 
defined), providing for terms and conditions of cooperation within the framework of 
the Borrower’s National Agricultural Extension Program (as hereinafter defined);
(g) 
“MINAGRI-MINREST Cooperation Agreement” means the Convention Générale de 
Collaboration, dated April 30, 1996, between MINAGRI and MINREST (as hereinafter 
defined), providing for terms and conditions of cooperation within the framework of 
the Borrower’s National Agricultural Extension Program (as hereinafter defined);
(h) 
“Midterm Review" means the midterm review of the progress made in 
carrying out the Project, referred to in Section B.2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(i) 
“MINEPIA” means Ministère de l’Elevage, des Pêches et des Industries 
Animales, the Borrower’s Ministry responsible for livestock, fisheries and animal 
Page  3
industries;
(j) 
"MINAGRI" means Ministère de l'Agriculture, the Borrower’s Ministry 
responsible for agriculture;
(k) 
“MINREST” means Ministère de la Recherche Scientifique et Technique, the 
Borrower’s Ministry responsible for scientific and technical research;
(l) 
“National Agricultural Extension Program” means the program adopted by 
the Borrower  in September 1997 for the development of agricultural extension in its 
territory;
(m) 
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.04 of this 
Agreement;
(n) 
"Project Implementation Manual" means the manual referred to in Section 
A.1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and adopted pursuant to Section 6.01(c) of this 
Agreement, outlining the procurement, disbursement and other arrangements, for the 
implementation of the Project, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes any schedules to the Project Implementation Manual;
(o) 
“Province” means any of the ten administrative areas of the Borrower’s 
territory; and “Provinces” mean all of these areas;
(p) 
“Research Grant” means a research grant made, or proposed to be made, by 
the Borrower, out of the proceeds of the Credit, to a Beneficiary for the purposes of 
carrying out a Subproject (as hereinafter defined);
(q) 
“Research Grant Manual” means the manual setting forth, inter alia, 
eligibility criteria, procedures and guidelines for the appraisal, approval, 
administration and supervision of Subprojects (as hereinafter defined) and to be 
adopted by the Borrower pursuant to Section C.2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the 
Research Grant Manual;
(r) 
"Second Generation Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in 
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
(s) 
“Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(t) 
“Subproject” means a specific activity financed, or proposed to be 
financed through a Research Grant, to be carried out under Part B.2 of the Project, in 
accordance with the policies and procedures set forth in the Research Grant Manual and 
outlined in Section C.3 and 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eleven million four hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 11,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and 
(ii) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be paid) on account of 
withdrawals made for the benefit of a Beneficiary under a Research Grant to meet the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for a Subproject, and in respect of 
which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFAF a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
Page  4
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower may additionally open and maintain in CFAF, for the benefit 
of MINAGRI or MINEPIA,  one Second Generation Special Account for each Province in a 
local correspondent bank or branch of the commercial bank referred to in Section 2.02 
(b) above, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit  Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on 
each February 15 and August 15 commencing February 15, 2009 and ending August 15, 
2038.  Each installment to and including the installment payable on August 15, 2018 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever:  (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by the Association of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify 
the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower 
to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to 
commence repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the 
date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit  withdrawn and 
Page  5
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project through MINAGRI with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, environmental, and agricultural practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall, for the purposes of making available its counterpart 
contribution for the financing of the incremental operating costs of the Project(as 
hereinafter defined in paragraph 2(c) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement):
(a)
open and thereafter maintain in CFAF, an account (the Project Account), 
in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
not later than January 15, 2000, deposit an initial contribution of CFAF 
three hundred sixty million (CFAF 360,000,000) into the Project Account;
(c)
thereafter, deposit into the Project Account at least on a quarterly 
basis, until the completion of the Project, such amounts as shall be required to 
timely replenish the Project Account back to the amount of the initial deposit 
referred to in paragraph (b) above; and
(d)
ensure that the amounts deposited into the Project Account shall be used 
exclusively for payments made or to be made in respect of the reasonable cost of goods 
and services for the Project in addition to those financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit. 
ARTICLE IV 
Page  6
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account and each of 
the Second Generation 
Special Accounts, for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable 
to the 
Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such 
year, the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit  
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain , or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the Fiscal Year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit  
Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that 
the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure 
submitted during such Fiscal Year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the 
IFAD Loan or 
the ADF Loan, or any grant or loan, made to 
the Borrower for the 
financing of the Project 
shall have been suspended, canceled or 
terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement 
providing therefore, or 
Page  7
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, 
cancellation, termination or prematuring 
is not caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of 
its obligations under such agreement; and (B) 
adequate 
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph 
(a)(i)(B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso  of 
paragraph (a)(ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
the detailed annual work plans, including training programs, and budgets 
in respect of Project activities, referred to in Section A.4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, for the initial period up to December 31, 1999, have been received and 
found satisfactory by the Association; 
(b)
the Borrower has employed the independent auditors referred to in Section 
4.01(b) of this Agreement, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 
3 to this Agreement;
(c)
the Borrower has adopted the Project Implementation Manual in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association; and
(d)
the IFAD Loan Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness  or to the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been 
fulfilled. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for public 
investments and regional development is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Public Investments
  and Regional Development
Yaoundé
Republic of Cameroon
Cable address:
Telex:
MINPAT
8203 KN
Page  8
Yaoundé
With copy to:
Caisse Autonome d’Amortissement
P.O. Box 7167
Yaoundé
Republic of Cameroon
Cable address:
Telex:
CAA
8858 KN
Yaoundé
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or 
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
By /s/ Jérôme Mendouga 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit  to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent
to be Financed
Page  9
(1)
Research Grants
    760,000
100% of amounts disbursed
under Part B.2
of the Project
(2)
Equipment and
  1,960,000
100% of foreign
vehicles (excluding
expenditures and 85%
motorcycles)
of local expenditures
(3)
Studies, audits and
  1,360,000
100%
consultants' services
(4)
Incremental operating
  4,060,000
100% up to SDR 1,730,000
costs
and 35% thereafter
(5)
Training under Parts C,
  2,710,000
100%
D, E and F of the
Project
(6)
Unallocated
    550,000
TOTAL
 11,400,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower ;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; 
and
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means the incremental expenses 
incurred on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring (excluding 
Part B.1 and 3 thereof), including office supplies, vehicle operation (excluding 
motorcycles), bank charges on the Special Account and the Second Generation Special 
Accounts, travel and supervision costs, and salaries of about 200 contractual 
agricultural extension female staff,  but excluding salaries of officials of the 
Borrower’s civil service.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: 
(a)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and 
(b)
in respect of a Research Grant under Category (1) of the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless: (i) the Research Grant has been made in 
accordance with the procedures, and on the terms and conditions set forth, or referred 
to, in Section C.3 and 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (ii) the committee referred 
to in Section C.1 of Schedule 4 of this Agreement has been established and its members 
have been appointed; and (iii) the Research Grant Manual has been adopted by the 
Borrower in form and substance satisfactory to the Association.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (a) under contracts for goods 
not exceeding $100,000 equivalent each; (b) under contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms not exceeding $100,000 equivalent each; (c) under contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants not exceeding $50,000 equivalent each; (d) all 
operating costs and training; and (e) for Research Grants not exceeding $50,000 
equivalent each; all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Page  10
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to increase the agricultural productivity and 
incomes of farmers in the territory of the Borrower through strengthening the capacity 
for the provision of agricultural extension services and improving agricultural 
research associated thereto and gradually rationalizing the use of public resources in 
support of agricultural services.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Agricultural Extension
Strengthening and support of a cost-effective system of agricultural advisory 
services for crop and livestock farmers and fishermen: (a) including the transfer of 
environmentally sustainable improved technology with particular emphasis on 
resource-poor and women farmers; (b) ensuring the availability of improved seeds and 
breeding stock; and (c) increasing the use of mass media; all such activities through 
a participatory diagnosis of farmers’ production problems,  the provision of  
technical advisory services and the acquisition of equipment.
Part B:
Agricultural Research
1.
Carrying out research and extension activities through agreements between 
MINAGRI’s  and MINEPIAS’s provincial services and agricultural research stations or 
centers in the Provinces concerned, providing for: (a) a participatory diagnosis of 
farmers’ production problems; (b) training of subject matters specialists and field 
staff; and (c) on-farm tests and trials; all such activities through  the provision of 
technical advisory services and the acquisition of equipment. 
2.
Preparation of a Research Grant Manual, through the provision of technical 
advisory services, and provision of Research Grants for the financing of Subprojects 
including research on agricultural production and post-harvest problems identified 
during the participatory diagnosis referred to in Parts A and B.1 of the Project.
3.
Strengthening of the research capacity of IRAD, including: (a) infrastructure 
rehabilitation in selected IRAD stations; (b) the carrying out of on-station and farm 
level research work; and (c) the training of IRAD research staff;  through  the 
provision of technical advisory services and the acquisition of equipment.
Part C:
Training and Human Resources Development
1.
Carrying out a training and human resources development program for agricultural 
extension and research staff, focusing on: (a) orientation and reorientation training; 
(b) continuous on-the-job training; and (c) training related to specific needs 
identified by farmers; all such activities through the provision of technical advisory 
services and the acquisition of equipment. 
2.
Carrying out a study on personnel management procedures for research and 
extension staff. 
3.
Carrying out a study relating to the demand and supply for agricultural 
technicians. 4.
Rehabilitation of two or three agricultural technical colleges 
following the recommendations of the study included in Part C.3 of the Project.
Part D:
Support to Farmers’ Organizations and Links with the Private Sector
Promotion and strengthening of  the collaboration between the Borrower’s 
national extension and research services, private sector partners (such as 
agricultural input suppliers, traders and purchasers of agricultural products) and 
farmers’ organizations to ensure better access by farmers to commercial marketing and 
supply outlets, credit institutions, and agricultural inputs, as well as improved 
planting material and breeding stock, through the provision of training and technical 
advisory services and the acquisition of equipment.
Page  11
Part E:
Village-based Participative Community Development 
Assistance to about 75 to 100 village communities in three main  agro-ecological 
zones of the Borrower’s territory (Northern, Western Highlands and Southern forests) 
to analyze their rural development priority needs and prepare and execute action plans 
to address said needs, through the provision of technical advisory services, trainers’ 
training in the methodology of community participation and the acquisition of 
equipment.
Part F:
Monitoring and Evaluation; Studies 
1.
Support for the design and establishment of a system of internal and external 
monitoring and evaluation of the impact of the Project, through the provision of 
technical advisory services and the acquisition of equipment. 
2.
Assessing the financial benefits resulting from the adoption of new farming 
technologies, through the provision of training and  technical advisory services. 
3.
Carrying out studies to formulate a rural sector development strategy and action 
plan relating thereto in the territory of the Borrower, through the provision of 
technical advisory services. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and in 
September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this 
Part A (the Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section 
I. 
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and "member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and "Participating Country”.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods, particularly vehicles and 
motorcycles, shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or 
more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
Page  12
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Goods and works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent for goods and $ 900,000 
equivalent for works, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $ 20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $ 600,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of  national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of  $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  In addition, the first National Competitive 
Bidding contract for goods and works, respectively, shall be submitted to the 
Association for such prior review. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of 
this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts 
of this Section II. 
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for the Project, estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  13
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for extension, training, monitoring and evaluation, under Parts  A, C, 
D, E and F of the Project, as well as for support to farmers’ organizations, estimated 
to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
2.
Least-Cost Selection
Services for any financial audit required under the Project, estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Single Source Selection
Services for extension and research activities under Parts A, B.1 and 2, and D 
of the Project, estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may, with 
the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth under paragraph 5.1 of 
the Consultant Guidelines may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
5.
Service Delivery Contractors
Services to be provided by field agents and supervisory staff who do not have 
civil servant status under Parts A, C, D, E and F of the Project, shall be procured in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given. 
Page  14
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
Section A:
Overall Project Implementation
1.
For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall apply the 
policies, procedures and arrangements specified in the Project Implementation Manual 
and the Research Grant Manual.  Except as otherwise agreed with the Association, the 
Borrower shall not amend the Project Implementation Manual or the Research Grant 
Manual which, in the opinion of the Association, would materially affect the 
implementation of the Project or any part thereof. 
2.
(a)
Not later than March 31, 1999, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association, for its review and comments, detailed proposals for a coordination system 
between research and extension activities at the national and provincial levels.
(b)
Not later than October 31, 1999, the Borrower shall implement the 
coordination system referred to in paragraph (a) above with due diligence and 
efficiency. 
3.
(a)
The Borrower shall carry out the Project under MINAGRI oversight, in 
close collaboration with MINEPIA, MINREST and their central and provincial 
administrations responsible for advisory services, and in accordance with the 
MINAGRI-MINEPIA and MINAGRI-MINREST Cooperation Agreements.
(b)
Until the completion of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain a 
national coordinator assisted by a deputy coordinator, both with qualifications, 
experience and functions satisfactory to the Association.  Said national coordinator 
shall report to the DPA’s Director and shall be responsible for the overall management 
and coordination of the Project.
(c)
At the level of each Province, the provincial supervisor of either 
MINAGRI or MINEPIA, as appropriate, shall be responsible for the day-to-day management 
of Project activities carried out in the respective Province. 
4.
As of October 31, 1999, not later than October 31 of each year, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association, for its review and approval, proposed detailed work 
plans, including training programs, and proposed budgets in respect of Project 
activities for the forthcoming calendar year. 
5.
Not later than June 30, 2000, the Borrower shall establish, and thereafter 
maintain, a financial management system satisfactory to the Association, ensuring the 
timely release and availability of local funds required to meet the total operational 
costs of agricultural extension services at the level of each Province. 
6.
Not later than December 31, 2000, the Borrower shall carry out a review of 
MINAGRI’s and MINEPIA’s operations and human resources in accordance with terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Association.
7.
Not later than December 31, 1999 and December 31, 2001, respectively, the 
Borrower shall undertake an external beneficiary assessment of the farmers relating to 
the effectiveness of agricultural extension and research services, in accordance with 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association. 
8.
Not later than December 31, 2000 and December 31, 2002, respectively, the 
Borrower shall undertake a rural household survey relating to the evaluation of the 
impact of the Project on production, in accordance with terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association. 
9.
Not later than June 30, 1999, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for 
Page  15
its review and approval, a detailed proposal for a pilot project designed to test 
alternative extension delivery systems.
Section B:
Project Monitoring and Reviews
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about March 31 of each year, a report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) above, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by June 30 of each year, or such later date 
as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) above, and 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and Association’s views on the matter.
2.
(a)
The Borrower shall, not later than March 31, 2001, carry out, jointly 
with the Association, the Midterm Review to assess the progress achieved in the 
execution of the Project.  Said Midterm Review shall cover, inter alia: 
(i)
the performance as against the key indicators referred to in 
paragraph 1(a) 
above; 
(ii)
the evaluation of the impact of pilot activities under the Project 
and 
proposals for the future development of such pilot 
activities; 
(iii)
the evaluation of the operation of the financial management system 
referred to 
in Section A.5 of this Schedule; 
(iv)
the results of the review referred to Section A.6 of this 
Schedule, including 
proposed follow-up actions; 
(v)
the implementation of the rural sector development strategy and 
action plan 
relating thereto, referred to in Part F.3 of the 
Project; and 
(vi)
the assessment of the efficiency of the coordination system 
between research 
and extension activities.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, at least six (6) weeks 
prior to the Midterm Review, a report, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested, regarding the items listed in paragraph 
(a) above and the status of Project execution generally.
(c)
On the basis of the Midterm Review, the Borrower shall, not later than 
four (4) weeks after the Midterm Review, prepare an action plan, acceptable to the 
Association, for the future implementation of the Project, and thereafter, implement 
such action plan with due diligence and efficiency.
Section C:
Policies and Procedures for the Subprojects (Research Grants) 
1.
Not later than March 31, 1999, the Borrower shall establish and thereafter 
maintain until the completion of the Project, a committee (the Committee) with members 
and functions satisfactory to the Association.  Said Committee shall be responsible, 
inter alia, for inviting proposals for Subprojects identified through the 
participatory diagnosis referred to in Parts A and B.1 of the Project, appraise the 
Page  16
proposed Subprojects and approve Research Grants to be made to finance Subprojects. 
2.
Not later than June 30, 1999, the Borrower shall, through MINAGRI, MINEPIA and 
MINREST, furnish to the Association, for its review and approval, the Research Grant 
Manual.
3.
Subprojects shall be appraised and approved in accordance with the policies and 
procedures set forth in detail in the Research Grant Manual and outlined hereunder:
(a)
A proposed Beneficiary shall be a public or private sector research 
organization, university, or any other person or organization involved in agriculture, 
livestock or fisheries, which shall have been invited by the Committee to make a 
proposal for a Subproject, on the basis of qualifications and experience, results 
achieved under research activities previously carried out and dissemination of said 
results to the benefit of farmers.
(b)
A proposed Subproject shall include only activities: 
(i)
aimed at addressing a problem on agricultural production or 
post-harvest 
identified as a priority need through the 
participatory diagnosis referred to 
in Parts A and B.1 of the 
Project; 
(ii)
which shall be economically, financially and environmentally 
justified; and 
(iii)
of a total estimated cost not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, out of 
which 
vehicles and laboratory equipment shall not represent 
more than twenty percent 
(20%).
(c)
Applications for Research Grants to finance Subprojects shall be prepared 
by the proposed Beneficiaries and shall be approved by the Committee,  Any proposed 
Research Grant for a Subproject equivalent to $50,000 or more shall require the 
Association’s prior approval. 
4.
Terms and Conditions of Research Grants made for Subprojects
Subprojects shall be carried out pursuant to agreements concluded between the 
Borrower and the Beneficiaries, on terms and conditions set forth in the Research 
Grant Manual, satisfactory to the Association, which shall, inter alia, include the 
following:
(a)
the obligation for the Beneficiary to carry out a Subproject in 
accordance with the Research Grant Manual, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with sound technical, environmental, financial and managerial standards, 
and to maintain adequate records;
(b)
the requirement that: (i) the goods, works and services to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured at a reasonable price, account 
being taken also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery, efficiency and 
reliability of the goods and, in the case of consultants’ services, of their quality 
and the competence of the parties rendering them, and in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods, works and services 
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Subproject;
(c)
the right of the Borrower to inspect, by itself, or jointly with the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, work sites, plants and 
construction included in the Subproject, the operations thereof and any relevant 
records and documents;
(d)
the right of the Borrower to obtain all information as the Borrower or 
the Association shall reasonably regarding the administration, operations and 
financial condition of the Subproject and the benefits to be derived from the 
Subproject; and
(e)
the right of the Borrower to suspend or terminate the right of the 
Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such Beneficiary to 
Page  17
perform any of its obligations under its agreement with the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) to (5) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project, as well as amounts 
paid or to be paid under Research Grants, and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to CFAF 
800,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount equivalent to CFAF 600,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals 
from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall 
specify. 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for 
the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and 
as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special Account 
for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn 
by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
Page  18
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions. 
7.
(a)
The Borrower shall withdraw from the Special Account and deposit into 
each Second Generation Special Account funds to assist the beneficiary of such account 
to pay for goods and services under the Project. Such withdrawals and deposits shall 
be in amounts sufficient to assist each beneficiary in the manner contemplated in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to pay for such goods and services in due course, 
provided that, at no time, shall the Borrower cause the amount held in any Second 
Generation Special Account to exceed the equivalent of CFAF 50,000,000. 
(b)
Any withdrawal from any Second Generation Special Account must be 
justified to the Borrower by the same documentation and other evidence regarding 
eligible expenditures provided for under paragraph 3 of this Schedule.
(c)
If the Association or the Borrower shall have determined at any time that 
any amount outstanding in any Second Generation Special Account will not be required 
Page  19
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the beneficiary of such Second 
Generation Special Account shall, promptly upon notice from the Association or the 
Borrower, refund to the Special Account such outstanding amount.
