FILE        COPY                            Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2182-MAI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
ENTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR A
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
December 7, 1977
This document has a resricted distidbuton and may be used by eciplents only In the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         =     Malawi Kwacha (MK)
US$1.00                     M MK 0.89
MK 1.00                     US$1.12
MK 1,000              =     US$1,120
MK 1,000,000          =     US$1,120,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 foot (ft)               =     0.305 meters (m)
1 mile (mi)               =     1.609 kilometers (km)      2
1 square mile (sq mi)     =     2.590 square kilometers (km )
1 ton (t)                 =     0.907 metric tons (m ton)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
DEVPOL - Government's Statement of Development Policies
MWS    - Ministry of Works and Supplies
GOVERNMENT'S FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAWI
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:           Republic of Malawi
Beneficiary:        Ministry of Works and Supplies
Amount:             US$10.5 million equivalent
Terms:              Standard
Project
Description:       The objective of the project is to assist the Government
in the general strategy of developing the northern half
of the country, particularly-the Mzimba area where several
rural development projects have been initiated or planned.
Specifically the project consists of:
(a)  Construction of the Kasungu-Jenda road (about 53
miles) to two-lane bituminous surfaced standard;
and strengthening of three short sections (total-
ing 12 miles) of the Zomba-Lilongwe road;
(b)  Consulting services for the supervision of the
construction works, the strengthening of the Zomba-
Lilongwe road and for the feasibility and possibly
engineering studies of the Jenda-Mzuzu road.
Consultant          Engineering consultants have been retained for finaliza-
Services:          tion of design, preparation of tender documents, evaluation
of tenders and supervision of construction of the Kasungu-
Jenda road (about 88 man-months). Engineering consultants
will be retained to carry out the feasibility and engineering
studies of the Jenda Mzuzu road (about 110 man-months).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discseod without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Project Cost
and Financing Plan
Description                          --------------US$ Million-------------
Local Cost    Foreign Cost   Total Cost
I.    Construction Kasungu-Jenda            3.80           5.25           9.05
II.   Strengthening of sections
of Zomba-Lilongwe                  0.48            1.12           1.60
III.  Consulting Services
(i) Supervision of I            0.09            0.36          0.45
(ii) Supervision of II           0.01            0.07          0.08
(iii) Feasibility and
Eng. studies              0.11            0.45          0.56
IV.   Contingencies
(a)  Physical:   10 percent          0.45            0.72           1.17
(b)  Expected price increase         0.87            1.31           2.18
Total Project Cost                    5.81           9.28          15.09
(Total Project Cost
excluding taxes
and duties)                        4.98            9.28          14.26
The financing of the project would be as follows:
--------------US$ Million-------     --     Percent of
Local Cost     Foreign Cost   Total Cost    Total Cost
IDA                      2.65            7.85           10.50           74
OPEC Special Fund        0.37            1.43            1.80           12
Government               1.96             - _1.96                       14
Total                  4.98            9.28          14.26           100
Estimated
Disbursements:                   US$ MILLION
Bank FY             1978     1979      1980     1981
Annual              1.8      3.6       4.7       0.4
Cumulative          1.8      5.4      10.1      10.5
Rate of Return:      14 percent
Staff Appraisal      No. 1607a-MA, dated December 7, 1977
Report:            Eastern Africa Projects Department
Eastern Africa Region
MAP:                 No. IBRD 12857



INTERNITIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RFCOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO TH1 EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO TIIE NEPUBLIC OF MALAWI FOR A
_  IRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the folLowiig report and recommendation on a proposed
cre it to the Republic of M4ala !i for the equivalent of US$10.5 million on
staidard IDA terms to help finance a Third Highway Project. The OPEC Special
Fund is expected to cofinaice the project with a loan to Malawi of up to
US$1.8 million for a period of 20 years, including about 5 years of grace, at
an interest rate of 0.75 p rce t per annum.
PA1T I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitle   "2 morandum on the Economy of Malawi" (Report
No. 1677a-MAI) dated September 30, 1977 was circulated to the Executive
Directors on October 10, 1977. Country data sheets are provided in Annex I.
3.        At Independence in 1,64, Malawi was the poorest of the three terri-
tories of the former Central African Federation. With a population of 5.2
million and a land area of about 36,400 square miles, its population density
with 143 inhabitants per squar, mile of land area is in the middle range of
African countries. Its main assets are moderately fertile soils, good water
resources and a climate favorable to crop production. Unlike its neighbors,
Malawi has no substantial mineral resources. Forests constitute the main,
essentially untapped, resource which could be exploited on a significant scale
in the future. At Independence, the tax base was very narrow, government
revenues had to be supplemented with British budgetary aid to support the
admi:iistration, and prospects for economic development were generally regarded
as bleak.
4.        Measured against the country's natural endowments, progress since
1964 has been remarkable. Between 1964 and 1976, GDP at constant prices grew
at an average annual rate of 6.5 percent, domestic investment and savings
increased rapidly, and government finances have improved sufficiently to
eliminate the need for budgetary aid. Agriculture, which dominates the
economy and contributed 46 percent of GDP in 1976, has been directed towards
export markets by encouraging cash crop estates production and integrated
rural development schemes. Diversification has also been promoted. In
addition, rapid industrial development (the share of industry rose from 9
percent of GDP in 1964 to 12 percent in 1976) has significantly broadened the
economic base. Despite this economic improvement, however, Malawi still has
a GNP per capita of only US$140 and is listed by the United Nations among the
world's poorest countries.



5.        Malawi's success has been the result of realistic and purposeful
planning by the Government. In 1971, a Statement of Development Policies
(DEVPOL) was published, which provides a general framework within which the
Government operates a three-year rolling plan. DEVPOL contains guidelines
for major economic targets up to 1980 and states the main socio-economic
objectives, among which are: (a) to raise living standards and productivity
in rural areas; (b) to achieve an average annual growth of GDP of 8 percent
through the parallel development of smallholder output, estate agriculture
and industry; (c) to promote a more balanced regional development; and (d)
to develop local initiatives and a gradual increase of local participation
in the economy.
6.        Within the public sector investment program, agriculture will
receive 19 percent, public utilities 17 percent, and social services 15
percent. The transportation sector will receive about 35 percent, although
between now and 1980 the proportion is expected to be temporarily higher (46
percent) because of the concentration of several lumpy investments in those
years. Malawi has an effective administration which has been quite successful
in preparing and implementing development projects.
7.        DEVPOL recognizes the important role of private investment in de-
velopment which, it is anticipated, will account for about half of total
fixed capital formation over the 1971-1980 period. The Government also
recognizes the role of a healthy private sector in generating foreign exchange
and savings needed to sustain other elements of the development strategy, and
has adopted policies which are intended to attract foreign investors and to
ensure a continued high growth of the private sector. Trade and payments
policies are liberal, profits moderately taxed and wages are held down to
favor labor-intensive estates and industries. The modern private sector
has been the leader in economic growth. The output of estate agriculture
increased by 10 percent a year in real terms over the past decade, and indus-
trial production rose by 13 percent annually.
8.        In 1969 (the last year for which reliable income data are available)
income distribution was relatively favorable. The poorest 40 percent of
households received 15 percent of incomes; the highest 20 percent received 53
percent and the highest 5 percent received 30 percent. These figures compared
well with those of other developing countries. Since then, the rapid de-
velopment of the modern private sector has probably led to a more skewed
situation.
9.        To offset the adverse distributional effect of the growth of the
modern private sector, the Government has directed its agricultural invest-
ment program towards the smallholders.    However, the Government recognized
only recently the importance of sufficiently remunerative producer prices
and, after keeping them for a long time at levels which were low compared to
international levels and apparently too low to provide a sufficient incentive
to higher production, increased them substantially. Indirectly, wage and
price policies have reduced the gap between wage earners and subsistence
farmers.



- 3 -
Over the past seven years, real wages have fallen somewhat, while the real
earnings of smallholders have risen. Keeping a firm check on wage increases
has also resulted in higher wage employment which has increased by 8 percent
a year on the average since 1968.
10.       Owing to its fast rate of population increase, estimated at 2.6 per-
cent annually, the population pressure in some areas is heavy in relation
to arable land. While recognizing the existence of this problem, the Govern-
ment has been reluctant to introduce population control policies and intends
to rely instead on balanced regional development policies that would encourage
the movement of population to the less densely populated areas. Only about
10 percent of the total population live in urban areas. However, because of
the diversification of the economy, urban population is rapidly increasing by
more than 10 percent per annum, in line with the expansion of wage employment
opportunities in the non-agricultural sectors.
11.       Since about 90 percent of the population live in rural areas, rural
development is a primary social and economic objective. At the moment, the
majority of farmers are smallholders on the fringe of the market economy.
Their staple crop is almost exclusively maize and their principal cash crops
are tobacco and groundnuts. Until now, the principal instrument for increas-
ing smallholder productivity has been relatively intensive integrated devel-
opment projects in specific areas, which at the moment reach about 25 percent
of the rural population.
12.       In spite of the Government's efforts, however, the production from
the traditional agricultural sector has lagged behind that of the estate
sector. Although firm figures are lacking, indications are that the produc-
tion from the traditional sector has not increased by much more than 3 per-
cent a year over the past decade. The Government is concerned about this
relatively slow growth and is preparing a country-wide approach to rural
development, which would be a departure from the previous approach in that
it would primarily concentrate on the provision of farm inputs and exten-
sion services with less emphasis on infrastructure. This new approach - the
National Rural Development Program - is to become the Government's chief
vehicle for smallholder development.
13.       The country's performance in generating and using domestic resources
has been impressive. Investment in fixed assets grew from 9 percent of GDP
in 1964 to 22 percent in 1976. Domestic savings, which were virtually nil in
1964, financed 64 percent of total investment in 1976.    The Government skill-
fully managed its budget and undertook to stabilize private savings. From
1964 to 1976, recurrent revenues grew by 14 percent a year on the average,
while the annual increase in recurrent expenditures was kept down to 9 percent.
The domestic contribution to the financing of government development expendi-
tures, which was negative in 1964, increased to 27 percent in 1976. Last
year, the budgetary situation became somewhat tighter. Despite the infla-
tionary pressures, the increase in recurrent expenditures was moderate, but
current receipts grew little as a result of declining receipts of import



- 4 -
duties. Meanwhile, development expenditures expanded sharply, in part in real
terms, but also because of substantial cost increases. As these increases
could not be fully met by disbursements from foreign loans and grants, a
greater recourse to domestic financial resources took place, mainly through
borrowing from the banking system. Late in the year, the Government took
measures to restore the equilibrium; credit restrictions were imposed, and
interest rates were raised. In April 1977, together with a restrained ex-
penditure budget, a number of tax measures were announced to increase
revenues. Preliminary indications are that these measures are taking effect.
14.       In 1975 and 1976, Malawi's balance of payments deteriorated.    Inter-
national reserves declined by US$56 million, down to US$26 million at the end
of 1976, equivalent to 1.5 months of imports. Net foreign assets decreased
even more steeply during this two year period, from US$76 million to minus
US$26 million. Surprisingly, the trade balance improved in real terms during
these two years, since exports continued to grow while imports remained at
about the same level. The deterioration in the balance of payments has to be
attributed to three other factors: First, Malawi's terms-of-trade deteriorated
by about 10 percent between 1973 and 1976, with an accumulative negative
effect of about US$40 million. Second, the suspension, in April 1974, of
organized recruitment of migrant workers for South Africa caused remittances
of those workers to decline from about US$35 million in 1975 to probably not
more than US$5 million in 1976. Third, capital outflows may have been substan-
tial in 1975 and 1976. This was reportedly due to the unsettled political
situation in the Southern African region, which caused exporters abroad to
insist on shorter payment periods. In support of the Government's stabili-
zation program, the IMF has granted Malawi a first tranche standby credit
equivalent to US$6.3 million. In 1977, Malawi's export prices have increased
sharply, particularly those for tea and tobacco. Also, the Government is
attempting to step-up borrowing from abroad. International reserves have once
again started to rise and reached a level of US$67 million by the end of
August.
15.       The expansion of the Government's investment programs has been
assisted by increased public capital inflows on very concessionary terms.
The net contribution from foreign official sources to the financing of public
investment increased from US$17 million in 1967 to about US$45 million in
1976, of which US$11 million were in grant form. The sources of public capital
inflow have gradually been diversified. At Independence, Britain was virtually
the only source; but by 1976, the British contributions had declined to about
40 percent. International organizations, especially IDA, provided about 40
percent, and the remainder came from a variety of bilateral sources, notably
Canada and the USA.
16.       Malawi's longer-term prospects for economic growth, external trade,
and payments are relatively favorable. Its agricultural products have gener-
ally found ready markets, particularly in the UK and more recently in the USA.
Malawi's associate membership in the EEC offers good export prospects. With
the substantial expansion of sugar production that is about to get under way,
total merchandise exports in real terms can be expected to continue to grow



- 5 -
at about 8 percent a year until 1982. By that time, Malawi's terms of trade
should still be some 5 percent more favorable than in 1976. With the con-
tinuing increase in public investment, external capital assistance will also
have to be increased. Malawi's need for gross official capital inflow is
estimated to grow from some US$80 million in 1977 to about US$125 million in
1982. Malawi is likely to continue to receive substantial amounts of assist-
ance in the form of grants, particularly from the European Development Fund.
However, it might not be realistic to assume that, in the future, the average
terms of lending will remain as favorable as in the past. The average grant
element of new commitments of official assistance (loans and grants combined)
was almost 80 percent in 1971-1975. If this percentage were to fall to 50
percent by 1985, Malawi's public debt service obligations, which were almost
7 percent of export earnings in 1976, would still remain below 10 percent of
export earnings by 1985. This indicates that although Malawi may borrow
limited amounts on conventional terms, the bulk of assistance should continue
to be on IDA terms. External capital requirements will continue to be in
excess of the foreign exchange component of project costs and external as-
sistance should, therefore, also cover some local costs in appropriate cases.
17.       At the beginning of 1977, Malawi's external public debt totaled
US$343 million, of which US$258 million had been disbursed. Debt service in
1976 amounted to US$12.7 million, equivalent to about 6 percent of foreign
exchange earnings. At the beginning of 1977, IDA's share in Malawi's dis-
bursed debt was 28.5 percent and servicing of IDA credits accounted for 3.2
percent of total debt services. As Malawi's need for external capital is
expected to grow over the next years, the Government may encounter greater
difficulty in borrowing on terms as soft as those it has received in the
past.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAWI
18.       Malawi has to date received fifteen IDA credits amounting to US$111.7
million equivalent and three Bank loans totaling US$26.2 million, of which two
on Third Window terms. Of the total Bank Group assistance, US$51.8 million
(37 percent) were allocated to agriculture, US$37.8 million (27 percent) to
power development, US$17.9 million (13 percent) to education, US$22.0 million
(16 percent) to road development and the balance of US$9.0 million (7 percent)
to water supply and to finance preparation of a planned pulp mill at Viphya.
The first Bank loan to Malawi was made on Third Window terms in June 1976 and
the first standard Bank loan in April 1977. IFC's first investment in Malawi
was made in February 1976 with a loan of US$6 million for a textile mill. A
second IFC loan of US$9.0 million for a sugar development scheme was made in
April 1977. Subject to further review of information available on the sector,
IFC might consider a third loan to Malawi to help finance the operations of
medium-sized tobacco estates. A summary statement of Bank Group operations in
Malawi as of September 30, 1977, is given in Annex II which also contains notes
on the execution of ongoing projects. Project implementation is generally
satisfactory.



-6-
19.       Bank Group operations in Malawi will continue to emphasize rural
development but importance will also be attached to infrastructure develop-
ment (power, water supply and roads) and education. In agriculture, the Bank
Group is presently assisting the Government in devising a 20-year National
Rural Development Program, for which financial assistance is expected to be
recommended following the recent appraisal of the project. We are also
considering further assistance to help consolidate two previously IDA-financed
agriculture schemes in the Shire Valley. The project was appraised last
August and is expected to be negotiated later this fiscal year. In education,
a sector study was recently carried out jointly by UNESCO and the Bank, and we
would expect it to lead to further Bank Group financing in the sector. With
regard to water supply, a WHO/Bank mission visited Malawi in early November to
assess the conditions in the sector and possibly carry out preliminary project
identification work. In the industrial sector, the Government is currently
preparing a DFC project for which we expect to recommend financial as-
sistance. A small-scale enterprises component will be included in the project
to provide managerial and financial assistance to small local businesses. The
recent appraisal mission is preparing its report. Finally, the Bank Group is
also assisting the Government in the preparation of a major pulp development
project, whose total cost has been estimated at over US$300 million equiva-
lent. Bank financial assistance for this project would be considered if
suitable external guarantees can be obtained.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR IN MALAWI
The Transport System
20.       Malawi is a long, narrow, landlocked country located in the Great
African Rift Valley. The main features of Malawi's transport system in-
clude a road network which is fairly well developed south of Lilongwe but
undeveloped in the northern half of the country; a rail system in the southern
half of the country which is used mainly for export-import and transit traffic;
lake transport which serves the north and compensates to some extent for the
undeveloped land transport links; and air transport which is dominated by
international passenger traffic.
21.       Road Transport.   Malawi has some 6,800 miles of roads of which about
1,000 miles are paved, 370 miles are engineered gravel standard and the remain-
der consists of earth roads and tracks. Road density is 184 miles per 1,000
square miles which is average for East African countries. However, the low
quality of most of the network results in high transport costs. Up to 1,880
miles of main roads serve to connect the major cities and towns, and 1,520
miles of secondary roads provide a link between smaller centers. The network
also includes 3,140 miles of district roads serving as feeder roads and 290
miles of various roads serving particular towns and agricultural estates. In
addition, the country has about 1,700 miles of unclassified feeder and crop
extraction roads within several Bank Group-financed agricultural development
projects as well as several thousand miles of undesignated earth tracks.



- 7 -
22.       In 1976, the road transport fleet totaled about 29,600 vehicles or
six vehicles per 1,000 inhabitants. The fleet includes 10,200 passenger cars,
300 buses and 10,800 goods vehicles, with the balance made up of 3,600 motor-
cycles and 4,700 other vehicles (mostly trailers). During the 1967-1976
period, the growth of the total fleet averaged 6 percent, with goods vehicles
growing faster than passenger cars. However, more than two thirds of the
goods vehicles have less than a three-ton carrying capacity and only 3 percent
of the goods fleet have more than a ten-ton capacity. In the last two years,
the number of trailers has almost doubled in Malawi and truck-trailer com-
binations are common on the main routes. Reflecting the general pattern of
economic development to date, 75 percent of the vehicles are registered in
the Southern Region.
23.       Road transport, now dominated by small operators, remains sub-
stantially unregulated. Though the Ministry of Transport and Communications
(MTC) prescribes freight rates and passenger fares, there is nonetheless
considerable undercutting of freight rates. Vehicle dimensions and weight
regulations are adequate but enforcement by the Ministry of Transport and
Communications, and the national police has until recently been somewhat lax.
Road failures may have been caused by overweight vehicles. Under the agree-
ment for the Second Highway Project, the Government has taken a number of
corrective steps in consultation with the Association, including the in-
stallation of three weighbridges and improvement in the enforcement of the
existing vehicle and axle load regulations.
24.       Rail Transport.   The rail network comprises the railway line from
Salima in the Central Region through Blantyre to the Southern border (277
miles) where it connects with the Mozambican line leading to the port of
Beira on the Indian Ocean; and a branch line (63 miles) offering an alterna-
tive route to the sea from Nkaya to Nayuci where it connects with the
Mozambican line to the port of Nacala. In addition, a westward extension
from Salima to the capital city of Lilongwe, financed by a grant from the
Canadian Government, is nearing completion and operations will commence
early next year. The Canadian Government has also agreed to finance on a
grant basis a further extension westward from Lilongwe through Mchinji to
the Zambian border. In 1975, the railway carried about 1.4 million tons of
freight and about 1.2 million passengers.
25.       Lake Transport.   Freight and passenger transport on Lake Malawi
is provided by Lake Services Ltd., a subsidiary of Malawi Railways, and
principally serves the remote northern areas of the country. Traffic volumes
are relatively light, amounting to only 35,000 tons of freight and some
148,000 passengers in 1975. At present about 70 percent of the traffic is
northbound, originating at Chipoka which is served by the railway, but this
pattern is likely to change gradually as the northern region develops.
26.       Air transport.   Air transport within Malawi is far less developed
than the other modes of transportation. Only four airports at Chileka
(Blantyre), Lilongwe, Mzuzu and Karonga receive scheduled flights.     Only
Chileka airport can accommodate long range jet aircraft; it serves as the



- 8 -
country's international airport. In 1975, Chileka accounted for over 80
percent of Malawi's recorded passenger movements totaling about 327,000
passengers. The Government will build a second international airport at
Lilongwe to be financed with commercial borrowings and financial assistance
from the African Development Fund. The total cost of the project is estimated
at US$50 million. Air Malawi, a Government-owned airline, provides interna-
tional services as well as all scheduled domestic flights. Six foreign
airlines also provide international services, and two local companies and Air
Malawi share the market for unscheduled domestic services.
Transport Policy and Coordination
27.       Malawi's present transport policy outlined in the Statement of
Development Policies has a three-fold objective: (i) improve the administra-
tive, social and economic integration of the country by linking all three
regions with reliable all-weather connections; (ii) support the country's
rural development efforts by improving access roads to the rural areas; and
(iii) provide within Malawi efficient links with transport routes leading to
seaports on the Indian Ocean for exports and imports.
28.       To this end, the Government is undertaking a major transport de-
velopment program for which numerous studies have been made or are in pro-
gress. Significant investments are now underway or planned in all the modes
of transport. Because of the concentration of several lumpy investments, the
transport sector is expected to account for 46 percent of planned expenditures
over the next three years, representing a substantial increase over the 25
percent share during 1971-1975. When these investments are completed, the
transport share of Government's capital expenditures is expected to revert to
its previous average.
29.       The responsibility for coordinating the transport investment plans
rests with the Economic Planning Division of the Office of the President
and Cabinet, which reviews proposals put forward annually by the ministries
concerned, notably the Ministry of Works and Supplies for roads, and Ministry
of Transport and Communications for all other modes. However, mainly due to
staff constraints at the Economic Planning Division, effective coordina-
tion of transport has been lacking and the different transport modes have
been developing almost independently. Modal development has tended to be
complementary rather than competitive, but recent experience with rail
investment and possible future competition between road and lake transport,
suggest that a closer analysis of intermodal trade-offs is now required. A
recently completed National Transport Study financed by UK provides a useful
starting point for such analysis, and the Economic Planning Division is
gradually improving its capacity in this respect. Moreover, the recent
recruitment of a local economist by the Ministry of Works and Supplies will
relieve the Division of projects preparation work and enable it to concentrate
more on intermodal issues.
30.       The Government exercises considerable control over transport through
its ownership of major carriers such as Air Malawi and Malawi Railways, in-
cluding the latter's two subsidiaries, Lake Services Ltd. and Road Motor



- 9 -
Services Ltd., a large trucking company. All these companies are under the
jurisdiction of the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC) which is
also responsible for regulating private carriers, including those in road
transport.
Road Administration, Planning and Financing
31.       The Ministry of Works and Supplies (MWS) is responsible for all
classified roads with the exception of the district roads which are the
responsibility of the District Councils. The Ministry of Works and Supplies
has three divisional offices in the country for field operations but planning
and overall supervision are handled by headquarters staff in Lilongwe. The
Ministry has a Plant and Vehicle Hire Organization with workshops in all
regions and a central workshop in Blantyre for major repairs. Equipment
availability is satisfactory. District roads have been largely neglected due
to inadequate resources of the District Councils, but a District Roads
Improvement and Maintenance Program has been initiated under the IDA-assisted
Second Highway Project.
32.       Reflecting the Government's general strategy to promote development
in the Central and Northern regions, about two thirds of current and planned
road construction projects are in those regions.   The road south from Karonga
through Chiweta to Rumphi is now under construction and work on the next
section south to Mzuzu is due to start next year with financing from the
African Development Bank. When these works and the Lilongwe-Kasungu road are
completed, the main north-south spine road will be completed, except for the
Kasungu-Jenda and Jenda-Mzuzu sections which will be constructed and studied
respectively under the proposed project. Other major ongoing or planned works
in the central and northern regions include improvements to the lakeshore road
between Nkata Bay and Nkotakota, and the completion of the USAID-financed
Lilongwe-Mchinji road.
33.       Road users contribute to Government revenue through taxes and
duties on fuel, lubricants, vehicles and spare parts, and through licence
and registration fees. Duties on vehicles range from 10 percent for buses
and trucks, to 40 percent for luxury cars. There is an 18 percent surtax
on fuel and all vehicles except large trucks and buses. In the 1975/76
fiscal year, total revenue from road users amounted to about US$8 million
equivalent, whereas during the same period total expenditures for administer-
ing and maintaining the road network totaled less than US$3 million equivalent.
Thus, road usage taxation can be regarded as making a significant contri-
bution to the government budget. Highway recurrent expenditures are financed
from the general budget while the cost of capital development is largely met
with grants and credits from bilateral and multilateral aid programs. Con-
struction expenditures have averaged about US$9.4 million equivalent annually
over the past four years. MWS maintenance costs have increased from US$0.6
million equivalent in 1971 to about US$2 million in 1976/77. The funds are
sufficient to ensure adequate maintenance of the bitumen and gravel roads,
but increased allocations will be required for earth roads, particularly as
responsibility for some 1,680 miles of such roads constructed under agri-
cultural projects is being transferred to MWS over the next three years.



- 10 -
However, the Government has agreed to exchange views from time to time with
the Association about its program for maintenance of such roads, including
the financing of the program (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section
4.06).
Road design, construction and maintenance
34.       MWS has a well staffed Design Department, consisting of 62 engineers,
technicians and surveyors with a well equipped laboratory for material and
soil testing. The Department is primarily engaged in design of structures and
water supply facilities. It only carries out preliminary investigations and
minor road and bridge designs and relies on engineering consultants for major
road projects.
35.       The construction of major projects is executed by contractors and
supervised by MWS's Road Department or by consulting engineers acting as its
representatives. The award of contracts follows suitable prequalification
and tendering procedures and most contracts are let on a unit-price basis.
In recent years, MWS has undertaken several force account road construction
projects for about US$2.8 million equivalent annually and the work performed
under such schemes has been generally satisfactory. Main road construction
is not labor-intensive, although the construction of culverts, drains and
structural excavation absorbs substantial labor inputs. Labor-intensive
methods are however being introduced on a trial basis in the District Roads
Improvement and Maintenance Program. There is a developing local contracting
industry in Malawi, which is fully employed on buildings, small structures
and estate roads. While local contractors are capable of carrying out the
works included in the extension of the Program, they lack the capacity for
major road works which are undertaken by foreign contractors. Payment pro-
cedures are prompt and MWS's experience in dealing with the contractors has
been satisfactory.
36.       The Regional Divisions of the MWS are responsible for the mainte-
nance of classified roads with the exception of the district roads. Mainte-
nance operations are largely mechanized but manual labor is also used for
routine operations. The Ministry's Road Department rents the maintenance
equipment from the Plant and Vehicle Hire Organization which, since its
creation in 1971, has been responsible for procuring and maintaining all
Government-owned equipment and vehicles. The Plant and Vehicle Hire Organi-
zation charges rental fees based on the cost of purchasing and maintaining
the equipment. Equipment availability and utilization are satisfactory.
37.       As noted above, district roads have been neglected, but a District
Roads Improvement and Maintenance Program was initiated in 1974 under the
IDA-financed Second Highway Project. Under a pilot scheme, an improvement
and maintenance unit was established in Kasungu district. Most of the work to
date has been executed by using light equipment but the unit has recently
begun experimenting with more labor-intensive techniques. It is already clear
that the scheme is successful and consultants have been engaged to prepare an
extension of the Program to other districts based on the experience gained.



- 11 -
The consultant's recommendations are expected to be available shortly where-
upon detailed plans will be discussed and agreed between the Government and
IDA. It is proposed to finance the extension of the program under the Second
Highway Project (ref. paragraph 39 of this Report).
Training
38.       The Government has an active program for selecting, educating and
training nationals for professional positions, but the program presently
yields too few qualified personnel, mainly because of scarcity of qualified
candidates. Training for such positions is being provided under bilateral
aid, mainly British and Canadian, and UNDP grants; such training opportunities
are more than adequate for the supply of suitably qualified trainees. More-
over, the Malawi Polytechnic is developing its capacity in this area, and the
need to send engineers abroad for training will gradually diminish except for
post-graduate training. Good progress has been made in training lower echelon
personnel such as road supervisors, foremen, equipment operators and mechanics.
This training is conducted in the Ministry's fully localized Training Branch
in Zomba. Availability of such personnel is adequate and the capacity of the
Training Branch is satisfactory to keep pace with demand.
Previous Bank Group Involvement
39.       The Bank Group has been involved in the transport sector of Malawi
since 1966 when Credit S-2-MAI was made to help finance detailed engineering
of the Zomba-Lilongwe road (180 miles). The First Highway Project with a
US$11.5 million IDA credit was approved in 1968 and comprised the recon-
struction and paving of that road as well as various studies. The Audit
Report (No. 946 of December 15, 1975) concluded that the project objectives
were achieved. Agricultural projects in the Shire Valley, Lilongwe and
Karonga areas have also routinely included the construction of feeder and
crop extraction roads.
40.       The Second Highway Project, financed by Credit 523-MAI of 1974 with
US$10.0 million, helped reconstruct the Lilongwe-Kasungu road (73.3 miles) and
initiated a pilot scheme for the improvement and maintenance of district roads
in the Kasungu district. The project, though slightly behind the original
schedule, is proceeding well. Savings in construction costs of at least
US$3.0 million are currently expected and it is proposed that these be used to
finance the extension of the District Roads Maintenance and Improvement
Program. The main reason for the substantial savings is that at the time of
appraisal, there were uncertainties about the suitability of the material
proposed for use as base course for the road pavement. As a result, a pro-
vision of US$2.3 million was included in the estimates to cover the cost of
providing a cement-stabilized base, should the need arise. The President's
Report (paragraph 28) pointed out that if the available material proved
suitable when placed on the road, cement stabilization would be omitted, and
savings in construction costs might be realized. The Development Credit
Agreement also provided that the Government would consult with the Association
before deciding on the type of base course to be used. During construction,
suitable material was found to be available and consequently no cement-based
stabilization was necessary.



- 12 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Introduction
41.       A report entitled "Malawi-Appraisal of a Third Highway Project",
(No. 1607a-MAI dated December 7, 1977) is being circulated separately. A
credit and project summary appears at the beginning of this report and a sup-
plementary project data sheet is given in Annex III. The project was prepared
by consultants and appraised by an IDA mission in March 1977. Negotiations
were held in Washington, D.C. from September 12 to September 16, 1977. The
Malawi delegation was led by the Financial Secretary.
Project Objective and Description
42.       The objective of the project is to assist the Government in the
general strategy of developing the northern half of the country, particularly
the Mzimba area where several rural development projects have been initiated
or planned. Specifically the project consists of:
(a) construction of the Kasungu-Jenda road (about 53 miles)
to two-lane bituminous surfaced standard and the strength-
ening of three short sections on the Zomba-Lilongwe road
for a total length of about 12 miles; and
(b) consulting services for the supervision of the road
construction, the strengthening of sections of the
Zomba-Lilongwe road, and for the feasibility and possibly
engineering studies of the Jenda-Mzuzu road.
43.       The Kasungu-Jenda section forms part of the south-north spine road
which runs through most of the major centers from the Mozambique border in
the south to Chitipa on the Zambian border in the north. Currently, drain-
age on that section is poor, resulting in occasional road closures during
the rainy season, and the existing earth and gravel road surface is rough
and costly to maintain. Under the project, the road will be constructed
to two-lane bituminous surfaced standard and the alignment improved. Two
short sections of the Zomba-Lilongwe road financed under the First Highway
Project and another short section adjoining this road are showing signs of
serious structural deterioration. The traffic flow has been considerably
heavier in both volume and weight than expected at appraisal. The project
will provide for the strengthening of the pavement by asphaltic concrete
overlays.
Project Cost and Financing
44.       The total estimated cost of the proposed project is US$14.3 million
net of taxes, including a foreign exchange component of US$9.3 million, or 65



- 13 -
percent of total project cost. The proposed IDA credit of US$10.5 million
would cover 74 percent of total project cost net of taxes. The OPEC Special
Fund is expected to provide additional financing up to US$1.8 million equiva-
lent by way of a loan to Malawi for 20 years including about 5 years of grace
at an interest rate of 0.75 percent per annum. The IDA credit and OPEC
Special Fund loan would together cover the foreign exchange component and
about 60 percent of local cost. The remainder of the project cost (14 percent
of the total net cost) would be financed by the Government. Cofinancing
arrangements were worked out between the three participants last September.
Under these arrangements, the IDA contribution would be applied towards the
construction costs of the Kasungu-Jenda road and all consulting services,
except those related to the strengthening works. The OPEC Special Fund Loan
would be applied towards the cost of strengthening the damaged sections on the
Zomba-Lilongwe road and its supervision. Detailed costs are as follows:
Description                         --------------US$ Million-------------
Local Cost   Foreign Cost    Total Cost
I.    Construction of Kasungu-Jenda        3.80           5.25           9.05
II.   Strengthening of sections
of Zomba-Lilongwe                  0.48           1.12           1.60
III.  Consulting Services
(i) Supervision of I            0.09           0.36          0.45
(ii) Supervision of II           0.01           0.07          0.08
(iii) Feasibility and
Eng. studies              0.11           0.45          0.56
IV.   Contingencies
(a)  Physical:  10 percent           0.45           0.72          1.17
(b) Expected price
increase                        0.87           1.31          2.18
Total Project Cost                   5.81           9.28          15.09
(Total Project Cost
excluding taxes
and duties)                        4.98           9.28         14.26
The financing of the project would be as follows:
…---------    US$ Million-------------     Percent of
Local Cost    Foreign Cost    Total Cost   Total Cost
IDA                      2.65           7.85          10.50           74
OPEC Special Fund        0.37           1.43           1.80           12
Government               1.96            -             1.96           14
TOTAL                 4.98            9.28          14.26          100



- 14 -
Implementation
45.       The Ministry of Works and Supplies will be responsible for the
execution of the project. Supervision of the Kasungu-Jenda road construc-
tion will be carried out by the consultants who have carried out the engi-
neering of that road and whose performance has been satisfactory. The same
consultants have reviewed MWS's final design of the proposed strengthening
works for the Zomba-Lilongwe road and will supervise the execution. This
arrangement is acceptable to the Association. Consultants will carry out the
proposed feasibility and engineering studies for the Jenda-Mzuzu road.
Procurement and Disbursements
46.       The construction contract for the Kasungu-Jenda road to be financed
by the proposed credit would be awarded on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. Bids have just been
received and the award of contract should take place shortly. Since on a few
recent civil works tenders in Malawi bid prices have been unexpectedly high,
submission of this project proposal to the Executive Directors was held up
until the bids were received, in order to avoid a subsequent financing gap.
In the case of the Kasungu-Jenda road, the low bid was about 5 percent above
earlier estimates but is still considered reasonable. Construction is ex-
pected to commence in April 1978 and to be completed by the end of 1979. The
contract for strengthening the Zomba-Lilongwe road will be advertised inter-
nationally, in accordance with Bank Group competitive bidding procedures.
47.       Disbursements from the IDA credit would be on the basis of 85
percent of total expenditures for consulting services and 80 percent of
total expenditures for the civil works. Retroactive financing for approxi-
mately US$50,000 from March 31, 1977 is recommended to meet the consultants
fees for preparing the tender documents and evaluating bids for the con-
struction of the Kasungu-Jenda road.
Benefits and Risks
48.       The proposed project would yield a rate of return of 14 percent
for the Kasungu-Jenda road and 13 percent for the rehabilitation of portions
of the Zomba-Lilongwe road. These rates were derived by comparing costs with
the quantifiable benefits resulting from lower vehicle operating and road
maintenance costs. Assuming a growth rate of 9 percent a year, traffic on
the Kasungu-Jenda road would increase from 86 vehicles per day in 1976 to
about 122 by 1980, the expected opening year for the new road. Improvements
in travel conditions are assumed to generate additional traffic equivalent
to 20 percent of the expected traffic level in 1980 without the improvements.
Though the project benefits will accrue in the first instance to road users,
they are, however, expected to be passed on through lower freight rates to the
population of the areas adjoining the road, estimated at about 80,000 inhabit-
ants. Although the bids for the construction contract have been received,
there is still a possible project risk of further unanticipated construction
cost increases. If such increases were equivalent to 10 percent of the
estimated cost of the project, or if traffic is 10 percent lower than assumed,
the economic rate of return would still be satisfactory at 13 percent.



- 15 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
49.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Malawi and the Association, the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association
and the text of a draft resolution approving the proposed credit are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
50.       The effectiveness of the OPEC Special Fund Loan Agreement with
Malawi is a condition of effectiveness of the IDA Development Credit Agreement
(draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.01).
51.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
52.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
December 7, 1977






Page 2 of 4 page.
flUtEs
Urnleso otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, sod for MOet Recent Estimate, between
1973 and 1975.
a MPI per capita data ore based on the World Bank Atlas nethodology (1974-76 beat.s).
05Swaziland hea been Selected asa.e objective Country because the sconomic Structure of both Countries are quite elmilar.
MALAWI           1.960   /s  Ratio Of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;          lb   1953;     Ic  1961-63;     id   Including date for
Southernk Rhodeaia and Zosbis.
-.970   Ia   Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;          /b  1954466;     I    1967;     /d  Urban only.
MOST1 RECENT ESTIMATER:    la   1976;    /b   1969-71 average.
SCiALIA         2370     la  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;          lb   Uro.. only;     /0   Including midwives and aol
aaaio tenit nuraea;    /d  1964-66.
TAN4ZANIA        ".970   Is  Mainland Tanzania;      lb   1967;     tc  1965;     id~ Aa percentage of urban hovoaholds.
SWIAZILANDS     '.70     Ia  1966;     /b  Ratio of population under 15 and 63 and over to total labor force.
RIO, October 25. 1977
DRDqNITIOSS0   OIL IlOro
Total ... f.c.  r~e comprila, 10.4 or..                      Populatin Decnrsigoro            Population divided by nooher of practicing
Total  Totaloorfar  area  oopritng lan  otto  nd inlnd cetra.        mlec adfcea graduate       cao.tand         or "certifiad" noraa, and
Agric. - boat recent eatfiare of agricultural are   used temporarily on paedns-            an1anidar  persensl   wt   rinnarezei
nen:Iy for or.~a, paatorea, market A bitchen garden. or to lie fsllos.                 PopulatItionperh0_aciral bed - Popuiotion divided by nonber of hoapttral beds
avilable in pubitc and privete genora1 and spacialiaed hoopits1 and
lISP oar capita  "IS"  - 5N? per capita aatmat.s at currant markat pricee,                  rebablictation oCenters; asolodca wooing hone. sand seatahiboeret   for
cacltdby 'ann ronvesiot mtbed as World Bank Atica (1973-75 beatst);                 cue  dia1 and praventibe ear.
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                              Per capita auol of calorie ilof rnte ~rmocoa        - Conpuied frn enorgy
aqlant of oat food suppliea o-11lble in Country per Capita per day,
PPoumlatin and vital otatlutt.                                                             available aupplieas comprise domes tic production, loporta Seas e.pooto, and
Popula,ti2(idoe oillool :A. of Ju1ly flout:         if not available, averae               Changeso In oroob; oct supplies epolude animal (and, needs, quantitiea ueed
eftoend-yea  eriaca     1950, 1970 and 1975 deco,                                     in fond processing Ind Ioases In diatribution; reoonnawre estimator
by FAO baaed on phyaiological needa foC r octl ac"Itvy and health conald-
Population denolty -_oar saqre lou - Mid-year population per square kilomseter              ering cro,iroaesentai temperature, body weighta, age end sae  dlatributimo   of
(10  bccrne) of total are.                                                            population, and alttoig lOt for wast    at household l.ael.
Pouaindensity - Car asquate on of casrle. lend - omuputed so above for              Per Capita .u?aly of eroceit (crani  ar da    - Protei.n cente   cf per capita
aglnlerl ad onlIy.                                                               -not Supply of fond per day; net eupply of food is dafined us aboe; require-
macs. for all coin"cris eacabliabed by USDA Scnonaie Reasareb Servo.ss
vital etotiatico                                                                           poovida foc a iomianre allowance of 60 grima, of total proctei    per day, sad
Crd ith rate par thousaand. average - Annatl lIve" birth. ?er thousand of              20 greate of animaal and puma protein, of which 10 grands abould he animal
ol-ya   populotion; tn-year aoitfintic aveosges ending in 1960 and 1970,              protein; thease  tandarda arc loweor than those of 75 gonna of total protein
and five-year overage ending in 1975 for mast reent eatimate.                            and 23 greso of animaal protie as o a.verage for tho world, Propoacd by PAO
Crud, de th ratEe pe  huan.avrg         - Annul deaths par thoueand of sid-yaa.             in the Third world food Survey.
pouaion; tny     ar rithmnetic averaged ending in 1960 sad 1970 and five-            Per capIta, prtei euroyirn a     imal and teiee  - Protein supply of food
year average ending in 1975 for moat r-ecent sctia eat.                                   derived frm animals end pulsac Ln gorn    per day.
Infan mohilicy ate fthou) -Annuatl deaths of infanta under one year of age          Death rate f/t~hou) aga  1-4 - imasma d.ashe per thousand in oage group 1-4
per thousand Uve hirtho.                                                                  years, to children in this age group; suggeated as an indto-toc of
Lie xecanyat birth (oral          Average number of yena   of life rema ining at            malnutrition.
birth; usually five-year averng.en sding in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for davalop-
lng countri- .                                                                         Education
Ocosa reo  duction rote - kacage number oi live daughterm a women will bear               Aijusted anollneort ratio -   tpimae choi - Enrollment of all     gea a. par-
I  tarmarnl reprnduccvti   period if ohe eelierienca. present age-apecIf I             ecg    o   ao      sho-g      po   aion; Includese children aged 6-li Years
fertility coca;., iusualy five-year "avrages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                but odjuerd for different lengths of primary education; for Countiree with
for developing countries.                                                                OOtivOaO] education, eeroIoM,st may exceed 1507 since some puptplo are bolos.
ppltio grwhrate"" CS) - toatl - Compound anoosI growth raeos of old-year                or albove the official colsool age.
ppltion for 1950-gb   16070 and 1970-5                                               Adjusted enrollment ratio -   secon~dar ch.ooi - Computed on above; aetondary
Popu'lation c rweth rate (II -  urban  - Comoputad like growth rate of total                education requiree so l-ase    four year. of approved primary inatruction;
pouain   different definitions of urban areas may affect Comparability of           provides general, vocational or teacher training boatruotions for pupilso
data amoong countrica.                                                                    of 12 to 17 years of age; Correspondence cousos, are gaso..ally oc.lIded.
urbannorulrmon t of otal) Ratio Of Urban io total population; different           Years of aobolane   vde     firat end second levels) - 'Total peare of
definition of urb..and55    may affect Comparshility of data among oonre.colsoolig; st aeodaylee,-oar1s                               imatruotn, may he parttialy n
Completely secluded.
ge stu ture (oarcent) - Children (0-14 years), woklng-sga (13-64 years),lo                   tinen    lmstfofsc         da   )-     ntoalntitm          aIcue
and retie    (65 yeara and nose) *A parcentagee of mId-year popuietmon,tcnaliduralooheprgn whCichoperat indepisideotyIn                                         oruas
Ago dpndencyratio~ - Ratio of popalatton under 15 sod 65 and over to Ihose                  deporsoanaeoftaemnderyennaitucynor
ofS ags1M     hog     4                                                                   dl ieayrt          1       ieaeaut         (able to read and writs) an par-
thnm: dpndn,.rti            Ratio of Ppoputiori    under 15 and 65 end over tocreeo                    oa     dl    oulto.gd1          co     n   vr
th ,aor force Io age gopo 15-64 Year.                                                                                          1       er    n  
Ponflvplannig - aceetor (coaulariv. tho ) - Cumulative number of acceptora      gouin
of brth-control devices under auspicee of national faminly plnigpoomearme a o                        m(ra)-Aeaenmero                  esnprrm          nocpe
since inetony.ovetoa                                                                                     dwellings in urban, tarea; dvellicgs esciude non-permanent
faiypann - ees t           f married woen).  - Percen.tages of married sa,,o, of           structure, and onecu.piad parts..
chl-bearing age (1-44 years) who use hitcth-cntrol devices to al1 married              ouedweiaait          utp   edaer(      l-Ouidcnvtoaltalog
woncti iii sane a~~~~~~e group.                                   in orban~~~~ and rural areas without (naide or outside PiPed water facilities
aa Percentsge of all occupied daellinge.
*           e~~~cceasa t  cicticryftofal d   elins         - ConvenItianal dwlig    ith
Totta laborforce ftheoaand)      E.conomicaly active persons, including arned               elecMtricity ilving quarters as percent of total dvellinga in urban end
foce  nd uineploysd but "esloding housesriven, students, etc.; definitions            rural areas.
In vArlaus Comuntries eta not conparable.                                               Rural dwellings cnnectedI to alecrtir    Xl-ComPuted as above for mrurl
Labor frei     giutr 5           - Agricultural labor force (in farming, forestry,          dwellingson.
botig nd ~fiebilng) as percent,ag of total labor force.
Unemployd f    f e  o oc)-Unemployed are usually defined .           Pasrernt who'oumr
are able e2ndowilling to tebe a job, Out of a job on a given day, remeined out            adnrciesp        rth  uo   )-Altyaofeevrsoraiobadas
of a Joband soaking work for a SPecified minimums period not aeteeding one                to geaeral Public per thousand of pepulatiom;   ecludes anlfremaad rneivern,
scab; may nor ho. Comparable baestee    countries due to di ffe rent definition           in countries end is. year stvsta registration of radio sets wee Ic effect;
of uneceplayed and aeurce of data, e.g., employnent office S.t5tittc5      ample,         data for recent pearst maY not be com2parable sizes ma  ost cottrios aboliehed
eurveYa, comPuivary aemplopmwnt inurmasc.                                                  liceSseing.
Ona is ribution    - Percentage of private lnoat   (both in cash end kind)            lees than eighta prsoa    Pcoluds aerbarssee      ben..rend oilist7.    
rec Ive   by richeat 51, richest 20%, poorest 20t, end poorest 40% of haue-              ve   chaioles.O;exlds                  sblncs        eassm
h o l d a.                                                        ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~~El e cr i c it f b w h v rp e   c a p   -   A n n u a   to n a i pr m o n   o f   i n d u s t r ia l ,   C o m e r c i a l ,
bi:trl_t_      O      l2Lj_  rah_-_r_ntgad__      lad ____b          w_thest10               public and private electricity tat kilmoatt hours per capita, generally
Sitlbta Pofre nd 10  esip-       prcnaeo         ad ownednydweswhiers15%baasd on Producolon data, without allowance for                       obesatsoi grids but allo--
sod poorest 102 of land owner..                                    ~~~~~Ing for Imports and eapots of elecorlcicy.
Health and N.trition,                                               Hadomp~~~~~~~Seesrint (kgt/yr per cap) - Per. capita adual Ironsumption in kiiograme
Popultionear pusioan  -Population divided by number of practicing                     ntimted irom d0dastin production pilus net IsPoTts of newsprint.
pbscsa qulified fran a medical school so univesity level.



ANNEIET
TABLE 3A                                 Page 1 of 4 pages
MALAWI              - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                    -…-
_______________                                  MALAwI                              REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL       118.5                                      MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      47.4                        1960      1970   ESTIMATE           SOMALIA        TANZANIA      SWAZILANe*
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                       40.0*    70.0*    140.0*/a            80.0*       100.0*/a   210.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)            3.5        4.5       5.2/a               2.8        12.9 /a     0.4
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       29.0       38.0      44. 0a               4.0       14.0 /a     24.0
PER SO. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        80.0      100.0     110:0.0               9.0       25.0 7n     30.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         49.0       49.3      47.7                47.7       50.5        50.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU.AV)          30.6       28.1      23.7                23.8       23.0        24.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)          ..         ..     142.0                  *      160-165
LIfE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       35.0       39.5      41.0               38.5        41.8        41.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.2        3.2       3.2                 3.0        3.2         3.5
POPUtATION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                 2.2        2.6       2.6                 2.4        3./a        2.7
URBAN                                 5.5        5.0       5.3                 6.1        5.6        13.6
URBAN POPULATION (x OF TOTAL)           4.4        5.6       6.4                25.6         5.5/b     10.3
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       42.9       43.9      45.4               46.5        44.4/b      46.6/a
15 TO 64 YEARS                       53.2       52.1      51.3               51.6        53. t       49.171T
65 YEARS AND OVER                     3.9        4.0       3.3                 1.9        2.67W       4.3711
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.9        p.9       0.9                 0.9         o 9. /
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0A       1           ..                1.2-/a                    if_
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            ..        ..         ..                 .
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..        ..        ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)       1700.0      1900.0                         1100.0     5600oae.0    185.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (X)         93.0      89.0              ,      , 8    2.0       91.   0     82.1
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)             .         ..         .                20.0 /b       ..
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'o BY-
HIGHEST   5% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..      29.5         ..                 ..        33.5
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..      52.9         ,,                 ,.        63.3
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..       5.7        ..                  ..        2.3
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..      15.0         ..                 ..        7.8
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
______________________________
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS              ..        ..         ..
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS            ..        ..         ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                  ..   75250.0         ..            21420.0    21570.0 /a   8100.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON             ..        ..     6550.0             3260.0 /c  4890.0 7         ..
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           940.0/b    640.0      760.0              580.0-      700.0 /a   300.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)         86.0       93.0       95.0/b             77.0        73.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              50.0       54.0      63.0/D              57.0       43.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          6.0/c      s.o/b       .                27.0 /d    23.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4               ..        ..         ..                 .
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHODL                       67.0       39.0      56.0                10.0        35.0       80.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                       1.0       2.0        2.0                5.0         3.0       19.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             14.0       14.0       14.0               12.0        13.0       12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(X OF SECONDARY)                     24.0        3.0       4.0                  *-        10.0 /c     2 .
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                   ..      22.0         ..                5.0          *-        30.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                  ..       1.9 /c     1.7
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (                                   7a.o /c,d                                 3. 30-/d
ACCEsS TO ELECTRICITY
(X OF ALL DWELLINGS)               ,    .       16.0 /c,d   ..                  ..                    9.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                     .. .I.                . .                ...
CONSUMP7ION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           9.o /d   20.0       23.0               18.0        11.0        74.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THoU POP)             ..       2.0        2.0                2.0         3.0        10.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)            10.0      32.0       58.0               10.0        31.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                 .,        .-        0.1                0.2         0.1
_______________ -----------____                                -_----__----   --_---     - -- - ---------
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976                                      ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (X, constant prices)
US$ Mln.          X                               li 64-75          1976
GNP at Market Prices           687.8         100.0                                6.5            0.9
Gross Domestic Investment      123.4          17.9                               11.5          -38.5
Gross National Savings          60.0           8.7                               14.0          -22.0
Current Account Balance        -63.4          -9.2
Exports of Goods, NFS          202.6          29.5                                7.5            6.6
Imports of Goods, NFS          246.4          35.8                                6.7          -18.7
OUTPUT, -EMPLOYMENT AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added                      Labor Force                  V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.     Z                 'Thousand                       US$ Mln.       Z
Agriculture                    311.4     46.2                  1300        85.3              239.5        54.1
Industry                      121.5      18.0                    75         4.9             1620.0       366.2
Services                      241.8      35.8                  150          9.9             1612.0       364.4
Total/Average            674.7     100.0                 1525       100.0               424.4      100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
K Mln.2,            % of GDP
1975/76-'   1975/76      1972/73-1974/75
Current Receipts                                    89.7        15.2            15.4
Current Expenditures                                84.4        14.3            14.9
Current Surplus                                      5.3         0.9             0.5
Capital Expenditures                                70.0        11.9             7.6
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this Annex are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
1/ Total labor force defir.ed as male population between 15 and 60 years of age plus women actuaily eoiploypd.
2/ The fiscal year is from April to ?iarch; the rDP has beon adjusted accordingly.
not available
not applicable



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
COUNTRY DATA - MALAWI
EY, CREDIT and PRICES-                         1972     1973     1974     1975     1976     1977 June
(Million K outstdnding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                           62.9     84.6    115.7    122.4    121.0       146.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector                    11.1     12.1     20.0     67.4     88.1        93.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector                   35.6     33.0     49.4     56.1     76.5        89.2
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as Z of GDP                16.9    21.1     23.8     21.4     18.7
Gceneral Price Index (1970=100)                 112.1   117.8    134.6    150.5    163.8
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                              3.6      5.1     14.3     11.8      8.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector                    136.2     9.0     65.3    237.0     30.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector                     1.4    -7.3     49.7     13.6     36.4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                           MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-1976)
US$ Mln     %
1973     1974     1975    1976          Tobacco                  59.1     42.0
(1illions USS)                   Tea                      24.9     17.7
Groundnuts                8.7      6.2
Exports of Goods, NFS               122,1    151.7    179.4   202.6          Sugar                    14.7     10.4
Imports of Goods, NFS               167.6    214.1    284.0   246.4          All Other Cormodities    33.3     23.7
Resource Balance                    -45.5    -63.4   -104.6   -43.8             Total                140.7    100.0
Interest Payments (net)              -3.6     -4.0     -5.4    -5.5        EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31. 1976
Other Factor Payments (net)           4.6     18.8     17.3    -14.2
Net Current Transfers                 7.1     .5.7      6.1     5.5                                           US$M1n
Balance of Current Account          -37.4    -41.9    -86.6   -58.0
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed     258.1
Direct Private Foreign Investment    11.4     14.9      9.9     8.2          Non-guaranteed Private Debt         ..
Net MLT Borrowing                                                            Total Outstanding & Disbursed
Disbursements                     25.8     37.4     42.3     34.0
Amortization                       2.4      2.6      2.9      3.3       NET DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1976
Subtotal                          23.4     34.8     39.4     30.7                                             %
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed       6.2
Other Capital n.e.i.                 25.3      1.6    -17.9    -30.1         Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Increase in Reserves (+)             33.3     16.4    -47.1   -38.3          Total Outstanding & Disbursed
Gross Reserves (end year)            66.7     81.8     65.5    26.2
Petroleum Imports                    11.2     17.9     22.9    26.1
Petroleum Re-exports                  2.1      1.0       -
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                           IBRD/IDA LENDING, (end Oct., 1977) (Min US$)
1975   1976  Jan.-July 1977   July 1977                                                   IBRD    IDA
US$ = K            .8662  .9130      .9080          .8998
Kl  3US$         1.1545 1.0953      1.1013         1.1114                    Outstanding & Disbursed          1.6-    74.7
Undisbursed                    24.6     37.0
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed  26-2 -111.7
1/ IMF, Interratlonal }inaricial Statistics, June 1977.
October 31, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAWI
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of October 31, 1977)
Amount US$ Million
(less cancellations)
Bank
(incl.
Loan or                                           Third
Credit No.  Year  Borrower      Purpose            Window)  IDA       Undisbursed
Six credits have been fully disbursed                       41.2           -
102-MAI    1967  Republic    Education                      6.3          0.0 2/
of Malawi
282-MAI    1972      "      Agriculture-                    6.6          0.4
Karonga
363-MAI    1973      "      Agriculture-Shire              10.5          1.1
Valley II
S-17-MAI     1974      "      Transport Engineering          2.0          0.5
and Services
523-MAI    1975      "       Second Highway                10.0          5.5
550-MAI    1975      "       Agriculture-                   8.5          3.8
0                        Lilongwe III
590-MAI    1976      "       Education II                  11.6         10.7
1286T-MAI   1976      "       Agriculture -           9.2     -           7.6
Karonga II
1388-MAI,   1977      "/ESCOM Third Power             9.0                 9.0
1387-T-MAI   "I                                       8.0                 8.0
691-MAI                       "                              8.0          8.0
711-MAI     1977      "       Water Supply 3/                7.0          7.0
TOTAL                               26.2  111.7        61.6
of which has been repaid              -     -
TOTAL now outstanding               26.2  111.7
Amount sold       ..                  -      -
of which Repaid                     -      -
TOTAL now held by
BANK and IDA 1/                   26.2  111.7
TOTAL Undisbursed                   24.6   37.0        61.6
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/   Undisbursed balance presently $46,631.82.
3/   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of October 31, 1977)
Year        Borrower         Type of invetment     Loan  Equity       Total
1976   David Whitehead and Sons    Textile Mill
(Malawi) Ltd.                              6.0     -          6.0
1977   Dwangwa Sugar Corporation Ltd.               9.0                9.0
Total gross commitment                      15.0                15.0
Less cancellations, terminations
repayments and sales                       -                  -
Net Held by IFC                             15.0     -          15.0
Total undisbursed                           11.5               11.5
C.  Prolects in Execution 1/
Credit No. 102-MAI  First Education Project; US$6.3 million credit of May 4,
1967; Date of Effectiveness: July 4, 1967; Closing Date:
June 30, 1977
The project consists of the construction and equipping of one
national primary teacher training college and the provision of technical
instruction facilities in 12 secondary schools. The project has been
implemented satisfactorily and school premises have been in use for about
two years. A request from the Government to use savings under the credit,
amounting to about US$420,000, for the construction of a post and telecom-
munications school to be jointly used by Malawi, Botswana, Lesotho and
Swaziland was agreed to by the Executive Directors on December 4, 1973.
The original Closing Date was, consequently, postponed to June 30, 1977. At
present, about US$40,000 remain undisbursed and a final withdrawal application
is expected very shortly.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
Credit No. 282-MAI Agriculture - Karonga Development Project; US$6.6 million
credit of January 26, 1972; Date of Effectiveness:
August 14, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Over 4 years (reduced from 5) the project would establish 1,000 ac
irrigated double cropped rice, 5,500 ac rainfed rice and improved cultivation
of maize, cotton and ground nuts on about 7,800 ac of existing smallholder
farms and livestock development. In addition it would provide for the
construction of a lake terminal, the provision of a barge and extensions
to a district hospital and other health services.
Due to cost escalation the project period has been reduced from
five to four years.  Only minor reductions of physical targets have occurred.
Completion of the irrigated double cropped rice scheme, reduced from 1,500 ac
to 1,000 ac was delayed due to exceptional flooding. Extension and research
are working satisfactorily.   All necessary staff for the health component
are in post and bilharzia control is now a continuous program.   Lake trans-
portation has been generally improved, but the barge purchased under the
credit and put in operation in early 1976 proved defective. It is presently
being repaired. In addition, IDA has agreed to use project funds to raise
a jetty at Chilumba harbour by 2 feet to avoid flooding caused by high tides.
Design work has been completed and tendering is now underway. The original
Closing Date has been postponed by one year to December 31, 1978 to allow
sufficient time to complete these works.
Credit No. 363-MAI Agriculture - Shire Valley Development Project Phase II;
US$10.5 million credit of March 28, 1973; Date of Effective-
ness: April 27, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The project is a continuation and an expansion of the program com-
pleted under Phase I and includes extension services, credit and marketing
facilities, a livestock component, health facilities, fisheries development,
feeder road construction, research on irrigated and rain-fed crops, land
registration and wildlife protection. The non-agricultural components
of the project - housing, water, health, roads and fisheries - have been
implemented satisfactorily. A senior health officer for the health com-
ponent assumed duties recently and is now working on the operational health
program. During 1976, IDA assisted the Government in reviewing the cropping
program in detail and a revision of the production targets has been made.
Due to a combination of technical and economic factors, crop output is lower
than envisaged at appraisal. This problem is being examined in the context
of the consolidation phase now under consideration.
Credit No. S-17-MAI Transport Engineering and Services Project; US$2 million
credit of June 13, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: August 28,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The project would help determine the infrastructural requirements
and provide technical assistance for the exploitation of the Viphya forest



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
resources. Necessary transportation studies and the design of the required
transport facilities have been completed. Part of the credit proceeds that
are still available are being used to finance consulting services to update
prior studies and to assist in putting together a financial package for the
proposed mill.
Credit No. 523-MAI    Second Highway Project; US$10.0 million credit of
December 19, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: February 21,
1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The project consists of (i) reconstruction to two-lane bituminous
paved standard of the Lilongwe-Kasungu road (about 73 miles), including
bypass around the Lilongwe industrial area and reconstruction of the Ligadzi
bridge; and (ii) a pilot program to improve the development and maintenance
of district roads. Construction works for the main road, some 8 months
behind schedule, are about 80 percent completed and as explained in para-
graph 38 of this Report, savings of approximately US$3.0 million are cur-
rently expected for this project component. First results from the pilot
program for district roads improvement and maintenance submitted to the
Association in March 1977 indicate clearly that the program has been success-
ful and that it is feasible to extend it to other districts. It is proposed
that savings from the reconstruction component be used to extend the pilot
program to seven additional districts.
Credit No. 550-MAI Agriculture - Lilongwe Land Development Program Phase III;
US$8.5 million credit of May 27, 1975; Date of Effective-
ness:_ August 12, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project would continue extension, farm credit and infrastructure
maintenance for previously established units and expand the program to cover
an additional 210,000 ac. The project will provide for the construction of
15 unit centers with associated investments; survey and demarcate about
200,000 ac; continue development of the Dzalanyama ranch; introduce poultry
and egg production and dairy development; expand and improve health facili-
ties; and carry out project evaluation and future project preparation. The
project infrastructure is now almost on schedule. Due to reduced input use
as a consequente of last season's high fertilizer prices and adverse weather
conditions, average maize and groundnut yields were lower 'in 1976 than in
the preceding year. However, overall production of high value crops such
as tobacco and groundnuts has increased considerably. The stall feeder and
poultry programs are expanding rapidly, contributing to sizeable income
increase of small farmers. Credit administration and loan repayments con-
tinue to be outstanding.
Credit No. 590-MAI Second Education Project; US$11.6 million credit of
November 24, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: February 24,
1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The project will provide prototype construction models of primary
schools, strengthen the program of rural education, establish a new primary



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
teacher training college, and add facilities for the teaching of practical
subjects in selected secondary schools with emphasis on facilities for girls.
The project has made a good start in the design stage due to the early appoint-
ment of consultant architects. The Project Implementation Unit is functioning
well. Construction of civil works and procurement of furniture and equipment
is generally proceeding satisfactorily. Project cost is within the appraisal
estimates and the project is expected to be completed by the March 31, 1981
Closing Date.
Loan No. 1286-T-MAI Second Karonga Rural Development Project; US$9.2 million
loan of June 24, 1976. Date of Effectiveness: August 18,
1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The project, financed on Third Window terms, consists of the provi-
sion of seasonal and medium-term credit to farmers, extension service, maiket
complexes, health facilities, boreholes and other infrastructural facilities,
agricultural and hydrological research, preparatory investments for the
National Rural Development Program, and rehabilitation of berthing facilities
at Chipoka Lake terminal. A civil works contractor has been selected for the
reconstruction of Chipoka harbor and the contract is expected to be signed
shortly. Although understaffing hampers implementation efficiency in some
parts of Chitipa district, the project progress is satisfactory.
Loans No. 1388-MAI Third Power Project; US$25.0 million. Loans and Credit
and 1387-T-MAI       of April 28, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
Credit 691-MAI      November 11, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project will assist ESCOM in financing its investment program
to meet increased demand for power. The project consists of a rock-fill
dam on the Shire River at Nkula, a pressure cut and cover conduit, headrace
tunnel, penstock and tailrace outlet system, and a power house for five 18 MW
hydro units, two of which would be installed at this stage. The project would
also provide for consulting services and training. Bid results have shown that
the project cost will be within the appraisal eutiuate. Civil works contracts
have been awarded since early April 1977 and the contractors are now proceeding
with the preparation of construction works. The Government has recently
advertised for the positions of Chief Engineer and General Manager, because
the Chief Engineer has already left the country and the General Manager will
retire by 1978. We are informally attempting to assist the Government in
locating suitable potential candidates.
Credit No.711-MAI   Blantyre Water Supply Project; US$7.0 million.    Credit of
June 3, 1977; Terminal Date for Effectiveness: January 3,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project will assist BWB in financing its Phase V Development
Program to increase the capacity of the supply facilities at Walker's Ferry
on the Shire River and bring the existing pipeline, between the intake sta-
tion and Blantyre, to its maximum capacity. In addition, the project would
provide additional improvements to the distribution system in the Blantyre
area, including service to squatter areas. It would also provide for con-
sulting services and training. The project is not yet effective.



ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project    -   2-1/2 years
(b)  Preparation                      -   Government, Consultants
and IDA
(c)  Initial discussions with IDA     -  June 1976
(d)  Pre-appraisal mission            - November 1976
(e)  Appraisal mission                - February/March 1977
(f)  Negotiations                     -   September 1977
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness    - March 1978
Section II: Special Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions of the Project
(a) The Loan Agreement between the OPEC Special Fund and Malawi
should be signed and conditions precedent, if any, to initial
disbursement should be fulfilled (condition of effectiveness,
para. 50).
(b) The Government will from time to time exchange views with the
Association regarding its budget allocations for roads maintenance,
particularly for the district roads (para. 33).



MAY1I
31f                      ~~~~~~~~~~~ZAIRE  ~ AZR
ktpa! Son*we;s  N                  / ANGOLA r     ' 1 JMALA I
\)         KARkGA N                (jEARANG
&     V    A'EO,9 AR'8 ,        N MIRIA ! SOTWAN;A  ( 
b   \ ;\~~~h i?  zHIiLUMRA        / qFIC               ' SLH SWAZILAND I
if                       onwh I#;v 4' /I 8
1  \ ,_ojooarwe              4, _  A
'     'I   \ .L.                                 i 'so
t                                 AltimbOa@) '? t>t[ & > *^/\E l~~~~~~~~. -  A
-12'   /  flESOY0O           4/     M       W
NKH-IATA    - *<           *=TO IW
({~~~~~~~~~~~ I                                        -0 ,X   )
<<        /      :>0,' w    SSra-(coila                  4r
120
O~~~~~~ 0'                    ~    /O     .       AA      I14-
~ ~'     ~    /    THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
|> '.9' OK\TRANSPORTATION              NETWORK
ND otakoto  /
-ir          K~~~asung. 
Vila o bo 
so      ~~Mpnl  0  enAg                       -
1_~at _C ,PVE  OD  NER CONTRCTIN      \'-                        6' LWOD n /Ny
C_   _                      If  14   Z
PICPLGAEANEART OAD k+                 re a
..Lik....                   OYN
0 ~~~~     ie        ONACALA
ROADS~~~~~~~~~~~~~\S CONTRUTE UNDE                         NAC.l CIArJul 
.CREXISTING AND PLANNE
4GRICULT URAL DEVELOPMENT AREAS  \  \      IM./.,nb.
NORTH OF KASUNGU                            CO
-        PAVED ROADS             {               R
. - - - - PAVED ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCTION  /  I    L       / Nayuel
…PAVED ROADS, PROPOSED           RA
PRINCIPAL GRAVEL AND EARTH ROADS
..AIRPOADS BEING STUDIED 
ROADS CONSTRUCTED UNDER                  Chirdzulu
CREDITS 112-MAI AND 523-MAI      A        B
-   PROJECT ROAD                            IB
......STUDY UNDER PROJ T
*----.o*PROPOSED RAILWAY  Tto
*.i-.--RAIL WAYS
----STEAMER ROUTES
4  AIRPORTS            ~\ogl 
-------RIVERS
REGIONAL BOUNDARIES                        NSonsia
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
ThC boundaries sk,l n Illdus  mnp do 110
0   20   40   60   80   100            i\p\v             dno ,dnlenf Or  551 -wnlee Is i tdIC
MILES         3To BERA



