Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFf'ICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 18101
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BHUTAN
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1899-BHU)
June 26, 1998
Education Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Name of currency   Bhutanese Ngultrun (Nu)
US$1 =Nu 12.8 (at appraisal, 7/87)
US$1  Nu 35.5 (at closing, 6/97)
GOVERNMIENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1- June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
BBE               Bhutan Board of Examinations
CAPSS             Curriculum and Professional Support Services Section
DCA               Development Credit Agreement
DEO               District Education Office
DOE               Division of Education
DSC               Development Service Center
ECR              Extended Classroom
EVS               Enviromnental Studies
MTR               Mid-tern Review
NAPE              New Approach to Primary' Education
PEP               Prinary Education Project
PIS               Personmel Information System
PITT              Partnership in Teacher Training
PIU               Project Implementation Unit
RGOB              Royal Governrnent of Bhutan
SAR               Staff Appraisal Report
SIC               Swiss Development Cooperation
SPBC              School Planning and Building Cell
TT'C .            Teacher Training College
T TI              Teacher Training Institute
UNDP              United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF            United Nations Children's Fund
UPE               Universal Primary Education
Vice President            Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director          Robcrt S. Drysdale
Sector Manager            Ralph Harbison
Staff Momber              Grant Sinclair



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BHUTAN
PRIMARY EDIJCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1899-BHU)
CONTENTS
Page
PREFACE ..........................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background ..........................1: 1
B. Project Objectives                                      .2
C. Achievement of Project Objectives......... 2........2
D. Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation                        .6
E. Project Sustainability                                   .6
F. Bank Performance                                        .7
G. Borrower Performance                                      .7
H. Assessment of Outcome                                      .8
1. Future Projects .8
J. Lessons Learned ................9
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1.   Summary of Assessments ........................................ 10
Table 2.   Related Bank Loans/Credits ........................................                   12
Table 3.   Project Timetable ........................................ 12
Table 4.   Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual ....................................... 12
Table 5.   Key Indicators for Project Implenmientation .............................             13
Table 6.   Studies Included in the Project .............................                         13
Table 7A. Project Costs by Category of Expenditure .14
Table 7B. Project Financing .14
Table 8. Status of Legal Covenants .15
Table 9.   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .16
Table 10. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .16
Table 11.  Bank Resources: Missions ...........................                                  16
APPENDICES
Appendix A. The ICR Mission's Aide-Memoire
Appendix B. Borrower's Contribution to thie ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



w- i-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BHUTAN
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREEDIT 1899-BHU)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Primary Education Project in
Bhutan, for which Credit No. 1899-BHU in the amount of SDR 3.1 million (US$4.2 million
equivalent) was approved on April 19, 1988 and made effective on September 6, 1988.
The Credit closed on June 30, 1997, compared to the original closing date of December 31,
1995. It was fully disbursed, and the last disbursement took place on October 17, 1997. Cofinancing
was provided by the Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC), and the United Nations Children's
Fund (UNICEF). UNICEF administered its portion of the project under a parallel financing
arrangement, while SDC delegated administration of its contribution to IDA.
The IDA section of the ICR was prepared by Mark Schlagel, Operations Assistant
(SASED). The ICR was reviewed by Grant Sinclair, Task Leader (SASED); Regina Bendokat,
Acting Sector Manager (SASED); and Robert S. Drysdale, Country Director, Bhutan (SARVP).
The peer reviewer was Audrey Aarons, Education Specialist (SASED).
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's final supervision mission in May 1997. It is
based on material in the project files, school site field visits, and discussions with project staff,
Government officials and Bank staff. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by
preparing its own comprehensive evaluation of the project's preparation and execution. An abridged
copy of the full report is attached as Appendix 13. The IDA section of the ICR was also provided to
the Borrower for review and comment.
The outcome of the project was satisfactory. It achieved most of its major objectives. The
prospects for sustainability are also high.
The cooperation and assistance of RGOB is gratefully acknowledged.



-i .
- 11 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BHIJTAN
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1899-BHU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Overview. The project under review (CR 1899-BHU) was the first operation financed by the
World Bank for Bhutan's education sector. Of the final project cost of US$13.6 million,
financing comprised an IDA Credit of US$4.4 million, a Swiss Grant of US$5.9 million, a
UNICEF grant of US$1.5 million and a Royal Gaovernment of Bhutan (RGOB) contribution of
US$1.8 million. The project was implemented over a period of 9 years including a one and a
half year extension. Cofinancing with Switzerland was a success and all missions were carried
out jointly. A follow-on Bhutan Second Education Project (CR 3044-BHU) has benefited
from this partnership.
Project Objectives. The project supported ithe Royal Government of Bhutan's (RGOB)
development plan for primary education, designed to accommodate an enrollment growth
rate of about 6% per annum. Aimed at raising the quality of education and student
achievement, and lowering unit costs of primary schooling, the project had three specific
objectives: (a) increasing the number and quality of primary schools, (b) increasing the
number and effectiveness of primary teachers, and (c) strengthening the administrative and
education support services of the Division of Education (DOE). Project objectives were
in line with the sector's needs that were identified at the time and remained valid and
appropriate throughout implementation.
The objectives were to be achieved by: (a) building 12 primary schools with an enrollment
capacity of about 5,400 students, including boarding facilities, in underserved areas; (b)
more than doubling the enrollment capacity of the Primary Teacher Training Colleges
(TTC's) from about 170 to about 400 students and improving the quality of teaching in
the TTC's; and (c) improving the quality of education administration at the central and
district levels, particularly in the areas of curriculum development, student assessment,
personnel management and education sector planning.
Three components were set for the project in line with the objectives:
* Primary School Development
* Teacher Training; and
* Education Administration
Implementation Experience and Results. The Credit was extended by 18 months to
June 30, 1997 to permit orderly completion of ongoing activities, mostly in school



- iii-
construction. By project closing, the project was successful in achieving most of its
objectives: the school construction program was fully implemented and all 12 schools
built functioning; the DOE professional capacity was strengthened through technical
assistance, overseas fellowships, division-wide computeripation, and equipment provision;
and the quality of teacher education was improved, particularly in the area of in-service
training.  However, a secondary objective of Bhutanization of the teaching force
mentioned in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) proved to be overoptimistic in practice.
Specific results for each component are as follows:
Primary School Development. The school construction program was very successful
despite an accumulated implementation delay of about 2 years, related to limited start-
up readiness, site availability, shortages of technical staff, contractor and materials
supply problems associated with the development of a fledgling industry, and
particular problems linked to building in Bhutan's challenging mountainous terrain.
Progress leading up to the mid-term review (MTR) in May 1993 was most
encouraging, and subsequent project management efforts were successfully undertaken
to control costs and to maintain momentum, in particular by ensuring adequate levels
of supervisory staffing. By project closing, the original enrollment capacity target in
project schools of 5,400 had been exceeded, and raised to 7,182 students. This was
partly attributed to design revisions but also to enrollment pressure in areas served
under the project, which averaged 8% annually over the last five years of
implementation, compared to a 6% target. During implementation girls' primary
enrollment rose steadily in line with increased school access, from 35% at project start
to 44% at project close. Full parity between boys and girls' enrollment is expected to
be achieved without impediment. Given extreme pressure for post-primary places as a
result of the success in increasing primary enrollment, the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA) was amended in December 1993 to cover the extension of project
schools to serve lower secondary classes VII and VIII. It is expected that eventually
most of the 12 project schools will be used for secondary students, while increasingly
primary education will be based on a lower-cost community school model.
Teacher Training. The original project envisaged a major expansion of teacher training
capacity focused on a new TTC in eastern Bhutan. However, to consolidate and make
optimal use of available expertise, primary teacher training was consolidated in an
expanded Paro TTC (300 places) and at NIE Samchi (100 places), the two existing
facilities. Overall capacity was achieved towards the end of the project (444 places in
1997), although the projected rate of Bhutanization of the teaching force as noted in the
SAR fell short of original expectations due to the rapid rate of primary enrollment and a
continuous shortage of candidates through 1994. The effects were: dependence on
several hundred non-Bhutanese teachers, mostly recruited from India; employment of a
small but increasing number of unqualified temporary teachers; and increases in the
pupil/teacher ratio. The commendable efforts of RGOB to increase the number of class X
graduates, through measures to increase pass rates at classes VI and VIII, have succeeded
in enlarging the recruitment pool for TTCs, and all training places are currently filled. This
is a positive development which will reduce teacher shortage in the medium term.



- iv,-
The SDC/Zurich financed Partnership in Teacher Training (PITT) program was a separate
undertaking but complemented the project substantially and helped RGOB to make the
needed progress toward the component's secondc related objective of improved
effectiveness of teacher education and training, through pedagogical skills enhancement.
The results and experiences gained thrcugh the PITT program are expected to be
integrated at the district and especially at the school level into the mainstream of in-service
teacher training activities. The provision under the project of numerous in-service
training workshops to several thousand primary school teachers is very notable; the
training provided encouraged the development of a national in-service training
program and facilitated the process of establishing district and school level in-service
workshops.  Nineteen TTC teacher educators also benefited from  the overseas
fellowships provided under the project.
*  Educational Administration.  The thirdl and final component, strengthening the
administrative and educational support services of the DOE, satisfactorily achieved its
objectives in terms of central level administrative strengthening. The effectiveness of
the work of a small cadre of staff was continuously improved throughout implementation,
and was able to reach a high level of standards. Excellent coordination by the different
divisions of the DOE enabled a very good level of institutional performance, not only
in the implementation of the project, but in the implementation of all programs in the
education sector. While staffing changes were frequent and may have caused a degree
of disruption in the work of some divisions, the DOE successfully reorganized some of
its administrative units to increase the efficiency of its administration. Strengthening
of district education offices fell somewhat short of original expectations, although
basic equipment and critical in-service training was provided. The follow-on project
places appropriate emphasis on district and school level strengthening.
Summary of Findings, Operations and K'ey Lessons Learned. Project outcome is
generally satisfactory, with the exception of the shortfall in the expected rate of Bhutanization
of the teaching force. Ownership of the project remains very strong, driven by a national
commitment to high education quality. Projecl: management has been fully Bhutanized since
1995. The MTR proved to be a turning point for the project, particularly in implementation
performance for teacher training and school construction. Institutional development and
school construction goals were achieved and school enrollment targets were exceeded. By
strengthening administrative support services there was an important evolution of capacity
within DOE to manage the increasingly comrplex educational system. Through a strong
willingness by RGOB to gradually adjust project activities and embrace change to further
project goals, particularly through professional amd technical skills strengthening at the central
level, and to absorb all incremental teacher salanes in the recurrent budget, the sustainability of
project components has been more clearly assured. The major lessons learned, which were
built into the design of the follow-on investment, relate to: (i) the need to advance readiness
for civil works start-up, (ii) the benefits of effective donor coordination in articulation of a
long-term development strategy for the subsector, and (iii) the rapid change that can be
brought to the sector as a result of a high level of borrower ownership and commitment to
quality.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
B]HUTAN
PRIMARY EDUJCATION PROJECT
(CRED][T 1899-BHU)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND
1.    For centuries Bhutan, a predominately mountainous Himalayan country, was heavily isolated
from the rest of the world, its dispersed rural population entirely dependent upon subsistence
agriculture. Educational opportunities, the traditional domain of monks, were limited to the
monasteries. Upon opening up to the outside world in the early 1960s, however, the Royal
Government of Bhutan (RGOB) embarked upon a far reaching development approach based on
strategy articulated in a series of successive Five Year Plans, the first of which was launched in 1961
and included as an essential element the introduction of modern secular education.
2.    As a result of subsequent decades of planned development, Bhutan built an educational
delivery system providing largely free public schooling, consisting of a year of pre-primary school, six
years of primary school, two years of junior high school, two years of high school and two years of
junior college. By 1987, the system had experienced impressive expansion, with some 57,000
students enrolled in 190 schools and institutions. This expansion had substantially raised overall
enrollment rates, which at the primary level had approached 55 percent.
3.    Despite this encouraging expansion, inhierent in the fledgling system were serious sectoral
constraints requiring concerted attention: (a) a shortage of trained technical and administrative
personnel, including a serious understaffing w:ithin the Division of Education; (b) a shortage of
primary school facilities, preventing RGOB from meeting the increasing demand for primary
education; (c) a low quality of education, linkecd to the lack of adequately trained teachers, an over-
reliance on teachers from India trained only in secondary level education, no regular provision for in-
service training, and insufficient guidance and supervision by headmasters and district staff, (d) a low
quality curriculum, attributed primarily to an excess number of subjects and an over-concentration on
content; (e) very low efficiency of the primary system, explained by overcrowded and poor facilities,
inadequately prepared and supervised teachers and difficulties of DOE providing support services; (f)
under-representation of female students in primary schools, evident from enrollment which showed
girls accounting for only 35% of enrollees arid wide variation among districts; and (g) a low
management capacity in the education system.
4.    The project was launched at the commencement of the Sixth Five-Year Plan (FY88-92),
which identified the education sector as a priority focused upon the resolution of severe inequity of
access to education for some children by virtue of geographic isolation and an acute personnel
shortage in nearly every skill brought about by rapid national development of the prior decade. In
recognition of these issues, the Sixth Plan objective for primary education included an increase in



-2 -
primary enrollment by 6% per annum, improved access for the underserved, increased efficiency of
primary schooling by reducing dropout and repeater rates and enhanced relevance of education
content.
5.    The project, effective September 6, 1988, became the first social sector investment financed
by IDA in Bhutan. IDA supported RGOB to establish its objectives for a quality base and to increase
access to the education system.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
6.    The project was designed to support RGOB's development plan for primary education and to
accommodate an enrollment growth rate of 6% per annum. It was also designed to raise the quality
of education and student achievement and lower the unit costs of primary schooling in Bhutan. The
three specific objectives of the project included:
* increasing the number and quality of primary schools;
- increasing the number and effectiveness of primary teachers; and
- strengthening the administrative and support services of the Division of Education (DOE).
7.    These objectives were to be achieved by:
-  building 12 primary schools with an enrollment capacity of about 5,400 students, including
boarding facilities, in underserved areas;
-  more than doubling the enrollment capacity of the primary Teacher Training Colleges
(TTC's) from about 170 to about 400 students and improving the quality of teaching in
the TTC's; and
*  improving the quality of education administration at the central and district levels,
particularly in the areas of curriculum development, student assessment, personnel
management and education sector planning.
8.    Three components were set for the project viz.
* primary school development;
* teacher training; and
* educational administration.
9.    Overall, these objectives remained valid and appropriate throughout the project period and
were consistent with RGOB's education sector development strategy. Characteristic of other projects
of the time, there were no monitorable indicators per se for measuring quality and efficiency
outcomes, although the end objectives were largely used to assess progress by RGOB and missions,
particularly at the MTR stage.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
10.   Increasing the Number and Quality of Primary Schools -- the Primary Schools Development
Program. This objective, which supported increasing the number and quality of primary schools



- 3-
through construction of 12 primary schools, was achieved despite delays, with all schools fully
functional at present.'  Ten schools now  provide boarding facilities essential to educational
opportunity in mountainous Bhutan, and over two-thirds of students study as boarders. By project
closing, the original enrollment capacity target in project schools of 5,400 students2 had been
exceeded, and raised to 7,182 students, partly attributed to design but also to enrollment pressure in
areas served under the project.3 Girls' primary enrollment rose steadily in line with increased school
access, from 35% at project start to 44% at project close. Full parity between boys' and girls'
enrollment is expected to be achieved without irripediment.4 Overall, the quality of school design and
construction remains high. All schools were equipped with classroom and hostel furniture, limited
library books/reference materials and office equipment. The School Planning and Building Cell
(SPBC), the technical engineering wing of DOE responsible for implementation of the component,
was most successful in developing construction procedures and building designs (one for tropical and
one for temperate regions) which have become standard for the sub-sector.
11.   Overall, the school construction progranm experienced an accumulated implementation delay
of about 2 years. The primary constraints experienced in implementation were related to shortages
of technical staff, a difficult construction materials situation, contractor problems associated with the
development of a fledgling industry, and the many particular problems associated with building in
Bhutan's challenging mountainous terrain. Following recommendations of the MTR, several technical
workshops were held to examine principal factors impacting on the length of the construction period,
construction cost increases, and options for decentralization and staffing implications for SPBC.
These proved to be effective and contributed generally to orderly and full completion of activities
during the last several years of the project and greatly facilitated decision-making processes under the
preparatory phase of the follow-on investment.
Key Factors Affecting Outcome of the Schools Development Program
12. Extended Classroom Concept (ECR). The original project foresaw the school construction
program within RGOB's Extended Classroom Concept (ECR). ECRs, to be administered by the
nearest full primary school, were meant to assure better coverage in remote areas through delivery of
multi-grade education from pre-primary to class, III. Students successfully passing class III would
-then attend one of 11 project financed boarding schools built within newly planned "Development
Service Centers" (DSCs).  The DSCs, as originally envisaged, would be designed to deliver
education, health and agricultural services to undlerserved areas of the country, serving as alternative
growth centers to urban areas. The concept ultirnately proved too costly, and a policy change during
In addition to the 12 schools financed by IDA, 3 peripheral primary schools for children in remote areas within
walking distance to school were also constructed under the project by UNICEF.
2 A target which was raised to 6,400 following the mid-term review in May 1993.
3 Thc primary gross enrollment ratio rose from 55% at project start-up to 72% at project completion.
4 The relatively high share and increase in girls' enrollment result in part from the expansion of community schools,
which have reduced walking time to schools. The provision of boarding facilities in project schools for grades VII and
VIII is expected to further encourage girls' enrollment as will increased numbers of women teachers.



the Seventh Five Year Plan6 replaced it with a more efficient system of community schooling, capable
of providing education up to the end of the primary cycle. No major changes to the school
construction process were necessary, although at several sites school size was actually increased
during implementation to accommodate growing pressures on enrollment. By and large, the schools
constiructed were all well sited with regard to serving population catchment areas.
13.   Project Extension to Lower Secondary Education. Another important impact on the school
development program was the RGOB decision following the MTR to extend basic education to
include the lower secondary level (classes VII and VIII), driven by greatly increased social demand
for secondary schooling and the rapid growth in primary school enrollment, which averaged 8%
annually over the last five years of implementation, against an expected target of 6%. In response,
the [Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was amended in December 1993, enabling selective
expansion of PEP primary schools to include classes VII and VIII financed by the project. Given the
extreme pressure placed on RGOB for places as a result of the success in increasing primary
enrollment, it is expected that eventually most of the capacity in the 12 project schools will be used
for secondary students, while increasingly primary education will be based on a lower-cost
community school model. Many community schools now provide up to class VI education.
14.   Increasing the Number and Effectiveness of Primary Teachers -- Teacher Training Colleges
(TTC's) and Teacher Deployment. The original project objective envisaged a major expansion of
teacher training capacity from 170 to 400 places, focused on the two existing Teacher Training
Colleges (TTCs) at Paro and NIE Samchi, and a new facility at Kanglung, in eastern Bhutan.
However, to consolidate and make optimal use of available expertise, it was decided by RGOB that
primary teacher training should be consolidated in an expanded Paro TTC (300 student capacity) and
in NIE Samchi (100 places). Overall capacity was achieved towards the end of the project (444
places in 1997). The projected rate of Bhutanization of the teaching force at noted in the SAR fell short
of expectations, however, due to the rapid rate of primary enrollment and a continuous shortage of
candidates through 1994. The effects have been continued dependence on several hundred teachers,
mostly recruited from India; employment of a small but increasing number of unqualified temporary
teachers; and increases in the pupil/teacher ratio. The commendable efforts of RGOB to increase the
number of class X graduates following the MTR, through measures to increase pass rates at classes VI and
VIII, have however succeeded in enlarging the recruitment pool fbr TTCs, and all training places are
currently filled. This is a positive development which will reduce teacher shortage in the medium term.
15.   An SDC/Zurich financed Partnership in Teacher Training (PITT) program, designed in 1989,
complemented the project in some valuable ways and has helped RGOB substantially to make the needed
progress toward the component's second related objective of improved effectiveness of teacher education
and training, through pedagogical skills enhancement. The results and experiences gained through the
PITT program are expected to be integrated at the district and especially at the school level into the
mainstream of in-service teacher training activities. The project was successful in its provision of
numerous in-service training workshops to several thousand primary school teachers. The training
provided encouraged the development of a national in-service training program and facilitated the
4 Thlis policy change was prompted by conclusions of an ECR study carried out as planned and noted in the Staff
Appraisal Report. The study observed ECRs inferior to regular classrooms, and supervision/administration difficult
due tc, remoteness and difficult terrain.



- 5 -
process of establishing district and school level in-service workshops. The benefits accrued from
these training programs is still difficult to determine since no impact analysis of the in-service
programs was planned or carried out. An analysis is expected to be conducted during the start-up
phase of the follow-on project, and will lead to the development of the Master Plan for in-service
training at the Central, District and School levels.
16.    Strengthening  Education  Administration.   The project's third  and  final component,
Education Administration, expected to strengthen the administrative and educational support services
of the DOE, has satisfactorily achieved its objectives in terms of central level administrative
strengthening.  The effectiveness of the work of a small cadre of staff was continuously improved
throughout implementation, and was able to reach a high level of performance. While funding for technical
assistance and equipment inputs were completed well in advance of the closing date, early advancement
on the capacity-building front did prove difficult, however, because of frequent staffing changes and
tight RGOB personnel policies, which inhibited the achievement of an expected critical mass of staff
early on. These constraints were particularly evident in the Board of Examinations (BBE) and the
Planning Division, which performed most diligently but which were unable for most of the project period
to benefit from the detailed analysis of the sizable volume of valuable data gathered over several years.
Similarly, the understaffing for the supervision of schools by inspectors, a critical component of monitoring
of quality and educational progress, and the extreme difficulty of Bhutan's terrain meant that many primary
schools could be visited only once every two years.
17.    Following the MTR, the IDA/SDC missions were particularly impressed with the coordinated
efforts made by the different divisions to achieve a high level of performance, both with respect to
implementation of the project and implementation of all programs in the sector. Significant progress
was made on computerization within DOE as a whole. The Curriculum and Professional Support-
Services Section (CAPSS) made serious effort at increasing its efficiency, as a precursor to
decentralization of administrative authority. The Section now has adequate personnel and has formed
several sub-committees to work on primary level and secondary-level school curricula. The caliber of
staffing at the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and Planning Unit also showed up favorably in
project performance, while the Teacher Education Committee functioned regularly. The Inspectorate
made a determined effort to increase the number of inspectors and to strengthen its guidance and
counseling role. Supervision of schools is now mrore regular, subject to the limitations of Bhutan's
geography. BBE successfully developed a test items bank for use in class VI exams and is able to
compile an annual statistical analysis of student achievement. The performance of the Schools
Planning and Building Cell (SPBC) is also to be commended despite the staffing constraints and
formidable start-up difficulties and logistical demands.
18.    Administrative strengthening at the district level was also introduced during the project period, but,
given the constrained institutional capacity at the central level and lirnited staffing at the district education
offices (DEOs),j only modest inputs were realized, mostly in the area of provision of computer equipment
to several of the DEO's and the introduction of district level and school based in-service teacher training.
5 The I )zongkhag Education Officer (DEO) has typically been the only professional at this administrative level, who has to attend to most of
the work in this sector. In some Dzongkhags a Resource Teacher has been posted in addition to the DEO. An important current policy
decision is that under decentralized administration all schools are to esLablish a School Management Board, with popular participation of the
community. This can be expected to increase the accountability for the delivery of quality education services to the community.



- 6 -
While the original project objective of improving the quality of education administration at the district level
was a laudable one, it was probably ahead of the political realities of the time, incapable of being fully
realized without further initial institutional strengthening within DOE at the central level. Expanded
district-level institutional capacity-building, including administrative, monitoring and pedagogical staff skills
strengthening, have been integrated as key decentralization objectives for the follow-on investment. This
decentralized form of administration is expected to transfer responsibility for school management, teacher
deploynnent and grassroots planning to the district level.
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
19.   While every effort was made to achieve physical completion by the end of the original project
period, lengthy ongoing school building contracts, retention moneys and minor construction activities
under the guarantee period required an 18 month extension to the project.
20.   The construction component experienced an accumulated delay of about 2 years. Primary
implernentation constraints centered around site availability, design drawing preparation and
standardization, the need to make changes in the implementation approach, serious shortages of
Bhutanese technical staff, the difficult construction materials situation, contractor problems
associated with the development of a fledgling industry, and the many particular problems associated
with building in Bhutan's challenging mountainous terrain. SPBC, the DOE's technical engineering
wing, proved successful in standardizing building designs for temperate and tropical school models
and for developing accepted construction procedures.
21.   The teacher training and administrative strengthening components also experienced delays.
Pre-service teacher training showed relatively poor progress and the teacher shortage was
problematic, necessitating continued high levels of reliance on foreign teachers. In-service training
efforts fared much better and progress in this area can be considered good. The activity and child-
centered curriculum development initiative, the "New Approach to Primary Education" (NAPE),
proved very positive and was already being successfully implemented by 1993. Administrative
strengthening was achieved but was constrained by tight position controls on manpower. Technical
assistance and fellowship programs were well advanced by the MTR and can be rated as generally
satisfactory.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
22.   Sustainability prospects are considered good. The structural and organizational changes are
likely to be further expanded over time. Short-term budgetary resource constraints could mean low
rates of funding for maintenance, but, as a result of low-maintenance school construction designs, this
burden has been minimized.  Importantly, the salaries of incremental teachers have been fully
incorporated in the recurrent budget.
23.   Due to RGOB's willingness to address shortcomings and to gradually adjust the project
activities, particularly the professional and technical skills strengthening at the central level, the
sustainability of the project components is better assured, although continued strengthening of the
DOE needs to be continued under the follow-on investment to meet the requirements of rapid
enrollment growth and economic development.



24.   Project sustainability is very notable for a first large multilateral, multi-donor project in the
sector. Sustainability of the project's achievements are closely linked to the prospects for the sub-
sector overall, as the project is fully integrated with the administrative system.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
25.   Overall, Bank performance in project preparation and supervision was satisfactory and was aided
by staff continuity. IDA involvement in project preparation assisted RGOB in identifying a long-term
development strategy for the primary subsector and integrating external assistance, which included at
the time ongoing programs financed by the World Food Programme, UNICEF, UNDP, UNESCO,
ADB, Save the Children and Oxfam. IDA involverrient from the design stage was expected to be long
term to address, under a series of operations, various sector constraints and priority needs. Project
preparation took just over 2.5 years, from issuing the first Executive Project Summary in July 1985 to
negotiations in February 1988. The project required ]L34 staff weeks from identification to Board approval.
Supervision missions were conducted regularly on an annual basis, in cooperation with SDC, and benefited
from a very effective donor relationship. UNICEF provided a valuable contribution as planned in the early
stages of the project (phase I of Paro TTC and NAIPE), and close contacts were maintained between the
UNICEF field office in Thimphu and the visiting joint IDA/SDC mission teams. During the life of the
project, 12 supervision missions were carried out, 7 of them before the MTR.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
26.   RGOB participated actively in project identification and played a significant role in project
preparation. RGOB's preparation of its Sixth Five-Year Plan (FY88-92) provided a solid framework
for project preparation. Prior to Credit effectiveness, RGOB complied with the conditionality of
establishment of the Project Implementation Unit, (PIU) and appointment of its key staff.  Legal
covenants, all related to project management or monitoring, were complied with satisfactorily without
delay. Auditing reporting and compliance was generally sound. Key specific DOE inputs into the
preparatory process included site selection for six of the twelve schools, development of site surveys,
preparation of initial school designs through technical assistance, completion of draft standard bidding
documents for phase I schools, and preparation and agreement on furniture, equipment and book
requirements under the project.
27.   Project management can be considered good; PIU  staff oversaw the project skillfully,
particularly for a first large multi-donor operation in the sector. One constraint that was experienced
by the PIU early on in the project, however, was its difficulty in ensuring adequate and timely
processing of expenditures for reimbursement by '[DA and SDC, and temporary but serious funding
shortages which were recurring as a result. The problem appeared to be linked to the limited role the
PIU was allowed to play in processing applications; inadequacy of feedback to the PIU on project
accounts; and limited part-time accounting staff availability. In July 1994 agreement was reached to
increase the IDA component of the Special Account from $280,000 to $500,000, to help alleviate the
cash-flow issue. Administrative changes were also made, to permit the PIU to directly operate the
special account, and to combine the IDA/SDC funds for expenditure purposes. Following MTR
recommendations, a full time accountancy appoi:ntment within DOE was also made and external
technical assistance extended an additional year to resolve outstanding issues and to provide



additional training for the new recruit. Forward expenditure planning adopted by the PIU at this
stage facilitated management of cost increases and strengthened the PIU's management capability.
These actions were taken seriously by DOE and enabled the PIU to function most effectively
thereafter.
28.   The PIU/DOE should be commended for its preparation of a solid and comprehensive
Borrower ICR. The abridged version to the report (Borrower's Contribution to ICR) is attached as
Appendix B.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
29.   Project outcome is satisfactory. Sustainability is likely to be strong due to an unusually high
degree of Borrower ownership and commitment. The number and quality of primary schools was
increased as planned, which expanded enrollment and increased access to education in remote and
disadvantaged communities. The SPBC was most successful in its development of school designs
(for temperate and tropical zones) and construction procedures, which have become standard for the
subsector. The technical assistance and experience SPBC gained was particularly useful in the area of
draft bidding documentation and tender evaluation. The number and effectiveness of primary
teachers was increased, although Bhutanization of the teaching force will only be achieved during the
Ninth Plan Period (2002-7).   Both TTC Paro and NIE Samtse benefited well from technical
assistance aimed at improving the teacher education system. Effective training of national
counterparts occurred in both institutions, while 22 teacher educators and edication administrators
benefited from overseas training. Numerous workshops for teachers were also provided for under the
component. The administrative and support services of DOE were strengthened, enabling it to
maintain and further develop its overall capacity to handle the complex and difficult issues related to
the development of education in the country. The Planning and International Coordination Unit,
Curriculum and Professional Support Section, Bhutan Board of Examinations and Personnel Unit
benefited substantially from the technical assistance, overseas fellowships and basic equipment
provided for under the component.  Strengthening of district education offices fell short of
expectations, although minor equipment and critical in-service training was provided. The follow-on
project emphasizes district and school level strengthening. Technical assistance provided was essential
in the early stages and was mostly appropriate to the tasks, and, apart from the Paro TTC expansion,
was substantially completed by the MTR. By project closing the PIUJ was fully operating without extemal
assistance. In a few cases expert/counterpart skills matching and expert adaptation to local conditions
proved less than satisfactory.
I. FUTURE PROJECTS
30.   The follow-on Second Education Project (CR 3044-BHU), signed on March 27, 1998, is
significantly more complex than the first project. It will underpin Bhutan's drive for universal basic
education to junior secondary level class VIII through increased student and teacher capacity in these
grades. The project is intended to support the development of the education sector under the Eighth
Five-Year plan (1997-2002) and is a major element within that plan. It will provide considerable
support to the qualitative improvement of basic education through professional development, in-
service training, curriculum enhancement, and school guidance and support. Management will be
strengthened at all three levels (center, district and school), with particular reference to RGOB's on-



- 9 -
going decentralization of education managemen.t. During the project it is expected that Bhutan will
come close to realizing its commitment to universal primary education (UPE).
31.   During preparation, RGOB actively sought an optimum structure of the project in several
extended workshops, meetings and discussions between administrators, community leaders and
villages which identified and agreed on the basic needs of each district. This was followed by national
meetings and workshops at which center and district administrators, head teachers, teachers and the
public participated. The outcomes, in turn, were fully discussed with the IDA/SDC missions,
including with an interministerial task force established for the project. Through IDA assistance,
RGOB has been able to develop its approach to address the management implications of decentralization
and the steps needed to maintain the current level of school building efficiency, future constraints on
teacher supply, examinations and assessments and demand-driven vocational training.
32.   The total cost of the project is US$21.2 imillion, of which US$13.7 million will be contributed
by IDA, and the equivalent of US$5.5 million by SDC and US$2.0 million by RGOB. Like PEP,
project development to date has been in very close working partnership with the SDC.
J. LESSCONS LEARNED
The lessons learned from the project have been built into the design of the follow-on project:
. Lengthy initial implementation delays largely attributed to civil works point to the importance of
careful start-up planning and implementation.
* The PIU's steady integration within DOE enhanced implementation and increased efficiency and
has helped to foster borrower ownership.
* Effective and close SDC/IDA collaboration enhanced the benefits to both donors and RGOB by
avoiding ambiguity and allowing skills complementarity on missions.  All missions were
undertaken jointly, and this eased the supervision and reporting burden on RGOB.  This
collaborative effort permitted smooth development of the follow-on project by RGOB with the
same donors.
* High quality external training courses and well matched fellowship placements pay dividends over
lower-cost options.
* Like other projects of the time, there were no monitorable indicators per se, although the end
objectives were largely used to assess progress by RGOB and missions, particularly at the MTR
stage.
* To achieve sustainable skills transfer from technical assistance experts, it is critical that national
counterparts are carefully identified and selected. International experts should also be carefully
chosen to ensure they are capable and willing to adapt to local conditions and relate effectively
with their counterparts.
* The DOE' s reluctance to compromise on teacher quality for the sake of expediency is noteworthy
and has sent a strong message to the system.



- 10-
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A.  Achievement of Objectives  Substantial           Partial         Negligible            Not
Applicable
Macro policies                                                                         W   l
Sector Policies                 W 7x
Financial objectives            W                tl
Institutional development                         W
Phvsical objectives             W 7 
Povcrty reduction             FTL
Gender issues                   3                   ]                E                 C
Other social objectives           ]                 ]               K                  W
Environmental objectives          ]                 ]               K] 
Public sector management       K                  K                                      XK
Private sector management         ]                 ]               K]                 W



Table 1: Summary of Assessments (continued)
B.  Proicct sustainability       Likely          Unlikely          Uncertain
C.  Bank performance             Highly         Satisfactory       Deficient
Satisfactory
Asscssment                                      W
Preparation assistance                          W z
Appraisal                                       W I
Supcrvision                   W                 mll
D.  Borrower performance         Highly         Satisfactory       Deficient
Satisfactory
Preparation                  LZ                 W 
limplementation                                 W E
Covenant Compliance           W
Operation (if applicable)                     [I]
E.  Assessment of outcome        Highly         Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory        Highly
Satisfactory                                         Unsatisfactory
L[=               W                                 L 



- 12 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
The project under review was the first operation financed by the World Bank for Bhutan's education sector.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                                 Date
First IDA Mission                             November 1985
Depart Identification Mission                November 4, 1986
Depart Appraisal Mission                      June 8, 1987
Credit Negotiations                           February 10-12, 1988
Board Approval                                April 19, 1988
Credit Signing                                May 9, 1988
Credit Effectiveness                          September 6, 1988
Original Closing Date                         Decerfiber 31, 1995
Revised Closing Date                          June 30, 1997
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions) /1
| FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98
SAR Appraisal    0.28    0.38    0.78    1.78    2.68    3.48    4.18   4 20
Estimate
Actual           0.00    0,28    0.28    0.39    0.48    1.32    2.35   3.20    3.79    4.41
Actual as           0     74      36      22      18     38      56       76      90    105
Percentage of
Estimate                                                      i
/1 Ihe Credit was fully disbursed (1 00 percent in SDR terms) on October 17, 1997.



- 13 -
Credit Disbursements
4.5
4-
3.5-
c     3-
.0
60     2 - -
~1.5 -_                                    _
1~~~~~
0.5                                                 -.-Appraisal
0                                       IEstimates
0)  0   .   (NJ  c) .q   LO)  (C)  N. ,;
oo  0)  0)  0)  0)  0)  C)  0;) -          )    -0  -Actual
U-    U-    U  -,g-   f: U-    U.    U-t-   U-    U- 
LL  1. , LL  U...  . L  Li. .  L  LL  LL -L..
Bank Fiscail Year
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
None were identified in the SAR.
Table 6: Studies Inc-luded in the Project
Title                      Status                    Impact
Study of Extended Classrooms (ECRs)  Cornpleted.          Study observed ECRs inferior to
regular classrooms; supervision
and administration difficult due
to remoteness and difficult
terrain. ECR program dropped
following study; Government
adapted Community Schools
program in its place.
2      Study of English as a Medium of       Not carried out.    High rates of foreign teachers
Instruction                                               made English an essential
medium. The national language
Dzongkha is being gradually
introduced as a subject medium
as teachers become available.
3      Study of Female Primary Students      Not carried out.    Rapid increases in female
enrollments and lack of specific
barriers to schooling made the
study unnecessary.



- 14 -
Table 7A: Project Costs by Category of Expenditure /1
Original Estimate (US$m)               Actual (US$m) /1
Source               Local    Foreign       Total       Local    Foreign        Total
Civil Works                    2.35        2.58        4.93                               6.31
Land Purchases                     -          -           -                                 .27
Furniture                       .19         .25         .44                                .43
Equipment                       .03         .24        .27                                 .99
Vehbicles                       .02         .14         .16                                .36
Books and Journals              .02         .14         .16                                .22
Professional Services            .18        .30         .48                                .12
Staff Training                  .02           -         .02                                      l
Technical Assistance             .50       1.33        1.83                                3.15
Staff Payments                  .90           -         .90                                .89
Rccurrent Training              .80         .09        .89                                 1.77
(stipends., in-service
training, consumables)                                                                           l
Operations & Maintenance         .07        .08         .15                                 .30
Physical Contingencies          .27         .35        .62                _
Price Contingencies            1.78        1.00        2.78               _
TOTAL                     7.12        6.51       13.63                              13.59
/I  Columns may not add due to rounding. Actual disbursements are RGOB final estimates as of 12/31/97.
ILocal/foreign breakdown not available for actual disbursement.
Table 7B: Project Financing
LOrigi al Estimate US$m)                      ctual (US$S) /2
Source            Local       Foreign       Total        Local      Foreign       Total
IDA                        2.1          2.1          4.2                                    4.4
SDC                        2.6          3.3          5.9                                    5.9
UNICEF                     0.5          1.0          1.5                                    1 .5
RGOB                       1.9          0.1          2.0    1                               1.8
Total Project Costs        7.1          6.5         13.6                                   13.6
/2 Actual disbursements are RGOB final estimates. Local/foreign breakdown not available for actual disbursement.



- 15 -
Table 8: Status (of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Scction  Covenant  Original  Revised   Status   Cimjnents                        Description
Class(es)   Fufll-    Fulfill-
ment      ment Dat
D ate_ _                           _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _    _
CREDIT   3.0]        5                            C        Complied.                       The Borrower shall carry out the
(b) (i)                                                                         project in accordance with an
operational action plan, satisfactory
________ ______                  to the Association.
CREDIT   Sch. 4    5                              C        Complied.                       The Borrower shall implement the
Para I a                                                                        accelerated primary teacher training
____ ___   __ ___ _  __ ___ _  _ ___ _  _____program .
CREDIT   Sch. 4    5                              C        Complied.                       The Borrower shall implement the
Para lb                                                                        teacher deployment plan.
CREDI'I'  Sch. 4    5         7/31/88             C        Complied.                       The Borrower shall promulgate the
Para 1 c                                     _    .                             teacher cadre policy.
CREDI'I'  Sch. 4    5                             C        Complied.                       The Borrower shall construct access
Para Id                                                                        roads to construction sites as
scheduled in the operational actionl
_                      ~~~~~~~~~plan.
CREDIT   Sch. 4    9                              C        Ccmplied.                       The Borrower shall fumish project
Para 2                                                                          monitoring reports every six months
in a manner acceptable to the
Association.
CREDIT   Sch. 4    5                              C        Complied.                       The Borrower shall establish, staff,
Para 3                                                                          and thereafter maintain a project
implementation unit in a manner
=________   ________    ________  ________    __satisfactory  to  the  Association.
Status:      C       -    Complied with
CD     -    Compliance after Delay
NC     -    Not Complied with
SOON  -    Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CP     -    Complied with Partially
NYD   -    Not Yet Due
Covenant Class:
I      Accounts/audit
2      Financial performance/generate revenue fromn beneficiaries
3      Flow and utilization of project funds
4       Counterpart funding
5      Management aspects of the project or of its executing agency
6      Environmental covenants
7      Involuntary resettlement
8      Indigenous people
9      Monitoring, review and reporting
1 0    Implementation
I1     Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12     Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
1 3    Other



- 16 -
Table 9: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
The ICR did not identify any deviation of substance from the relevant OMS.
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs /1
Stage of Project Cycle            Planned /1                    Revised                       Actual
Weeks        1000US$        Weeks         1000US$        Weeks        1000US$
| Preparation to Appraisal      N/A           N/A            N/A           N/A           93.7          133.5
P Appraisal                     N/A           N/A            N/A           N/A           32.9           59.3
Negotiations through            N/A           N/A            N/A           N/A            7.1           15.2
Board
Supervision                      9.0          23.9            7.2          22.5          85.9          192.8
Completion                       I 8. 1       23.1            6.7          11.0           4.2           11.6
TOTAL                       27.1          47.0           13.9          33.5         223.8          412.4
/1 N/A = NTot available from OIS system.
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of     Month/Year   Number    Days in    Specialization    Performance Rating /3         Problems /A
Project Cycle                    of        Field    Represented  i2
Persons                               Imple-
mentation  Dev. Object.
First lDA           11/85
Mission.
Identification      11/86
Mission                                                                                                          I
Appraisal           6/87
MissionI
Supervision:                                                          I________A
8/88          I8                       A 
9-10/88    _               8            TM             2           2        AF, 'MPM
2/89          3          8         A, EC, GE          2           2        PI'M
10/89         2                      ED, G            2           2        PI'M
5/90          4          11        A, CON, E          2           2        PMT
5-6/91         4          16         A, E, GE         2            2        PIMP
5-6/92         3          8          A, E, ED         2            2        AF, PMP, PP,
SP, TA, TP
(MTR)               5/93           2          13          ES, SA          2           2        AF, PMP, PP,
___R__5_93_2   ________                             ______SP,  rP
5-6/94         3          14         ES, SIS           2           2        PP, s, TrP
5/95          2          11          E, SIS           S           S        PP
4-5/96         3          17        E, EC, SIS         S           S
ICR                 5/97           3         11         E, IS, OA         S           S
Source: Form 590s, SPN reports and OIS ratings data.
2/ Key to Specialization: A  = Architect, CON  = Consultant, E = Educator, EC  Economist, ED = Education (SDC), ES  = Education
Specialist, GE = General Educator, IS = Implementation Specialist, OA = Operations Assistant, TM = Task Manager
3/ Kcy tc, Performance Ratings: I = No Significant Problems, 2 = Moderate Problems (i.e., there are significant, but not critical
problems trom appraisal expectations). I-IS = Highly Satisfactory, S = Satisfactory. Please note that HS/S ranking codes were first
utilized with the 6/95 supervision mission.
4/ Kev to Plroblems: AF = Availability of Funds, PM] = Project Management Performance, PP = Procurement Progress, SP = Studies
Progress, TA = TIechnical Assistance Progress, TP = Training Progress



Appendix A
Page I of 9
THE KING-DOM OF BHUTAN
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT (CR 1899-BHU)
FINAL PROGRESS REV'IEW AND PREPARATION FOR
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
AIDE-MEMOIRE
A. INTRODUCTION
I .    A joint Helvetas (SDC) Switzerland and IDA mission comprising Messrs. Uri Trier
and Otto Stern (education specialists) -- Helvetas, Grant Sinclair (task manager) and Mark
Schlagel (operations assistant) -- IDA., visited Bhutan from April 29-May 09 1997, in
conjunction with the final progress review and preparation of the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) of the Bhutan Primary Education Project (PEP) and as part of
pre-appraisal follow-up discussions for the proposed Second Education Project. Mark
Schlagel remained in Bhutan an additional week (May 10-17 1997) for field observation at
four PEP school sites.   The mission had meetings with various senior Government
officials, including:  the Honorable Minister for Planning (Chairman of Planning
Commission); the Secretary of Finance, the Secretary Royal Civil Service Commission and
the Deputy Minister of Health and Education. Discussions were also held with UNICEF,
UNDP and Helvetas. The mission wou]d like to record its appreciation of the cooperation
and assistance provided by the staff of the Education Division, including the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) and the Schools Planning and Building Cell (SPBC).
2.    This aide-memoire deals only with the final progress review and preparation for
the ICR of the Primary Education Project (CR 1899-BHU). It is intended to provide a
record of the principal observations of the mission.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.    The project, approved on April 19, 1988, was the first operation financed by IDA
for Bhutan's education sector. The project has supported RGOB's development plan for
primary education, designed to accornmodate an enrollment growth rate of about 6
percent per annum.
4.    Aimed at raising the quality of education and student achievement, and lowering
unit costs of primary schooling, the project has had three specific objectives:
* increase the number and quality of primary schools;
*  increase the number and effectiveness of primary teachers; and



Appendix A
Page 2 of 9
* strengthen the administrative and education support services of the Division of
Education (DOE).
These objectives were to be achieved by:
*  building 12 primary schools with an enrollment capacity of about 5,400 students,
including boarding facilities, in underserved areas;
*  more than doubling the enrollment capacity of the Primary Teacher Training Colleges
(TTC's) from about 170 to about 400 students and improving the quality of teaching
in the TTC's; and
*  improving the quality of education administration at the central and district levels,
particularly in the areas of curriculum development, student assessment, personnel
management and education sector planning.
Three components were set for the project viz.
- primary school development;
* teacher training institutions; and
* educational administration.
C. SUMMARY OF PROJECT STATUS
5.    Overview. Overall project objectives have remained valid and appropriate and
project management strong and effective. Despite implementation delays in the project's
initial years (due to site availability, delayed design drawing preparation and
standardization, PIU staffing and a fledgling construction industry) the rate of civil works
progress since the MTR (1993) has been satisfactory and borrower commitment strong.
Staff development and technical assistance activities were executed more or less to
schedule and were essentially completed by mid 1994. The Division of Education (DOE),
particularly the SPBC and the two teacher training institutes, NIE and TTC, benefited
particularly from technical assistance activities.
6.    The project was granted an 18 month extension, from December 31, 1995 to June
30, 1997, to permit an orderly completion of the project and achievement of its principle
physical objectives. During the extension period, satisfactory completion of ongoing
contracts for school construction, retention monies and related deliveries of furniture has
been made possible. Three amendments were made to the DCA during the life of the
project, first in August 1989, to increase the authorized allocation in the Swiss portion of
the Special Account, from SWF 470,000 to SWF 900,000; second in May 1994, to
increase the ceiling of the IDA Credit Special Account from US$280,000 to US$500,000
(to eliminate cash-flow problems that have dogged implementation);  and finally in
December 1993, to accommodate the extension of PEP to include classes VII and VIII of
junior high schools.



Appendix A
Page 3 of 9
7.    Summary Status by Compon:ent
a) The Plrimary School Development Component, which has supported the objective of
increasing the number and quality of primary schools through construction of 12
primary schools, has now been e ssentially completed, with all schools fully functional
at present. The materials organization and supply problems faced by contractors at
Dremitse and Nangkor sites have been resolved. Minor ongoing construction at the
Nangkor, Bajothang and Tashi Pokto school sites was expected to be completed at the
end of May 1997, one month ahead of project closing. Overall, the quality of school
design and construction remaiins high.  RGOB has confirmed that the original
enrollment capacity target in project schools of 5,400 students has now been exceeded,
to 6,400 students (44 percent girls), partly attributed to design but also to enrollment
pressure in areas served under the project.  The project schools are increasingly
enrolling students at classes VII and VIII, the junior secondary level, to meet the
extreme pressure on RGOB for places as a result of success in increasing primary
enrollments.   The field visit (refer para. 11 and Annex 2) observed congestion,
particularly in the dormitories, as a result of the rapid growth in enrollment. Given
these pressures, it is expected that eventually most of the capacity in the 12 project
schools will be used for secondary students, while increasingly primary education will
be based on the lower-cost community school model and that many community
schools will provide up to class VI education.
b) Increasing Teacher iraining i1nstitutions (TTI's). Projected teacher output targets,
which were expected to lead to Bhutanization of the primary-level teaching force by
doubling enrollment capacity from about 170 to 400 students, have not been achieved
during the project period, due to a shortage of candidates. Growth of community
schools has been strong and reliance on foreign teachers is likely to continue for a
further 10-12 years.  As a strategy to ease teacher shortages, RGOB continues to
recruit non-national teachers and plans to recruit limited numbers of class X graduates
as apprentice teachers (who undergo a crash course in the TTC) for one academic
year, giving those who show quality and interest in pursuing a teaching career priority
for enrollment in the TTC's. Following the rapid increase in class X graduates, this
strategy seems realistic, provided appropriate career planning for apprentice teachers is
institutionalized.
While the expected training capacity is expected to be achieved, this component,
which is developing the Paro TTC, is bilaterally SDC financed and will not come fully
on-stream until 1998. after prcject completion. It should be noted, however, that TTC
enrollments have been close to projected capacity in recent years, related to actions
discussed at the MTR in 1993. The Swiss bilaterally-financed Partnership in Teacher
Training (PITT) program, the in-service training, teacher education and multi-grade
teaching partnership initiative between the two existing TTIs in Bhutan and TTC
Zurich, has helped RGOB substantially to make the needed progress toward the
component's second related goal of improved effectiveness of teacher education and
training, through pedagogical skills enhancement. The results and experiences gained
through the PITT program are expected to be integrated at the Dzongkhag and



Appendix A
Page 4 of 9
especially at the School level into the mainstream of in-service teacher training
activities.
c) I'he project's third and final component, Education Administration, with the objective
of strengthening the administrative and educational support services of the DOE, can
probably be shown to have achieved its objectives in terms of central level
administrative strengthening. Project activities under this component.were completed
some time ago. The central level has been effective not only in implementing the
project, but also in monitoring and developing the educational system throughout the
country.  The mission has been particularly impressed with the coordinated efforts
made since the MTR by the different divisions of the DOE to achieve a high level of
performance, both with respect to implementation of the project and implementation
of all programs in the education sector. The Curriculum and Professional Support-
Services Section (CAPSS) continues to make serious effort at increasing its efficiency,
as precursor to decentralization of administrative authority. High caliber staffing at
the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and Planning Unit has shown up in project
performance, while the Teacher Education Committee has functioned regularly. The
respective performances of the Bhutan Board of Examinations, the Inspectorate, and
the Schools Planning and Building Cell (SPBC) are commendable despite staffing
constraints and formidable institutional demands.
Administrative strengthening at the Dzongkhag level was introduced during the
project period. Progress to date has been modest, given the constrained institutional
capacity at the central level and the limited staffing at the Dzongkhag education offices
(DEO's).  Expanded institutional capacity-building (administrative, monitoring and
pedagogical staff skills strengthening) has been incorporated as a key decentralization
subcomponent in the proposed second follow-on project.
8.    Financing and Expenditure. The total cost of the project (SAR estimate in
parenthesis) is estimated at about $12.1 (13.63) million equivalent. The cost shares are
estimated to be IDA $3.75 (4.18) million, SDC $5.28 (5.98) million, and UNICEF $1.25
(1.49) million. About $ 0.5 million is expected to be available for cancellation from the
IDA Credit. The RGOB is planning to draw down the Swiss account to have a zero
balance in order to maximize the use of grant funds.  To facilitate this, any over
commitment against Swiss funds shall be adjusted by the use of IDA funds for partial
payment of one civil works contract, the only IDA disbursement category, as final costs
become clear. However, the mission noted that any adjustment is expected to be minor as
RGOB have been careful in planning expenditures. The mission discussed the closure
process and cautioned that no new expenditures should be made after June 30,1997. A
four mionth period is allowed for claiming expenditures already incurred prior to the Credit
closing date, after which the project accounts are closed by IDA.
9-    Auditing. The next audit is due on December 31, 1997. The audit status of the
project is current.



Appendix A
Page 5 of 9
D. FINAL PROCESSING
10.   The planned schedule for final processing of activities for CR 1899-BHU is as
follows:
*  The Project closes June 30, 1997, which is the deadline for making project
expenditures.
  A four month period (to October 31, 1997) is allowed for RGOB to complete the
claiming of expenditures incurred prior to the closing date. Retention monies falling
due may be claimed during this period.
*  Preparation of the ICR was discussed and a timetable for processing drafted (refer
below to paras. 12-13).
*  RGOB shall prepare the final audit, including the special account, before December
31, 1997.
E. FIELD OBSERVATION
11.   A field observation was carried out by Mark Schlagel (operations assistant -- IDA)
from May 10-17, 1997 to four PEP school sites: Bajothang, Gyelposhing, Jakar and
Kuruthang. The attachment provides a summary of key observations and data.
F. IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
12.   The mission consulted with the Education Division (RGOB) on the ICR approach
and process and provided further clarification pertaining to the document's function and
use. Subsequent to such discussion, Education Division expressed its desire to prepare a
comprehensive retrospective of the project, which would include a narrative/back-
ground, with key linkage to the countiy/sector level, as well as an assessment on: (i)
achievement of project objectives, (ii) factors affecting implementation, (iii) project
sustainability, (iv) donor performance, (v) key lessons learned, and (vi) continuity to the
proposed second follow-on project. Thne mission commends RGOB's strong interest in
providing this level of detail in its report
13.   RGOB informed the mission that it would try to provide IDA with its initial draft
by July 31, 1997. A second draft version, reflecting any departmental comments as
appropriate from the first draft, as well as the IDA section, would then be forwarded to
SDC for review and for broader Bank-wide distribution for comment by August 30, 1997.
The proposed timetable for these and all subsequent processing steps was further
discussed and a tentative ICR timetable drafted. The mission notes that this schedule
assumes a high level of detail in the RGOB report and that a modified, shortened IDA ICR
response will be possible as a supplement to the RGOB report.



Appendix A
Page 6 of 9
Attachment
Field Observation Summary
Current Enrollment:
-total              332                  982                   743                  490
-girls              99                   523                   360                  217
-boys               233                  459                   383                  273
(all boarding)       (none boarding)      (330 students are     (344 students are
boarding; 170 girls  boarding. Capacity is
and 160 boys)        for 260. provision for
class IV dropped due
to overcrowding)
Teachers on Staff
-Bhutanese          09                   20                    10                   6
-Non-Bhutanese      02 (India)           02 (India)            13 (India)           4 (India)
(one PACE graduate;   (two apprentice                           (one transferring soon;
one national B Ed    teachers at school)                        three resigning soon.
teacher to join soon)                                           Two additional Indian
teachers have been
posted since the
mission's visit)
Support Staff       6                     1                    5                    6
(four cooks, one     (repairs and          (four cooks and one    (five cooks and one
caretaker, one typist)   maintenance)     caretaker)            temporary worker -
general maintenance).
Occupancy Date                           March 1994            March 1997           March 1997
Building (condition/  Units appeared in  Units appeared in     Loose bolts/screws   Being a brand new
problems observed)   excellent condition.    good condition. Loose  noted on several  facility, the walls,
bolt noted on one    doors.                doors, fumishings,
Dorms particularly   door.                                      and kitchen equipment
clean. Dorms                                                    appeared quite
overcrowded.                                                    worn/dirty. Breakage
of water pump (9
days) had visible
impact on hygiene
standards in dorms
and latrines.
Maintenance         Good maintenance up-  Good maintenance up-  Good maintenance    Temporary worker
keep to date.        keep to date.         up-keep to date.     doing maintenance.
Maintenance and      Maintenance manual   Maintenance
repairs staff person  provided.            management of
recently attended                         facilities in general
maintenance training                       appeared to be of
course. Maintenance                       lower standard when
manual provided.                           compared to other
sites (i.e., equipment
wear, hygiene,
._______    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _landscaping, etc).



Appendix A
Page 7 of 9
Field Observatioini Summary (continued)
Space Usage         Effective space        Effective but tight.   Headmaster noted that  On-site non-project unit
utilization; one      Using kitchen/store    division in store unit    being refurbished, for
classroom block being   unit as science lab  (with wall/door) would  teacher housing.
used for boys         (non-boarded school;   have provided better
dormitory.            does nDt provide meals  space utilization for
to students).         food essentials/non-
essentials.
Site Works          Main concern has       Teachers/students      Basic landscaping in    Major problem observed
(landscaping,       been lack of electricity  participate in      place (by students,   was broken water pump
grading, water      to date. Some          landscaping/clean up    teachers). Slope next   (only such type pump
supply/source,      students fallen ill due   on Sat ardays.     to basketball court    used in project). Pump
electricity,        to excessive heat.                           leveled off, to enable   still under warranty and
septic/sewerage            .               Electrical problems    more functional space   was replaced after 9
Minor dirt build-up on  frequent (common to   for special functions.    days. Students
walls due to   .      local area, not school                        collecting water from
windblown sand        site alone)            No septic/sewerage    river. Toilets out of
(excessive topsoil/lack                      problems reported,     order due to pump
of grass) observed.                          although headmaster    outage. Problem
District administrator                       noted latrines too     corrected on second
noted this concern.                          overcrowded for both    visit.
boarders and non-
DEO/DA announced                             boarders.              Problem with broken
funds now available                                                 water piping to kitchen
for immediate                                Poor leveling in      stove (water boiler)
electricity installation.                    headmaster bathroom;   observed; headmaster
created flooding.     contacted local
Highly attractive                            Headmaster cut slope   repairman for immediate
landscaping (trees,                          into floor, to allow  repair.
flowers, etc) --                             proper drainage.
teacher/ student effort.                                            Non-project financed
Excellent upkeep.                            Poor water drainage    river pump purchased as
noted outside, near   back-up pump. Water
No                                           classrooms.            suitable for general
leveling/grading/water                                              purpose cleaning use.
problems reported or                         Poor electric fan
observed.                                    installation noted in  Landscaping still
headmaster quarters.    minimal. Landscaping
teacher/student effort.
Lighting problem      Plan to plant trees on
(outage, short bulb   June 2nd (Social
life) noted by        Forestry Day).
headmaster in multi-
_________ ________  ________ __   function  hall.
Ieacher/Staff       4 units (teacher/head-   Headmaster facility.    Headmaster facility.  Headmaster facility. No
I-lousing           master quarters)       No other facilities    No other facilities   teacher housing.
provided. Teachers    provided. Teachers     Headmaster noted that
Teacher housing units  receive standard rent    stay at housing in  housing for teachers in
of high standard.     subsidy as part of     nearby community       nearby community
salary package.       (about 4-5 km away);   constrained by high rent,
teachers walking to   limited availability of
school.               running water, and poor
facility standards.
On-site non-project unit
being refurbished, for
teacher housing.



Appendix A
Page 8 of 9
Field Observation Summary (continued)
Furniture        Good condition.        Bolts on doors loose.   Loose screws on      Loose screws
Minimal breakage       Loose screws on chair  chairs/benches.       observed on chairs and
reported (none         seats -- had to replace                      tables.
observed). Loose bolt   screws on about a
on dining hall door.   quarter of
chairs/stools.
Boarding         All students boarding.   No boarding.        330 students boarding.  334 students boarding.
Dorms overcrowded
Dorms overcrowded.                           (original capacity: 192   Dorms very overcrowded
students). Headmaster  (substandard hygiene also
highly emphasized      noted, likely due to pump
overcrowding situation   outage).
in dorms.
Original dorming capacity:
260 students.
Food Provision    Staple diet: rice, com,   Non-boarding facility   Staple diet: rice, corn,  Staple diet: rice, corn,
lentils, peppers (school  -- none provided.  lentils, peppers (school  lentils, peppers (school
receives donor-assisted   Some students not  receives donor-assisted  receives donor -assisted food
food aid).             able to bring their   food aid)              aid).
own lunch. Informed
Students receiving    that malnutrition                             Students receiving egg twice
meat or egg once per    observable with a few                       a week, meat once a week.
month. Difficulty      students.
obtaining large
quantity of meat/egg in
this area.
Clubs            School clubs being     Effective             Several clubs/groups    Several clubs formed.
implemented, including  gardening/fundraising   formed (theater,    Observed evening activities
evening activities.   in place. Students put  athletics, student body,  (basketball and indoor
on variety show (as    teacher body, etc.).  games in classroom).
school fund-raiser).
Multi-purpose hall
also used by
community about 10-
15% of time.
Books/           No library.            Library in place      No library.            No library. Textbooks
Library                                 (limited number of                           provided (RGOB).
books).
Textbooks provided     Textbooks and library   Textbooks provided
(RGOB).                books provided        (RGOB).
(RGOB). Old books
are kept in storage.  Old textbooks used for
teaching-aide
Through fundraising,   purposes.
able to purchase
TV/video recorder for
the library. Small
video library in place.
Sports Facilities  Basketball court,    Basketball court,     Basketball court,      Basketball court, football
football field, volley  football field, volley    football field, volley  field, volley ball court
ball court provided at    ball court provided at   ball court provided at   provided at all schools.
_______  all schools.        all schools.           all schools.



Appendix A
Page 9 of 9
Field Observation Summary (continued)
(Gy;pesbiit~)                              Piakh~         ~       I... VwV...t);  /
Otller              Headmaster noted lack  Area very cold in   Headmaster noted
of vehicle and        winter. Students     additional dormitory
remoteness/long       meet in multi-       needed to address
commute distance to   function hall for final  serious overcrowding.
Mongar for supplies is  exams when weather
problematic.         too cold.
About 30-40 students
walking long
distaice to school
(15-20 km).
No meals provided at
school, some students
unable to bring
lunch



Appendix B
Page 1 of 15
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ROYAL GOVE]RNMENT OF BHUTAN
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT BHU-1899
A. Introduction
1.    Historically  isolated, Bhutan  did  not begin  the process of economic
modernisation until the 1960s. Modern education for the masses began only in 1961,
with the launching of the 1 Five Year Plan. Until then, monastic education was almost
the only form of formal education available in the country. The Royal Government has
since then invested heavily in education with the education sector receiving almost 10-
15 percent of the total plan out lays.
2.    In 1987, after twenty eight years of planned development, the country had
attained a gross primary enrollment ratio of 54% with about 57,000 students enrolled in
190 schools and institutes. However, the education system faced many challenges.
Inequitable access, poor and irrelevant educational content, high drop out and repetition
rates were highlighted as being some of the major problems faced by the education
system of the time. This was further aggravated by shortage of teachers with an
expatriate dependence of 42%, overcrowded classrooms, poor physical facilities and
lack of teaching learning materials.
3.    It was against this backdrop that a project was formulated and formally signed
on May 9"', 1988, for a total budget of US $ 13.63 million consisting of US$ 4.18
million from IDA (soft credit), US$ 5.93 million SDC (grant), US$1.49 million
UNICEF (grant) and US$ 2.03 million as RGoB contribution.
4.    The project was launched on .th May, 1988, and closed on 30th June, 1997. The
credit closing date was extended by one and half years to facilitate completion of
schools construction.
B.    Project Objectives
5.    The project was designed to help the government meet its objectives related to its
primary education sub-sector. The specific objectives of the project were to (a) increase
the number and quality of primary schools; (b) increase the number and effectiveness of
the primary teachers and ( c) strengthen the administration and educational support
services of the Education Division.



Appendix B
Page 2 of 15
6.    These objectives were to be achieved by (a) building 12 primary schools with an
enrolment capacity of 6,400 students including boarding facilities, in under served areas in
the Kingdom, (b) more than doubling the enrolment capacity of the Teacher Training
Colleges from 170 to about 400 and improving the quality of education ( c) improving the
quality of educational administration at the Central and Dzongkhag levels, particularly in
the areas of curriculum development, student assessment, personnel management and
education sector planning.
C.   Achievement of Project Objectives
(1)   Increasing the number and quality of primary schools
(a)   School Construction
7.    12 schools proposed for construction under the Project have been completed and
are fully functional. Against the original projection of providing 6,400 additional spaces
for primary students, total enrolment for the project schools as of June, 1997, is 7,182
out of which 42% are girl students. Furthermore as against a projection of 36 percent
boarding, 49 percent of the students study as boarders. These schools are fully equipped
with classroom and hostel furniture, limited number of library books and reference
materials. (SDC). Three primary peripheral schools were also constructed by UNICEF
which are designed to serve children from classes PP-VI.
8.    While the outcome of the school construction program  was satisfactory on all
accounts, the change in policy during the 7ih Plan (1992-97) to do away with the Extended
Class Rooms (ECRs) and instituting Community Schools to provide education up to the
end of the primary education cycle affected the project school size. While logically
enrolment in the project schools should have reduced, the high population growth rate in
these locations more than compensated for this policy change and some of the project
schools had to increase their sizes during the implementation.
9.    The second major development which impinged on the nature of the project
outcome was the decision of the Royal government to enhance the basic education level to
Class VIII. It was under these circumstances that the amendment to "construction of
primary and secondary schools' was sought and approved by the Bank in December,
1993. In addition to primary students, a few project schools also accommodate some
grades of VII and VIII.
10.   The project also helped the education system in the Kingdom to develop two types
of designs and drawings for tropical and temperate regions. Before this, no standards
were available.



Appendix B
Page 3 of 15
(b)   Improvement of the quality of primary education
(i)    Curriculum
11.   Curriculum at the primary educat.ion level is now fully Bhutanized as planned. Text
Books,  Manuals, Work Books and Readers for English, Maths, Social Studies,
Dzongkha, Science and Environmental Studies have been developed using Bhutanese
context and currently used in the schools. Environmental Studies is taught in Dzongkha in
pre-primary classes and is being pilot tested in Class I. Curriculum review is carried out
continuously.
12.   The New Approach to Primary Education (NAPE) which emphasises on activity
and student centred approach to learning, is now being implemented in all primary grades.
13.   The Project rendered technical assistance to NAPE for development of materials
and organising numerous training for NAPE implementation. UNICEF along with SDC
were instrumental in initiating and funding the evaluation of primary education programme
and particularly NAPE. The joint study by the Bhutanese and the consultants paved the
way for its further improvement and nation-wide implementation.
(ii)   Examinations
14.   The Project helped develop test items banks for class VI through the specialist
services provided under the Project (UNICEF). These test item banks are used in the class
VI examinations. The BBE now compiles and presents statistical analysis reports of the
BBE Examinations annually. However, detailed analysis of the examinations of the past
examinations has not been possible because of the lack of skilled manpower.
15.  -During the Second Education Project, the present examination system is expected
to be further improved by carrying out an impact analysis of the current examination
system, development of standardised testing instruments and implementing nation wide
for grades V and VIII.
16.   Continuous assessment practice though  introduced during the Project period
remains in it's infancy because of the complexity in the concept itself and the lack of
skills/training in continuous assessment. Current continuous assessment practices will be
reviewed during the Second Education PTroject, and a draft Master Plan will be developed
for implementation. Training and specialist services will be provided to help strengthen
continuous assessment practices including inservice workshops/training of teachers.



Appendix B
Page 4 of 15
(iii)  In-service Trainings
17.   The project was one of the single most important funding sources for the
numerous national in-service workshops conducted for several thousand primary school
teachers in various subjects and grades during the project. This has helped institute a
national in-service training programme and accelerated the process of establishing
Dzongkhag and School Based In-service Workshops.
18.   The degree of benefits accrued from the inservice training programmes are difficult
to determine since no impact analysis was carried out. However, during the Second
Education Project, inservice programmes on a few areas will continue to be supported
and an impact analysis of the past and current inservice programmes will be carried out.
19.   The Project inputs have contributed significantly towards the improvement in the
quality of education and efficiency of the education process. Indicators such as pass
percentages at classes VI and VIII show a marked improvement from 48 percent and 66
percent in 1987 to 96 percent and 85 percent respectively in 1997. Similarly dropouts and
repetition at primary level has dropped from 11 percent and 25 percent in 1987 to 4
percent and 13 percent respectively in 1997.
(2)   Increasing the Number and Effectiveness of Primary Teachers
(a)   Increasing the number of primary teachers
20.   The Project envisaged construction of a new TTC catering for primary teacher
training in Eastern Bhutan. However, the prevailing constraint of teacher educators,
problem of intake and finding suitable candidates prompted the government to consolidate
and expand the existing TTC at Paro. UNICEF supported the construction of additional
classrooms, multipurpose hall and dormitories for girls and boys expanding the capacity
from 50 to 230.
21.   Over the years, there has been a progressive increase in the total output of teachers
from the two Teacher Training Colleges, from 60 in 1987 to 191 in 1997. The education
system continues to face challenges in providing adequate number of teachers with the
actual enrolment growing at 8 percent as against the projected rate of 6 percent. Teacher
shortage is further aggravated by deployment difficulties of matching competencies and
the needs of the schools.
22.   The Government continues to depend on expatriates to meet the shortage. At
present, it is estimated that the expatriate dependency is 16 percent at the primary level.
While dependency rate may have decreased as compared to 42 percent in 1987, it also
reflects the difficulty of recruiting qualified Indian teachers because of more attractive
remuneration in India and elsewhere.



Appendix B
Page 5 of 15
23.   A new caderisation scheme completed in 1989 to make teaching profession more
attractive has not made significant impact because of the small secondary sub-sector, thus
limiting the number of graduates passing out against the job opportunities available. The
trend is being reversed now with the government's initiative to raise the basic education
level to Class VIII. The current enrolment in TTC is 231 with 115 apprentice teachers in
the fields waiting to be enrolled in 1998. Major expansion is already taking place to
increase the enrolment capacity to 300 under TTC Phase III funded by the Swiss (outside
of PEP). TTC, Paro, will continue to concentrate on training primary school teachers.
From, 1998, the intake of PTC trainees will increase from 3 sections to 4 sections and will
take an additional section of ZTC trainees. TTC, will also take in B.Ed (Primary) starting
in August, 1998. With these, the projected enrolment is estimated to be around 329, in
1998, 440 in 1999, 505 in 2000 and 540 in 2001.
24.   Similarly, NIE, has been expanded from an initial capacity of 60 to 210 and will be
expanded to 275 during the 8th Plan. NIE will stop taking BEd Primary and take only one
section of PTC Programme this year. NIE will instead take in 2 section of B.Ed
Secondary ( at present NIE takes only one section of B.Ed Primary and Secondary
combined) in 1999 and will become a secondary teacher training institute. With these
programmes, the system can improve the pupil teacher ratio and dependence on expatriate
staff to about 13% by 2006. Besides, the distance education programme initiated in 1995
and provision for teachers to upgrade their qualification to the next level of higher
education will also bring about a general improvement in quality and number of teachers
able to teach grades VII and VIII as well as the primary level (PP-VI).
(b)   Improving the Quality of Primary Teachers
25.   Professional competence of teacher educators at TTC have been upgraded. 19
teacher educators have benefited from fellowships funded under the project. Almost all of
these teacher educators teach at the TTC and NIE. (Refer Annex I).
26.   During the Second Education Project, further strengthening and improving the
quality of teaching in TTC and NIE will be emphasised. This will include development of
methodology and practice of instruction and building up of the professional cadre of
teacher educators.
27.   The curriculum at the Teacher Training College was reviewed and improvements
made in teaching methodologies of Environmental Studies, English and Dzongkha and
Teachers Manuals were developed by the teacher educators in collaboration with the
consultants. Further, the Dzongkha Lan-guage Curriculum was revised to bring it at par
with the PTC programme and implemented from 1993.
28.   The establishment of the Partnership in Teacher Training (PITT) between the
TTC, Paro, and the TTC, Zurich (1989-1997), has helped in the development,
consolidation of Teacher Education, School Guidance and Support service and



Appendix B
Page 6 of 15
development of multi-grade teaching materials. Bhutanese educators also benefited from
workshop/study tour in Switzerland in the above areas of partnership.
29.   While the PITT responded to the general aims of the Project, it was also focused
on mutual learning needs of the Bhutanese and the Swiss educators, particularly of the
teacher training in Bhutan. PITT will continue in the Second Education Project focusing
on strengthening the Teacher Education.
30.   The Project also helped upgrade the facilities at TTC through acquisition of new
books and international journals, vehicles and equipment. (UNICEF/SDC).
3)    Strengthening the educational administration at the Centre and at the Dzongkhags
Levels
31.   Through the technical assistance provided under the projects, some of the key
sections of the Education Division have been strengthened. (Annex III). At the Personnel
Section a Head Teachers Manual and PIS (Personnel Information System) were developed
which need to be further developed for efficient use. At the Planning Section, specialist
services provided to improve the information system of the Education Division only
partially attained it's objectives due to the short duration of the technical assistance. Since
the Planning Section was understaffed, it was unable to utilise for detailed analytical
purposes.
32.   Technical assistance was provided at TEU to design an integrated pre-service and
in service training programme, the direct outcomes being the introductions of the (a) B.Ed
Primary strand at the National Institute of Education (NIE) and (b) National, Dzongkhag
and School-Based-Inservice training programmes. The TEU has now been merged with
the Personnel Section for better co-ordination.
33.   All sections of the Education Division have been upgraded with equipment. A
number of support staff at the Education Headquarters were also trained in computer
applications and desk top publishing. (SDC/UNICEF). Professional upgrading of the
skills of the staff remains critical.
34.   An Implementation Specialist and a Project Architect were made available at the
PIU and SPBC respectively to assist the staffs designated in these offices. At the PIU, the
first technical assistance found it difficult to adjust to local conditions which restricted his
output to providing accounting and reporting on the physical progress of the project. The
second Technical Assistance was more successful in activizing the Bhutanese educators
and administrators to critically review the project activities and providing direction for
better utilisation of the project resources. The TA also established a standard project
reporting format incorporating a review and forward plans which facilitated planning and
co-ordination of the project funds and activities.



Appendix B
Page 7 of 15
35.   The first TA for SPBC established the standards, designs and drawings of the
schools to be funded under the Project. Although a lot of good work was left behind by
the consultant, transfer of knowledge and skills to local staff were minimal. The second
technical assistance was better at interacling with local staff.
36.   While the project helped strengthen the Education Headquarters, it was unable to
extent much assistance to the Dzongkhag Education Offices although a few equipment
was provided through the project. In retrospect, when substantial savings from the project
was determined, strengthening the schools and Dzongkhags should have received priority.
This was not done due to poor co-ordination within the Education Division and relative
isolation of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) from the rest of the Divisions partly
contributed to this.
37.   The development of the Dzongkhag Education administration and school level
management will be addressed in the Second Education Project. Human resource
development at the Dzongkhags and schools will also be given special emphasis,
supplemented by establishment of resource centres, supplementary reading programmes,
introduction of vocational skills and upgrading the schools and the Dzongkhags through
supply of equipment.
4)    Studies
38.   The original project plans called for three studies on the following subjects: (i)
assess the value of ECR program; (ii) e xamine the capacity of the formal primary system
to respond to the educational needs of female students; and (3) review the existing policy
of using English as the language of instruction in the early grades of primary school.
39.   The first study to assess the value of ECR programme was carried out with the
help of an international expert and Bhutanese educators. Extended Classrooms (ECRs)
were originally meant to be one or two classroom temporary structures provided by the
communities and attached to a nearby primary school for administration, supervision and
support services. The study observed that the quality of education being provided in the
ECRs was inferior because of inadequate supervision, administration and support services
by the parent school due to the distances and difficult terrain. The concept of smallness
was also seen to be no longer relevant as many of these ECRs had enrolments that
surpassed even some of the existing primary schools. Following this study, the ECR
programme was revised and retitled as Community schools with some fundamental
changes. While Community schools are also community built and maintained, they are of
permanent structures and independent entities. These schools also provide education from
classes PP-VI instead of PP-IIl. So far 154 community schools have been established. Of
these 43 have been upgraded to primary schools before the policy decision to allow all
community schools to go up to class V[I.
40.   The second and third studies were not carried out as they were not very critical.
The female enrolment has been increasing over the years. At present the total female



Appendix B
Page 8 of 15
enrolment is estimated at 44% of the total. The establishment of the community schools
has been credited with much of the increases in the female students.
41.   As for the language policy, English is perceived as being an important medium for
Bhutanese to interact with the outside world. Therefore, for the foreseeable future, it
would continued to be used as the medium of teaching. However, efforts are being made
to provide more time for the national language in the curriculum. A pilot project has been
initiated to teach Environmental Studies in Dzongkha in PP and piloted in Class I.
D.    Project implementation experience
42.   The project has been instrumental in initiating and sustaining positive changes
covering a very wide area, from physical infrastructures to the very core of the educational
content and processes. Since this was one of the biggest international projects and with
very limited experience available within the Education Division, many problems were
encountered initially which may be highlighted below.
Civil works
43.   The Credit closing date had to be extended by one and half years, i.e., till 30th June,
1997, because of the delay in the school construction programme. When the project was
formulated, the civil works was expected to be executed by the Public Works Department,
but because of its own priorities, it was unable to do so. The Education Division had to
set up it's unit, the School Planning and Building Cell (SPBC) responsible for developing
standard designs and drawings, site survey and general management of the construction
works. Although an Architect was made available through the Project, staffing the
SP13C with qualified and experienced people was a major problem. The first project
school was tendered out only in December, 1990, two years after the Project had been
signed.
44.   The location of the schools were initially planned within the concept of the larger
rural service facilities to be developed in specified locations around the country which later
had to be abandoned because of financial constraints. Therefore, for some schools,
Education Division had to incur unplanned costs in building access roads, provision of
electricity and drinking water supplies to the school sites.
45.   The site selection was unduly prolonged because of technical and local sentiments
and some sites had to be changed after the completion of the master plans. The project
alsc faced a young and inexperienced construction industry. The tender documents
developed on the IDA standard bidding and the comprehensive designs and drawings
developed for project schools were found to be very difficult for the contractors.



Appendix B
Page 9 of 15
46.   The trend to award work to the lowest bidder and the absence of pre-qualification
procedures also resulted in poor perfbrmance and in one instance the project had to
rescind the contract resulting in delays and increasing the total project costs significantly.
47.   Use of stones to keep costs low and also reduce maintenance proved to be labour
intensive and required longer construction period as against brick constructions. This
could not be avoided as the switch over to bricks would have effected a cost increase of
about 30% higher because of high transportation costs for import.
48.   The project schools were designed for prefabricated timber components for
windows and doors which was expected to have a significant impact on the quality and
speed of construction. However, due to the delays in supplies fabrication at the sites had
to be executed beginning with the construction of the second project schools. Timber
quality could be maintained because of shortages and lack of equipment for seasoning and
treatment of timber.
49.   Initially slate and later Fibre Cement were considered as roofing materials. Because
of short supplies of slate and slow production of fibre cement Corrugated Iron Sheets
(CGI) had to be used which needs regular maintenance.
50.   Site supervision of the school.s construction was one of the most difficult
challenges. With a very small number of technical staff at the headquarters, the Division
had to resort to posting inexperienced graduates as supervisors. Although, their work has
been commendable, better technical support and supervision from the headquarters would
have speeded up the implementation and ensured quality. This was nct possible since the
headquarters was already constrained by technical man power.
Improving School Curriculum and examination
51.   The biggest problem faced in implementing curriculum changes and improving
teaching -learning process has been the shortage of qualified personnel. The novelty of the
NAPE appealed to many teachers and many schools. However, support in terms of
qualified teachers and materials which were essential pre-requisites for this method to
succeed were often very inadequate.
52.   The establishment of continuous assessments system within the schooling system
has also been a challenging task. The reasons are similar. Over-sized classes, lack of
adequate preparation in this method amongst the teachers and lack of clarity in the
concept itself
53.   Most of the in-service programmes conducted were dictated by curricula changes
and on an annual needs basis. No comprehensive master plan was developed or an impact
analysis carried out. This resulted in many teachers attending repeated in-service courses
in a number of areas depending upon the prevailing responsibility he/she may have been
associated with.



Appendix B
Page 10 of 15
54.   The Education Division acknowledges the lacks of an effective monitoring system
to ensure implementation of the policies at the school level. Efforts have been made to
strengthen the School Inspectorate during the project period with recruitment of new
staff, introducing a systematic inspection, supervision and support role. However, given
the limited pool of human resources, this section continues to be under-staffed.
Strengthening the educational administration at the Centre and at the Dzongkhags Levels
55.   While most commitments made by the project in the form of Technical assistance,
fellowships and equipment were met, the Education Division found it difficult to recruit
qualified personnel into the system. Fellowship services provided for Planning and the
Board of Examinations could not be implemented because of lack of candidates during the
Project period. Specialist services for Data Management was not fully utilised because of
the limited educational qualifications of the counterpart.
Execution of Fellowship Programmes
56.   The fellowship programmes under the project were first of it's kind executed by
the Education Division. International tendering and evaluation were very difficult since the
project staff did not have any experience. Monitoring of the relevance of the programmes
was inadequate. A major flaw of the programme was placement of majority of students in
a single university limiting their learning experience.
57.   The lack of an independent project accountant for the project made it extremely
difficult during the initial period of the project implementation. With the establishment of
the Project Accounts within the PIU in 1993 after the recommendation of the Mid Term
Review team, it helped solve the financial bottle necks. However, government input
accounting for the project was difficult because of the decentralised accounting systems
and very often the government input have not been possible to be reflected in the project
accounts.
E.    Project Outcomes
I)    Project output
58.   The project has been instrumental in meeting the government's objectives of
expanding primary educational coverage and improving the quality of education in the
primary education system. It has also helped in making the essential steps towards
enhancing the basic education level from grades VI to VIII.
59.   Standard designs are now available for primary and junior high schools catering to
the basic education programme. The project has also helped the Education Division in
engineering important changes related to educational content, process and educational



Appendix B
Page 11 of 15
administration and has been instrumental in strengthening the key sections of the
Headquarters responsible for planning and implementing educational programmes.
60.   The project has further helped develop a  strong technical wing in Education
Division (SPBC) for shouldering all future works related to educational building designs
and construction. It has helped expose many of the Education staff to an international
experience while working with the World Bank and the SDC implementors. This has
helped facilitate a high degree of professionalism.
2)    Key Lessons Learned from the experience of the project implementation
Civil works/Construction Programmes
61.   It is evident that the preparatory works such as location of sites, designs, drawings
and master plans have to be ready prior to project signing because of the unique
problems faced by the construction industry. To maintain quality of construction, timber
seasoning must be given utmost priority for which adequate time must be provided before
the construction period.
62.   School construction should be carried out by the Dzongkhag administration and
SPBC should only provide technical back-stopping to the Dzongkhags when required.
One of the criticisms about the present project has been the highly centralised construction
scheme with little or no involvement of the Dzongkhags.
63.   Future bidding documents need to be made simpler for the contractors. There
should also be a system for pre-qualifyiing contractors to speed up construction and for
quality control.
Technical Assistance
64.   To fully utilise specialist services, they must be able to adapt to local environment
and interact with local counterparts. Iderntification of capable national counterpart is also
essential in ensuring continuity of the essential activities initiated by the specialists.
65.   Future fellowship programmes can be executed by the Education Division with the
experience acquired through this project and other donor assisted programmes. The
Education Division can also rely on additional expertise of the Royal Civil Service
Commission (RCSC).
66.   Specialist services and fellowship programmes should be packaged to develop
institutional linkages as in the PITT programme to ensure continuity and relevance.
67.   The future PIU need to be integrated as much as possible within the Education
Division to facilitate smooth implementation and also to avoid duplication of programmes.



Appendix B
Page 12 of 15
Project management officials need adequate prior training and experience if they are to
carry out their responsibilities competently.
Project Scope
68.   Future projects need to be developed to address comprehensively all related issues.
Although the first project focused on primary education it was realised that the
relationship between the primary and secondary education was so pervasive that the
quality of primary education was dependent on secondary school graduates and vice
versa. It was felt that the project should also have provided some scope to improve the
secondary education facilities.
69.   While a degree of flexibility in extending the scope of the project is essential for
ensuring the achievement of broader project objectives, it is also imperative for the project
management not to take up ad hoc activities or programmes which will not only jeopardise
the goals of the project but also frustrate the management.
F.    Project Sustainability
70.   All recurrent cost including maintenance of the school buildings are being met by
the government. Minor repair and maintenance works are expected to be carried out by
the school supported by the Education Division. It has already started a programme on
basic maintenance skills training for care takers of schools and interested students.
71.   Almost all the people trained from the project funds continue to be employed in
the Education Division. Equipment and materials purchased under the project are well
utilised and recurrent expenses for the maintenance of these are being met by the
gove:rnment.
G.   Role of World Bank, SDC, UNICEF, Education Division and Government
Agencies.
72.   The Project benefited from the frequent supervision missions which provided the
opportunity to evaluate progress, identify and rectify any implementation problems. One
strength of the project has been it's flexibility to adapt to the new priorities and needs.
Many of the staff development activities were undertaken during the later phase of the
implementation.
73.   Of significant importance was the Mid -Term Review of the Project in May, 1993,
which helped assessed the overall progress and the project objectives. Improving teacher
supply, reviewing construction delays, high cost of construction, decentralisation and
organisational development of education were high lighted as some of the major issues



Appendix B
Page 13 of 15
which could effect the overall achievement of the project objectives. Increasing access to
high schools and the number of high school graduates was achieved through the
introduction of continuos assessment. T'he PIU and SPBC were strengthened through
provision of training as recommended by the Review team. Workshop on low cost designs
using locally available materials was condlucted and three types of designs for community
schools are now available.
74.   The commitment and the readiness of the parties to address the problems
objectively and with flexibility was instrumental in the successful implementation of the
project. The congenial working relatio:ns between the mission members of the World
Bank, SDC and UNICEF also helped enhance the professional inputs of the teams during
the review and supervision missions.
75.   The co-operation extended by the Royal Audit Authority and other government
agencies especially the Ministry of Finance through timely release of funds have greatly
facilitated the implementation of the project.
76.   It may be mentioned that the stages for preparation and development of the
Second Education Project was a joint eflfort of the WB/SDC team and the RGoB. This
was possible because of the co-operation and the mutual understanding developed over
the years on the needs of education systeni.
H.   Need for further IDA/SDC Assistance
77.   Further assistance is required t:o provide continuity and  consolidate  the
achievements made under the project and to improve the overall education system in the
country. Continued assistance will be required in the following: (a) Increase and upgrade
facilities for basic education (b) expand and improve Teacher Education (c) improve
teaching learning process and (d) strengthen the management and administration at the
Central, Dzongkhag and school levels.
78.     The total funding requirement is US$ 21.17 million with US$ 13.69 from IDA,
(soft credit) US$5.5 million from SDC(grant) with US$ 1.96 million as RGoB
contribution.



Appendix B
Page 14 of 15
'Table 1: Number of Teacher Educators (TTCs) and Education Administrators trained in
various fields of study under the Technical Assistance of the Project as programmed
(1989-1993)
Organization       Field of study           Location           Number of
people
Trained
TTCs               Advanced Diploma in
Teaching of Maths        Leeds, U.K.               4
TTCs               Diploma in Enviro-
mental studies           Leeds, U.K                2
TTCs               Diploma in English
Language Teaching        Leeds, U.K                4
TTCs               Attachment in English
Language Teaching        Leeds, U.K                7
Education HQ       Masters in Educational
Administration           UNB, Canada               1
Education HQ       Diploma in Public Admn.   UNB, Canada              1
Education HQ       Improvement of Educational
Statistical Services     BC, Canada                1
TTCs               Mobile In-service Training   Canada                1
TTCs               Educational Administration  Leeds, U.K.            1
Total                                                                 22



Appendix B
Page 15 of 15
Table 2: Consultants at the TTCs made available through the Project (SDC Funds)
Organization         Subject Area                               Staff Months
TEU/NIE              Teacher Education                          06 sm
TTCs                 Teacher Educator-Maths                     03 sm
TTCs                 Teacher Educator-E,nglish                  24 sm
TTCs                 Teacher Educator-EIVS                      24 sm
Total Technical Assistance                                    57 Staff Months
Table 3: Consultants at the Education HO made available- through the Project (SDC
Lunds)
Organization                Subject area                               Yr/Months
PIU                         Implementation Specialist                  5 years
SPBC                        Project Architect                          5 years
SPBC                        Civil Engineer                             2 years
SPBC                        Asstt. Architect                           2 years
Planning                    Planning/M[anagement                       6 months
Personnel                   Personnel Planning/Management              6 months
Planning                    Data Inforrnation                          3 months
TEU/TTC                     In-service Training/Primary B.Ed.          3 months
Total Technical Assistance                                          210 months



MAP SECTION



______________________________________________________                                                                                                        IERD   19961~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRD   996
= -           ~           PHYSICAL RELIEF                       90R  1
(meters)                                                                                      B  H  U  T A  N
-           _      _sooo                                                                                   PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
. 5r_ _3000                                                            LOCATION OF SCHOOLS AND TEACHER TRAINING COLLEGES
le     000                                           PROPOSED EDUCATIONAL                      Pae_ras__leain_ont_mees
FACILITIES TO BE CONSTRUCTED                Paved roads , *                  Elevation points (meters)
DSC School                          Unpaved roads                 t  Airport
Peripheral School.........Roads under construction         *National capital
Teacher Training College            Roads under improvement       0  District capitals
Roads proposed under             Other towns
Fifth Plan                   0)  Selected villages
E       DLoyo ~~G        A    '>           A               X                     ~ S           N A / s                                                               E
/   / u1z   \   i_/     j         >                   }    s        As,    l    A          \ X~~~~~~~~~Rver       ---Dsrc  bonare )       BhuMtan
25~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8
H   U- t  TUN A K A //  S B   U   M   Tj  H   A   N  G w   S   (   X   >   o   25 0   3 20  40
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P                                                                             \U_ TT H   A N G                                 0                         5t 101 ~ 
/                                    u~~~~~~~  WA~~UNGDIPHODRN G                                                          n
S9'~~~~ A0 R                                                                                                                      NGM
Haro                                               nOCipO ci ods
PARO      S~imtokha
H A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iogrTs iganig
hu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MNA                                                                        anglung
H  D A GaDA A                                AN
SAMag                                                        a ...ePunshlig 
edu                                                                Da                                        ngg_____SoduJogo
nv                                                so'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C                                                yr                                            A,I II..
thong ~ ~ ~ ~~cnsn  R



