Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
Repw No. 7010-BlIU
STA"F APPRAISAL REPORT
BHUTAN
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
February 29, 1988
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department I
Asia Regional Office
Thi documen  has a resicted da*do and may be usd by oedpenly In the perfomance of
thdr officid duode  its contes may o othewise be dicosed    Word Bank autwohftln&



Bhutanese Ngultrus (Nu)          100 Chetrum
US$1 (at appraisal,              Nu 12.80 (OffLcial and
July 1987)                       Free Market Rate)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIAIO
DEO           -  District (Dzongkhag) Education Officer
DOE               Department of Education
DSC           -  Development Service Center
ECR           -  Extended Classroom
FTE           -  Full time equivalent
ICB           -  International Competitive Bidding
LCB           -  Local Competitive Bidding
NAPE          -  New Approach to Primary Education
NIE           -  National Institute of Education
PIU           -  Project Implementation Unit
PWD           -  Public Works Department
RGOB          -  Royal Government of Bhutan
SDC           -  Swiss Development Cooperation, representing the
Government of the Swiss Confederation
SPBC              School Planning and Building Cell
SSR               Student to Staff Ratio
TTC           -  Teacher Training Center
UNDP          -  United Nations Development Programme
UNESCO        -  United Nations Education, Scientific
and Cultural Organization
UNICEF        -  United Nations Children's Fund
GLOSSa
Dzongdag          District Officer
Dzongkha      -  National language
Dzongkhag     -  District
FISCAL YEA
April 1 to March 31 (At present)
July 1 to June 30 (Starting July 1, 1988)



FM OFmCIAL US ONLY
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Pa&2 No
BASIC DATA ........................................................    iii
CREDIT AND  PROJECT  SUMMARY ........................................                                iv
I.    PRIMARY  EDUCATION  IN BHUTAN ...............................                               1
A. Introduction ...........................................                                1
B. The  Education  System ...................................                              1
C. Problems  and Issues ....................................                               2
D. Government  Plans  and Programs ..........................                              4
E. External  Financing of Primary  Education ................                              6
F. Rationale for IDA Involvement in the
Sector  and Lending  Strategy ............................                            7
II.    THE PROJECT ...............................................                                 8
A. Project Objectives .....................................                                8
B. Project  Scope and Content ..............................                               8
III.    PROJECT COSTS.  FINANCING AND  IMPLEMENTATION ...............                               14
A. Costs ..................................................                               14
B. Financing ..............................................                              15
C. Implementation .........................................                              17
IV.    BENEFITS AND RISKS ........................................                                22
A. Benefits .......... ...................................                               22
B. Risks ...................................................                             23
V.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .....................                                23
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Bhutan in
July 1987. Mission members included Messrs. Thomas Schmidt (Mission
Leader),  Eid Dib  and John Lubbock  (Consultants),  James  Lynch  (UNESCO),
Uri Trier (SDC), and C.T. Crellin and P.N. Dave (UNICEF). Ms. Paula Valad
assisted in the preparation of this report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoization.



- ii -
Pag2 No.
Table i-_i the Text
3.1    Cost Su ary ........... , ...................   14
3.2  Financing Plan Sumary .16
3.3  Procurement Methods .20
Annex  1       Primary Enrollment, 1982-1986
Annex  2       Primary Female Student Enrollment Ratios by District. 1986-87
Annex  3       Organization Chart of DOE Functions
Annex 4        Comparative Outlay for Fifth and Sixth Plans
Annex  5       Technical Assistance to be Provided by Visiting Specialists
and through Fellowships and Placements
Annex  6       Projected Output from Accelerated Teacher Training Program
with Mixed One- and Two-Year Courses
Annex  7      Additional Project Staff
Annex  8      Terms of Reference for Project-Related Studies
Annex  9       Detailed Project Costs
Annex 10      Detailed Project Financing Plan
Annex 11       Implementation Schedule
Annex 12       Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Annex 13      Operational Action Plan
Annex 14       Selected Documents Available in the Project File
IBRD 19961    Primary Education Project - Location of Schools and
Teacher Training Colleges



- iii X
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
BAIC DATA
Official Estimate (1985)                       . 1. 24 million
Average Annual Growth Rate (1973-83).                   1.9%
Average Density (1985)    .       .25 per sq km
Adult Literacy Rate (1986)   .           .15%
GDP per capita (1985)   .           .US$160
Enrollment (ADril 1986):
Priuary and Secondary Programs:                Total   Male    hele I Female
Primary (Pre-primary, Classes I-VI)   49,485   32,173  17,312           35
Lower Secondary (Classes VII & VIII)   2,202    1,639         563       26
Upper Seconday (Classes IX & X)             764       630      134      18
Total                          52.451   34 442  18Q009
Average                                                        34
Enrollment Ratios:
Primary               19.6%
Secondary              2.6%
Intermediate, DiRloma and Degree Programs:
Junior College (Classes XI & XII)           261       216      45      17
Degree College (Classes XIII-XV)            165       140       25     15
Teachers Colleges:
National Institute of
Education, Samchi                        112       66       46      41
Simtokha Rigney                            33        33       0       0
Paro Teacher Training College              27        16      11      41
Technical and Vocational Colleges
Royal Technical Institute                 313       310       3       1
Royal Bhutan Polytechnic                  060       iu        0       °
Total                           1 071       94        Q
Average                                                      12
Expenditures
Proportion spent on education of:
GNP                                                4.0%
Central Government expenditure                    10.8%
Central Government capital expenditure              7.5%
Central Government recurrent expenditure          16.5%



- iv -
WEAn
PRIMARY KDC&LTIOtI PIljEcT
Credit and ProjctSmr
borro ar:          Kingdom of Bhutan
jn fieiar:         Department of Education (DOE)
Lawaut:            SDR 3.1 uillion (US$4.2 million equivalent, including
retroactive financing of US$400,000 for expenditures
after appraisal on design, site surveys and soils tests
under the IDA-financed portion of the project).
Terms:             Standard with 40 years' maturity
Coinancie.rs:      United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) will provide a
grant equivalent to US$1.5 million, administer its
portion of the project, and follow its own guidelines
for procurement and employment of consultants. The
Government of the Swiss Confederation (Switzerland)
will provide a grant equivalent to US$5.9 million and
delegate administration of its portion of the project
to IDA, which will follow its own procedures.
Project
Description:     The project will support the Government's development
plan for primary education and will raise the quality of
education and student achievement and lower unit costs
of primary schooling in Bhutan. Specifically, it will:
(a) increase the number and quality of primary schools;
(b) increase the number and effectiveness of primary
teachers; and (c) strengthen administrative and
educational support services of the DOE. These
objectives will be achieved by;  (a) building 12 primary
schools with an enrollment capacity of 5,400 students,
including boarding facilities, in underserved areas of
the Kingdom; (b) more than doubling the enrollment
capacity of the primary school Teacher Training Centers
(TTCs) from about 170 to about 400 and improving the
quality of teaching in these institutions; and (c)
improving the quality of educational administration at
the central and district levels, particularly in the
areas of curriculum development, student assessment,
personnel management, and education sector planning.
The project will consist of three specific components:
(a) primary school development, (b) teacher training
institutions, and (c) educational administration. In
addition to financing the construction of school and
teacher training facilities, the project will finance
8.4 staff-years of technical assistance and 17.8 staff-
years of fellowships and placements, as well as some
vehicles and equipment.



-V.
Riaku             Project benefits will be: improved and more equitable
access to primary education, greater capacity in the DOE
and increased efficiency in the primary education system.
The main project risks are that the Government may
overreach Lts capacity to staff and finance the primary
education expansion program. With respect to staffing,
the risk of teacher shortages has been reduced by
lncreased pay and improved service conditions for
teachers and an accelerated teacher training program.
The risk of insufficient staffing for construction
trades has been reduced by the phasing of construction
over five years. Financing risks have been reduced by
introducing controls on recurrent expenditures such as:
instituting a conservative 6% per annum enrollment
growth policy, raising student to teacher ratios from
28:1 to 36:1 during the life of the project, reducing
dependence on expensive foreign teachers, and increasing
efficiency through reduced dropout and repeater rates.
Proiject Cost:
Local Foreign Total
--- (US$ million) ---
Primary School Development        3.1      2.9     6.0
Teacher Training Institutions     1.0      1.1     2.1
Educational Administration        0.9      1.2     2.1
Base Cost                    5.0      5.2    10.2
Physical Contingencies            0.3      0.3     0.6
Price Contingencies               1.8      1.0     2.8
Total Project Cost           7.1      6.5    13.6 la
Financing Plan:
LOCAl FoXegB  Total
--- (US$ million) ---
Government                         1.9     0.1     2.0
UNICEF                             0.5     1.0     1.5
Switzerland                        2.6     3.3     5.9
IDA                               2.1      2.1     4.2
Total                        7.1      6.5    13.6
Estinated
IDA FY                       89    90    21    92    93    94    95   96
---------------- (US$ million) -------
Annual                       0.3   0.1   0.4   1.0   0.9   0.8  0.6   0.1
Cumulative                  0.3   0.4   0.8   1.8   2.7   3.5  4.1   4.2
EconoaLc ate
of Return;         Not applicable
La Net of taxes and duties (US$0.2 million).



PRDIMRY EDUCATION PROJECT
1. pIMANY EDUCATIOW IN BHUTAN
A. I       &todct
1.01     The Kingdom of Bhutan in strikingly different from its regional
neighbors. Its low population density makes the pressure on land, food and
housing far less than elsewhere in South Asia. The cotuntry has good
natural resources, sound econosic management and balanced development
priorities, all suggesting that it has the potential to achieve relatively
high per capita income without undue sacrifice of the rich traditional way
of life.
1.02     Sixty percent of the population, officially estimated at 1.2
million in 1985, is concentrated in the relatively low southern and eastern
regions in only six of the Kingdom's eighteen districts. Like most
developing countries, the age structure of the population is skewed toward
youth, with an estimated 40% of the population below 15 years of age. The
bulk of the population lives in rural areas, with less than 60,000 in the
eighteen urban centers.
1.03     About half of Bhutan's estimated GDP of US$200 million in the
period 1981-1984 originated from agriculture (including livestock) and
forestry. Services accounted for about one-third. Construction comprised
about 13% of GDP, but has dropped to 9% as large development projects have
reached completion. Manufacturing, mining and electricity accounted for
less than 5% of GDP prior to 1986, but is increasing rapidly due to
completion of the large Chukha Hydropower project. GDP growth in the
1980's has been good, amounting to about 6% annually.
1.04     The Royal Government of Bhutan (RGOB) considers that expansion and
improvement of the effectiveness of the country's basic institutions and
human resource base are imperative for future development.  At the same
time, it wishes to minimize social dislocation and contain costs.
Consequently, its policies call for development to proceed so that (a)
educated people are employed; (b) recurrent expenses are limited as far as
possible to current revenues; and (c) modernization is regulated to provide
for a gradual impact on the traditional culture.
B. The Education System
1.05     Until 1961, access to formal schooling was available only to
children who were able to be educated outside the country. After 1961,
enrollments in state primary and secondary schools began to rise as a
result of increased investments in education introduced in the country's
First Five-Year Plan. Since then, Bhutan has made considerable progress in
establishing a formal education system at the primary, secondary and
tertiary levels. However, the official literacy rate of 15% and the
official enrollment rate at the primary level of about 20% of primary age
children and secondary level of about 3% are the lowest in the South Asia



region and among the lowest in the world. Caution should be used in
interpreting these enrollment rates as they are based on population
estimates in a country that has never had a formal census. There is some
evidence that enrollment rates may be much higher. Recent surveys to
establish the number of primary age children in school catchment areas show
current enrollment rates on a dzonghag (district) by dzonghag basis to be
almost twice as high.
1.06     The RGOB is providing free primary education and considers a main
objective to be the improvement of numeracy and literacy in both Dzongkha
(the national language) and English (the medium of instruction). Primary
education consists of a Pre-primary Class and Classes I through VI. At the
end of Class VI, an examination is held to determine access to secondary
educatijn. Access rates are determined from the National Manpower Plan and
have been averaging about 50% of those who sit for the examination
(1980-84). Lower secondary schooling (junior high school) comprises Classes
VII and VIII. Upper secondary schooling (high school) includes Classes IX
and X. The Junior Secondary School Certificate and the Secondary Education
Certificate examinations are held at the end of Classes VIII and X. Junior
college (Classes XI and XII) as well as degree level education in the
humanities, general science and commerce (Classes XIII-XV) are provided at
the Sherubtse Degree College in Kanglung and the Bachelor of Education
degree at the National Institute of Education (NIE) in Samchi. Vocational
training in engineering to the certificate or diploma level is available at
the Royal Polytechnic in Deothang. Lower level training is available at
the Royal Technical College in Kharbhandi. The two-year primary teacher
training course is provided (for those with the minimum qualifications of
an eighth grade examination pass) at the NIE in Samchi and at the Teacher
Training College (TTC) at Paro. Training for the Dzongkha language
teachers is given at the Simtokha Rigney School.
C. Problems and Issues
1.07     In recognition of the central role education plays in improving
the welfare of its citizens, the RGOB has begun to invest in an exemplary
program of sectoral development designed to improve the quality of primary
education and increase access. Its long range plans are well conceived and
practical (para 1.15). It has begun to put in place the stronger
administrative structures and improved support services for teachers
necessary to the achievement of its reform objectives. However, despite
these actions, the DOE has not yet overcome a series of long standing
problems exacerbated by continued shortages of trained manpower and
inadequate physical facilities. In consequence, serious problems and
issues remain. The shortage of trained technical and administrative
prsn~mnel is the most serious problem affecting development in every
sector. The administrative cadre in the Department of Education (DOE) in
the Ministry for Social Services is hard working and competent but
seriously understaffed. Teachers at the primary and secondary levels are in
such short supply that the RGOB has been forced to hire expatriate teachers
from India at a cost 50% to 75% higher than for nationals, and in such
numbers that 36% of the primary teachers and 57% of the secondary teachers
are expatriates. The RGOB recruits some untrained teachers usually on a
temporary basis. These recruitment measures resulted in enough teachers to
fill positions, but reduced the quality of instruction, weakened the
capacity of the schools to transmit the rich cultural heritage of the



-3-
nation and raised the costs of education. Recent changes (para. 1.17) have
made the education sector more attractive to potential teachers and
administrators, and the number of enrollees in the TTCs has just begun to
rise.
1.08     The shortage of primary school facilities has prevented the RGOB
from meeting the increasing demand for primary education. In 1986, there
were 49,485 primary students in Bhutan (Annex 1). Growth in the number of
students over the last decade has been rapid, with an increase of over
200%. However, the rate of increase has been beginning to slow, falling to
below 5% per annum between 1984-85 and 1985-86 for the most part because of
lack of adequate facilities. The quality of education has been adversely
affected by the rapid increase in enrollments that now outstrips available
facilities. In addition to the overcrowding of facilities, other physical
problems (such as leaking roofs due to poor construction or poor
maintenance) have been plaguing the primary system. The past RGOB policy
of meeting high demand for primary education by encouraging local voluntary
construction of schools with little effective supervision has been
resulting in low quality school construction. Maintenance of school
facilities has been very poor, due in part to inadequate budgets for
maintenance and scarcity of appropriately trained personnel in the
districts, adding to the difficulties of providing adequate classroom
space.
1.09     The very low quality of education is primarily due to the lack of
adequately trained teachers. The DOE has been forced to import from India
large numbers of teachers for primary schools who have been trained only in
secondary education. This practice has been made necessary because most
primary trained teachers from India lack the necessary skills in English to
be able to teach in Bhutan. While 80% of the Bhutanese teachers have
received pre-service training, there has been no regular provision for in-
serrice training or sufficient guidance and supervision by headmasters and
distvict staff. In rural areas, this situation has been made worse by the
isolation of primary teachers from professional stimulus. Even well
trained teachers have been encountering difficulties in maintaining
acceptable standards of instruction under these adverse conditions.
1.10     The RGOB's decentralization program is an attempt to address this
issue by placing qualified and experienced District Education Officers
(DEOs) in 11 of the larger districts. But energetic DEOs have been
hampered by the need to travel long distances on horseback or on foot in
mountainous terrain to reach the schools in their districts. In
recognition of the importance of teacher training, an increasing number of
in-service training courses have been sponsored by the TTCs and the DOE.
These have been appreciated by the teachers, but the numbers served are
still quite limited.
1.11     The low auality of the curriculum for primary schooling is
explained by the excess number of subjects and over-concentration on
content. As a result, students have been asked to memorize large numbers
of unrelated facts, which hinders their capacity to practice and become
competent in basic skills. Early primary education also has been
characterized by the demand on many students to learn two languages. One
of these is English and the other is Dzongkha, which is estimated to be the
mother tongue of only 25% of the population. Recognition of this sevare



- 4 -
early demand has been absent from the curriculum, thus adding to the
pressures on students to master excessive content. Recently the RGOB has
begun to develop the Now Approach to Primary Education (NAPE), which
addresses the overcrowded curriculum, is more appropriately oriented to the
developmental needs of young primary students, and emphasizes applied
knowledge. This program is still in the pilot stage, but already has made
a positive impact throughout the Kingdom. After evaluation in 1990, It is
planned that the program will be expanded to all primary schools.
1.12     Th  very low efficiency of the primary system is directly
attributable to the overcrowded and poor facilities, inadequately prepared
and supervised teachers and difficulties of the DOE in providing support
services. An analysis of 1984 enrollment statistics and dropout and
repeater rates indicates that if conditions remain unchanged only 45% of an
entering Pre-primary class will ultimately complete the seven-year program
(currently, only 7% of a Pre-primary class can be expected to complete
primary education in seven years). Since it is doubtful whether many of
the dropouts will have achieved literacy, this lost educational potential
contributes to higher unit costs and greater inefficiency in the education
system.
1.13     The under-regresentation of female students in primary schools is
evident from a review of enrollment, which shows that females make up only
35% of the enrollees. While there has been an encouraging upwaid trend in
attendance of female students (from 27% in 1983), there is currently a
great variation among the districts ranging from a low of 17% in Pema
Gatshel to a high of 46% in Thimphu (Annex 2). Additional information is
required to explain these regional disparities (para 2.28).
1.14     The low management capacity of the educAtion system is another
serious problem. Responsibility for the education sector lies with the
Ministry for Social Services and its DOE, which administers one of the
fastest growing sectors in Bhutan. The size and complexity of the sector
make it impossible for the limited number of managers and technicians to
address all the issues effectively. Some management responsibilities for
primary education have been delegated to the districts where the Dzongdag
(District Officer), with the assistance of the newly appointed DEOs,
manages the recurrent budget and intra-district transfers of teachers.
This policy provides a limited start in moving decisions affecting primary
education away from the central government and closer to the field.
Secondary education, teacher training and technical education are still
administered centrally. An organization chart showing DOE functions is in
Annex 3.
D. Government Plans and Programs
1.15     The Sixth Five-Year Plan (FY88-92) identifies the education sector
as a priority area and focuses upon the resolution of two major
difficulties:  (a) a severe inequity of access to education for some
children by virtue of geographic isolation and a tradition that has tended
to provide greater access to the urban elites, and (b) an acute personnel
shortage in nearly every skill brought abnut by rapid national development
in the past decade. In recognition of these two issues, Sixth Plan
objectives for primary education include an increase in primary enrollment
by 6% per annum, improved access for the underserved, increased efficiency



of primary schooling by reducing dropout and repeater rates and enhanced
relevance of educational content. For secondary education, the objectives
include a 10* per annum onrollment increase to meet immediate manpower
requirements and enhanced equity of access. For higher education, degree
level courses will be expanded to reduce dependence on foreign
institutions, and administrative capacity to coordinate all post-secondary
education under a university system will be developed. To accomplish these
objectives, the RGOB plans to increase the education sector's share of
public expenditure from 8% under the Fifth Plan to 11% (4% of GNP) under
the Sixth. The Sixth Plan financing of the sector and its program
priorities are soundly conceived and built appropriately upon Fifth Plan
experience. In the past, development of post primary education has been
hampered because of quantitative and qualitative deficiencies in the
primary sub-sector. The RGOB's decision to address these deficiencies
through the proposed primary education project helps assure production of
the necessary number of higher quality primary graduates for post primary
education and training in essential development skills. The RGOB's planned
allocation of approximately 42% of sectoral development expenditure (up
from 16% in the Fifth Plan) to primary education reflects RGOB's priority
for primary education in the Sixth Plan (see Annex 4).
1.16     To improve equitable access to primary education, the RGOB plans
to construct 13 Development Service Center Schools (300-600 enrollment) in
newly planned Development Service Centers (DSCs). These DSCs are designed
to deliver development inputs, particularly primary education, health and
agricultural services, to underserved areas of the country. The RGOB
expects the DSCs to become growth centers that will provide attractive
alternatives to urban areas. The DSC schools will include boarding
facilities for children in Classes 1V-VI. Boarding is essential to serve
remote populations in widely scattered settlements. In addition, the RGOB
plans to construct six peripheral schools, similar to those in DSCs, but
located in population centers that do not have a DSC. Four urban primary
schools and two project schools will be constructed as well in areas where
development projects have increased the population. Thirty-four schools
will be renovated and 174 classrooms added to existing facilities. To
assure better coverage in remote areas, Extended Classrooms (ECRs) will be
provided to deliver multi-grade education at the level of Pre-primary
through Class III. Teachers will be sent by the RGOB to selected
communities that can provide school facilities and assure a minimum of 100
students. Students who successfully pass Class IT. will be able to attend
DSCs as boarders. The ECRs will be administered by the nearest full
primary school. The RGOB believes the enrollment of female students in the
primary schools will be improved through the ECR system by avoiding the
need for boarding girls in lower grades.
1.17     The RGOB is addressing the acute personnel shortage in education
by developing policy initiatives to assure the supply of a sufficient
number of candidates for teacher training. The project will assist the
further development and institutionalization of these policies. The past
difficulty in recruiting sufficient candidates for the TTCs appears to have
been overcome. Applications for the 1987 entering cohort totalled
approximately 180, triple the number of the previous year. The
institutions accepted 47% of the applicants, of whom 75% were Class X
completers. Centralization and improved timing of the application
procedures were partially responsible for the surge in applications. In



- 6 -
addition, and more important for the long run, the decision of the RGOB to
form a special teaching cadre with its associated salary and promotion
benefits contributed to an improvement in the esteem accorded to the
education profession. The RGOB has provided assurances that the cadre
policy will become operational by July 31, 1988.
1.18     Further support required for the teaching profession includes:
(a) strengthening of the Personnel Unit within the DOE; (b) introduction of
explicit criteria for teacher deployment and promotion, (c) development of
staffing plans and patterns for all schools and colleges, and (d) continued
refinement of recruitment procedures including increased publicity,
regularization of education career days in the secondary schools, classroom
teaching experience for prospective candidates, and improvement of
conditions in the TTCs.
1.19     In recognition of the high personnel costs and scarcity of trained
teachers, the RGOB has begun to address options designed to provide a more
efficient pattern of teacher deployment in the schools. It has agreed to
implement a teacher deployment policy designed to raise the student to
staff ratio (SSR) from 28:1 to 36:1. The RGOB will train teachers assigned
to the ECRs in multigrade teaching to keep the SSR as high as possible. In
addition, ECRs will send their graduates to DCS schools as boarders, thus
improving the utilization rate of the upper primary grades. The DOE has
agreed to consider reducing the staffing pattern of the schools to one
teacher per section (including Dzongkha language teachers) and to keep
standby teachers at an absolute minimum. During negotiations, the RGOB
provided the Association its teacher deployment plan designed to approach a
SSR of 36:1.
1.20     An additional action of the RGOB to increase teacher supply and
reduce costs has been the development of the accelerated teacher training
program designed to double the output of the TTCs (para. 2.08). The ROOB
also has been experimenting with the provision of lower salaried teacher
aides who, after a successful term of service, will enter the TTC for
training and admission as regular primary teachers.
E. External Financing of Primary Education
1.21     The RGOB has received assistance for primary education from a
number of multilateral and bilateral sources. One of the largest
contributors has been the World Food Programme, which has provided about
US$6.0 million since 1980 for mid-day meals in about 90% of the schools in
Bhutan. The program is expected to contribute about US$7.2 million more
between 1986 and 1989. UNICEF also has been a large contributor, having
provided almost US$4.0 million to date for science equipment, books and
other teaching aids, assistance to the Simtokha Rigney School (where
Dzongkha language teachers are trained), and assistance in the development
of DOE's Social and Cultural Division. UNICEF's current country program of
US$1.5 million for primary education will be integral to the Primary
Education Project. The UNDP and UNESCO have allocated since 1981 a little
over US$2.0 million for consultants, fellowships and equipment to assist
the teacher training programs at the NIE, Samchi. The Norwegian aid
program and the Agfund have been, together with UNESCO, contributors of a
further US$1.7 million for buildings and furniture at NIE. A year-long
study in support of the Planning Commission's effort to determine



appropriate locations for DSCs and to assist in planning the location and
sizing of their associated primary schools and ECRs has been funded by the
Asian Development Bank. Assistance has been provided by the Canadian
Government for the DOE's Planning and School Building Units and for the
Curriculum Development Division's development of NAPE. School books have
been provided by the governments of the United Kingdom and Canada and by
the World Health Organization. Sixty-five volunteers, provided by the
United Kingdom, New Zealand, Australia, United Nations Volunteers and
Canadian World University Service, are serving in the primary schools.
Save the Children (United Kingdom) has agreed to contribute all development
funding, approximately US$0.5 million, for primary schools in the
Pemagatshel Dzongkhag during the Sixth Plan. Finally, Oxfam (United
Kingdom) will contribute approximately US$0.7 million to provide
agriculture training in primary schools.
1.22     External assistance is less effective than it might be because the
DOE lacks the capacity to focus that assistance on priority needs. In the
past, the DOE has not been able to analyze sectoral issues and develop
effective plans because day-to-day management responsibilities have been so
overwhelming. The RGOB has taken steps to remedy the shortcoming by
beginning to build up the capacity of its existing Planning Unit. A
benefit of RGOB preparation for the present project has been the creation
of a medium term plan for the development of the sub-sector. This plan has
increased the likelihood of effective integration of three major donors
(UNICEF, SDC, and the Association) in the development of the sub-sector and
of the RGOB being able to prioritize additional aid opportunities to meet
pressing needs. The capacity of the Planning Unit will be strengthened by
the project (para. 2.21).
F. Rationale for IDA Involvement in the Sector and Lending Strategy
1.23     Major impediments to Bhutan's development efforts are the low
quality and limited capacity of the primary education system, which deprive
the majority of citizens of the basic skills of literacy and numeracy
necessary to their economic and physical well-being. The low quality and
limited capacity of the primary system are major constraints on the
availability and quality of students with higher levels of education and
training needed to meet the technical and administrative manpower
requirements of the economy. The present project initiates support from
the Association for the education sector by helping the RGOB to establish
its objectives of a quality base and increased access to the education
system. This focus was chosen in recognition of the fact that no long-term
improvements can be made at any level without higher quality at the base of
the system. The Association's involvement in preparation of the project
assisted the RGOB in identifying a long-term development strategy for the
primary subsector and integrating external assistance. The project will
address the issue of high unit costs of primary education by
institutionalizing practices that will result in increased efficiency. The
Association's involvement is envisioned as long term to address, with a
series of operations, various sector constraints and priority needs.



- 8 -
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
2.01     The project will support the RGOB's development plan for primary
education, which is designed to accommodate an enrollment growth rate of about
6% per annum. It will raise the quality of education and student achievement
and lower the unit costs of primary schooling in Bhutan. Specifically, the
project will:
(a) increase the number and quality of primary schools;
(b) increase the number and effectiveness of primary teachers; and
(c) strengthen administrative and educational support services of the
DOE.
2.02     These objectives will be achieved by:
(a) building 12 primary schools with an enrollment capacity of about
5,400 students, including boarding facilities, in underserved areas
of the Kingdom;
(b) more than doubling the enrollment capacity of the primary school TTCs
from about 170 to about 400 and improving the quality of teaching in
the TTCs; and
(c) improving the quality of educational administration at the central
and district levels, particularly in the areas of curriculum
development, student assessment, personnel management and education
sector planning.
B. Project Scope and Content
2.03     The project will consist of three components:
(a) primary school development;
(b) teacher training institutions; and
(c) educational administration.
The primary school development component will support: primary school
construction; in-service training at the school level; improved curricula,
textbooks and assessment procedures; and regular supervision of classroom
teachers. The teacher training institutions component will increase the
quality and output of pre-service teacher training in the existing TTC at
Paro and a new TTC at Kanglung. The education administration component
will strengthen the administrative capacity of the DOE to plan and manage
the education system.
Primarv School Develogment Comnonent
2.04     This compo-ent will address the first and second objectives of the
project by improving tha quality of teaching and increasing the equitable



access to primary schools. The project will assist the RGOB to build 11
primary schools as part of DSCs and one peripheral school. These schools
will be located in underserved areas of the country. The DSC schools are
designed to serve children within walking distance in the immediate
catchbent areas. In addition, boarding for Classes IV through VI will be
provided to allow access to children from the ECRs. The capacity of the 12
schools will range from 300 to 600 students. Project schools will enroll
5,400 students by 1994, and 36% of the students will be boarders.
2.05     In the absence of a national census, estimates of school size and
expected DSC school enrollments were based on a survey of catchment area
population and on a projected enrollment growth rate by grade to the year
1996. Surveys were conducted on a village to village basis and in many
cases supplemented with Landsat Imagery analysis.
2.06     Each project school will have from one to five ECRs.  The
staffing, equipping, monitoring and management of these community
constructed schools will be the responsibility of their associated DSC
schools. As teachers in ECRs will be living in remote areas, separated
from the normal professional stimulus and supervision, the extra
supervision and training to be provided by the headmaster of the DSC
schools will be critical to the success of this experimental delivery
system. Headmasters selected for these new positions will be trained in
supervisory and in-service training techniques and will be supplied with
training materials.  Each project school will be provided with a motor
scooter for the headmaster to use in visiting schools.  Each ECR will be
given kits of teaching/learning materials.
teacher Training Institutions Comonent
2.07     This component will support the second objective of the project by
increasing the yearly output of trained primary teachers and by improving
the quality of graduates. The project will finance additions to the
physical plant at the TTC in Paro (by providing additional hostel space)
and construction of a new TTC in Eastern Bhutan at Kanglung, increasing
enrollment from the existing capacity of approximately 170 (including NIE,
Samchi) to approximately 400. It also will finance an increase in the
number of faculty and, through overseas training and visiting specialists,
improve the quality of training. Annex 5 summarizes the technical
assistance to be provided under the project.
2.08     The projected growth of the primary schools, increased SSR, and
presently planned output of the three TTCs would result in a reduction of
non-national teachers from the current level of 36% of the primary teaching
staff to 25% by 2000. To advance the complete Bhutanization of the primary
teaching force, the RGOB is adopting an accelerated teacher training
program consisting of a one-year course, with two vacation follow-ups for
Class X TTC enrollees (70% of the 1987 intake). Class VIII and IX enrollees
would continue to receive the two-year course. This could result in a
fully Bhutanese primary teacher cadre by the year 2000. Annex 6 displays
planned increases in output agreed to by the RGOB during negotiations.
2.09     Although the quality of training at the TTC Paro has been
improving in recent years, the number of staff at Paro is currently too low
for the enrollment. There is a full time equivalent (FTE) of only three



- 10 -
teaching faculty for the academic year 1987-88, with one more faculty
member soon to return from professional trairing. Unless the SSR is
reduced, the quality of training will suffer. The project will gradually
increase the staffing by recruitment of experienced Bhutanese primary
school teachers at a rate of two a year for the first four years of
implementation, bringing the FTE teaching faculty to 12 and the SSR to
13:1. The gradual increase is designed to balance faculty growth with
enrollment increases, send new faculty abroad for further professional
development and retain sufficient experienced teachers in the system at all
times.
2.10     At Kanglung, the principal and three staff will be appointed a
year prior to the scheduled 1992 opening of the college in order to allow
effective planning for the entering class. When fully staffed, the TTC at
Kanglung also will have a FTE teaching faculty of 12 and a SSR of 13:1.
2.11     Technical assistance to Paro and Kanglung will be provided through
overseas training for faculty and visits of expatriate primary school
specialists in the fields of primary school teaching methods associated
with English language development as well as specialists in mathematics and
environmental studies. The project will provide 150 staff months of
international fellowships and placements for the TTC faculty (Annex 5).
Paro will receive two staff years of visiting specialists in the first two
years of the project. Kanglung will receive a similar input in the first
two years of its operation.
2.12     The TTCs will, in addition to their pre-service responsibilities,
provide resources to other project activities such as in-service training
and primary school curriculum and textbook development. TTC faculty will
be represented on coordinating committees of pre-service and in-service
teacher education in the DOE. Assurances have been given by the RGOB that
the signing of a technical assistance contract with a suitable agency/firm
to provide technical assistance to the faculty at Paro will take place by
July 31, 1988. Assurances have been also given that there is adequate
provision in the Sixth Five-Year Plan for financing the six percent per
annum enrollment expansion target in the primary sub-sector, and that the
planned output of trained primary teachers will eliminate dependence upon
foreign teachers by the year 2000. The RGOB has agreed to report yearly to
the Association providing assurances that sufficient funding is available
to meet the needs of the expansion program for the subsequent year, and
that the output of trained primary teachers for that year will be
appropriate to the target of full Bhutanization of the primary teaching
force by the year 2000.
The Educational Administration Component
2.13     This component will address the third objective of the project.
The project will assist the RGOB to close the striking gap between the
competent and dedicated officers in the DOE and the extremely poor
departmental infrastructure. The DOE is seriously understaffed and
underequipped not only to carry out its present responsibilities but also
to handle the significantly broader responsibilities defined for it in the
Sixth Plan. Support will be provided through inputs of additional staff
(Annex 7), equipment and technical assistance for the five units of the



- 11 -
department most essential to the achievement of project objectives:
Curriculum Development, Board of Examinations, Personnel, Planning and
Teacher Education.
2.14     SuIMort for curriculum developMent and examinations will stress
the practical interdependence of curricula, textbooks and examinations.
Essential to this interdependence will be the coordination of activities of
two important units of the DOE, the Curriculum Development Division and the
Board of Examinations.
2.15     The Curriculum Development Division will be strengthened to
enhance its capacity to:
(a) further develop the concepts and expand the usage of NAPE;
(b) establish goals and standards for English mastery, by grade, with
supporting materials;
(c) develop bilingual and trilingual textbooks and incorporate Dzongkha
language teaching into the integrated learning objectives of the
curriculum;
(d) establish pilot schools for an integrated Class IV-VI curriculum
similar to the Class I-III approach of NAPE; and
(e) establish a task force to develop student skill and competency tests,
and oversee production of syllabuses and textbooks and their
evaluation in the field.
2.16     To assist the Division in meeting these objectives, the project
will provide additional staff, equipment and technical assistance.
Teclhnical assistance will consist of 12 staff-months of fellowships and
three staff-months of training by means of professional placement to
further develop evaluation and assessment techniques and textbook design
and preparation. Visiting specialists will provide 12 staff-months for the
evaluation of NAPE. Assistance will be provided in the development of
syllabuses, teacher's manuals, textbooks and instructional materials, and
editing techniques.
2.17     The Board of Examinations will be strengthened to enhance its
capacity to develop examinations consonant with the primary school
curriculum and syllabuses. Item banks of test questions, especially those
testing judgement and application of knowledge and information sources,
will be created for Class VI examinations and the examinations in the
teacher training institutions. Inter-divisional working groups will
oversee, evaluate and propose revisions of examination methods, procedures
and content.
2.18     The Board will be provided with additional staff and equipment,
including computer hardware and software for the collection, processing,
analysis and administration of examination items and results. Twelve
staff-months of fellowships and professional placement will be provided in
examination techniques and methods. Consultant services totalling nine
staff months will assist in construction of the item bank and in
development of examination validation and evaluation techniques.



- 12 -
2.19     Support for gersonnel. Dlanninf and teacher training will be
directed toward assisting in the development of DOE's Personnel, Planning,
and Teacher Education Units to provide teachers with a more comprehensive
personnel system, better planned deployment, and more relevant and frequent
training.
2.20     Personnel administration will be improved through project support
to the Personnel Unit in the further development of regulations and
procedures appropriate to the effective and equitable recruitment,
placement and promotion of staff. A personnel manual and job descriptions
for school, district and central government personnel will be prepared. A
personnel management information system will be further developed to
provide timely and accurate individual and aggregated information.
Additional staff and equipment also will be provided. Three staff-months
of training in an education personnel division overseas will be
supplemented by six months of consultancy services to the Personnel Unit to
assist in the development of a modern personnel system.
2.21     The project will assist the Planning Unit to develop its capacity
in education planning and evaluation in order to prepare further and refine
an accurate and timely data base. In addition, the Unit will be helped to
improve its capacity to retrieve data quickly in formats useful for policy
analysis, planning and management and to evaluate trends and comparisons.
The Unit will provide the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) (para. 3.14)
with an annual evaluation of the achievement of project objectives in
project schools. It will collect base line data including (but not limited
to) enrollment, dropout and repetition rates. The yearly evaluation will
examine possible correlations between changes in these base line data and
in the provision of project inputs.
2.22     Additional staff and equipment will be made available to the
Planning Unit. Technical assistance will consist of 12 months of
fellowships in education and system evaluation and training placement with
education statistical services overseas. Sixteen staff-months of services
from expatriate specialists will be provided to assist in building the
appropriate data base and standardized planning and system evaluation
procedures.
2.23     The project will assist the Teacher Education Unit in the
conceptualization of an integrated pre-service and in-service teacher
training program. This will include development of the in-service program
at the national, institutional, regional and school levels as well as
development, in cooperation with the TTCs, of the curriculum for pre-
service training and appropriate examination procedures. A mobile in-
service training unit will be provided to assist regional and school-based
training. Two inter-divisional committees linking curriculum, teacher
training and the TTCs will be established to plan, develop and monitor pre-
service and in-service training.
2.24     In-service training is of special importance for the enhancement
of teaching capacity. The project will assist in the coordination of
resources for training and in the development of a cost-effective delivery
system, building on the considerable investment the DOE has made for
developing NAPE and training teachers in better knowledge of their subject



- 13 -
matter. Project resources will provide the equivalent of five days of
training for each teacher in FY88, rising to 10 days by FY94. Training
will be provided to all educational personnel in the DOE, to DEOs and to
headmasters of DSC Schools. These headmasters, who will carry the
responsibility for supervising and providing training support for teachers
of the ECRs, will receive specialized training in multi-grade teaching
practices, early primary methods and NAPE. The 11 project schools with
ECRs will become NAPE demonstration schools.
2.25     To assist the Unit in meeting these objectives, staff will be
provided with three months of placement in an institution experienced in
the provision of mobile in-service delivery systems and distance education
of teachers. Expatriate consultancy services totalling six months will
assist the Unit in the design of the mobile in-service delivery system, and
in the planning of the national, regional and school based in-service
system.
2.26     Sunoort for three project-related studies and a groiect
greRaration study also will be provided under the educational
administration component. The first project study will assess the value of
the ECR program, the second will examine the capacity of the formal primary
system to respond to the educational needs of female students, and the
third will review the existing policy of using English as the language of
instruction in the early grades of primary school. The RGOB will use the
agreed recommendations of these studies to guide project activities and to
assist in the further definition of an education policy. Annex 8 contains
outlined terms of reference for the project-related stud es. The project
preparation study will assist in the identification and preparation of a
possible follow-on project.
2.27     With respect to the project-related studies, the ECR study will
examine the degree to which community involvement in the schools is
encouraged by ECRs, the ability of ECRs to enroll the age cohort of their
catchment areas and the degree to which ECRs serve as efficient feeder
schools to DSC schools. The study will also examine the effectiveness of
the ECRs in meeting the educational needs of female students.
2.28     The study of the impact of the formal education system on female
students will examine the large inter-district disparities of female
enrollment in primary schools, and assess in-school and out-of-school
variables that contribute to the enrollment and retention of female
students in the formal system.
2.29     The study of the current practice of using English as the medium
of instruction in primary schools will compare the experiences of Bhutan
with those of other countries where teaching is in English. The study will
examine a sample of schools to assess the effectiveness of the current
program in achieving the DOE objectives and suggest feasible alternative
practices.



- 14 -
III.   PROJECT COSTS.  FINANCING   AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Costs
j ~~Overview
3.01        The  total cost of the project,  including taxes and duties on  imported
goods, is estimated at Nu 174.49 million or US$13.63 million equivalent.
Details by categories of expenditure and proportion of foreign exchange are
given in Annex 9. A su_ary of costs by component is provided below:
Table 3.1   COST SUMNARY
Foreign as
C_mnt                     Local    oreIgn       Total       Local      Foreign     Total    X of Total
----E(Nu  Lillion) ---------           -----(USS million)-------
A. Primary School Deelop_mnt            40.05     36.65       76.70        3.13       2.86         5.99         48
D. Teahr Training Zutltutions
1. 1anglw* Teacher
Trainin  College               6.61       7.52      14.13        0.51        0.59        1.10         54
2. Pro Teacher Training
College                         700       610       1310         0 55        048          1           40
Subtotal                              13.62 22.0L 1.0                    141          2.1
C.  duational Administration
1. Currioulm Deelopment
and  Rminations                2.04       3.20       5.24        0.16        0.25        0 41         61
2. Personnel, Planing and
Teacher Train"ng               920       12E        L  86        P72         0.99        1 ,1          X
Subtotal                   11.24    1L38          120 1O                  1.24                     AAI 58
lase Cost                  64.90      66.13     131.03        5.0?        5. 17      10.24         51
D. Costingencies
1. Pbysical                           3.51      4.37       7.88        0.27        0.34        0.61         56
2. Price                             22 76     12.82       5S1 78                  1 0a       2L78          36
Total Project Cost         9117    I3.32        1744          Zan 121                1363          Al
Notes:   Total physical contingenc Ls ar  about 6X of base cost# local price  contLigencies are about 332 ond
foreign prie conting4ncies are about 18X of the rxespetive baso coats plus pysical contlngencLsc.
Identificale taxes and duties   about Nu 2.12 millon (US$0.17 million equivalent) and the total
projet cost, net of tams, is Nu 172.4 million (US$13.46 million equivalent).



- 15 -
Detailed Features
3.02     Basis of Cost Estimates.  Estimated costs for civil works are based
on: (a) schedules of accommodations for acadeuic and communal areas and
housing and their related design concept sketches; (b) unit costs of similar
types of construction in the country adjusted to correspond to improvements
introduced in local construction methods. The estimated cost per square meter
of gross construction area averages US$115 and is reasonable for the selected
standard of construction when compared with similar Bank assisted projects in
other countries. Costs for professional services reflect actual costs used
for design and supervision, topographical surveys, soil tests and site
analyses. Furniture and equipment costs are estimated on the basis of the DOE
lists, including consideration for regional transportation, that were reviewed
during appraisal. Vehicles and consumable materials costs reflect current
prices at the time of appraisal. Estimated costs for additional staff
salaries are based on RGOB pay scales and standard allowances for social and
other benefits. All costs were adjusted to February 1988 prices, the date of
negotiations.
3. 03    Customs Duties and Taxes.  All imported goods are subject to custom
duties and taxes. The cost of the project (US$13.63 million) includes import
duties and taxes estimated at US$0.17 million.
3.04     Contineencies and Allowances.  Estimated project costs include
physical contingencies (US$0.61 million) estimated at 6% of base costs of all
project components (10% of base costs for civil works, furniture, operation
and maintenance, vehicles, books, and consumable materials, and 5% for
equipment) and price contingencies (US$2.78 million) estimated at 27% of base
costs of all components to cover expected price escalation at the following
rates: for civil works, goods and services, escalation of local costs is
estimated at 7% for calendar year 1988, 6.5% for 1989, 6% for 1990 to 1994 and
escalation of foreign costs at 7.3% for 1988, 4.7% for 1989, 0% for 1990, 1%
for 1991, 3% for 1992, 5% for 1993 and 8% for 1994.
3.05     Foreign Exchangp Component.  As Annex 9 shows, the estimated foreign
exchange component of US$6.51 million (including contingencies), representing
48% of estimated total project costs, has been calculated as follows:
(a) construction, 53%; (b) building materials, 40%; (c) furniture, 58%;
(d) equipment, vehicles, books and journals, 90%; (e) professional services,
64%; (f) international and regional placements and fellowships and regional
training 90%; (g) foreign experts, 70%; (h) consumable materials, 70%; and
(i) operation and maintenance, 53%.
B. Financing
Overview
3.06     The total project cost of US$13.63 million equivalent will be
financed as follows: (a) the RGOB will finance US$2.04 million including
duties and taxes; (b) UNICEF will provide a grant of US$1.49 million
equivalent; (c) the Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC) will provide a grant
of US$5.93 million equivalent; and (d) the Association will provide a credit
of US$4.18 million equivalent to cover 31% of the total project cost net of
taxes. The RGOB has received letters of intent from the cofinanciers. Total
external financing will cover about 85% of total project costs net of taxes
and duties. The financing plan detailing investment and recurrent costs is
shown in Annex 10. The summary financing plan is described in Table 3.2:



- 16 -
Table 3,2: FINANCING PLAN SUM^MRY
Category of Expenditure    RGOB    UNICEF       SDC        IDA      Total
---------------- (US$ million) -------------
Civil Works                 0.13      0.82      1.72       4.18      6.85
Furniture                   0.03      0.09      0.50       0         0.62
Equipment                   0         0.13      0.21       0         0.34
Vehicles                    0         0.08      0.10       0         0.18
Books & Journals            0         0.07      0.13       0         0.20
Professional Services       0         0.11      0.53       0         0.64
Staff Training              0         0         0.02       0         0.02
Technical Assistance        0         0.18      1.94       0         2.12
Staff Payments              1.26      0         0          0         1.26
Recurrent Training          0.41      0         0.78       0         1.19
Operations & Maintenance   0.2        Q         Q          0.fL
Tkotal/a               .4        14        59             f    13.63
/A  Totals may not add due to rounding.
Some of the preparation work for the project (the services of the Project
Preparation Advisor and the Architect) are being financed under the ongoing
IDA-supported Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1416-BHU) until April 9 and
May 28, 1988 respectively. The Government will continue their services until
the project becomes effective utilizing retroactive financing from SDC funds,
if necessary.
Detailed Features
3.07     Local Cost Financing.  The RGOB will contribute US$2.04 million (15%
of the total project cost) to local costs. The Association's contribution to
local financing will be US$2.06 million (15% of total project cost). The
project is of key importance but has a low foreign exchange content (48%).
The proposed contribution by the Association is below the norms of the
organization, i.e., 30%-35% of project costs, but there is significant
co- financing.
3.08     Retroactive Financing.  Some project start-up work for the project in
addition to that being financed under the IDA-supported Technical Assistance
Project (para. 3.06) is eligible for retroactive financing under the present
project. Therefore provision is made for retroactive financing of design,
site surveys and soil tests in the amount of US$0.40 million on account of
payment for expenditures incurred after appraisal.
3.09     Recurrent E$enditures.  The RGOB is seeking to contain increases in
recurrent costs by limiting growth of the civil service and requiring
stringent cost containment. The project will seek to minimize recurrent costs
by providing for: (a) construction of low maintenance school buildings using
a combination of local materials and modern technology (para. 3.11); (b)
raising the SSR in the primary schools through more effective deployment of
teachers (para. 1.19) and erection of larger and more efficient school



- 17 -
facilities; (c) reduction in the number of costly non-national teachers (para.
2.08); and (d) reduction in the wastage due to currently high dropout and
repeater rates (para. 4.06).
C.
Status of Project Pre&aration
3.10     The Implementation Schedule and Operational Plan for the project
(Annexes 11 and 13) have been agreed upon with the RGOB. Technical assistance
and training requirements have been identified in detail (Annex 5) and terms
of reference prepared for all assignments (Implementation File and Annex 8).
A description of the status of work completed and to be accomplished follows:
(a) Site Acquisition. All 12 primary school sites and the site for the TTC at
Kanglung have been selected. Six of the sites have been acquired and the
remaining sites are in the process of being acquired. No problems are
anticipated in the acquisition process as most of the sites are in RGOB land
or local public/private lands. (b) Access Roads. Half of the DSC sites
require some construction of access roads. Access roads to Phase I schools
are acceptable and assurances bhve been obtained from the RGOB that access
roads will be available for Phase II schools by January 31, 1990 and for Phase
III schools by January 31, 1991. The RGOB has provided assurances that land
acquisition for access roads was not a problem. Site Survys. Out of 12
primary school sites, 11 have had a preliminary topographical and school site
boundary survey. The RGOB has provided final detailed surveys of sites for
the Phase I schools which were acceptable to the Association.
3.11     Civil Works. The design concept in terms of norms, standards,'local
and traditional features and methods, specifications and requirements has been
completed by the architect employed under IDA Credit 1416-BHU, assisted by the
School Planning and Building Cell (SPBC) of the DOE. This concept has been
approved by the DOE, reviewed during appraisal and found satisfactory. The
project architect has joined the Public Works Department (PWD) to prepare
jointly the preliminary design, design development and related drawings. It
has been agreed with the PWD that additional staff (architects, engineers and
draftsmen) will be recruited to assist the project architect to develop the
designs and prepare working drawings and details. These drawings are to be in
accordance with the concept for improved local construction methods, taking
into consideration climatic conditions and the use of available local
materials. The RGOB has provided preliminary architectural drawings for a
typical primary school and all preliminary site development plans for Phase I
schools that are acceptable to the Association. Construction plans, to be
completed prior to June 1988 for Phase I schools, will comprise final
architectural and working drawings, detailed, structural and electro-
mechanical drawings and site development plans. Draft standard bie documents
for Phase I schools were reviewed and found to be generally acceptable.
Detailed suggestions for improvements have been provided to the RGOB. Final
bid documents will include the construction plans, technical specifications,
bills of quantities with the schedule of rates, special and general
conditions, instructions to contractors, bid and performance bond forms and
the contract form. The RGOB has provided assurances that final bid documents
for Phase I construction will be completed by July 31, 1988.



- 18 -
3.12     Phasing of Construction.  The civil works will be phased in three
stages. Phase I will include construction of two primary schools and
extension of the TTC at Paro. Phase II will include construction of five
primary schools. Phase III will include the remaining five schools and the
TTC at Kanglung.  Phasing is appropriate for this first project in the sector
because it will allow staff to begin with relatively less complex work close
to Thimphu before moving to the more remote areas. In addition, the local
construction industry is not well developed as yet in terms of improved local
construction methods, materials production, and skilled labor. Additional
testing will be required to improve local methods of construction, and to
investigate production of standardized doors, windows and frames as well as
structural wooden roof trusses. To overcome the shortage of skilled site
supervisors, expatriate supervisors will be recruited to provide indirect
technical assistance by supervising construction and training, on-site, local
graduates fron the polytechnics during all phases of construction.  FurLture,
Equipment and Books. A preliminary furniture and equipment list for primary
schools has been prepared, as well as furniture, equipment and book lists for
the DOE. Furniture equipment and book lists for the TTC at Paro and the
project schools of Phase I are being completed.
Project Management and Execution
3.13     The project will be implemented over seven and one-half years.  This
period takes into account the difficult building conditions and the relatively
low capacity of the construction industry in Bhutan. The operational action
plan for the project is attached in Annex 13, and has been reviewed and agreed
upon by the RGOB and the Association.
3.14     Overall Mana-ement. The PIU will be integrated as fully as possible
into the organization of the DOE. The Director of the DOE will be the Project
Director and will be assisted by a full time Deputy Project Director, who will
assume his post in March 1988. The PIU will be staffed by an architect
(already in post), a procurement officer and an accountant/quantity surveyor.
It will, in time, grow to become the DOE's Project Management and Development
Division. The project will provide an expatriate implementation specialist
for the first four years of implementation. He or she will play a key role in
assisting the RGOB to develop adequate procedures to meet the demands of
procurement and reporting requirements. The implementation specialist will
coordinate the activities of all visiting specialists (including those
assigned to the TTCs at Paro and Kanglung) to assure the maximum impact of
their services. In addition, the implementation specialist will assist the
DOE in the organization of resource committees, which will help assure sharing
of technical expertise among the TTCs and the curricula, examination and in-
service training activities. The condition of effectiveness is the
establishment of the PIU and the appointment of its key personnel.
3.15     Civil Works.  The DOE will be responsible for site acquisition and
registration. The SPBC will be responsible for carrying out site surveys and
soil tests. Design preparation, design development and bid documents will be
prepared by the SPBC in close collaboration with the project architect. Site
supervision will be managed by the SPBC in collaboration with the Real Estate
Department of the Royal Insurance Corporation of Bhutan which will provide
contracted technical support services. RGOB has undertaken to maintain all
buildings erected under the project for 20 years after the project is



- 19 -
completed and has furnished to the Association a satisfactory maintenance plan
defining the required management structure and the estimated yearly budget
requirements.
3.16     Technical Assistance.  The technical assistance to be provided under
the project will total 8.4 staff years of visiting specialists and 17.8 staff
years of fellowships and professional placements. Terms of reference have
been prepared and are included in the Implementation File.
3.17     Proiect Monltgring.  Monitoring reports will be provided every six
months to review the status of construction, equipment, furniture, specialists
and fellowships. Agreements have been reached on the final design of the
project monitoring reports.
3.18     Review and Coordination among Donors.  Supervision missions will be
coordinated between the Association and the Tk1imphu field office of UNICEF who
will administer its portion of the project. As specified in the "Procedural
Arrangements between the Government of Switzerland and International
Development Association", the primary responsibility for supervision and
evaluation of SDC's portion of the project will be delegated to the
Association, which will follow its own procedures. However, SDC wishes to be
associated with the supervision of the project whenever possible. The
Association will inform SDC and the Helvitas office in Thimphu (the SDC
representative in Bhutan) of its supervision schedule, so it may participate
when feasible.
Environmental Inmact
3.19     Construction of the primary schools, the additions at Paro and the
TTC at Kanglung is expected to have a negligible impact on the physical
environment. The design concept of the buildings takes into account the
topographical nature of the sites. The buildings are designed in blocks to
reduce earth cutting to a minimum. No detrimental environment effects are
expected from the construction of access roads by the PWD. Moreover, the
project is supporting the further development of the NAPE curriculum for the
primary schools. NAPE has a strong environmental thrust in its program: it
uses the classroom to introduce conservation issues and to help pupils observe
the effects of good and bad practices on local conditions.
Procurement
3.20     Goods, works and services for the portion of the project to be
financed by the Association and SDC will be prucured in accordance with the
guidelines "Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits". For all
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) itemAs, prior review by the Association
will be required. The items and methods of procurement are indicated in Table
3.3; all figures include contingencies:



- 20 -
IABLL_L3: PROCUREMENT METHODS
Not      Total
Category                    ICB     LCB    Other  Applicable   Cost
---------------(US$ Million)-------------
Civil Works                  -        5.90     0.83     -         6.73
(4.18)                      (4.18)
Furniture                    -       0.50      0.12     -         0.62
Equipment                    0.21    -         t.13     -         0.34
Books and Journals            -       -        J.20     -         0.20
Vehicles                      -       -        0.18     -         0.18
Extended Classrooms          -        -        0.11     -         0.11
Building Materials
Professional Services        -        -        0.64               0.64
Technical Assistance          -       -        1.98     -         1.98
Consultant Travel             -       -        -
Studies                      -        -        0.13     -         0.13
Incremental Operation        -        -        -        2.70      2.70
Costs
Total                          AM21    6.4       4.       2L7Z     13.63
IDA                              (0.0)   (4.18)   (0.0)    (0.0)      (4.18)
UNICEF and SDC                   [0.21]  12.09]   [4.291   [0.83]    [7.42]
RGOB                              0.0     0.13     0.03     1.87       2.03
Notes:  Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the
Association.  Figures in bra.^kets are the respective amounts financed
by other donors.
3.21     The total cost of goods, works and services to be procured will be
approximately US$10.93 million including physical and price contingencies.
Of this, US$8.18 million (75%) will be for goods. Of these goods US$0.21
(3%) will be procured by ICB, and US$6.40 million (78%) by LCB. Other
procurement procedures will be used for US$1.57 million (19%). Procurement
of services totalling US$2.75 million will be by other methods.



- 21 -
3.22     The primary school buildings and the TTC at Kanglung to be
constructed under the project are widely dispersed throughout the country.
In most cases they are separated by difficult terrain and have poor access
roads. Costs for individual schools are well under US$1 million (averaging
under US$600,000. For these reasons contracts for civil works will be
awarded on the basis of LCB with separate tender for each school. Additions
to the TTC at Paro and construction of the TTC at Kanglung will be financed
by UNICEF under their procurement guidelines.
3.23     Equipment to be procured under ICB procedures will be grouped into
packages and bid under packages acceptable to the Association. The normal
15% preference or applicable import duties, whichever is lower, will be
allowed local suppliers in bid evaluation on all ICB items.
3.24     Equipment and furniture, estimated to cost less than US$50,000
per contract and not exceeding US$650,000 in the aggregate, will be
financed by SDC and procured through the RGOB's LCB procedures, for which
foreign bidders may qualify. Books and journals will be procured through
limited international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and
comparison of bids from at least three qualified suppliers.
3.25     All civil works contracts over US$200,000 and all furniture and
equipment contracts over US$100,000, will be subject to prior review by the
Association. Other contracts will be subject to selective post-award
review.
3.26     Technical assistance will be provided under grant aid through the
two cofinancing agencies. Contracts for services financed by SDC will be
awarded on the basis of Bank Group Guidelines. Contracts for services to
be financed by UNICEF will be awarded in accordance with UNICEF procurement
procedures.
Disbursements
3.27     The proposed credit of US$4.18 million will finance about 31% of
the total project costs, net of customs duties and taxes, and will be
disbursed at 100% of the expenditures on civil works (US$4.18 million). To
the extent possible, withdrawal applications will be aggregated in amounts
totalling US$50,000 or more prior to submission to the Association for
reimbursement out of the proceeds of the credit and will be fully
documented. Contracts for less than the equivalent of US$50,000 will be
reimbursed against Statements of Expenditure certified by the Project
Director. The estimated disbursement schedule is shown in Annex 12. No
disbursement profile has yet evolved for Bhutan. The Closing Date for the
project will be December 31, 1995.
3.28     To facilitate disbursements, the RGOB will open a Special Account
in the Bank of Bhutan. Because of slow and often unreliable communications
between Thimphu and Washington, an authorized allocation of US$0.28 million
will be provided representing the estimated average amount of six months
expenditure on items financed by the Association. To cover expenditures
financed by the Association, the funds from this account will be withdrawn
in proportion to the percentage being financed by the Association.



- 22 -
Accounts and Auditing
3.29     The RGOB will maintain project accounts in accordance with sound
accounting practices. At negotiations, the RGOB will be asked to provide
assurances that: (a) accounts and financial statements for each fiscal
year will be prepared and audited by the Royal Audit Authority or by
independent auditors appointed by them and acceptable to the Association;
and (b) certified copies of the audited accounts and financial statements
for each fiscal year, together with the auditor's report and auditor's
opinions on Statements of Expenditure, will be furnished to the Association
as soon as available, but not later than six months after the end of each
fiscal year. Supervision missions will review documentation of Statements
of Expenditure.
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
4.01     The project will provide long term benefits that will support the
overall economic development of Bhutan consisting of improved and more
equitable access to primary education, greater capacity in the DOE and
increased efficiency in the primary education system. Access to primary
education will increase and more equitable access for students in remote
areas, particularly for female students, will be provided. Strengthening
of the DOE will facilitate planning, management and monitoring of a rapidly
growing sector and enhance the DOE's capacity to support primary teachers.
This support will come through regular supervision, in-service training and
higher quality classroom resources such as curricula, textbooks and pupil
assessment services. Containment of recurrent costs will lessen the
financial impact of increased primary enrollments through increased
efficiency.
4.02     Access of students to the primary schools in the difficult terrain
of the remote areas of Bhutan will be improved by the addition of project
schools and their associated ECRs. The entire primary sub-sector will
benefit over time as improved procedures are put in place for selection and
management of ECRs as a delivery system for primary education.
4.03     Access of female students to primary education will be
particularly increased through the ECRs (para. 1.16). In addition, a
project-financed study of in-school and out-of-school variables affecting
female enrollment, retention and achievement will provide increased
understanding of changes in the primary education system that may be
necessary to further benefit female students.
4.04     The strengthened DOE will benefit not only the primary sub-sector,
but also, in certain areas, the entire education sector. Project inputs of
additional staff, equipment, fellowships and technical experts will enhance
the overall planning, monitoring and evaluative capacity of the DOE and
improve student assessment, textbook development and in-service training
methodologies.
4.05     Teacher classroom skills will be strengthened by increased
supervision and enhanced in-service and pre-service training capacity. The
benefits will extend beyond project schools to the entire primary teaching



- 23 -
cadre through the in-service and pre-service training programs. Project
schools will serve as models for improved supervisory techniques.
4.06     The financial impact of increased primary enrollments will be
lessened by the introduction of more cost-effective construction and
personnel deployment practices. School buildings are being designed to
require low maintenance, and classsrooms sized to permit higher SSR in the
DSC schools. More efficient deployment practices to increase the SSR from
28:1 to 36:1 will reduce unit costs, as will the rapid Bhutanization of the
primary teacher cadre. These actions together with reductions of dropout
and repeater rates from their respective current high levels of 7.3% and
25% per annum to targeted levels of 4.3% and 10% per annum are expected to
almost halve the cost of educating a primary school graduate.
B. Risks
4.07     The main project risk is that the RGOB may overreach its capacity
to staff and finance the primary education expansion program.  Shortages of
trained manpower exist in both the construction trades and the education
sector. To reduce the risk of delays in the construction program, the
period of construetion has been scheduled for five years to assure the
availability of contractors. In addition, construction activities have
been divided into three phases in different regions. This phased approach
will allow the DOE and the PWD time to gain experience through involvement
in successively more complex phases, and will provide ample time for the
training of additional staff (para. 3.12).
4.08     The risk of staff shortages in the sector, particularly of
teachers, has been addressed vigorously by the RGOB. The teaching
profession is being made more attractive through increased pay and improved
service conditions, and an accelerated teacher training program shows
promise of eliminating the need for expatriate teachers within a decade.
4.09     The risk of the RGOB overreaching its capacity to finance the
primary expansion program is being reduced in a number of ways. The RGOB
will keep expansion in the sub-sector to a modest 6% per annum enrollment
growth. The Sixth Plan construction program has been reduced from its
original 68 new schools to 35, with community-constructed ECRs providing
additional access. More efficient deployment of teachers will raise the
SSR from 28:1 to 36:1. Reduction of the proportion of expensive foreign
teachers from the current 36% of primary teachers to under 10% by project
end also will reduce recurrent cost obligations. Finally, the cost of
educating a graduate of the primary system is expected to drop
significantly through greater efficiency in the system (reduced dropout and
repetition).
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01     The RGOB provided assurances during negotiations that:
(a)   the teacher cadre policy will become operational by July 31,
1988 (para. 1.17);



- 24 -
(b)   a technical assistance contract providing services to the
faculty of the TTC at Paro will be signed by July 31, 1988
(para. 2.12);
(c)   there is adequate provision in the Sixth Five-Year Plan for
financing to provide for the six percent per annum
enrollment expansion target in the primary sub-sector, and
that the planned output of trained primary teachers will
eliminate dependence upon foreign teachers by the year 2000.
It was further agreed to report yearly to the Association
providing assurances that sufficient funding is available to
meet the needs of the expansion program for the subsequent
year, and that the output of trained primary teachers for
the next fiscal year is appropriate to the target of full
Bhutanization of the primary teaching force by the year 2000
(para. 2.12).
(d)   the access roads for Phases II and III schools will be
constructed by January 31, 1990 and 1991 respectively (para.
3.10) and
(e)   the final bid documents for Phase I schools will be
completed by July 31, 1988 (para. 3.11).
5.02     The establishment of the PIU and the appointment of its key
personnel is the condition of credit effectiveness (para. 3.14).
5.03     With the above conditions, the proposed project constitutes a
suitable basis for an IDA credit of SDR 3.1 million (US$4.2 million
equivalent) to the Kingdom of Bhutan on standard IDA terms with 40 years'
maturity.



-25 -                     Annex I
BHUTAN
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Primary Enrollment, 1982-1986
Class and           MAy       Oct.     April      Apr1l    April
Sex               1982      1983      1984       1985      1986
Prs-Primary
Boys               11,469    12,413    13,069    13,041    11,660
Girls               5,897      6,610     7,016      7,334     6,771
Total              17,366    19,023    20,085    20,375    18,4U
Class I
Boys                4,537      4,788     5,170      5,457     6,423
Girls               1,909      2,088     2,535      2,902     3,391
Total               6,446      6,876     7,705      8,359     9,814
Class II
Boys                3,544      3,605     3,947      4,099     4,364
Girls               1,451      1,588     1,721      1,965     2,396
Total               4,995      5,193     5,668      6,064     6,760
Class III
Boys                2,692      2,980     3,229      3,467     3,616
Girls               1,113      1,253     1,453      1,519     1,745
Total               3,805      4,233     4,682      49986     5,361
Class IV
Boys                1,951      2,148     2,365      2,524     2,687
Girls                 794        976     1,061     1,166      1,270
Total               2,745      3,124     3,426      3,690     3,957
Class V
Boys                1,398      1,658     1,837      1,956     2,022
Girls                 649        634       872      1,011     1,007
Total               2,047      2,292     2,709      2,967     3,029
Class VI
Boys                  693        770       955        819     1,401
Girls                 257        282       294        330       732
Total                 950      1.052     1,249      1,149     2,133
Primary
Boys               26,284    28,362    30,572    31,363    32,173
Girls              12,070    13,431    14,952    16,227    17,312
Total              38,354    41,793    45,524    47,590    49,485
Source: DOE



-26 -                     Amx  2
BUTMAN
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Prluary FPmle Student Enrollmt Ratios by District
S SL. I OZON6K HAG    IEPRIt8RY EHWm16tRL5 ffi 81 RL ELMNLETI
INOI               s  PERCENTGIPERCENTSE JM PERCENTAgE
I   11986M8 Of  IX   & COHR,TIOF PRWIR JX GIL   fJ
I  1.            1j\1            IEIROLL MIIAGE COHORT IZ.L
I1 I ITASHI6"N6  1      Zfi5f   L  2?A      L   14A
i 11IMOtN     I. |i             I  ZLA    1    1£    2 1
A I LUJTSHIHL     L     iLl   £  Z.    L    ILi   I
,L J IPEMlf fTSHEL   I    ILI    I  1LZ     I    ILA    I
I a I om          I    1MA1   1.  Z1A    J        MA    I
I fi IUAfN6DPHOIRANSI    I3l    I  -43 1          IL      I1
_7ISHEMflNS       L      MA    I  ZLI    I        ILl   I
t1IQ       I TONJ        I      1  41J    I       ILl   I
1 ,SJ/JON6KHflR  1     OA      I 1IL       1    Zil 1
IM IPUNwKHI       J     Ii    I  I"         1    A L      1
-  IBUlImTHANf    I    55AJ  1 L     L   16   L   &L      I
IZ ICHIRANS        I    6.I5   J   3L6I    I    44.4    1
L  ISMCHI         I    E.£7    I  Mi .4          46.A    L
1l4 ISAYLEIPHiU6    I    MA.    l   L.Z    L    50. I2
La  IPARO f             71RL    1  37-Ll   L      5Ll    £
"I ICHiUKHA       I    81.5    I  IRl   1.   61.
1  IM              L    L6    I  441l    I    AI.    1
L. ITHtMPHU        I   1m.7    l  45.7   JL   12UL        I
+---+--------------------------------------------- ----------
L   IAVERA6E       I    54.A    I   MI.    1    I8.2    I
4----------------------,-----+-4-        -     --4----
/1 Source: DOE
/2 Calculated from product of previous two columns.



-27-
,. WU Mos
1.   _    _u    s utu su 
_I~~~~~~~a  in u                                  as inin_ um
*_u~~~~~~S EYLI iUI
inzinin uvinin       uacxa. a C.!W*ZL       vx      "A=m  a                  0s  u s                amw~au
1.(&) Dmage a witla    (a) Smimi M  gui          (a) _teubi. tsaaimg      (a) 3sma S(M&W
ib) WEiNM*.a 514"         asa.mh a eswtua          ZeuLwtitu.A                                       a syllabi
*ague       Uss                 ~~~~(b) Sasbi,.mai        (b) D.bmglm  tmsb.m   b)  m.esa.su  .
to) gd_  sod          () OAt"a  qm -              aboa             _iu  a vouss    (e) ne1  d
_Weave                tsm   I pus tI       (a) _isv  estims             tmtumas
(4) Weathb oati.m         seabela              (4) Se.agahist     a"-   (a) smitf Pathoaeia    (41) loUstiemialeis of
(a) E    peajeet      (*) %""a a s _haven         uiatteti              ()aels tasthat               tam  a smiiw.
2.$*) Altmx *&mtun          b_ldin  la           (e) Teusbi _s                    tmous               *ts   Su Love"
(b) SOimm   AM              ala                                                                     of ._.a._s
ta_               (O       0                     _0) Cm                                                    t fas.e
(a) Owt SC aembol         *ovmfea. wa_ _   (t) CS_e  WNaeUI                                          olI o0awi..iis
OU G                  Sho  a egs*                                                                    m"  ft 
(Un                   (0) C.i inaie
hini.p.           (5)Guatl  p     tis_
as 3 * D, 4019
UICOaL a USaUilg         utEZut SUFMIIDU  a      sin    IEMUZ&-           iin   a SOMMW                 niglUfUG5
INAMM     como2wxnw               I= a vzin
(a) Todu.al             oa~amn.f                 (a)Uhpvlma                 A)LL umhaeaeof         (a) Waim.
(b) lase""se 4 is-               a simieyde    (b) fevasmel AWesahs-         tdo dapevema          (b) $easedaq (allsub
ples teasiagu       (b) EVSL"eist  of           itvm(2.5W              (b) SqAWie. to              jostsa 60Gemave
(a) Villag  shll            Ga"sgms                                       tosea)() WI' inagionusieetm
demlapmmo            (a) oematl eupesuvi     (a) belUAla               (5) Csnas*L seems
(4) Gostt      5 d51-   (4) -i to tS
teowl  of _ll OIL   (e) Ahmm
tem. a cap""         (5) daternI ,i"t1*
et edamatimi         (s) LiasatS oose4-
tsa.iitiA               mte tin   ih Mmt-
( ) DCs_a.o *6i_a-          Later". biatasa
ties" 5wituft           aosv*a. eta.
I  sit. mti.            EMr.    5  an.
O)A. OM. M.
wMs. a . C401
am



-28 -                                    Ann= 4
t 11 tCS
C_ wtatve Outia   fr1to    tth Sth  tu
I                        ItP1* WUIW lIS        t KI. CICEI'V          t I  U                 CIU   I   low   W0  FIn   I
IL 51r I                      i,- w           I  . .i- iw            I   137-192            1 PIA WMEIn             IS
t                                  ll l  total I MAt. inu. tta   " mAt  dilp. tot   .I  d$             usip  towtu   I
I1  ims,   "u             SV1I 39.719  94 ".19 1 7926 22.111 162.12  110.316  162.5301.0%    136    612.3  24.711
1 21_I s*      n    ta   I 77M   23M  101.171 1 9." 31.671  111.32 1152.13   1.155 235.91  91.    162.01 111.611
S3 i     o.mti.          I 11.17 1SA       27.11 1 17.16 19.231237    1 31.768      6 1.7?( It.1  -663   1L3.1
I 1 t __hr     im        I 7.28321.SM 2 2235t111.206  5.3  4?.1:1 17.765           16 3.7U5   S.5   -55U  -2AV
I S fubtaunombs          I    17  13.5   .251t                 3.06 1' *I.3        5 121.53   -         -      31.1st
lcaw        eh=Uu    I                         I  2.t6  2.LA     5.156 I              mm    1  -        -      t    I
I I  sln d fFlu b        I 1.56          1.591  .71    t.1   1.95 0 1           -     -                     s o -  I
I 1WtM    hl Ntkui   3.3WI        1.33  1.0 2 1  4.909  1.39  6O         -       -     -                     o n    I
I SIostwa  d Q=t1ul t1.313 11.514  52. 275266   26.1 109.219  1137.952  62.65411".6    16.11   13?.51t  6.I
I,                       1                     I                      Is    X                |
I  161                  1:28.1315.612 31.  121.617 1l.712 41.631 161 29 31W.539 W.26  I 142.6   171.1  13V.71
*   iUtaNbSo  dp dopnd brkdm  nt .11db
tfo too" dutInt
- lAsAs            qpu  bup allUtIam f, 11616.
"'lb    _a ir uW      btuat o £mtin
S    : P^fq  hrit, hpu    d  bC o. inpt pdir  Ekc  tlo  pWitw   Ald w                        bidn      te    hr.



- 29 -
Anus 5
Page 1
BHUTAN
PRUARY EDUCCAION PROJECT
Techbical Assistance to be Provided by Vitins g Specalist8
and Thrgou Fellowships and Placements
Organiational
Unit                  Purpose                Year          Staff-Months
Viuitins Specialists
Parc TTC          Primary Methods through the      1988              12
medium of English language
Paro TTC          Matheuatics/Environmental        1989              12
Studies through the median
of English
Kanglung TTC      Primary Methods through the      1992              12
medium of English language
Mathematics through English     1993               12
Environmental Studies
Curriculum &      Evaluation of NAPE              1990               12
Examiation.
Editing and Publishing          1990               4
Techniques
Board of          Construction of an Item-bank    1990                6
Examinations      Design of Exmi'nations
Validity, Evaluation of         1992                3
Examination Results
Personnel,        Build-up of a Data              1989               12
Planning and      Information System
Teacher
Training        Build-up of Education            1991               4
Planning & Evaluation Unit
Design of a mobile              1991                6
in-service Trainins Unit
and Planning of in-service
Training Units
Development of deployment       1988                6
procedures, job
descriptions, aet.



-30 -                           Annex 5
Pago 2
Organizational
Unit                  Purpose                 TOOr          Staff-MHothe
Fellowships and Placements
Paro TTC           Priuary Mathematics              1988              1S
Paro TTC           Primary Envirogmental Studies  1988                15
Paro TTC           Primary Methods thru             1988              15
the medium of English:
Pre-prisary Class-Ill         1989               1S
ClASse  IV-VI                 1989              15
Paro TTC           Visits to Center of              1989-         5 x 3 u 15
Excellence in integrated       1993
Class Teacher Primary
Teacher Education
tnglung TTC        Primary Mathematics              1992               15
Primary English                 1992               15
LVS thru the medium             1993               15
of English
Early years Methods             1993               15
thru the medium of English
Visita to Centers of            1993-          5 x 3 - 15
Excellence in integrated       1997
Class Teacher Primary
Teacher Education
Curriculum &       Evaluation and Assessment        1990               12
Examinations       Techniques (formative
evaluation)
Textbook layout and design      1991                3
techniques
Examination and Testing         1990               12
Methods and Techniques
Planning,          Educational Evaluation/          1989               12
Personnel and       System Evaluation
Teacher Training   Improvement of Educational       1991                3
Statistical Service
Improvement of Personnel        1992                3
Services/lMnagement Techn.
Mobile Teacher In-service       1991                3
Training/Distance Delivery



1115ti ll
~ tt s*q hxfitm das hWq .1
WI1 lll UWI U'I ss I. WI ire we ire ire nwe   ee* e mi  e                 atm 
u's D1'S  Wb i   1'i R b U' 6t tll  r i %IW WI Il 991 WI  fbi  Ulf  1
Ili file  Iii   5 U't1 "Is %I# till LSI      1   Wt 9a l al  1it tI'1111ul11
IUt WUl  SbU Ulf   SIU       1 WZl F  lS  is? WI L91 9fI W1        fk WWI VM
biLl bIl  OaS %    2w  stI! u  IN u   at? l      alIl fatL 1Mt
Ii  1'1 1S  Il'  19 fI 11 l-  6b1 SW SIR 1a I's 6f 6IV           U11   1 1D
I   at  z   RI "I 6t 6t Ns us S            9 0 fU     K  29         mmIK
biL  SW 1S6  Stf S   919 SSZ *UM  1   W1 1EE1 tl 6ZI OI9 il h         WWI.1
Du  Ut SWt II    So 69L Z9I  SW iWI lo OSISIM Mt itI oil                 AIM   i
31  3    1 31  311- 3- 32- sri-fbi-iS7-U'S- ti- 291-all- al- all-  '1% a   _Anu
.i-  II- W   *  1F- III6- I-      w f U-U- LI- b1- i-                      amlUi
biD  IN  603I S61U91SZ 9IZZSIR MIL IIISI991 IN6ZI OttIfIt1                   151
S   S   S   SUf S 1S  S  3 s 1 S ISI  I  0   1  0                             S311'1
a   S   a   5  5  5  i  a  5  19  1  5  I  al  It                         ad 311 1
SI  WI  31 SIII 1 1 III St       I SOL 91I  I       S  61               no I I
Alm mm mm m
EF M   IN! SSt OR UIal St 59 UIl WUl DI? II 911 1at Ml( SflItMS A lA n0131
a *      U af   Uf Ut           Uf Ut  Su  fi  *I Zs I       ii  sumu  1311ma
fLU  V   SEit     63 a H   1 Ufl d1 of U       l  t11 ff1 1       sm1   SSUh a I
ut 2t Zf   2f au  2t 2   IIt It If  U  U  Us Q    f  mi
26UI U1l 1151 391111451  ISl ttuN 56513  Hl9 ZI%S     S111 I  S  inmiO uI
aEaUE         I    Stl    b1 a    Iit  a  a    6?    SUS at o1      NS dI    Q7
MiI 1MtiI mlII aIsI 1MII 11 111 11 111 "11111 1311N(W11911  £1o    `11113 51   1
9166 ld m    au E     SiSLUMIUIIUMlbU S m               S2%    115AM  1
_AU0 I
I   St1 551  61 1 0 11  61 161 261 61 A15      616    0 6I1 1 S1 61 S
s593foo s131-WI  Pug -U11o  POSW  q3tA U3£xU
2uU. 3SOR1V3 P93911TOON 0O-1 )ftd4O P04*4O3K
XODMt1N& Mol(mZ Wil i
Znin
9 =_                                            T _



-32 -                     Ex  z
Pq I
BMUTAN
PRINB EDUCATION PRtOJECT
Additional Proiect Staff
Staff                                             Grade
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT /1
(To be appointed prior to Project Effectivoness)
Deputy Projoet Director (full time)                 7
Procurement Officor                                 9
Accountant/Quantity Surveyor                       11
Stonographer                                       11
Driver                                             18
Implementation Specialist (EXPAT)                  na
Architect (EXPAT)                                  na
PLANNIN UGII
Computor Progroammr, Analyst (FY 88)L2             11
Date Intako  (FY 88)                               14
Evaluation Officer (FY 90)                          9
Progranmer (FY 89)                                 11 /3
CURRICULUM OEUELOPMENT QDUISIOM
Coordinating Officer (FY 88)                        8
Stenograper (FY 88)                                11
Deputed Primary Teachers (3) (FY 88)                -
Educational Resourco Officer (FY 89)                9
Typist (FY 89)                                     14
Editing *nd Publishing Officer (FY98)               9
Deputod Teacher Trainor (FY90)
11 To bo appointod prior to projoct offectivoness.
12 Figuroe In parenthoeos indicato appointment dates
11 Programmer, although allocatod to Planning, will assist
other units such as The Board of Examinations, Porsonnel and
Procurement with development of computer applications.



-33 -                           _ 
Pew 2
Staff                                             Grade
TEACER             E AU
Two deputed Primary T  chers (FY U8)                -
Stenotypist (FY SO)                                12
Thre  deputed Primary Techors (Fy 89)               -
One deputed secondary teacher (FY  8)               -
One deputed teacher trainer (TTC) (FY 88)           -
-L8        D EURELOPlMT nnnUh
Two deputod Primary Teachers (FY 88)
Two deputed Prlmrey Toachers (FY 89)
Twelvo staft months ot  TTC toachers (FY 69)        -
Otticer, Examtnation Techniques (FY 89)             8
Twelve statt months of Primary Toachers (FY 89)   -
Otticer, Evaluation (FY 92)                         0
PERSONNEL UMII
Ofttier (FY 88)                                     9
Officer (FY 89)                                     9
Data Processing (FY 89)                            12
Typist, Oata entry (FY 89)                         14
UCUREMNT MMf SUPPLIES =I
Materials Doploymont Specialist (FY 90)             9
EM   TEACHER TRIB1MIN6 gLLE
Nine academic (additAonal Teacher Trainers)       6-8
Two in FY 88, one in FY 89, one in FY 90,
two in FY 91, and three in FY 92.
Administrator (FY 88)                              12



l  E  *  4 S    b'1  XK
g b
Cu _  _ a:



-35 -                            *     a
t                        PRtHARY ~~~~~EDUCA51ON PROJECT
TOrMS of Reference for Proiset-Rlated Studies
Sudy of Extended Cla-srooms
1.       The objectives of this study of the extended classroon (ECR)
program are to assoss the ECRs' effectiveness in:
(a) providing increased access to primary age children in remoto
areas;
(b)   providing increased access to female students;
(c) serving as efficiont feeder schools to Development Service
Center schools C)S  acboola; and
(d)   providing quality education.
2.       A reopresentative sample of ECR , both project-related and outside
the project, will be analyzed. Access will be assessed by examination of
the enrollment patterns to ascertain the contribution of ICRs to gross
enrollment. Interviews with teachers, parents, headmen and students will
be conducted to establish issues related to enrollment. Both in-school and
out-of-school variables that are perceived as contributory to enrollment
patterns will be defined. Particular attention will be paid to any
differentiation in enrollment patterns between male and female students.
any contributory variables to such differences will be identified.
3.       Transition rates will be coWpared by sex between Class III and
Class IV ICRs and their DSC schools and where no ECR feeder school exists.
In-school and out-of-school variables contributLag to these transition
rates will be identified.
4.       Unit costs of ECRs and comparable classes in regular primary
schools will be established.
5.       On the basis of standardized testsand teacher and headmaster
interviews, the relative quality of education provided by ECRs as compared
to regular primary schools will be determined.
Study of Female PrimarM Students
6.       The objectives of this study are to develop better understanding
of the needs of female students to enable the sto receive formal education by:



- 36 -                ~~~~Annex 8
- 36 -                         Page 2
(a)   establishing attendance, dropout and repeater patterns of
female students in primary schools;
(b)   establishing positive actions that schools could take to
increase their attractiveness and value to female students;
and
(c)   accounting for the large inter-district variation in gross
enrollment rates.
7.       Attendance, dropout and repeater patterns of female students in a
representative sample-of schools will be assessed. Teachers, headmasters,
parents, students and headmen will be interviewed to establish in-school
and out-of-school variables affecting attendance of female students.
Particular attention will be paid to economic or cultural conditions that
may have a differential effect upon attendance of primary age boys versus
girls. The effect of primary school boarding upon the attendance of girls
will be examined by comparative enrollment studies and interview.
8.       Measures which the formal school system could introduce to make
schools more attractive to primary age girls will be identified.
9.       Large inter-district variation in gross enrollment rates (Annex 2)
will be examined to establish contributory variables to the disparity.
Stwdy of Nnlish as a Mediu of InstructiLon
10.      The objectives of this study are to examine the effectiveness of
the current practice of using English as the medium of instruction in primary
schools and to make recommendations of possible alternative practices by:
(a)   comparing the experience of Bhutan with that of other
countries;
(b)   assessing the effectiveness of current practices in
achieving DOE objectives; and
(c)   recommending alternative practices, if appropriate
11.      Experiences of other countries relevant to the situation in
Bhutan will be reviewed.
12.      Existing policy documents will be analyzed to establish the
objectives of the English language program. Interviews will be carried out
to determine the effectiveness of the program in meeting the objectives.
13.     Alternatives will be considered, such as delaying English language
acquisition until upper primary or later, making it non-compulsory in
certain grades.



7Annex 9
nz4Aa, nuc&uOuI noNCT                                         I
cau11a Protect Costs
tuim_  S30              (US  03
Locad    Foc       total     Local  Farme   Toa         tlAlC
1. 1onwn COn
a. CIVIL m
I.  CI1IT                             29,439.V    32703.3  42.12.77  2,31.51 24.94  45W.47I            53
2. INla      MIa                         06.76   393.07   1.004.83    47.40    31.10    73.50           4
Sub lTOW  CIVIL    I                     30 .02 33.101.57  .3.167.59  2.34.t91 2=.,   4t*93497            52
*. FUItI                                  2,411.47  3211.21   5:.1141   101.41   2%.34    444,76          53
Co [Nam                                     3.06 3ol.l.2    3'460.32    27.43  . 2.91    270.34           Os
*. Vona                                     201.0  1737.32   1*93.12       15.77   139.43    155.40       9
t*  II           K8                         62023   179%.6.  199.54    13.15   140.37    156*21 
F. PEIUN           ICS                    2M2O5.  392,5W   4174.13 17I.43  306.92   482.31                 4
. so     136am"                                .43              196.43     15.35             1.35          -
No. 11CIUM  U3TM
1. WI1IUI    PLDIS                        74.35   674.23     752.51      5.96    52.3     53.30         9
2. nflM Tiain. ML.O3S  1.672,62   1#661.47                              14.75   130.U67   1443 
3 3  3 WI[L FBLUU                         125      111.51    124.10      0."     3.71      9.70        t
4. C IT3S                              1*3WM.:  34134.30   4,499.29    1064:   244.       1.51         70
3. aXl_TAMiJ   t                          u.n    303.3UI    426t         I3-     29*.9    33.33         to
6. mumW  13       3                       15.61    133.30    153.91      I.U2    10.0     12.02        90
7. D113W RXIIII                        4,326.6*  9,9473  1442613       333.02   776.16 1.14.17          70
3 11315                                  M.44    M03.Q2  1*294.6    30.74    70.18   101*32             70
-TtaWl I11tUl3 30t31                      6,421.n 116,94.46  23V376.17   501.70 1*324.7  1426.26          73
_- -  -  -- -    ---   -  -  _ _ -- ---- -   -- - - -
Totl IlKImOUT   cIlu                        42*0710 63.99.0  106  16.1  3233.84 4o94.0  3*235.64              60
It. 501I  C313
A. STOP NUSI)
to 5197 5    2                        9264.09             9 *64.09    723.6             723.            -
2. ST    IJ.iNf                       2316.02             24316,02    130.9         -   130.94
Tota $N          PA n                   1.-  115.11                        .70        -   94.10-
3. 31111 13613116
1. 51199133                           3,19. 23            3*719.23    M0.6              290.5           -
2. 11 I   NAM                         4,091.4             4,090.04    471.78       -   475.7 
3. C _ll                                 5.30  1,111.0    160.9        37.I4    67.11    15.05         "0
Ttal m        u   1631                  10,294.05  1ll5."9  11*409.84    304.29    P.11    9.39          10
C. ~10T11 me WANMI_
1. UIUM                                 39,0    247.32    44.41        30.71   19.32    50.03          39
2. FlUI                                  94.49    92*       137.47      7.38    7.26     14.4          St
3. Eu lItII                              74.45     73.:?    147.72      5.32    s.7      11.5          50
4. K     S                 W.47   314.14                    34.3        2.7    24.4    27.31           9
5. UIIA  N1NVAIM                        330412   324.8      64.99      25.79     .33    51.17          50
otal 091O1    113 IIMIW                    927.62 an52.a    19300.22      72.47   62.23    154.70        53
Total    IT       1                         22*302.53  2.1*7.60  24*970.19  1,731.4   169.34  l1.30          9
t.'l UA L    Ilt                             64,099. 86412426.  1311026.   5070.29 5.9166*S 1026.43           50
Fms*    CItSlmelo                          3*510.U 1   4t6.27   7.374.43   274.23   341.11   .15.35        53
Pvtoo CoVANSlW                            2273L3.6 12824.44  35.53.02  1,778.0 1O091.9  2,779.92           34
tdol FUtL C5U3M                              91, 41 U337.41 1 i745.82  7tt22.3 6509.17 13,611.*76             4
m  _mm _                      _         -



OO'Oltrtl bott  "It    aln    a's   trn0  00t   "OK0 It It. b l
a*  "f   Wt tol'                                                                   &VI=  ett'
-'  -'   m'"t  m0'0    -         -      -     -     -   -                     X _             On
Will 21I   WI  @         Woo it   W                                                         et l? 96OT*~aup
-Z '  '@1"0-  -  -  -  -  - -                                                 
S1' w'0 WWI  20          '      -       -    -      -   -      -     iwi a. 't            wiq
*t',  W'0  WWI0 L0'             -       -    -           -          -M   -  DII
"tg  1'    WW   z'0      -      -       -    -                                      .        ..
n'o  t'l WWt * 0 '             U '0 -   -    -           -        t_mMm i
511  WI   WWIWA -           -                                                            nsX  -    -  -   -  't
nt0  £'t  *l0t           -      -                                                      A -    -  -   -  *   't
U'Z  all  O't 0 '0              KIT          -      -   -                              _m   Ot
W1   T'o    Wl   tO'@    -      -       -    -      -   -                           mim IeV
w6  ?2oo  WWI,WI    -           -l    "O   We -                                IIU dWLISW
Wi'?  W'0  0'l0  WZO    -       -       -    -      -   -                  &      I I    't
Wi  0*   WWIt tl@lt0     -      -       -    -      -   -                        IW I't
IMIAUd iS 03
C't tt'Z -               W-l  t£'t    -6t                           ' -  -           URUAS
1,0  E.;   -     -       W*WT  WIo    -    -        -   -                      uu'Uins
*1'* tO'o   -         -   -     -       wOIt'SO     -   -                              _ mm    msmn
uo * o   -       -       wU   wo    nl  tole   -   -                         1 a sUr m 'IT
WI  We   -       -       Wet   Mo0 omu£m  A -   -                                         nn 'O
Wt'  tO'0   -         -           o 0   It' It      -   -                  UW                'I
mo tW    -       -       'USt18         It'Ll WO I   -   -                             gum  Of
*It  WI0    -    -         It?   1'0     %  £0oo   -   -                              mo  m 'I
"It  sro   -     - o     wo,   oro  -      t -      -   -                              sum  Of
Wog  g0.   -     -       flon   t'O    MtIt :;'o        -    -                      _Im TM
Moo ' t'0  W- -          W O t ' 2t't                                                Wa0 -   -  iI 
"'*~~1 IVAN *OaM M                      01  tY0 "'  m' f'l^'0--rm
II'  WY   £6'!  nPo      W*    WI    WIT no   9W't III                              UA1 IUl.
U'  n.'   -      -       -      -       w'w; we*    -   -                      rA,1 anu  'c
It'll  t'?  00'l  tt'0    It'll  IL'?   W'Oe  U'0   bnil SI                        '    tS 
tbl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r 11*tJQ    '11 _1a<
mu  WAS umwl   s  inmo  MM=
wniu" I ULIUW
(uorm*3cn)
SIMUODUVOGl LIWlIU
OT XSuuW
- BE -



3.- t  ^  13' t:
ja~~~~~~6
--ff-        - - - - - - - - - -- - - -- - -    -   -- - - - -
I ~~~~~~~ -~~~I
-- -  a                            ff1 ~-- --- --- - -
a      --------------
4.~ ----  --- ---------                              -
----         ---- -----   -----   ----   -----------
.-. ~    E 
s * s                                         _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
[X-[   "" " """"  W"D"l1111
aaa _____________________   __________
|;~~~~~                                  111§!R! XEeag|!    ! !   ig  j    r
..    3;s0 3                 3XBS§§33g5 
o~ 0 o              18. 80 8
8            8        ~  8j *88
X 8           °8             88    ° I|
8              88                                 l_
81             o            8 8            I
8         88o         88I 88 8     
; 8      e 8   0        8I  r°8 o            °8       S
5 8    f               11818   8  8.
1 8    8 _i 8°                      
8    oo  8          8g8
ag                    - _I__   ------             __
*    elel           f
;1      a                  
_;_____ __j________I---_-__
-a-1I
___a_      _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _ _ 
r                             6 



-40 -                        Aax 12
BHUTAN
P3.MK EDCAfON flOSC
Estlmsted Schedule of Disbursemnts
Disbureemet          Percent Disbursement
IDA IT and Semester         Sem_ster   Camlative         of Total Credit
1989
lot (Jul. 88-Dec. 88)       0.20/1       0.28                 7
2nd (Jan. 89-Jun. 89)       0.0          0.28                 7
1990
lst (Jul. 89-Dec. 89)       0.04         0.32                 8
2ad (Jan. 90-Jun. 90)       0.06         0.38                 9
1L991
Ist (Jul. 90-Dec. 90)       0.20         0.58                14
2nd (Jan. 91-Jun. 91)       0.20         0.78                19
1992
lot (Jul. 91-Dee. 91)       0.50         1.28                31
2nd (Jan. 92-Jun. 92)       0.50         1.78                43
1993
let (Jul. 92-Dec. 92)       0.50         2.28                55
2ad (Jan. 93-Jun. 93)       0.40         2.68                64
1994
lst (Jul. 93-Dec. 93)       0.40         3.08                74
2nd (Jan. 94-Jun. 94)       0,40         3.48                83
1995
lot (Jul 94-Dec. 94)        0.7          4.18               100
Closiog Date: June 309 1995.
IL Special Account.



- 41 -                           AzLa
Page 1
PRIm RY EDUCATION PROJECT
Operational Action Plan
July       Teacher cadre policy has become oDerational.  Staff appointed
(FY88-89).
Ciil W03jo
June       Final site survey and soil tests and design development
completed for Phase I, also bid documents for Paro TTC.
July       Bid documents for Phase I schools completed.
October    Bid advertisement and bidding completed for Paro TTC.
December   Bid evaluation for Paro TTC completed.
Furniture and Eauinment
December   Final lists and specifications.
Technical Assistance
July       Technical Assistance contract for Paro TTC faculty signed.
December   Technical Assistance contract for Department signed.
NanaLr-en
May        Assurances will be provided to IDA that there are sufficient
funds budgeted for FY90 to meet the targets of the primary
sub-sector expansion program, and that the output of trained
Bhutanese primary teachers is in line with accelerated
program targets.
/ Years are calendar years.



- 42 -                           Anma. 13
Page 2
Civil Works
March      Bid advertisement and bidding completed for Phase I.  Also
contract signing for Paro TTC completed.
June       Bid evaluation completed for Phase I.
August     Contract signing for Phase I construction completed.
September Final site survey, soil tests and site development plans
completed Phase II. Land acquisition for Phase II completed.
November   Bid documents completed for Phase II.
Furnitur-e and faUpNt
August     Furniture design for all phases and bid documents for
furniture and equipment completed for Paro TTC.
managemen
May        Assurances will be provided to IDA that there are sufficient
funds budgeted for FY91 to meet the targets of the primary
sub-sector expansion program, and that the output of trained
Bhutanese primary teachers is in line with accelerated
program targets.
Civil Works
January    Access roads for Phase II schools completed.
March      Bid advertisement and bidding completed for Phase II.
May        Bid evaluation for Phase II completed.
July       Contract signing for Phase II construction completed.
September Final site survey, soil tests and site development plans for
Phase III completed. Land acquisition for Phase III
completed.
November   Bid documents completed for Phase III.
Furniture ad Equipment
January    Bid advertisement and bidding for Paro TTC completed.
March      Bid evaluation for Paro TTC completed.
May        Contract signing for Paro TTC completed.



- 43 -                          Armx 13
Page 3
Technical Assistance
July       Technical Assistance contract for faculty at Kanglung signed.
l2P
Managemen
May        Assurances will be provided to IDA that there are sufficient
funds budgeted for FY92 to meet the targets of the primary
sub-sector expansion program, and that the output of trained
Bhutanese primary teachers is in line with accelerated
program targets.
Civil Works
January    Access roads for Kanglung and Phase III schools completed.
March      Bid advertisement and bidding completed for Phase III and
Kanglung.
May        Bid evaluation for Kanglung and Phase III completed.
June       TTC Paro construction completed.
July       Contract signing for Phase III construction completed.
Furniture and Eui=nent
January    Bid advertisement and bidding for Phase I completed.
M arch     Bid evaluation for Phase I completed and delivery for Paro
TTC.
May        Contract signing for Phase I completed.
,Mfana9emer=
May        Assurances will be provided to IDA that there are sufficient
funds budgeted for FY93 to meet the targets of the primary
sub-sector expansion program, and that the output of trained
Bhutanese primary teachers is in line with accelerated
program targets.
Civil Works
March      Construction for Phase I completed.



- 44 -
Page 4
January    Bid advertisement and bidding for Phase II completed.
March      Bid evaluation for Phase II and delivery for Phase I
completed.
May        Contract signing for Phase II completed.
N- ~ ~ ~ i
Nay        Assurances will be provided to IDA that there are sufficient
funds budgeted for FY94 to meet the targets of the primary
sub-sector expansion program, and that the output of trained
Bhutanese primary teachers is in line with accelerated
program targets.
civi1l 
March      Construction for Phase II completed.
Furniture and Eouiaient
January    Bid advertisement and bidding for Kanglung and Phase III
completed.
March      Bid evaluation for Phase III and delivery for Phase II
completed.
May        Contracts signing for Kanglung and Phase III completed.
Civil Works
March      Construction for Kanglung and Phase III completed.
Funitura    BR==me
March      Delivery of furniture and equipment for Kanglung and Phase
III completed.



-45 -                           Annex 14
Pases
BHUTAN
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Prolect File
A. Reports and Studies Related to the Sector/Subsector
A-1. Fifth Plan 1981-1987 (Main Document), Planning Commission, Royal
Government of Bhutan.
A-2.  Fifth Plan 1981-1987 (An Interim Review), Planning Coission,
Royal Government of Bhutan, February 1986.
A-3.  Summary of Proposals of Department of Education on the Recommendation
on Integrated Gewog Development Centres, October 1985.
A-4. Education Strategies and Targets for the Sixth Plan (1987-1992),
Vol. 1, Department of Education, Royal Government of Bhutan.
A-5. Brief Profiles on Major Projects for Inclusion in the Sixth Five-Year
Plan, Vol. ?, Department of Education, Royal Government of Bhutan,
October 2, 1985.
A-6.  Education Statistics May 1982, Central Statistical Organization,
Planning Commission, Royal Government of Bhutan.
A-7. Details of Teachers, Students and Non-Teaching Staff, April 1985,
Education Statistics, Department of Education, Royal Government of
Bhutan, July 1985.
A-8. Details of Students and Teachers in Bhutan, April 1984, Education
Statistics, Parsuram Sharma, Joint Director of Education, Royal
Government of Bhutan, June 1984.
A-9. Details of Students and Teachers in Bhutan, October 1983, Education
Statistics, Parsuram Sharma, Joint Director of Education, Royal
Government of Bhutan, February 1984.
A-10. Manpower Report on Training Programmes During the Fifth Plan,
Royal Civil Service Commission, Submitted by Jigme Y. Thinley,
January 18, 1983.
A-l1. Primary School Syllabus Draft, Department of Education, Royal
Government of Bhutan, 1985.
A-12. Exposure Draft of Manual on Financial Management, Royal Government
of Bhutan.
A-13. Financial Manual, General Principles Governing Expenditure, Financia
Organization in the Royal Government of Bhutan.



- 46 -                           Annex 14
Page 2
A-14. Report on the Nape Training at Punakha High School and Royal Bhutan
Polytechnic, Deothang from February 15 to March 3, 1987, Curriculum
Development Division, Department of Education, Ministry of Social
Services, Thimphu, March 1987.
A-15. Primary Teacher Certificate Course, NIE, Saachi and TTC, Paro,
July 1985.
A-16. New Approach to Primary Education Conference Report, August 4, 5, 6,
1986, Education Department, Royal Government of Bhutan.
A-17.  Expanding Physical Facilities for Primary Education in Bhutan, UNESCO,
Bangkok, January 1985.
A-18. Sixth Plan Programme and Proposals Presented to the 65th National
Assembly by Various Sectors, Planning Commission, Royal Government
of Bhutan, July 18, 1987.
A-19. Final Budgetary Accounts, FY82-83, Ministry of Finance, Tashichho
Dzong, Royal Government of Bhutan, September 30, 1985.
A-20. Final Budgetary Accounts, FY83-84, Ministry of Finance, Tashichho
Dzong, Royal Government of Bhutan, March 20, 1986.
A-21. Regulations and Syllabus of Studies for the B.SC./B.A., B.ED
Integrated Degree Course, Beginning from July 1, 1983, Project
Publication No. 89, National Institute of Education, Samchi,
Bhutan, May 20, 1983.
A-22. Report of the External Examiner for the B.ED Degree at the National
Institute of Education, Samchi, Bhutan, May 2, 1985/
A-23. Mid-Term Report of Project Implementation and Proposed Plan of Work
for January 1984 to June 1986, Dr. A. Raoof, Chief Technical Adviser,
UNESCO/UNDP, BHU/80/016, National Institute of Education, Samchi,
Bhutan, January 21, 1984.
A-24. Brief Report of Work of the UNESCO/UNDP Assisted Project of the
Royal Government of Bhutan, Dr. A. Raoof, Team Leader, BHU/72/004,
Teacher Development Center, Project Publication No. 70, September 1,
1980.
A-25. Educational Scenario of Bhutan, A Synoptic Presentation of Policies,
Programmes and Performance, Dr. S.N. Saraf, Visiting Consultant,
International Division Country Monograph Series No* 1, National
Institute of Educational Planning and Administration, August 1983.
A-26. Proposal for Introduction of "A Better Service Incentive Scheme
for Teaching Professionals in the Nation".
A-27. National Education Policy, Department of Education, Royal Government
of Bhutan, November 1982.



- 47 -                             Annex 14
Page 3
A-28.  Sixth Five-Year Plan Education Sector, 1987-1992, Directorate of
Education, Ministry of Social Services, Thimphu, July 1987.
A-29.  Planning of Primary Education in Tashigang Dzongkhag Bhutan,
Jigme Zangpo, District Education Officer, Tashigang, 1983-84.
A-30.  Ready Reckoner Tables, Ministry of Finance, National Property
Bureau, Royal Government of Bhutan.
A-31.  Interim Review of the Fifth Five-Year Plan October 5, 1985,
Department of Education, Royal Government of Bhutan.
A-32.  Decentralization and Line of Responsibilities between the Dzongkhag
Administration and the National Government or Directorate,
Education Department, Royal Government of Bhutan.
A-33.  Report on Education in Fifth-Plan, 1981-1987 - Retrospect and
Prospect, Department of Education, March 1983.
A-34.  Sixth Five-Year Plan Education Sector, 1987-1992 (Policy),
Directorate of Education, Ministry of Social Services, December 1986.
A-35.  Draft on National Education Policy - 1984, Education Department.
B. Reports and Studies Related to the ProJect
B-1.   Primary Education Project, June 1987 Appraisal Mission, Equity of
Access for Minority Groups, John K. Lubbock, July 17, 1987.
B.-2.  Primary Education Project, June 1987 Appraisal Mission, Enrollments
(1980-1999) for Primary and Secondary Schools, Lubbock, June 25, 1987.
B-3.   Primary Education Project, June 1987 Appraisal Mission, Recurrent
Cost Analysis, Lubbock, August 7, 1987.
B-4.   June 1987 Appraisal Mission, Projections of Primary School Enrollments,
Lubbock, June 25, 1987.
B-5.   June 1987 Appraisal Mission, Cohort Analysis for Secondary School
Grades 1984, Lubbock, June 25, 1987.
B-6.   June 1987 Appraisal Mission, Cohort Analysis for Primary Grades 1984,
Lubbock, June 25, 1987.
B-7.   June 1987 Appraisal Mission, A Mix of Normal and Accelerated Teacher
Training Programs, Lynch and Lubbock, August 9, 1987.
B-8.   June 1987 Appraisal Mission, Assessment of the Extended Classroom
Program, Lubbock, June 23, 1987.
B-9.   June 1987 Appraisal Mission, School Sizing and the Calculations of
Student Capacity by Grades for DCSs, Lubbock, August 7, 1987.
B-10.  June 1987 Appraisal Mission, The Effect of Student Staff Ratios
on Recurrent Cost and Teacher Demand, July 7, 1987.



- 48 -                           Annex 14
Page 4
B-11.  June 1987 Appraisal Mission, Enrollments and Unit Costs, Lubbock,
July 17, 1987.
B-12.  The Primary Education Project, July 1987 Appraisal, Aide Memoire,
July 15, 1987, The Royal Government of Bhutan.
B-13.  Project Request Document Submitted to the World Bank, Development
Primary Education, Ministry of Social Services, Department of
Education, Royal Government of Bhutan, June 1985.
B-14.  Development Services Centers, Bhutan, Royal Government of Bhutan,
Asian Development Bank, Manila, Vol. III, Appendice No, 4, Revised
version for 11 districts, November 1986.
C. Selected Workiug Papers
C-l.   Working Paper on Teacher Education (with Appendices), by
Professor James Lynch (UNESCO Consultant), July 1987.
C-2.   Working Paper on the Education Administration, by Uri Peter Trier,
Swiss Development Co-operation (Consultant), Thimphu, July 1987.
C-3.   Physical Aspects Working Paper (updated August 1987), by Eid Dib.
C-4.   Proposed Primary Education Project Working Papers, September 1986
Mission, October 1986.



i
*                        t*:~~~~~e SECTION



RELIEF                                                                                     9RD
rs)                                                                                      B  H  U  T  A  N
3000                                                                   LCION OF SCHOOLS AND TEACHER TRAJNING COLLEGES
3000                                                   L~~~~~~~POPSDEDCTONAL fO
__ jPR I tHiOPOoFACILITIESTOD EDUCONASTUCTEDL                                              -        Paved roads e                     Elevation points (meters)
_ b x000                                            FACILITIES* DSC Schr,ol                      Unpaved roads                 t  Airport
N 5S   tx5  4  >    1\7  r- 5    J                                                     Efi  Peripheral School.                   Roads under construction      *  National capital
A   Teaoder Troining College             Roads under improvement       0  District capitals
9 W < t9 g 4 fs/ L  J*-. ''   \-                               -Roads proposed under           0   Other towns
Fifth Plan           ~~0 Selected villages
D U A R S    P L A I N                                                                        KULAiN                                                            GRr Ri-vrnDistrict boundaries (Bhutan)
As Of                       -*-International boundaries
_      Lcayrz ~G       A        'S        AJ
,8*                       3             O                        )~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                 ~~~~~~LunrJnO  N/      _    \  A   / -
25~~~ /rszg '                                                                                                               N'               -                 .
GPso
L  u                                      0      To    20TE  oshg3n
1V                     t                       3 $ ? i/Chimakoth;  *           t                                 - {   {\N  a  S         H G A                                         I             I      I
LAI .                        Uk                                                                                                                                                       2A APE
'__'            n,sholing (echhelingO                                                                                                             NA ,  jT  hoKKPN 1  CTISA_._
89-  ,      NGDIPHOOG ANG
Y~srnCh              GCdU\                                                I      N                                 1AAS           ~I~t                 eathanPL NA       L
0 PogjA. R Putsoiv                                                                     GyIghISmdu Jn\o lJ                                                              -
-~~~~~      )                            N.IGM                                                    i    o
sv                                                       v0~~~~~~~~~  ah                                                                                         gs
TH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ao



