Page  1
August 18, 1992
Deputy Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Tashichhodzong
Fax no.: 97523034
Dear Sir:
BHUTAN: Primary Education Project (Cr. 
1899-BHU)
Amendment to the Development Credit 
Agreement
We refer to the above-mentioned Development Credit 
Agreement bet-wreen thme Kingdom of Bhutan (the 
Borrower) and the International Development Association 
(the Association) dated May 9, 1983. We also refer to 
the Department of Education (DOE) Letter of July 06, 
1992 requesting the Association to amend the Development 
Credit Agreement in order to increase the Swiss 
Contribution in the Special Account.
The Association is pleased to inform you that, 
after due consideration, it has agreed to the DOE 
request. Therefore the Special Account Schedule to the 
Development Credit Agreement is hereby amended to read 
as follows:
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term 'eligible Categories' means all 
Categories set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term 'eligible expenditures' means 
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods 
and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Swiss 
Contribution allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories im accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term 'gAuthorized Allocation' means: (i) 
an amount equivalent to $Z80,000 to be withdrawa from 
the Credit Account and deposited into the Association 
Speclal Account; and (ii) an amount equivalent to Swiss 
Francs 900,000 to be withdrawn from the Swiss 
Contribution Account and deposited into the Swiss 
Special Account, all pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this 
Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with 
the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence 
satisfactory to it that the Special Accounts have been 
duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation 
and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special 
Accounts shall be made as follaws:
Page  2
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association a request or requests for a deposit or 
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation in respect of each Special 
Account. On the basis of such request or requests, the 
Association shall, an behalf of the Borrower, withdrawn 
from the Credit Account or the Swiss ContributIon 
Account and deposit in the respective Special Account 
such an amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special 
Accounts, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for 
deposits into the Special 
Accounts at such intervals as the Association shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such 
request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and 
other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for 
the payment 
or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, 
on behalf of 
the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Swiss 
Contribution Account and 
deposit in the respective Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to 
have been made 
out of such 
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdran by the Association 
from the Credit Account or the Swiss Contribution 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the 
Special Accounts, the Borrower shall, at such time as 
the Association shall reasonable request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing 
that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of 
this Schedule, the Association shall not be required to 
make further deposits into the Special Accounts:
(a)
If, at any time, the Association shall have 
determined that all further withdrawals should be made 
by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account or the 
Swiss Contribution Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account in question;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
Page  3
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, less the amount of any outstanding 
special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the respective Authorized Allocations.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for the Special Account in question 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
such Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures under such categories.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account in question (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall  
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into such Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
Please confirm your agree=ent with the foregong 
amendment by signing the enclosed copy of this letter 
and returning it to us.
Very truly yours,
Jochen Kraske
Director
Country Department 1, South Asia Region
CONFIRMED:
Authorized Representative
Date:  September 8, 1992
