Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1899 BHU
(Primary Education Project)
between
KINGDOM OF BHUTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 9, 1988
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 9, 1988, between KINGDOM OF BHUTAN (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to receive from the Government of the Swiss 
Confederation (Switzerland) a non-reimbursable contribution in an amount equivalent to 
SDR 4,400,000 (Swiss Contribution) to assist in financing the Project on the terms and 
conditions set forth in an agreement (the Swiss Contribution Agreement) to be entered 
into between the Borrower and Switzerland;
(C)
the Borrower intends to receive from the United Nations Children's Fund 
(UNICEF) a grant in an amount equivalent to $1,500,000 (UNICEF Grant) to assist in 
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in agreement (the UNICEF 
Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and UNICEF;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"DOE" means the Department of Education of the Borrower; and
 
(b)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (c) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to three million one hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 3,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit and the Swiss Contribution may be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and the Swiss Contribution Account, respectively, in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may 
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower, the Association and 
Switzerland for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) 
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and Swiss Contribution.
(b)
Except as the Association and Switzerland shall otherwise agree, the 
allocation and withdrawal of the Swiss Contribution shall be governed by the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.
(c)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in the Bank of Bhutan on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provision of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount 
of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from 
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement to the respective 
dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or 
shall be cancelled.
(b)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
Page  3
April 1 and October 1 commencing October 1, 1998 and ending April 1, 2028. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on April 1, 2008 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through DOE with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and educational practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with: (i) an Operational Action Plan, 
satisfactory to the Association, as such plan may be reviewed on an annual basis and 
revised, as necessary, by agreement between the Association and the Borrower; and (ii) 
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association and Switzerland shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss Contribution shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
Page  4
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.O2 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Swiss Contribution or the UNICEF Grant Agreements shall have failed 
to become effective by June 30, 1988, or such later date as the Association may agree; 
provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for 
the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(b)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the Swiss Contribution or the 
UNICEF Grant made to the Borrower for the financing of the Project 
shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in 
part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing therefor;
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in paragraph 
(b) (i) (B) of Section 5.0l of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of 
paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Project Implementation Unit set forth 
Page  5
in paragraph (3) of Schedule 4 of this Agreement has been established.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.O4 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this Agreement 
shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate or on the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be 
the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Deputy Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Tashichodzong
Thimphu, Kingdom of Bhutan
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
Ministry of Finance 
890-201
Thimphu, Bhutan
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 2O433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INDEVAS 44OO98 
(ITT)
Washington, D.C. 
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
KINGDOM OF BHUTAN
By /s/ Dasho Jigme Thinley
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
Page  6
and the Swiss Contribution
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss Contribution, the allocation of the amounts of 
the Credit and the Swiss Contribution to each  Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                         Amount        Amount of
                         of the        the Swiss
                         Credit      Contribution
                        Allocated      Allocated       % of
                       (Expressed     (Expressed     Expendi-
                         in SDR         in SDR       tures to
                       Equivalent)    Equivalent)   be Financed
(1)  Vehicles,                            620,000   100% of foreign
     furniture,                                     expenditures,
     equipment,                                     100% of local
     materials,                                     expenditures
     books and                                      (ex-factory
     journals                                       cost) and 85%
                                                    of local ex-
                                                    penditures for
                                                    items procured
                                                    locally
(2)  Civil Works for
     Primary School                                 100%
     Development:
     (a)  at Duksum,                    1,140,000
          Tangmanchu,
          Chapcha and
          Demitse
     (b)  Others         2,750,000
(3)  Technical                          1,630,000   100%
     assistance
(4)  Staff training                       510,000   100%
(5)  Unallocated           350,000        500,000
         TOTAL           3,100,000      4,400,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above:
 
(a)
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments from the Credit made 
for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an 
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $400,000, may be made on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after July 31, 1987; and
(b)
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments from the Swiss 
Contribution prior to the date of the Swiss Contribution Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to support the Borrower's plan for primary 
education which is designed to accommodate an enrollment growth rate of about 6% per 
Page  7
annum and raise the quality of education.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Increase the number and quality of primary schools.
Part B:
Increase the number and effectiveness of primary education teachers.
Part C:
Strengthen the administrative and educational support services of DOE.
*  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
Bidders for the works included under the Project shall be prequalified as 
described in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Bhutan may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Books and journals may be procured under contracts awarded through limited 
international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids 
invited from a list of at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the 
Guidelines and in accordance with the procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the 
Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.
All civil works may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to 
the Association.
3.
Equipment and furniture estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $650,000, may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised 
locally, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of prequalification:
 
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in Part A.2 hereof, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for civil works estimated to cost the 
Page  8
equivalent of $200,000 or more and to each contract for equipment estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be 
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the 
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association 
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the 
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the 
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be 
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
3.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall: (a) implement the accelerated primary teacher training 
program; (b) implement the teacher deployment plan; (c) by July 31, 1988, promulgate 
the teacher cadre policy; and (d) construct access roads to construction sites as 
scheduled in the Operational Action Plan.
2.
The Borrower shall furnish Project monitoring reports every six months in a 
manner acceptable to the Association.
3.
The Borrower shall establish, staff and thereafter maintain a Project 
Implementation Unit in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Category (2) (b) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $280,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Page  9
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for replenishment 
of the Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. On the 
basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the 
Special Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence 
supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, 
such documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, showing 
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Association when either 
of the following situations first arises:
(i)
the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible Categories, minus the amount of any outstanding special 
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall 
be equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such 
deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the Credit Account.
