Damot Of
The World Bank
PMI OMFCLAL USE ONlY
Rqpt N6 12319
PROJECT COMPLETIO REPORT
SUEGAL
RRAL  EMT    PROJECT
(CREDIT 1310-SE)
SEPTEMBER 17, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:        12319
Type: PCR
Population and Buman Resources
Operations Division
Sabelian Department
Africa Region
This document has a resbeted distn-buon and may be used by reipins onl In the performae of
dteir offCalduties Its conets may not otherwise be dilosed wihout wod Ba   tortion.



AABBR;VIATIO  AND ACRO?I
ASBEF        Association S4nEgalse de Bientre familial
CHW          Community Health Worker
CIDA         Caadian Interaional Development Agency
DAGE         Direction de l'Admistron GEndrale et de I'Equipement (General Administration and
Equipment Directorate)
-DCH          Direction de la C-onstrtion et -de l'bitat (Direction of Conuction and Habitat)-
DFH          Division of Family Health
DHPS         Directorate of Hygene's Health Protection (Direction de l'Hygifne et la Protection de la
Sanut)
DRPF         Direction de la Recherche, de la Planification et de la Formaton (Directrate of
Research, Planning and Training)
F?           Family Planning
LNCM         Laboraowire national de contr8le des mddicaments (National Drug-Testing Laboratory)
MCH          Matenal and Child Health
MSP          Ministere de la Sate Publique (Mmisty of Public Health)
MUH          Ministbre de l'Urbanisme et de l'Habitat (Ministry of Urban Affairs and Housing)
NHP          National Health Policy
PDDS         Plan de Developpement des Districts Sanitaires (District-Level Health Development Plan)
PDRH I       Projet de DEveloppemont des Ressources Humaines I (Human Resources Development
Project I - Cr. 2255-SE)
PHC          Primary Health Care
PMU          Project Management Unit
PNA          Phamacie Nationale d'Approvisionnement (National Drug Delivery System)
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
PRA          Pharmacie REgonale d'Approvisionnement
PRDS         Plan REgional de DEveloppement Sanitaire (Regional Health Development Plan)
SIPOA        SociEtE Industrielle Pharmaceutique de l'Ouest Africain (West Africa Pharmaceutical
Company)
UNFPA        United Nations Fund for Population Activity
USAI)        United States Agency for International Development
USB          Union Sendgalaise de Banque



FOR OFIMCAL USE ONLY.
THE WORLD BANK
Washington D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
-am" d 0OW4""d
-September 17, 13
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXE    D=RECTMIS AND- THE PRESDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Senegal
Rural Health Project (redit 131O-SEi
Attached is the Project Completion Repor. on Senegal - Rural Health
Project (Credit 1310-SE) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. Part II of the report
was contributed by the Borrower. The report provides a satisfactoy assesment of project
achievements.
Civil works and purchases of equipment and materials were carried- out as
foreseen at appraisals albeit with some delays. However, the software components (such
as pre-service and in-service traing foreign fellowships and specalist services)
experienced implementation shortfals Overall, the project outcome is satisfactory, and
institutional development has partially met appraisal expectations. While the PCR
considers the increased accessibility of health services and the resulting stronger links with
the beneficiary population as the first step towards cost recovery and self supporting
operation, for the time being sustainability remains uncertain. Persistent shortcomings,
such as the quality of services and underutilization of facilities, are being addressed under
the ongoing Human Resources Development Project (Credit 2225-SE).
A perfomance audit of this project is not intended.
Attachment
Thi documew has a restricted ditbuion and may be M d  roelpient only in the pefnanmo of thir o.ff.
duties.  conts may IlOt otUwise be dlsed witt ¢u Woa: I Sal* autato.



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
tS9DE LOR
(Cruet 3103==
PREFACS
Evaluation u.ary    ...........................................
PART k  PROJECT REVIEW FROM  1DA'S PERPECTIVE                                      ..  I
A.    Proje  dtification  .........................                                    I
B.  Bacgound ...........................                                               I
C.    ProjetObjectd   an Componen   .......... ....... .                .. . ... .     2
-D.    Projec Design ad Organitdon ............ .......              ......... -       3
B.    Project              ...mple..taon                           .. o
F. PRojs ec. R esul. ... 7
G. ProJectSustainability ..                                                            8
H.    Bak Perfrmance                  ............................  ....., 9
L      BrowerPra    ..............................                                    10
J.  PIrojetI    ..............  11
K. Cons.lt.gSe.ices.. 11,
L.    Projedt            nand Data                   .................................... 11
PART mU PROJECT REVIEW FROM TBE BORROWER'S P..SPEC.VE                              .  13
B.    1Projoctbjetie12
A.    Bado.cgmwDhgP3 lrrn; ..................................................   12
D.    PSoeaDou ofbJecS  ssHdv =zes ...................................... ?........ , 12
C.    Perfo2 manceDurig Projea   p      on.                 ......................... 13
1.    Srnmhientgof Basic Servics at ethCentwLevel. ................ 13
2.    Imprnement I Health Pe donn  Tradng  .         ...................... 14
3.    Improvement In the Supply of Medications and Prescriptons ......   .   I15
4.    improvementsn Health Education Sevlces............            .          15
5.    IproveMeUs In MP'sP3aning Imple tatio and Evluation Cpckies... 16
6.    Odhr Project-RdeadActivities .16
7.    Project Manage=      .      ..t.                                          17
Coitluson17
D.    R ioNshipBewmmn MDA and the bo wer ........................... 19
PART W.: SATEISCAL VOfRlmA1ON    ..21
MAPS - IBRID 16182
16326R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in thc perfonmance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



: ^ s  - ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~    ~ ~ RP(t
Thbs s the Project Completion Repost (PMR) for the Rural Realth project in Senegal, for
Which Credit 1310-SE was approved on December 16, I98, in the amount of SDR 14.2 million
* (US$15.0 million equivalent in 1982). T'he Credit was closed on December 31, 1991, thre yeas behind
schedule. T'otal isueensamounted to SDR 13.2 mfilon (US$15.5 million equivalent in 199), with
the fina disbursment in May 199. The undisbursed amount of SDR 1.0 million (US$1.5 million
equivalent) was canceled.
The PCR was prepare by Regional Misiou staff of the Wodld Bank Regionad Mission
In Dakai4 In collaboratio  with the Populton and Human Resurce  Division of thLe Sahelian
Department, Africa Region (Preace Evaluation Summary, and Parts I and Ho). These sections are
based, intw.4g   on the Staff Appraisa  Report, the Credit Agreement, supevision reports,
correspondence between IDA and the Borrower, Interal IDA memoranda, consutant reports, and
Interviews of present and formur IDA staff who were Involved In project des4gn prepaation and
implemeIntain Part U was prpared by the Borrower. Minor edioral and formatting adjustment have
been made to Part  re in order to m etsure coformity with publication standards.



- iii -
RURL  UMEQAL
1.           The primary objective of the Rural Health Project was to provide technical, logistical and
manageral su~pport for Senegal's primary health care (PHC), nutriton and family planning efforts witht
a view to strengthening its instittonal and health services delivery capabilities. The project included the
following components: Q) strengthening basic health sevices; 0i) upgrading health personnel training;
(iii) improving the supply and use of essential drugs; (iv) improving health education services; and
(v) strengthening the Milnistry of Public Health's (MSP) planning, imlmnainand evaluation
capabilities. These objectives were timely and appropriate given the past emphasis in the heath sector
in Senegal on urban-based health services, particularly hospitals. Moreover, the credi'bility of the public
health system was suffering as the population perceived the type and quality of services provided by
public facilities as inadequate and inappropriate to meet the population's real health needs. In order to
achieve the project's objectives, the IDA Credit provided finacing for construction and equipment of new
and renovated facilities, training, studies, and specialist services.
2.           The project was to be implemented over a period of five years. However, implementation
delays resulted in thre one-year extensions, the Credit finally closing on December 31, 1991. While
project activities were largely complete after the second extension, the third extension allowed for the
smooth completion of the preparation of the now ongoing first Human Resources Development Project
(PDRH  -).
3.           The construction of the five new health centers provided for under the project was largely
completed on schedule, while the rehabilitation of four existing health cenrs was delayed by about one
year. However, it took another two to three years to make the new. center fully operative primringy
becau: (i) the centers were not- as envisaged at appras  - construcd at sites that already had accs
to facilites such as water, electricity and telephone services, and (ii) supplementary works were required
to provide such services as well as to correct for deficiencies in the original architectural designs. Had
more attention been paid fhom the outset to ensuring adequate building designs and sitc, many of these
implementation problems could have been avoided, and delays thus reduced. A third factor contributing
to itnplementation delays was inadequate supervision on the part of the Maistry of Urban Affairs and
Housing (MUH) during the initial stages of implementation. The Project Management Unit was forced,
in the end, to take over the management and supervision responsibiities initiaIly given to the MUH in
order tensure the completion-of these activities.



-iv-
A4.          Ibeprojetsothercomponalsosffom mplemetaonproblems. The number
of person traned trugh prsrvice and in-sitvice training were well below the appral trget. The
problems lncluded poor communicadon of the projet's objectives to some Insttion which were to
beft frm support under the pjec, as well as lack of monitorng to ensure that trang tesources
were in fact used for the pedagogical acties for which they wero eamrked. Traig actitis also
suffered from a lack of redl luadersbip w Xit the misy directorat reponsible for Implementing the
programs. AXe the feezing of the speci account in 1988, which had been used for reimbursement of
ineligible ependitures, activites were eeally suspended. Finaly, the nationrl long-tem training
progrvam whic as t hvX eonefined under tepoJect  jozth  asn frevise tenngmdules-
- was not el d largely as a reslt of a lack of iterest on the part of ministry staff to carry out this
task as an integral part of their jobs without benefitting from indemnides. Financing of such indemnities
for civi servants is not eligible under InDA  edts.
5.           The essenti drugs component included some dvi wors  activites which were largey
completed as foreseen during appraisal. The component, however, was to have supported the
development of a drug testg laboratory at the Phwimade NoAo Wdprowimemem (PNA) with
a view to developing a local capacity for testing the quality of imported drs. The laboratory remins
Inoperaive, however, primarily due tO a lack of necessay supplies and appropriately trained staff.
Moreover, esse  drug supply problems pers!st at PNA. Efrorts to reifrce the intiution's financial
management capacity have falen short of expecta , and the agency contiues to bear the burden of
substnti arrears vis-k-vis suppliers.
6.           As regards health education, again the implementation of the physical elements of the
project were essentaly completed as 'xpected. However, the project fell short of its intetions in terms
of long-term fellowships - short-duration seminars and study tours were the domina  types of training -
- and specialist services earmaked for this component were not reruited. Nevertheless, as indicated by
the Borrower (para. 2.18), tis shortcoming In meeting the traning objectives was pardy offset by some
staff beneflting from scholarships from other donors.
7.           Throughout project imple    n there was a general resistance on the part of the
Government to utilize either local or foreign specialist services planned for under the Credit. This
resitance stemmed from a desire to provide such assistance through the use of civil servants who would
be paid indemnities out of Credit proceeds. As such financing was not eligible under the credit, these
persistent efforts on the part of the Government led to numerous implementation delays - and sometimes
to the simple nonexecution of project activities - because the necessary support from technical specialists
was not provided.
8.           Project implementation sufferWed from irreguar IDA supervision. During the first two
years there were ody three missions, and the impact of fte more ineve supervision over the following
years was limited because of frequent changes in participating specialists in the fields of public health,
drugs, population issues, and training. This lack of frequency and continuity on the Bank side was
aravated by similar lack of continuity on the Borrower's side. As a result, problems that appeared
early on were not properly addressed and continued to plague implementation throughout the life of the
project. Similarly, while the ruidterm evaluation (March 1987) confirmed the weaknesses in
implementation and produced concrete recommendations for addressing them, the follow-up mission to
review their implementaton - initially scheduled for June 1987 - was delayed to November 1987, and
induded only one person (an architect), with the next fill-scale mission in June 1988. These mission
delays were pardy caused by the changes in the responsibility for health project in the Bank resultng
from the July 1987 reorgnization. Finally, towards the end of project implementaton, the attention of



both the Borrower and IMA focused more on the preparation of the follow-  project than on a timely
lmcon oRof the ongong operatio.
9.       ;    h propject wasonIy moetl succas  Inmeetigt wveral developmentobectives.
Whie constructionand rebabilitation of the nine heath centers was completd with only modert delays,
it took two to three yeas to make some of these centers operatona. Moreover, the oomnplemV enty
impoveenX iaswceuat that- were xpected to come abou ass  reslt of pro jectsupported trainng
and health education were only partly achieved.
10.          The opening of the nine health centers constructed and rehabilitated under the projet
helped to fIll the gap in service coverage at the intemediary level. The nine centers provide coverage
for an area of over 900,000 inhabiants and serve as referral centers for 114 health posts. (At the time
of project appraisal, health posts in the concred zones totalled 52 for about 660,000 inhabits.) Total
bed capacity is 450, compared to 437 planned at appi; and poputlaton per center varies between
35,000 and 184,000. The epanded availability at the intermediate service delivery level - which was
a result of dtis operation - is therfore evident. The challenge remais, however, to contine to seek
Imnrovement In the quality of services provided by these centers through more focused attention on
software elements. These needs, in addition to some persitent physical problems - e.g., mainteance,
underudlization of bed capacity in some centers - are being addressed under the ongoing PPDRH I in the
context of the health district restructring exercise.
11.-         Perhaps the most positive long-term impact of this project has been at the level of policy
developmen for the hedath and population sectors. The project contributed tO the development of a
national population policy, and helped pave the way for the development and implementation of new
policies in the areas of essential drugs, health plannig, health personnel management and cost recovery.
It also provided an instrment for the development of an effectve sector dWogue between Senegal and
IDA, and served as a framework for inproved coordination between the many donors operaing in the
health and popultion secs in Senegal.
Sustainability and Lessons Larned
12.          Senegal is likely to derive imporant long-term benefts from this project. The increased
health coverage has contributed significantly to the counfs efforts to provide an acceptable minimum
level- of basic health services for its populadon. The incres  accessibility of services has allowed for
the strengthening of links beween the services provided and the benficiary population, thus paving the
way for cost recovery. Ways are being sought to better define the roles and Improve the utilization of
medical and paramedical personnel. Morcwver, resource allocation practices in the sector are being
Improved to better reflect sectoral priorities, e.g., through the district health development plans developed
and now implemented under PDRH 1. Finally, policies developed and initiated under the pmject in the
health and populadon sectors (para. I1) are likely to have considerable long-term beneficial impacts.
13.          The principal lessons leared are that the project's development impact could have been
enhanced by:
(a)    More upfront sareement on key actions: Most of the delays experienced in making
operaional the new health centers could have been avoided had site selection been agreed



-vi-
upon ealy enough to permt proect desig to take Into ao   the need to provide for
seviC  such a Wae. electity and twpo,ua   Sily, ufron aeement ok the
traiig programs for the first two yea of the project, combined wi better monitorag,
may have reul  in more effetive implentation of the project's training component;
(b)                          s AM0  -     of KM: Implementation of some -
project activties was *erlously hmpeed by the reluctace of some civil servas tO  ry
out project-related tas  failing within their norm   sphe  of ompetence withou
benefitting, ft idemanties finmaced under the IDA qWdit. The prsit   efforts to
provkIpland speialst servistough use of dvil servant reciving indenities had
a similar negati impact on implemeon. This We of behavior suggests inadequate
ownership Of these project activities by the borrower;
(c)    Mm USe gf ft  gdv,at   am faxfi monitorg of eMccuom of "   oks: Although
the project stengthen the capacity of the Mistry of Urban Afairs rid Housing to
supervise the constrco componeDn, the Project Magemn Unit was forced, i the
end, to take over this acvity. Thi negative experience with Government-managed
construction component is common to IDA-financed projects in Senegd, and illustrates
the need to pursue the current segy of delegating such tasks to the private sector.
This lesson was built ino the follow-up project - PDRH l;
(d)    Better supervision by IDA: IDA's supervision missions wers irregular, too short to
permit sufficient time for visits to project sites, included to few technica specialists, and
their effecdveness suffered from  frequent staff changes.   Furthermore, the
ecommendaions of the mid-term review were not followed up in a timely manmer.
Also, project covena  in -the areas of training and recuitment of tecbical specialists
were not adequately enforced. Finally, timely completion of the project was hampered
by the fact that, towards the end of project imlementation, both IDA and the Borrower
diverted their resources towards preparation of a follow-up lending operation.



RURAL
-(Credt 1310-S
A.   ftg .9tJ
A.
Project Name:              Rural Heelth Project
Credit Amount:             14.2 million SDR
Credit Number:             Cr. 1310-SE
RVP Unit                   Africa
Country:                   Senea
Sector/subsetor:           HealthPriy Health Care
Board Date                 12116/1982
Effectiveness Date:        07/2911983
B. 
1.1               rdImwiogobi~ect. The Rural Health Project, Identified in October 1979,
was IDA's frs intvenion in the health sector in Seng, and one of the Bank's fist health projects.
Prior to 1979, Senegal's health straty  was based enirely on preindependeace structures with the
following dcaracterics: (a) urban-based curave medicine, often sophiscated but unadapted to local
patterns of pathology and morbidity; (b) mobile and "military control of tansmissible disease; (c) limited
attenion to hygiene and health education; (d) indifference to overall nutritional statis; (e) little inerest
in contaion or abortion-related issues; (t) limited national health planming, with health sector
inTvesme  predominantly benefitting the Dakar region; (g) health   initaon dominated by physicians
and pharmacists; and (h) cumbersome central adinitration, often comp ze, with minimal links
between the central Ministy of Public Health (MSP) and regional health authorities. In additon, the
mobile endemic dieae control program which had successfully reached even the mostrurl ateas durig
oolonial times had fallen into relative neglect as a resultof resource diversion to curative services.
1.2          At the time of project identiflcation, population growth had reached a level of 2.7% per
annum, and a persisten pattern of high fertiity had developed. Infant mortality was as high as 204 per
1,000 live birfts in some areas. The Goverment's health policy as defined in the 'Sixth Plan accorded
priority to the provision of primary health care (PHC) services with a view to: (a) developing itegrted
materml and child health (MCH) and ftmily planning (FP) programs; 0) upgradig the exisig network
of basic health services; and (c) promoting PHC in rural areas. However, despite these stated objectives,
more than half of the already limited resources allocated to the health sector continued to be allocated to
hospital-based services. Overall resource allocation to the health sector decreased from 9% of the total
recurrent budget in 1971/72 to 5.8% in 1981/82, reflecting in part the country's difficult economic
sihuation duringthe early -1980s. Furhermore, it quickly becme evident that the likeltiood of additional



public resources being made available to the sector was not great given the p¢ing unfavorable
economic environment.
1.3         'At the tine of project s-up, overall k nowledge of the health sector was incomplete.
Following an internal decision on the part of IDA management to discontinue the processing of a
proposed Food an Nutriton PrOjeCt, IDA  cussed is efforts on the preaation of the Rura Health
Project, despitethe lack of a -comprehenive heat stor review and established sectoral dialogue with
the Borrower. Both IDA and the Govement considered it more crucial to meet the population's
immedat healthcae need in .rsonse to burgeoning' ewmniy4evl PHC acivities. - Ds setor
mission which visid he fidd in 1979 examined seval alternaives for intvention which were explored
more in-depth during the preparation of the ptoject (1980-82), in particular: the obstacles and constraints
impeding the development of the sector, sector financing, drug distribution, and the quwity of
intermediate-level health services. Two priority areas were identified for support under the IDA project:
(a) the development of affordable PHC services; and (b) the strengthening of the enties and structures
responsible for the delivery of those services.
C.    ProjWctQbci   anLd ComponeMts
1.4          The primary objective of the project was to provide technical, logistical and managerial
support for Senegal's PHC, nutrition, and family planning effbrts with a view to strengthening its
institutional and health service delivery capabilities. The project components comprised the following:
(i) &MANhN  basic hcWh servic: Contruction and equiPment of new facilities to
replace five functionally inadequate health centers; renovation and re-equipment of four
existing centers.
(ii) Unarding heal personnl traning:  Specialist services, tacing materials,
equipment and incremenal operating costs for field training of medical and paramedical
students; reresher/in-service traig for health center staff, as well as community health
workers; design of a long-term notional in-service training progrm for health center and
health post personnel, as well as community health workers (CHW).
(ii) Improving the sply and use of essential drugs: Minor upgrading/renovation and
equipment of the National Drug Delivery System (PNA) and three regiomial phaumaes;
equipment to develop a National Drug Testing Laboratory (LNCM); specialist services,
teaching and research materials and incremenal opeaing costs for preparation of a
pharmacist's manual vdmecwu  for essenti drugs, and suppott for taing of doctors,
nurses and midwives in its use; specialist services for auditig PNA acounts, improving
management and distribution capabilities, staff taining, and developing a national drug
policy.
(iv)  ro-ving hal  education  iA s: Contrucion and equipmen of a natonal
health education center, including provision of maials; educational mateials and
equipment for regional health education services, as well as 36 health centers; fellowships
and loc  training for MSP health educaton personnel; and speci  sevies to assist
in developing program material and in-service training activites.



-3-^
(V)                         Ing-                  nd  evaluation canabilities:
EIquipment anfrnitureo for the central MSP Dlirectorates of Reseach, Ploanin  and
Training (DRPF). Gerl Administration and Equipment (DAGE), Hygie and Health
Proteeon (DWPS); Pha ey, and the Nblic Heth Inspectrate; fellowship and
specialist services for DUPF. DAGOE and D)HPS to assist in developing the cap     of
these unt for hPth sector plannn, personnel  ionieng, improved financial
monito    and report; pro-ivesant studies; opeting coss, matrs and speialit
servcs in procuremn    archtecaldesign, ons      n    ision,and audi       r
k *.Project Management Uni lvocL)f
D.      ctlR Dgni nad iQiedon
1.5          Te Rural Health Project was IDA's first investment in the PHN sectots in Senegal.
Given the severe economic constaits fcing Senegal at the time of project identification, the project was
designed as a st  t     d iesm  oper            with a view to avoid placing unecessay burden on
the Govemet Morever, the project was desined to redress past emphasis on urban-bcsed health
services articularly hospitals), as well as to address emerging problem  resulting from the dramatic
shift in the 1970s toward the promotion of health services at the village lel. This shift had quicldy
outped the Govrnmet's ability to establish and monitor basic precondio? of its health sector
policy as a resut of weak planning, coordinaon and imple   on capaciies at the central level.
Attempts to circumve  the basic network of public headth ces and health posts by promoting services
at the grassroots level were founded on prevaiing perceptions that public facilities had failed to meet the
real health needs of the population both In tm  of type and quality of services. As a prerequisite for
iormediatelevel facilities' ability to function as tateic fixed-points responsible fr coording and
delivering health services and activities In sprt of the Government's sectoral priorites, it would fis
be necessary to re-establish their credibility vis+-vis the population through upgrading and stgthening
their overall performance. lhe Rural Healti Project aimed at supportig these effrts to establish
credible primary- and secondary-level health services as well as adequate support systems capable of
supporting and mangn outeach program  at the village level.
1.6          Project preparation was carried out over a three-year period. Preparation activities were
finaced by two Project Prepaation Facility   F) advces , and Included, ijE aIl: an iWentory
of existing health facilities; an assessment of training needs of paramedical personnel; an analysis of the
drug procurement system; preinvestment studies for civil works; speciaist services for the completion
of project preparion; and the creation of the project managemet unit (PMU).
1.7          Overall responsibility for project preparation and implemention was assigned to the
MSP, while the coordinaio of each of th various comp      was th responsibility of th relevan
directorate. The PMU was headed by a full-time director, with the Director of the DRPP being appointed
deputy director (a dual mandate which would beome problematic during prject execudon, cf. para.
1U     Of thd total US$780,000 in PPF fids whch we  financd undw Ws Cet, US$350,000 war for
th refinaning of a IPP advan  to the Govemment for tho praraion of a Pood and Nution Project which
was evena y dopped (P0 6SE). for the sk of convnic to both the Govemmn and IDA, gven that
bohb PPFs had been grantd for the flnaog of oies in naparable setor, it was areed to wrfnae the
entire amount une the Rur Heallt Prject (see IDA intn! memotandum of $uno 18, 1982). Specificaly with
regard to tho Rua Haeth Project, two PPF advances w   gtd: US$95,000 in Septmba 190, and a
supplment  dvance of US$330,000 in March 1982.



-4-
1.35). The coordination of activities among the concerned parties was to be assured through periodic
meetings chaied by te Ministr of Heat. With regard to civil works, the Ministry of Urban Affair
and Housing (MUH) was given the responsibility for management and supervision of these activities, an
arrangement which would prove to be the root of many implementation problems and, consequently, of
-significant delays in operationalizing the health facilities conerned (see-pma. 1.9).
E.   ftWect Implfentatio 
E      .  V 
1.8-     -  Project implementWon was origily planmed,over atlve-year period, with disburseA ts,
over six years. In the end, however, the project execution took more- than eight years, entailing three
one-year extensions of the Credit closing date. The first extion - from December 31, 1988, to
December 31, 1989 - was to allow for the completion of remaining project activities and those relating
to the national population census, as weU as the launching of initial preparatory activities for the First
Human Resources Development Project (PDRH 1) (Cr. 2255-SEN); and the second and third extensions
were to allow for the completion of remaining project activities (which were essentially completed by the
end of the second extension period), as well as continued support to preparatory activities for PDRH I.
The implementation expeience of each of the project's components Is dicussed in the following
paragraphs.
1.9          Stgthreg    n dg basic health sev.    Civil works activides represented 81 % of total
Credit proceeds allocated  this component, and included construction of five new health centers and
rehabilitation of four healt centers. With regard to construction of the five new centers, the required
architectural studies were completed during project preparation, and the construction of these centers was
largely completed as scheduled, i.e., by the end of third year of project implemention (1985).
However, the centers did not open for service until eady 1988 primarly due to delays resulting from the
selection of inappropriate sites. Although it had been envisaged at appraisal ta the new centers would
be constructed in areas already equipped with access to water supply, and electricity and telephone
services, in the end the sites selected by local authorties and MUH were intead situated in peri-urban
areas not yet serviced by these utilities. As a result, new bids for the required supplementary works had
to be solicited. Furthermore, once the supplementary works were completed and the centers became
operational, certain fundamental design problems became evident - eg., inadequate sanitary facilides,
leaks, unsatisfactory drainage of building sites, insufficient surgical facilities. To remedy these problems
required additional works in order to bring the centers up to acceptable operating standards.
1.10         The project also provided for the rehabilitation of four health centers. These works were
to be completed by the end of the fourth year of project implementation (i.e., 1986). However, delays
of up to 12 months were experienced as a result of delays in completing the required archiectral studies
- the initial studies having proven unsuitable given local conditions - and finalizing bidding procedures.
1.11         in hindsight, it is clear that most of the problems discussed above could have been
avoided if more attention had been paid to ensuring the suitability of building designs and of criteria for
site selection. Moreover, the lack of adequate supervision on the part of the MUH during the initi
stages of implementation, despite the substantial resources made available to it for this purpose (some
CFAF 90 million) - e.g., field visits to sites were irregular, often only once every two months - further
aggravated these problems and allowed for a number of other problems to arise, such as slow decision-
making on the part of the local administration regarding demolition of buildings to be replaced, and lack
of timeliness on the part of contractors in supplying the construction sites with needed materials in a



timely fhshion. In order to ensure the execution and compledon of works, the PMU was eventually
forced to take over the civi works managemen and supervision responsibilities.
1.12         With respect to the equipment for the health ceners provided for under the project,
delays in the completion of civil works activities, coupled with delays in the preparation of a detailed
procureent pla, disrupted the-timely acquisition of necessary quipment. However, the equipment was
eventually ordered and received (in 1986), and was hed in storage unti Xe health- centers becme
operational.
1.13         JIMI tn               bh"h gnnW. Tle project provided support for pre-service
and i-mvleetg. With r d to                  Mi      t was-foreseen at appraisalthatboth student
physicians from the University Medical School Facut de Mdecne as well as students from the School
for Nurses and Midwives Ecole des Innlers d'Etat et des Sage-Femmes would benefit from improved
pre-service training programs under the project; in the end, however, very few of these students did so.
First, the PMU, acting autonomously, contended that since the student physicians who were to benefit
from this traning were no longer being automatically recruited into the civil service (a policy
discontinued at the end of 1983), they should not be allowed to benefit from preservice training at the
project's expense. Second, regarding para-medical personnel, the initial objective was to train some
1,000 persons during the project period; in the end, only 137 studet nurses benefitted from training
(1984-86), 106 midwives (1985-87), and 122 health workers (1985) - a total of only 365 persons.
Moreover, although this training was to improve and strengthen the practical training of staff to be
assigned to the health centers, the support provided in the end was, to a large extent, simply per diem
for subsistence at the training locale with very few actual pedagogical activities. Furthermore, the
administration of the School for Nurses and Midwives was informed neither as to the project's objectives,
nor as to the resources being made available to it under the project for training activities. In light of
these difficulties, efforts to improve practical training were discontinued in 1987, thus leaving the original
preproject training programs essentially in tact.
1.14         The project also provided support to the MSP for the preparation of training materials
and execution of training activities, program evaluation, and development of a long-term in-service
training program. In-service training and continuing education activities were initiated with the
assistance of a consultant hired to help MSP staff to prepare new training modules for community health
care management, communications, teaching methodologies for basic health care training, and service
delivery. This training was to benefit physicians as well as some 500 community health workers (CHW).
Four seminars on these topics were held during 1984-85 and were attended by 59 physicians; another 16
physicians were also trained in supervision and training of para-medical personnel. However, none of
the 530 CHWs were trained, primarily as a result of poor organiaion and lack of leadership in the
DRPF, the execufting authority. Despite efforts on the part of IDA supervision missions to remedy these
problems, these activities were suspended as of 1986. In 1988, attempts to relaunch local training
activities were blocked by the freezing of the special accoun, which had been used for reimbursement
of ineligible expenditures (see para 1.37). Finally, the national long-term training program for health
personnel which was to have been defmed on the basis of the revised training modules was not
elaborated, largely due to disinterest on the part of responsible MSP staff to carry out the task without
receiving indemnities - the financing of wbich is not eligible under IDA Credits.
1.15         Imgroving the supply and use of essential drugs. Under this component, civil works
actlvities - renovation of the National Drug Delivery System (Phiaracle Nadonale d 'Approvsionnemez
(PNA)) building -  and acquisition of most equipmt were essentially completed as foreseen at
appraisal. lhis component also included suppoff to the drug testing laboratory at PNA with a view to



developing a local capacity for testing the quality of impord drugs. This laboratory, however, remains
inoperave due to a lack of requed drug tesdng supplies and approprily taned  staff. An ial stock
of drug t     sulies was to have been provided by the Geman Cooperaon these materials were,
however, never forthcoming given theinceing uncertnty as to PNA's ability to finance t&ztre
opeating costs and tius the reluctance of the Geman Cooperation to poceed with the init  invesuent.
1.16         The eal drug list adopted In 1986 has not been utlized to the exten anticipated
as a result.ofa lack of pmodonal aivities vls-&-vis pamacit, the geera lack of knowledge on the
part of phamacist as -to Its utiity and, above all, th  acosstetit resupply of health facilities with
essal dpgs gim intpons in replenishing stok at PNA. Training and sesiizaon activities
actn physicians, mides and             , withrspect to-the useNof the *ph sts
manual) and iproved prescription practies had been envisaged but were not k iied out; the tecnia
assistace required for these acdvities was ner recruied due to DRPF's resistace to pursue such
acdvities in the absence of an overall national drug policy and thus-of a framework witn which training
progms could be elaborated. The formulation of this policy, which aimed Io  la to strenen the
roles of both the private and public sectors in provision of ddnus, promote cost recovety, and allow
nonprofit agencies to procure drugs diredy fom PNA, was undertae at a later stAe duriDg the
preparation of PDRH I.
1.17         Although the project sought to significantly unprove PNA's finantil  tg
capability, the results fell short of exectations. PNA, as a goverment agnc, operates within the
overall famework of the public accounting system, thus not as an independent commercil enterprise
whose operation depends on a thorough and reliable accountng system for accurately recording expenses
and receipts. -Me predominance of grants in PNA's drug stocks also coibuted to the general laxity in
the entity's metcuousns in keeping precs records of its transactions. The project sought to strengthen
PNA's accountin procedures through the development of a commercial enterprietype accounting system
with a view to establishing an operable and reliable medhansm for accounting records, particularly in
light of the inplicaions of future cost recovery measures. Such a system, however, proved early on to
be incompatible with PNA's modus operandi, as the agency contiued to operat primarily on the basis
of grants from intenational donors; and the MSP was not overly concered with the need to take action
to improve the agency's ccountilit. Additionally, the impe     of budgetary measure under
the proect which  tended to facilitate PNA's timely payment of suppliers were unsuccessfil given the
Qoveanment's severe financial constrais. Substatial arrears vis-4-vis suppliers mounted, and by 1989,
PNA had acumuated arrears on the order of CFAP 565 million, leading some suppliers to discontinue
their busiess with the agency. An important consequence of these events was the emerece of a
monopoly - the Socit Indsle Phwmacudque Ouest 4can (SIPOA) - the only local drug
producer which continued to supply drugs to PNA, casing pries of generic drugs to subsequendy
increase from 30% to as much as 150% more ta the international market price.
1.18         The project also provided for trining of pharmacists at PNA in inventory management.
This trining, however, was not carried out as the pharmacists posed to PNA only stayed for very brief
periods, seekg employment Instead in the more lucrative private sector.
1.19         Iyroving healh education services. Implementation perfomiance under this component
was mixed as was the case with most of the other project componen. The central- and regional-leve
haft educadon units were constructed and equipped in a timely manner, these units being of a much
simpler design and lower cost than the health centers (cf. paras. 1.09-1.11). However, the four
fellowships in health education were not utilized; the Director of the Health Education Unit elected
ihtead tsend staff on short-duration seminars and study  us. At the regin level, only one s_nar



.7 
was organized (I 1985) on planning, management and implementation of health education programs.
Finally, the specaclst sevices (two person-years) to be provided to assist in these training activities were
not recruited. t
1.20          S     thening      MSpS  laning  imple          - and l ign caacities.  The
provision of furniture and equipment to the conered Dirsetorats in MSP was carried out essentially
as foreseen at appraisal. However, with regard to specialist services to be provided under the project
with a view to strengtheningthe MSP's planning, evaluation, and human resource management capacities,
the consultant did not begin work until the last year of the projem  again due to reticence on the part of
the executing agency (DRM:) to utilize the planned tecal assistance for reasons mentioned earlier (see
foot  2). In the-end, the capacities of the Miisty were strengtened, pardcularly with respect to
de talized planning, personnel management, and project evaluation. The project also supported the
development of a computer software package for persomel planning and management, a 15-variable
econometric model to assess the health status In each district, and a district health plan for Diourbel. The
planning and management software as well as the district health plan are tools being utilized under the
ongoing PDRH I. The econometric model, however, has proven to be overly sophisticated given the
Senegalese context and limited available information.
1.21          With regard to fellowships envisaged under this component, of the nine overseas
fellowships provided for, only five were awarded: three in health planning and two in statistics. The
remaining training funds were, instead, used to meet short-term training needs which arose during the
course of project implementation.
1.22          Oh. It should be noted that the balance of Credit proceeds allowed for the completion
of activities peraining to the 1988 national census, in cooperation with UNFPA, USAID and CIDA.
This collaboration helped to facilitate the dialogue between the Government and IDA on the formulation
of a nationad population policy for which preparatory activities were financed under an IDA SPPF-G041-
SE.
F.    Proect ResuIts
1.23          As discussed in the preceding paragraphs, the Rural Health Project met with decidedly
mixed results in achieving its objectives. While the various hardware elements of the project were
generally completed satisfactorily, the implementation of complementary software elements aiming to
improve service quality - e.g., training of personnel, improvements in the supply and use of essential
drugs - was less than satisfactory.
1.24          Nevertheless, it should be noted that the opening of the nine health centers constructed
and rehabilitated under the project did help to fill the gap in service coverage at the intermediate delivery
level. The nine centers serve a population of just over 900,000, with a population per center varying
EIndeed, it should be emphasized that throughout project implementadon, there was a general resistance
on the part of the Government to utilizm specialist services planned for under the Credit, either local or foreign, a
resistance stemming from its deire to attaept to inpose on the project the assistance of local specialists - i.e.,
civil servants - and to pay these experts indemnities out of Crodit proceeds. Although the financing of salary
supplements under IDA Credits is not permitted, the Government nevertheless rpeatedly attempted to override this
resticdon which led to delays in carrying out project activities given the lack of necesay technical assistance,
and oftn to the simple non-execuion of actives.



-8 -
from about 35,000 to 184,000 (the coverage nom used in the ongoing PDRH I is 150,000 to 250,000
population per ctr); and they see as teferral centers for 114 helth posts.  The total bed capacity
s 450, compad to 437 plamed at appra. Theefore, the increase in service coverage as a reslt of
the project is notable. Although a number of problems continue to limit the cenes' effecveness - for
example:    p ( istt poblemns conaning the electrical supply, adequate sankation facilities, and
mantenanc  Ii) nonfunctioning surgi- faities in some cens; and (ill) underutilization of bed
caacity in some caters, priculaly In are  of low population density - they were taken into
consideration during tge preparation and design of the ongoing P)RH I and, to a large extent, resolved
in the contex of. the bheth district restructrng exercise. Moreover, It is envisagd X  underutlized
cenrs wle co-nve    it health posts and excess pesel reallocaed to centers    demand for
services is geater.
1.25 .       Overall, the project helped the Government at a very importat juncture to meet some
of the population's immediate health care needs while reinforcing its capacity to better assess sectoral
needs. The cuent NP consitutes an important framework for fiture intervations by IDA - hence
the ongoing PDRH I- as wel as those of other donors. Moreover, the NHP and the related dialogue
between tbse.Government and IDA during the impl on of the Rural Health Project alowed for the
articulation of important measurs with respect to the national drug policy, health pesonnel policy, and
the involvement of the population in the management of financial resources at the health district level.
Indeed, the district-level health plans will help to resolve local h*trh delivery problems, thereby
fthering the chances of real impact of the Government's sectoral policy on the condition that the
necessary central level efforts to ensure the effective decentralization of resources are successful.
G.,   Prj  SusinabiMt-                                 -
1.26         The ineased health coverage resuting from project activities will help to maintain an
approriate level of basic health services for most of the population, the centers providing needed referral
services to the health posts dispersed throughout the rural and semi-ura areas. In the medium-term,
the firther expansion of this tpe of facility is not envisaged, but rather a concentation of efforts to
contmue to improve their overall performance.  The avaiaility of these services has allowed a
strengthening of the ties between the population and the services provided as well as the participation of
the populadon in the funedoning of the health system through payment for services rendered. The
findings of studies carried out under the project and follow-up on their recommendations in the areas of
drg policy, persomnnel management, and health financing should help to further consolidate the potential
offered by the increased coverage of the system. With regard to health personnel, efforts to better define
the roles and improve the util;ation of medical a  paramedical persomel are underway. Moreover,
improvements in resource allocation practices which take into account sectoral priorities are being
developed; indeed, one ongoing example is the development of district health plans under PDRH I.
1.27         Additionally, although dispersed throughout the MSP, the project did allow for the
development of a certain level of local expertise, particularly within the PMU during the fina years of
implementation. This experdse played a major role in the efficient preparation of the follow-up project,
PDRH I.
I     At tdh time of project appisal, the number of heat posts in the concemned zones totaled 52 for a
poplaon of around 660,000.



-9-
H. I  k eorao
1.28         From the tim of Credit effectiveness in 1983 unti end 1988- the origina Credit closing
dat - only eleven IDA sprvision minions visited the field. Diring the frs two ye  of the project
there were only three supervision missons of which two were comprised of only the task manager. The
impact of more intensive supervision over t  following two years was limted as a result of frequent
changes In participatg techical seialsts in the fields of public health, dnrp, population issues, and
traiing. Contuity between misins was lackng, and as a consequence follow-up on actions to be
taken and adherence to timetables suffered.
1.29         Becase of the infrequent supervision missions during the initial stages of project start-up,
problems rsting from implementation delays were not identfied early on so as to allow for correctve
action to be taken. Indeed, many of these problems oontinued to plague Impletation throughout the
life of the project. Regular supervision and consistent fbliow-up on the part of IDA could have helped
to bring about a better responsibilization of the dffern Govemment departments concerned, enhancing
their effectiveness in cafrying out project activities. The lack of responsibilization clearly explais the
weaknesses encountered throughout project execution. With regad to civil works, again, more frequent
supervision missions would have improved the dcances for early idenificationand resolutionof problem.
1.30         In the first quarter of 1987, the mid-term evaluation of the project reofirmad the
weakesses in implementation and recommended the strengthening of coordinaton in MSP and the
preparation of action plans by the different directorates responsible for each component These action
plans were to be reviewed during a subsequent DA mission the following June. Partly as a result of the
1987 reorganization of the Bank, where the responsibility for health projects were moved from the central
to the Regional level, this mission was delayed to November 1987, and included only one person (an
architect), with the next full-scaled mission not taking place before June 1988. At this time, however,
the ficus in the health secoMr dialogue between IDA and the Government had shifted to the then ongoing
preparation of PDRH I rather than on follow-ups to the mid-term review of the Rural Health Project.
1.31         It could be argued that the Bank's policy dialogae with the Govenment and the emphasis
on preparing a second generation project prior to realizng some positive implementation results under
the first project was, in the end, inherently detrimental to any effective and foeused superision of the
Rural Health Project. At the same time, the pursuit of this dialogue did help to increase the awareness
of the Government with regard to the importance of population issues in particular, as well as a
commitment on their part to actively pursue these issues in concert with local authorites and concerned
donors. In faict, the elements essental to the implementation of a national population policy are now in
place; and the declaration of this policy has been translated into an action plan with specific prbrity
investments for consideration by donors. Ihe Government has also now developed a specific family
planning policy.
1.32         ru  leMnd. Several lessons can be leared from the implementation experience
gained under this project, lessons which should be taken into account in the development of futue
projects in the health sector in Senegal and elsewhere as a means to improve the prospects for more
successfil implemention and thus greater impact:
*     The preparation of a second generation project must not be altowed to divert too much attention
and too many resources from the implementaion of an ongoing project. IDA must be able to
operate -in such a way so as to meet the demands of both, and enosure reglar, consisten, and
comprehensive supervision of an operaion throughout the entire project life.



- 10-
*     The programming of supervision missions must allow time for field visits to sites where activities
are being implemened.  he. supervision team must include-relevant technal specialists; and,
perhaps most importantly, serious attempts must be made to avoid frequent personnel changes.
*       )IDA should ensure that the Government appropriately utilize the staff who have benefitted from
training activities supported by a project, ensuring that those individuals are placed in positions
relevant to their training and where they can best serve the objectives of the project.
*     IDA should pay greater attention to the appropriateness of implementig agencies selected for the
* various projet components, closely evaluatg their capacity and commiment -to the task- at h;nd.
Suitable alternatives should also be examined, as necessary, vis I vis to ensuring that the project's
objectives are met.
*     IDA should pay more attention during project preparation and appraisal to more prudently assess
the viability and appropriateness of sites selected for civil works.
I.    B      e     formance
1.33         At the time of project start-up, the MSP and PMU focused primarily on completing civil
works activities and procuring equipment and materials. The part-time positions of training coordinator,
drugs specialist, and family planning specialist were not filled, resulting in a lack of leadersbip and
direction for these components as implementation got underway. Moreover, the MUH which was
awarded contract management and supervision responsibilities for civil works, did not carry out its
responsibiities efficiendy resulting in many otherwise avoidable delays in operationalizing the health
centers (see paras. 1.09-1.11).
1.34         In addition, the selection of a single physician charged with the responsibilities of both
Director of DRPF and Deputy Director of the project slowed impletation of several software
components. The Director devoted little time to advancing the other project activites and was reluctant
to engage the services of technical specialists envisaged under the project (see footoe 2). The
appointment of a full-time health planner as technical director durig the final year of the project allowed
for some positive adjustments to be made - albeit minor ones; however, the Director proved, in the end,
overly preoccupied with the preparation of the follow-up PDRH I to effectively perform in his appoined
capacity.
1.35         The coordination between the PMU and the other conerned parties within the Ministy
was inconsistent throughout project implementation; and to a great extent, the Directorates were not
adequately informed as to the overall objectives of te project and the resources to be made available to
them in order to achieve those objectives. Furthermore, the key individuals who were, in the end,
responsible for project implementation were not sufficiently involved throughout the project design phase
- obviously, an essential factor in establishing a sense of ownership and commitment.
1.36         There were also shortcomings in the financial management of the project, particularly a
lack of systematic monitoring of Credit commitments and contrats. Moreover, accounts were kept only
in CFAF and not in SDRs, so that it was not always possible to precisely identify expenditures by
category and by project component. As a result, inaccurate expenditures were made against the IDA
Credit,j eventually leading to a freeze, in 1988, on the replenishmt of the specil account which
seriously affected project Implementation.  By the end of the project, financial management



- 11 - 
recommendations made by IDA supervision missions had been adopted, and it Is expected that these
improvements will facilite execution of the ongoing PDRH I. Finally, the audits of project accounts
were conducted in a timey manner and were of adequate quality.
J..
1.37         In addition to the fruift  dialogue established between the Government and IWA in the
context of this project, the use of Credit proceeds to support cenmus activities and the parallel
contributions of UNPA USAI)- ad IDA wa the catalyst for expanded collaboration on populion
and health questons among Ihese and other donors, namely UNDP, Belgium, France, Switzerland, Italy
as well as NGOs such as the Population Council, the Association for Famfly Well-Being (ASBEF). This
collaborin helped to facilitate the dialogue between the Government and IDA on the formulation of
a National Population Policy for which preparatory activities were financed uAder an IDA Special Project
Preparation Facility (G041-SE). This inter-donor consultation led to the creation of a Donor Committee
for Health, headed by a representave from Belgium, as well as a Dotior Committee for Population,
headed by a representative from UNFPA. lne coming together of points of view which resulted from
meengs, held approximately every two months, of these various parties was a key soure of support in
the Govenment's preparation and adoption of the National Population Policy, the Niadonat Health Policy,
as well as the National Family Planning Program. Moreover, a donors' meetig was held in November
1991 to discuss possible sources of financng for investments in these sectors over the coming five yeas.
Presny, donors are continuing their collaboration through harmonizing their various interventions in
tms of type of intervention, and area of concentation.  Additionally, NGOs are increasingly
participatng in government-sponsored family planning programs. In conclusion, the Rurd Health Project
did, in effct, serve as a vehicle for opening up and strengthening the dialogue on populatin and health
sectoral issues, as well as more specific issues, such as decentralization of health care delivery and
integraion of health and family planming services, both of which are now being supported under the
PDRH I.
KI .     mutlng Srces
1.38         Consulting services provided for under the project were not well utilized, and in many
instaces not utilized at all. Ite unsatisfactory quality of architectural studies for the nine health centers
as well as for other civil works became evident during the executin of works, requiring substantial
supplementary works in order to mee necessary standards. With regard to traiing, the internaional
consultant retained to develop training modules managed to develop only the initial modules, which were
not widely used; his contract was canceled although three person-years had been envisaged for this
component. Also, those foreign specialists whose services were finally retained during the last two years
of the project were utilized, for the most part, in helping to prepare tfie PDRH I.
L.    Poject Documentation and Data
1.39         The Staff Appraisal Report proved to be an appropriate basis for preparation of the
Project Completion Report. Also of subsnial usefulness was the detaed report of the mid-term review
prepared by the Government. Other data for the Project Completion Report were obtained from
superision reports, files in the Bank's Resident Mision, and during field vsits. 



- 12 -
PANT IL Ps.EB= RK EM--RQ 1HE BRROWR' ,ERSPECTV
A.   kc
2.1          Senegal established primary health care services on an experimental basis in 1975, well
before the 1978 Alma Ata Conferencc. . This concer with the prvsion of prmimry health care services
was also reflected in the Government's Fifth Economic and Social Development Plan, which set the
following objectives: the development and strengthening of health i tructre, at both central and
regional levels, so as to provide the best possible healdth coverage; and the development of action on
public health, patcularly preventive care, in order to provide health coverage in the form of vaccination
- particularly for children, make primary health care generally available, and intensify training for health
personnel. These activities aimed at improving the generally unsatsfactory health status of the
population, haacterzed by high rates of mortality among infants and youth and deficient health
coverage, aggavaed by a high rate of populaton growth.
2.2         The Sixth Economic and Social Development Plan and the Report on Health Planning also
emphasized the need to increase coverage, particularly in rural areas, and to make primary health care
generally available. In addition, the Sixth Plan identified as major constraints the predominance of
curative medicine and the structural weaknesses in the planning and management capability of MSP. In
light of all these problems, and at the request of the Government, IDA agreed to support MSP in its
efforts to achieve its objectives. As a result, IDA - in cooperation with the Ministry - prepared its first
ever public health operation in Senegal.
B.    Po}t Obecis
2.3          Qbjective : To strengthen the basic services provided by health centers by constructing
and equipping facilities at Bakel, Dahra, Dagana, Koungheul and Guinguin4o, and renovating and
equipping those at Fatick, Kolda, Goudiry and KEdougou.
Qbiecti  2: To improve the supply and utilization of basic drugs by renovation and
equipment of PNA and the PRAs at Saint-Louis, Kaolack and Ziguinchor. The project also provided for
the equipment of LNCM, and the training of PNA and PRA staff in inventory management, accoundng
and laboratory techniques. Distribution and management procedures were to be improved, and support
was to be provided for the development of a national drug policy.
iective 3: To upgrade the training of health personnel. The project was to provide
support for the design of a national in-service training program through the preparation of modules, the
training of doctors, paramedical personnel and CHWs, and the evaluation of this training.
Obiective 4: To provide MSP with the resou;ces for improving the planning,
implementation and evaluation of primary health care activities by providing, at the central level, support
for equipment and furitue, eight fellowships, and specialist services to assist with planning, personnel
management, investment studies and financial monitoring.



- 13-
QkJ2jygU: To improve health education services. 'he project was to provide for the
constuction and equipment of a National Health Education Center. Including the provision of educational
materials for the Center, the regional healt education services and the 36 health centers, together with
vehicles for each of the regions. Pwovision wa also made for the tain  of health education personnel
both abroad and locally, the preparton of a program for producing educatoa materials, and in-service
C.    tDElDLfr9jt Dm 3
L  . .      9cnAln  du  si IEdweat Helh Cae i                --       -
2.4          The following was achieved: construction and equipment of five health centers (Bakel,
Dahra, Dagna, Koungheul and Guinguindo); renovation and reequipment of four health centers (Fatick,
Kolda, Goudiry and Kddougou).
2.5          In spite of improvements in rural health coverage through the development of health
centers, the location of some of these centers (ie. Goudiry and Dabr) presents problems. It should also
be noted that it has not been possible to strengthen the remaing health centers, except for Touba,
Tivaouane and Tamba, even though at least 20 health centers were slated for renovation by other donors.
2.6          Because work on the health centers was delayed, it was not possible to promptly
underake all the activities that had been planned. Nevertheless, with the exception of surgical services,
all of the centers are satisfactorily carrying out their activities (MCHIFP, prenatal care, consultations for
healthy infants, patient hospitalization, etc.). However, at the time of the credit closing (December 31,
1991), sv,me equipment remained inoperative (e.g., sterilizers, dentists' chairs, etc.). The sites selected
by local authorities for the new health centers were located in outtying areas and in places not yet
provided with utility services, making it difficult to operadonalize the centers as scheduled. The new
centers were constructed by the dates planned and opened in 1985. However, they did not become
operational until 1987 because of the lack of water, electricity, and telephone services. With IDA's
agreement, this problem was overcome by issuing a contract for the additional works necesary for
making utility connections to the nine centers. Presenty, only the Koungheul center is not properly
serviced by the city networks, primariy due to the special nature of its location; it was not until 1989
that they began to operate in that area, undertaking large-scale repair and installation works which are
still underway.
2.7          The following described problems encountered which affected the health centers
earmarked for renovation, resulting in considerable delays (52 months at Fatick, 28 months at Kolda and
32 months at Goudiry and KEdougou):
*     The Fatick center was delayed because of a management decision to demolish the central
building because the location of the existing maternity facility did not conform to the
project plan, and because of the incompetence of the contractor. Indeed, the contractor's
lack of expertise was confirmed by the quality of the work performed.
*     In the case of the Kolda center, the problems were caused by the quality of the studies.
A large number of mistakes were made, including a failure to match the plans to the
existing facilities and to include all the necessary items in the estimates. Tlese difficulties
were overcome by signing an amendment to the original agreement with te contractor.



- 14-
The Goudiry and Kddougou health centers were affected by problems of accessibility
(prticularly in the rainy season), the lack of a local source for construction materials,
and the contractor's enal difficulties. A dme etension was granted for work on these
ceters. Th works as a whole we  supervised by MUH, to which was delegated all the
responsibilities of the contactig agen. To tis ed, a menrandum clealy defing
the famework for MUH's activides, the tasks entusted to It, and the financial, physical
and logisdc support of PMU was signed by the two ministries (MSP and MU*l. Under
this sysem, PMU simply seled the accounts issued by the Drtion de la Cnmacdon
ete  1Wabka (OC). The memoandm was followed by two amendments covering
the entire period of the works.
2.8          In order that the works be monitored closely and efficienty, DCH assigned a supervs
to each sit who was responsible for ensudng that the work was properly carried out. tn additon,
constant supervision was provided at the regional level, although the site inspections performed by the
aionl authorities were very Irregular. As a result, considerable time was taken to reach certain
fiancial decions, because only DCH had the necessary authority. This pardcularly affected the Kolda
center. PMU also played a major role in works supervision, tirough its frequent visits to the various
sites. In fact, the PMU became increasingly involved in supervising ongoing works, which was really
the responsibility of DC}I. As can be seen, the delegation of contg authority may create more
problems ta it solves.
2.9          Regrettably, there were breakdowns in some equipment (i.e. the generatois), particularly
at Goudiry, Kedougou and Fati  Some of th authorities' Isructions were never carred out by the
conao r, pardcularly in the case of Fatik. Moreover, the instalation in the centers of solar water
heaters (which failed to opera properly) has been criticized by the users, who righy consider this an
unnecessary expense in an area where the weather is always hot. Moreover, water heaters are seldom
used in rural areas.
2.    Jmnroumti.ImnltHe  Personnel Trlning
2.10         Training of about 3,000 members of the MSP staff, drawn from al socioprofessional
levels was to be provided under the Rural Health Project. In spite of the consistent methodology adopted,
which was inended to lead to the design of a national in-service taining program for health personnel,
after the necessary evaluations, this importa program could not be completed. In fact, the trining was
essentily limited to doctors, and there was no follow-up traiinig for paramedical personnel.
2.11         Ithe support provided to schools and the university did not produce the planned results.
The evaluations, together with the experiences of other countries, were to serve as a basis for the
preparation of a national i-service training progrm. At the time when PMU intended to launch all this
training, activities were blocked. Moreover, after the special account was frozen in 1988, it was
impossible for the project to execute the rest of the training program. This problem had still not been
resolved by the time of project closure at the end of December 1991.
2.12         It should be emphasized that project execution would have been beter if traning
specialists had been included in the various IMA supervision missions. In conclusion, it can be said that,
aside from some activities, the training component did not provide MSP with an effective traning
mechanism enabling it to take effective acdon in this area.



3.    IMpNvnMob In ft &=IIgl of Moddle=n and  PES
2.13         ith component relating to PNA, PRAs and essentia} drugs was to be a key element in
project execution. The following reuts were achieved: PNA and the Saint-Louis and Ziguinchor PRAs
were renovated and equipped. However, it should be noted that: (a) the works at the phamaies were
beset by problems resulting from Incomplete architecual studies given the resources available for
activities in Saint-Louis and frequent indecision on the part of the contractor in Dakar; (b) because of the
need to ensure security at Saint-Louis, a fence, protective grilles and external lighting were installed, and
the letter ordering these varous items was issued. The works at Saint-Louis wee ths affect  by time
overruns; and (c) work proceeded well at Ziguinchor. However, in Dakar the contractor did not act
according to the auhorities' ilutructions.
2.14         Problems arose when PNA and the PRAs were being equipped, and some items, including
vehicles, were delivered only toward the end of the project period. Although LNCM was supplied with
most of the project equipment, the initW  hems that the laboratory was to receive from an external source
were not delivered, and It Is thefore stil not operational.
2.15         Concerning essential drugs, MSP was to prepare an essential drugs list for each level of
the health system. However, no progress was made, and neither the pharmacists' manua wr the training
program were ever prepared. PNA and PRA staff were not trained, but an accounting mechanism was
established. Audits were regularly conducted by a consulting firm, and there were clear improvements
in PNA's distribution operations, demonstrated by the increased availability of drugs. Nevertheless, the
following major problems continue to affect PNA: (i) inventory management remains inadequate, at all
levels; (ii) the essential drugs list is still not widely known; (iii) opeating procedures are ill-defined;
(iv) logistic and physical resources are inadequate; (v) drugs are still not tested; and (vi) bureacratic
problems arising from PNA's status have limited the scope of its operations. Nevertheless, various
interventions in the area of drug supply have made it possible to develop the sort of approach that should
have been adopted at the outset. Toward the end of the project period, MSP - with the assistance of
consultants - developed the basic outline for a national drug policy.
4.    hmprovements in Health Education Sevices
2.16         Health education must play a key role in health policy, particularly in developing
countries, and this was Identified as a priority in the Alma Ata Declaraton. In this regard, the project
achieved the following objectives: (a) construction and equipment of a National Health Education Center;
and (b) rehabilitation and equipment of nine Regional Health Fducation Centers (This, Diourbel,
Kaolack, Louga, Saint-Louis, Tambacounda, Fatick, Kolda and Ziguinchor).
2.17         The project's objectives in health education were partlly achieved. The National Center
was constucted and equipped, as originally planned. Regional Centers not included in the project were
renovated and equipped, and provided with a vehicle. Construction of the National Health Education
Center was completed on schedule, although reservations were expressed regarding equipping and staffing
at the time of the Center's opening which have still not been adequately addressed. Problems arose over
the Regional Centers which resulted in the cancellation of two contracts (Saint-Louis and Diourbel). The
shortomings of the contractors became clear when they abandoned constuction sites without any
apparent reason. Upon termination of the initial contracts, two other enterprises were selected, a process
which caused considerable delays in the completion of the works. Moreover, it should be noted that the
health centers did not receive the educational materials which had been envisaged under the project.



- 16 t
2.18         Fellowships were not awarded, nor wer the resources thus rdeased used for the Intended
short-tem trang as was ecommended by the mid-term rview. However, It shud be noted that
certain staff of the National Health Education Center staff did tecelve fellowshis from other donors.
2.19         The specialis who were to prepare a plan for the production of educational materials and
in-srvice trang were not recruited. Nevertheless, some modules were prepared, and trni  was
provlded for regional officials, but there was no follow-up to thi program, particularly with respect to
the use of visual aid and various outreach methods, oce the specil account was froze
S.     m v s  in MP's Planning. Implqemnation and Ealuatin Canacities
2.20         Essenialy, this important component was to support the central Dcomrates of MSP,
particularly DtPF and DAGE. Equipment and furniture were provided, five fellowships were awarded
to DRPF staff in the Plannn and Statistics Divisions, and short training courses were organized. As
regards the information system, the projet assisted in the preparation of basic support material for the
health ceters and posts, so that various types of registers were supplied to the health facilities.
2.21         The Planning Division beneitted from a wide range of tecWnical assismce in the areas
of planning, personnel management, project design, and the organization of the various MSP units. As
regards planming, the assistance was particularly concerned with the methodology for preparing
decetrized plans, with a view to the application throughout the county of PDDSs (District Level
Health Development Plans) and PRDSs (Regional Health Development Plans). These documents were
disseminated to the various Medical Regions, and provided methodological guidance for the preparation
of the various Plans. A plan for reorganizing MSPs operating reationships was recommended but not
applied, because the Ministry was restuctured and DRPF was eliminated.
2.22         Assistance was also provided for personnel management, and special software was
prepared for managing and monitoring health personnel. Training in th. use of !his personnel
management software was provided for central4evel staff (DRPF, DHPS, DAGE and DFH). DAGE has
so far been unable to make fiull use of the capacity provided by the consulting firm's software, because
staff have not yet mastered its use. The additional data processing training curenty being provided will
no doubt familianize them wlth the program, which appears to be very effective. DAGE has made
considerable efforts to organize the personnel register so that, in time, the Directorate should be able to
establish an efficient decenalized management system. It should also be noted that the consultant made
proposals for personnel management, which may be used to improve operations within the framework
of the Human Resources Development Project (PDRI 1). Finally, an econometric model for health
planning was prepared, but this has not yet been applied. Nonetheless, this theoretical model could help
to improve health-related investments.
2.23         The project was to support the preparation of DRPF action plans, particularly those
relating to planning and statistics. Financing was, however, not provided for all these activities, but the
project did finance the preparation of national health policy and the calculation of health-related recurrent
costs. Futrmore, the extension of the credit closing date allowed for the preparation and dissemination
of health plans and the preparation of the donors' meeting.
6.    Other Poject-Related Actvities
2.24         The closing date was extended from 1988 to 1991, partly in order to allow for the
completion of civil works, but primarily for the -preparation of the health component of PDRH I.



- 17-
Similarly, the project financed train abroad for two mantenance specialists, and local training in
essenial drugs for pharmacists in the health disticts, together with the preparaion and reproduction for
all health persomnel of modules relating to drug prescription. t shuld also be noted that the project
provided financing for the preparation and dluemination of the national health policy, as well as the study
on recurrent cost in the health sector. Itu project also supplied vehiCles for MSP.
2.25         The unpent credit balance was used to carry out rehabilitation works, pardcAly at MSP
(partial rehabilitation of premies) and at the Pharmacy Directorate (pati rehabilitation). It should also
be pointed out that as of 1988, the PMU focussed primarily on preparing the health component of the
Humn Resources Dwelopment Prect by establhing a monitoring committee. cowrising
rersnaie of MSP.
7.    awed Managmen
2.26         Until 1988, when the project's specia acoount was frozen, direct payment was the most
frequently used payment procedure, one which seriously complicated project implementation since only
large amounts could be disbursed at any one time. Many project activWies could not be finced.
2.27         The basic stucte of PMU has not cbanged since the miderm review, with the
exception of the replacement, in early 1989, of the tchnical director (a doctor, traditioaly the Director
of DRPF) by a planning specialist. The latter played an important role in the preparation of the PDRH,
since activites under the present project were practcally brought to a standstl. The 1987 mid-term
review had recommended that an MSP engineer be assigned to PMU as a means of improving the
management of the remaing civi works. This assignment became effective in Jamnary 1988.
2.28         Regarding accounizig and management, an acceptable system was established, based on
efficient records classification, although its capacity for providing management-related projections and
syntheses is inadequate.
Condlusionx
2.29         Project execution lvik a totl of nine years (1982-91), of which three for extensions of
the closing date to allow for the preparation of the Human Resources Deelopment Project (PDRH 1).
The civil works objectives were achieved, in spite of many design and implementation problems and
mistakes. Work on the nine health centers (six of which have outeach units for minor surgery)
considerably increased the country's health coverage and also ras  tecical stndards and improved
the quality of care.
2.30         A reliable and efficient system of health education was established at both nationad and
regional levels. The need to improve the decentrazed dissemination of health education led to changes
in the original plan as outlined in the Credit Agreement. As a resut, a new system of regional health
education was approved, and the buildings assigned for this purpose wene rehabilitated and equipped.
2.31         The rehabilitation of the Pharmacies reprts a valuable achievement, and will enable
them to function more effectively in their role as suppliers and distibutors of drugs. It should be noted
that, although the Kaolack Regional Phamacy was originally included in the Agreement, it was
eventually excluded since, in 1984, It was tho mghy rehabilitated by USAID.



- 18-*
2.32         The archicral studies (pticuarly those for the health centers) were considerably
delayed. Even though the stidies for the new centers prwpared by MUH wee completed on schedule,
those carried out by consulting firms were delayed. Consequently, it was Wpossible to issue a single
invitation to bid for all nine centers, The quality of the renovation studies warticularly for Kolda and
Patick) was very unreliable, leading to serious problems in the execution of the works. In the new health
centers, the infrastructure has proved practical, as well as in Kolda where the various units are connected
by covered walkways.
2.33         The small size of some of the rooms (i.e. the dentists' offices, laboratories and
administative offis), the orentation of certain buildings, and sometmes the lack of any waiting area
have proved to be shortcomings in the design of the health centers. The premises are sufficiently large
to allow the centers to deal promptly with the tasks ssigned to them in the Appraisal Report. With
regard to the pharmacies and health education facilities, the related architectr  studies were well
executed, even though there were some delays in the completion of the documentation for the Regional
Health Education Centers. All these studies were prepared by MUH, and only the work on the National
Health Education Center was carried out by a private consulting firm. Although not all aspects of the
health education and training programs were implemented, the civil works and equipment components
were completed.
2.34         The PNA, essential drugs and training components were mainly unsuccessful, even though
MSP now has a satisfactory system for supplying drugs through the newly renovated and equipped PRAs
and PNA.
2.35         The freezing of the special account in 1988 considerably curtailed project activities.
2.36         Institution-building support to MSP provided under the project is enabling the Ministry -
over the medium- and long-terms - to define its management processes in national health development.
It is in this context that the links beween the RHP and the PDRH should be examined. However, it is
clear that in reality PDRH I is only a consolidation of the Rural Health Project. Although it is true that
the latter 1IDA-financed project was designed before the official preparation of the National Health Policy
in 1989, its overall objectives are still relevant, and, although project execution lasted from 1982 to 1991,
the achievements must still be consolidated - thus expWlaning the judicious choice of project objectives.
2.37         Undoubtedly the Rural Health Project has increased the country's health center coverage,
particularly in rural areas, in line with the Fifth Economic and Social Development Plan and the country's
health planning objectives, which favored rural areas and placed no limits either on the establishment of
new services (particularly health centers) or on their expansion. Moreover, the plan to prepare a national
in-service training program was fiuly justified.
2.38         Already in 1981, only three years after the Alma Ata Declaration, the project- was
providing support for the essential drugs component of Senegal's health policy. However, certain
preconditions were not fulfilled. In particular, the issues of cost recovery and management at the local
level were not addressed. Project support was only partally provided for. PNA and the PRAs.
Furthermore, although health education has always been a planning priority, no resources were In fict
specifically allocated to it to enable it fulfill its proper role.
2.39         Since MSP had recendy been restructred, the project objective of providing support to
the Ministry had become a necessity, particularly with regard to support for DRPF.



- ~~- 19-
2.40         In conclusion, it can be said that the overall objwts of the Rural Helth Project were
certainlyJustified with regad to MSP, but tt in   subsequeandy arose durg implemnntation.
particularly vis--vi the PDRH.
D.    &dan        &R DAM   m II)A and fti  o                                :
2.41         Durins the excution of the RIHP, a good working rlonsip developed between PMU
and IDA. The supervision missions (averaging one every three months betwen 1983 and 1991) provided
a sound-framework for.con l, evauaton and p ing with respect topoject-actives.-- The
Government seems to have found the freqeny of tee missios entirely saifacry.
2.42        ITere were frequent profitable meetg at which all the constrais afficting the works
could be dcussed, and his was howthe problem of comecdons othe nnehealth ceners was
overcome. The cooperation of the IDA architect during project Implemeaion was particulaly
apecad. Ihe doe           ion submited to IDA was usually dealt with prompdy, although response
time was fiequently less prompt,
2.43         Supervision missons were too short; so much so that IDA repesves were rarely
able to visit project sites.
2.44         Finally, it should be noted that, of all the coqments of the project, the civil works were
the most closely monitored, to the detriment of others. Paymes were made reurly and promptdy,
and any delays that might have been caused by bureaucratic or banking procedures were avoided through
the use of the special account in USB. The only delays that did occur arose when the account was
frozen. Proement contract procedurs were lengthy and cumbesome because of unavoidable
adminisave constrain. An average period of sen months was necessary for a contact to be
awarded, even under the most favorable conditions and without there being any objections from eiher
2.45         Other lessons to be learned include:
(a)   The IDA supervision teams seldom induded speci In traing, drugs, or - most
notably - disbursements. This certainly helps explain some of the shortcoming in
project execution.
(b)   Frequendy, time was wasted becae of the need to obtain approvi for allocation for
activities included in the detsied and iemized budgets prepared by VDA in Washington,
and a blanket approval of detailed budget should be given at the begining of eah year.
(c)    Changes in the IDA supervision personnel did not facilitate rltios with the
Government because of diffeences in the ierpretation of agreemen, the need to
establish new working relationships, etc.
(d)   Throughout the project period, the IIRD Field Office in Sed served only as a
mailbox, taking no action on any of the project components. The views expressed were
always those of personnel who were too remote from local condito.



-20 -
(e)    The process of mobiizing resources from the special account to cover expenditures
caused some difficulties in project execution, particularly with respect to timely payments
to suppliers.
(f)    Not all of the commitments conained in the Appraisad Report and dte Credit Agreement
were met. Before such ommitments are proposed and subsequendy accepted by the
Borrower, they should be exalned in depth. l ise ent that IDA and the-Bowor
Ipro their monitoring of masures other ta  those direcdy involved in project
implementto.
(g)    Close cooperation between PMU on the one had and the us  and technical personnel
of MSP on the other should be mandatory at all stages of the project, so that progress can
be made on tlie various components and all parties cam be involved in implementation.
O()    If a contactn authority delege  responsibility to another agency, thatauhority should
not thereby be deprived of all its prerogatives for superisig the works. Consewquently,
it is entitled to oppose payment for any works that it considen unsatisfactory.
(i)    The environment selected for facilities is a key element in their efficiency, and therefore
criteria relang to the availability of utilities and to accessibility are detemining factors
in the choice of sites.
()    Procedures for the award of contas shoud be flexible, for the dual purpose of reducing
procurement times and streamlining admiistrative procedures. To this end, JIDA should
transfer greater responsibility for engineering design to its Field Office, and the
Government sbould grant cert  exemptions to PMU with regard to procurement
(k)   'Me Borrower and IDA must also consut on ways to increase the motivation of PMU
staff.
Ql)    The establishment of a special account facilaed project execution, and its continued use
in projects should be envisaged.
(m)   There must be a strict and automatic application of coercive measures to enterprises and
consulting firms that in any way fiil to perform their contractual duties.
(n)    Works can be exeuted effectively only if IDA, PMU and the MSP engineers regularly
visit the sites accompanied by other parties.
(o)    The financial cost of delegating the responsibilities of the contracting authority has been
very high, which suggests that other approaches should be identified that will be less
costly, more efficient and technically more capable of fulfilling all the necessary tasks.
.pmr.fif



-21 -
1.     Related II)A Credts
C:redit
C1t
=PUTDOS lrear~YOofAra Commlents
credit 25-SI          Support of      1991                  Effecve                Project launch
R.man Resourcesland.                                        Janua 1992.            wabophld
Development:          Health policies                                              in March 192.
P~oplation-Health                                                                  Bid documents
under preparation.
2.     Proiect ieh
Date                  Da*e                   Date
~~~~~~Revisod                          AU
Identification                                                                     October 1979
Preparation                                                                        June 1980
Appraisal M.son                      July 1981              July 1981              July 1981
Post-paisal Mission                                                                December 1981
Credit Negotions                     July 1982                                     November 4, 1982
Board Approval                       November 1982          December 1982          Docember 6, 1982
Credit Sigaur                        February 2, 1983                              Februay 2, 1983
Credit Effiveness                    May 3,1983 IAgust 1st, 1983                   July 29, 1983
Credit Closing                       Decembe 31, 1988       December31, 1989       December31, 1991
Credit Completion                    Jun 1989               June 1990              April 1992
3.    Credit Diabursementl
Cumulative Esti d and Actual Disb
(US$ '000)
1m       2      2198   I2m   1987   im      1989   I2 ", 122    192M
Appraisal estmate    0.88   2.10   5.34   9.96   13.82   14.78   15.00    -       -       -
Actual                1.15   2.29   5.57   8.77   10.99  12.61   13.78   14.00   14.73   15.63
Acual as % of
Estimate            130.00  109.00 104.00  88.00  80.00  85.00  92.00  93.00  98.00 104.00
Date of Final         May 192
Disbursement



-22 -
4.  ~Lai~LcD*~oa&Ei. j1M
AnRaai Etiat            Revised
Local Forein lxan            Esti       Actual
1. Construction                  3.75      1.48      5.28       5.64       8.80
Renovatio and
Site Development
2. Furnite, Equipment,           0.29      1.92       2.21      2.21       3.38
Vehicles and Materials
3. Techical Assistance           0.42      1.60       2.02      2.02       1.88
Fellowships and
Professional Fees
4. Pre-investment                0.40      0.25       0.65      0.65       1.31
Studies
S. Repayment of                  0.27      0.S1       0.78      0.75       0.53
PPF Advances
6. Operating Costs                1.35     0.0        1.35      1.35       1.57
Total Baseline Costs                                     12.62
Physical Contingencies     0.41      0.35      0.76        -         -
Price Contingencies        2.53      1.16      3.69        -         -
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                                     16. 94Z 169  -  16 4



-23 -
B. Project Pinancin
Planned Credi
-  Categodes - - - = Agp~~~Reviedxel:-.. iS  Final=
(US$ OO)   %         (Us$'o00)   (Us$'000)    %
90                    1L37          91
-. -Construction                      6.X6                5.64   --8.80
2. Furnitre Equipment,                2.26                 2.21        3.38
Vehicles and Materials
3. Technical Assistance,              2.23                 2.02        1.88
Fellowships, and
Professional Fees
4. PPF                                0.78                 0.78        0.53
5. Preivesatment studies              0.78                 0.65         1.31
6. Inital Deposit                     0.60                 0.60
Special Account
7. Unallocated                        1.59                 1.59
Dnmesdi                                  10                      1            9
1. Furnite, Equipment,                0.17                0.17         0.17
Material
2. Operating cost                     1.43                 1.35        1.30
3.  nitial Deposit                    0.10                0.10         0.10
in Local Fund
TOTAL                           ZQ                 15.11        16 94



5.ProioNR"
A. Dirc Beefts
~~~~~~~~~~~~~Apasl .simt                                                        Baiada
~~~~__                                ...__  _..,             ..                         ' -   , cogdate 
Persons srved by the projec                          660 000                                 903 647
Number of b_  __                                       437                                    450
Number of medical and pan-edical                       589                                     64
staff tUained
Number of healft posts supeised                         52                                     114
by Heaol centers
The unsatisfActory implaneih_on of taning compooc  is ckady vaide
B. Studies
Studios                    Purpose as defined at                     Status                         lwpa  ofstd
1. PNA maragewat              S_athet PNA's  a                    Compd at the ed of the pojec           rus of th sdy wer usd for
study               ~~~~~capabiliy                       during tdo perio of the okmisg date    preparation of the seondproject
_ _ _ _   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~xasion
2. Peownne maament            Thes two studiewoe fo_sn to be    Compl.t.d                              Rut usd in dh prearato of the
and monitoring              completed duing the fourth year of the                                swond prjec and pposd maues
projeCt                                                               bdeg undertak_.
3. Pesonnel redeplobynct
4, Prparton of                Stregh  MSP apact for planning    Partay complete for distrint         Syatt   in the
MSP planning system         to prepae the second pro            planning                          deoelizaion plan and is wen
daveoped under the secod ptojec



6. Compliance with Credit Covenant
Credit Agreement
Befgenc_                 , ~~Covenants._                                       Stau
3.01 (a)                  The borrower shall carry out the                     EXcept for the trainig
project with diligence and                          drug components, ovealt project
efficiency and conformity with                      impleme     altough
appropriate administraive financial                 some delays were obseved.
and health practices.
3.01 (b)                  The borrower shall make all appropriate              Met.
rangement through MUH for supeion
of all works to carried out under part
C.1 and D.1 of the project.
3.01 (c)(i)                The borrower shatl open a project account           Mtet
within the borrower's treasury on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
3.01 (c)(ii)              In addition to an inMtal deposk of                   It  deoit had been made but
CFAF 25,000,000 Into the project account            replime  was made with delays
out of is own resour  and make at least             of abou thee months,
quarerly of required ependiures,
when necsay.
3.02 (a)                  The borrower shdll establish and maintain            Met.
a Project Management Uni (PMU).
3.02 (b)                  To establish ad main fill time                       Met.
positons within PMU.



Credit Agreement
Reference                            Covenants                                          S-atus
3.02 (c)                   Etablish and mainin the following pat-              Not net.
time positions within the PMU: planner,
training coordinator, drug advisor, and
family planning adviso.
3.02 (d)                   Employment of qufied support staff.                 Met.
3.02 (e)                   Employ experts to carry out parts B,                Partially met. Part B, C2, D4 did
C2, C3, C4, D4, E2, E3 and E4 of                    not beneft fnom conisnts services.
project to assist borrower in procurement
of goods, supervision of works and carried
out audits required under secdon 4.01 of
the agreement in conformity with Bank
guidelines.
3.03 (b)                   To cause all goods and senices ficed                Compied with.
out of the proceeds of the credis to be used
exclusively for the purpos of the project.
3.04 (a)                   Furnish upon their preparation, plans,              Met.
specificatons, architectural desig mast,
list of fonte, and equipment schedules
for the project.
3.04 (b)                  M tin records and procedures                         Only irregular aciity reorts.
adeqa  to record and monitor the progress
of the project.



Credit Agreement
References                           Covenan 
3.04 (c)                  Upon the award by the borrower of any               Complied with.
contra  for goods, works or services to
be financed out of tie proceeds of the
credit, the aodatin may publish a
description thereof, the name and
nationalt of te party to whom the
contract was awarded and the contract price.
3.04 (d)                  Preparation of part 11 of compledon report          Done.
3.05                      Prepsration of a national in-service                Not met.
gtainin program.
3.06                      Undetake drug testng at the laboratory              Not met.
and select aequae  laborty staff for
PNA.
3.07                      Audit of PNA and setting up                         Audits were carried out.
pharmaceucal policy                               Plarmacentcal policy was prepaed
at the end'of the project
agreem  scdule were
not excud in a satisfctory manner.
3.08                      Allocate land reqwied for the project               Complied with, but sites hose
execution,                                         for neW  eath cen  we n
apprOFie and rquird
addidonal work.
4.01 (a)                  Ma   records including accoun                       Not met. Poor accounting sym.
witin PMU in respect of the project.               Improveme  noted odly,at the end
of the proect.



Credit Agreement
4.01 (b)                   Furmish to the Asswaton, as soon as                   Met with delay.
available but in any case not later
than tree months awer the end of each
fiscal year a copy of accout referred
to para 4.01 (a).
4.01 (c)                   Have the acounts refered to in                        Account Sudit made and submted.
paragaph (a) of this Section as well
as all accout pertaining to be
operaions of PNA for each fiscal year
audited, in accrdance wih appropriate
auditing princples cois y applied,
by i         auditos accpble to
the Associaton; and (u) fiunih to the
Associaton, as soOn as avlble, but
in any case not later than nine months
after the end of each such year, a
cerified copy of the report of such
audit by such auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested.
4.01 (d)                   Furnish to the Assoiation such other                  Furnished when required.
information cering all said accounts,
records and expenditures and the audit
thereof as the Associton shall from time
to time reasonably request.



- 29 -
'1.1~~~~~~.
I              I
I1   iif  Jll
O 0
f   }lX  Xj;tj #4
.gir~   IJ
<{    8  8    a~~~~~~*
X~~L I #1*1



7.    oank Rsuc
A. StaffInput itowes()
_ _            l   . ===                              -               .= I    - =1, - =    =   -__
Stage of     79    80    81    82    83    84    85    86    87    88    89    90    91    92   TOTAL
Project
cycle/FY
Preparation   5   47.3  82.3                                                                       134.6
12.1  94.3  13.7                                                          120.1
Negotadons                           6.2                                                            62
Supervision                          8.4  18.4  12.9  8.6  16.0  8.3   9.2   5.9   3.3              91.0
PCR                                                                                          3.4    3.4             0
TOTAL         5   47.3  94.4   94.3  28.3  18.4  12.9  8.66  16.0  8.3   9.2 5-9   3.3             355.3
-  *  =   -  *  *  =     =     = ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~: 



IL Mhsbss
StwoaP ctq.                  b/Yet              Nu_b, of             Dip                                     Typo of -II
1hmsbRebu                            7/81                                    2          SS. A. BP, r.  ,PA
A_1Mlehw0                            1241                 6                  IS SFM 1.A. FA*  L
_ffecdvmmes                          4A3                  2                             8  A SMa_y.
SUpOWIihSI                           1143                 2                  8          SS
Supuvbh2                            4l4                  4                  10          SS, JLA. El              staduofpo-WI
sqevkasa3                            4485                  1                 21         SS                       A_      ,1
Sq*    =4                            186                   I                 6          A
S _Sa                                3;46                 4                  12         8. I!S, RA, E          Ddyo raldmg aomwn
SyrisIs6                            76                   2                  10           . P         .w
S8_mWv7                              12186                 1                 7          SS                      _    so  b te. maI
iaacsw foe DRIP.
Sspe,vieloo8                         3/87                 4                  14         SS. PH8, A.  '
s8qeso.9                             It/17                 I                 S          A
Sevbiuo10                            618                  4                  14         1, As FM PS            C.I wo& (cost eccod)O.
Sope         11                      10188                 1                 20         E                      DIyo Go =abaInpean
SR=ewios 12                          24                 .                       .,A 2                                ,
SS     Soolulsc Sobis            A       Architect
BP   5 RuM Blana
BtA -  Roseath AFiat             PA     Fiacia Analyst
PHS -  PlIc Health SpclWiu       P '    Pbamacentiea spcaist
L  -  LAoo Offe                  PS -   PolationScllst



__________________________________                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD   W 812
FO8I5   M' N/AIRCH 1982
,  " i AIGERIA       /M  A  U  R  I T  A  N   I A                                                                                              SENEGAL
MAURITANIA         -         /HLTH PROJCT
MALU  'N/GER                                                                                                                                 EALrH CENTERS
o:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 1B, PW ; @A
S  1NI=ajGR   /      -             -                                                   -                                                  -~~ °.;S  .w
GAMUA~~~~~~~~~~~'  -,   1  .r  *                                                                                       No~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ F,no~~~~~~~~~~.d bT P~~N.F-.d  yP,.
:-:----PPR', /  -
~~~~ ~~VOLTA    
:.;IfrALE A I''UC,                                                                                                                                              D *  ,, 4
p                                                                                                                                    T.-  *  R-  d b
COAST                                                                                                         E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- hoR8.,da~.
.   i,$  t    , *   ,-,_                         ' t -_./                                     <                          tS'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HIh -
HNJJl G +'#~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.-21 , <-/ ,
N-''-                                                                     '0 l 20 0 040 0 60 70
KI LOMETERS
ftso~~~~~~~~M                                                                                                              L
KIV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
WS S W-'S__'~~-------------
J U                                   I N E A - B I S S A U                 ,s,sf    G  U I N  E  A                                                  }         l
A"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
L.J~~~~-
U N E A  8 I S S A U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
*~~~~ftI~~~~~MM                                                                 G U44N            E        



_O 166RD 1
>  -i_w0  ttaA                                                           AURItANIA                                         SENEGAL
;1                -                                                                                                     HEALTH PROJECT
..l *;-/4!|ta-at-sx  ...........                                                                          N0 A.  L ,  *| TH MOM
NoF-     A.
otwc    VR-                                                                                                   0011 -ft        -
,.scoi                                                                            A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-   CI   buW    Co
. -,kh AIM.    .IoI I o . ,IL
________________________________                                                1I0
Atiolk~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5-O
203
M  ALI         L 



