Document of
The World Bank   M                       C P
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4003-SE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SENEGAL
RURAL HEALTH PROJECT
November 29, 1982
Population, Health and Nutrition Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents:
Currency Unit = CFAF
US$1.00 = CFAF 340
GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL FISCAL YEAR:
July 1 - June 30
,,



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
Rural Health Project
Table of Contents
Page No.
Basic Data. . . . . . . . . . . .i
Definitions.. . . . . . . . .   ii
Abbreviations . ............. ..                          iv
I.    THE HEALTH SECTOR.. . . . . . . . . .                       1
A.  Introduction. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       1
B.  Health Status . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
C.  Structure and Performance of Health
Services.   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  3
D. Health Sector Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . .    8
II.   HEALTH SECTOR STRATEGY AND CONSTRAINTS. . . . . . . .   10
A. Strategy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     . . . . .   10
B. Key Constraints . . .... .. . . . .                    11
C. Need for the Project. . . . . . . .. . . . . . .   14
III. THE PROJECT .15
A. Project Objectives. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
B. Project Composition . .   .......   .  . .   .         15
C.  Detailed Project Features . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
IV.  PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL PLAN . . . . . . . . . . .   23
V.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT
AND AUDITING . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    27
VI.   PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS .        . . . . . . . . . . . . .   31
A. Benefits .               . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   31
B. Risks .....  .  .  .  .  .  .    . . . . . . . . . .   .   32
VII.  RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .   33
This report is based on the findings of an IDA mission which visited
Senegal in June/July 1981 comprising Messrs. A. Williams (Mission
Leader), V. Kumar (Public Health Specialist), J. Pillet (Public Health
Specialist), G. Sinclair (Architect), Mrs. K. L. Hall (Health
Planner), Ms. A. Mashayekhi (Economist) and Ms. D. Vaillancourt
(Research Assistant). The project was further reviewed in December
1981 by Messrs. A. Williams, U. Mbanefo (Financial Analyst),
J. Pillet, G. Sinclair and M. El Fekih (Consultant, Pharmaceutical
Specialist).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (cont.)
Page No.
TABLES IN MAIN TEXT
4.1 Estimated Project Cost by Expenditure
Categories   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  24
4.2  Estimated Price Escalation Rates . . . . . . . .   25
4.3  Financing Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   26
5.1  Disbursement Schedule. . . . . . . . . . . . . .   29
ANNEXES
1.  Disease Priorities by Type of Intervention. . . . . .    35
2.  Supporting Tables, Charts and Maps. . . . . . . . . .    37
Tables
T-1  Comparative Health Status Indicators . . . .        37
T-2 Mortality Indicators . . . . . . . . . . .   .       38
T-3 Geographic Distribution of Ministry of Health
Personnel by Regions, 1981. . . . . . .  .        39
T-4 Functional Distribution of Health Manpower
by Type of Facility or Service, 1981 . . . . .    40
T-5  SIPOA:  Performance and Financial Indicators . .    41
T-6  Total Recurrent Expenditure on Health. . . . . .    42
T-7  Financial Situation of Health Committees . . . .    43
T-8 Total External Contribution to the Health
Sector ..  . . . . . . . . . . .   . . .  .       44
T-9  Evaluation Criteria and Major Indicators . . . .    45
T-10 Estimated Annual Project Cost. . . . . . .   . .    46
T-11 Project Component Costs. . . . . . . . . .   . .    47
T-12 Estimated Project Cost by Expenditure
Category  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  . .    49
T-13 Implementation Schedule:  Civil Works. . . . . .    50
T-14 Implementation Schedule:  Training Component . .    51
T-15 Project Preparation Facility Advances. . . . . .    52
T-16 Estimted Schedule of Disbursements . . . . . . .    54
Charts
C-1 Ministry of Public Health Organizational Chart .    55
C-2  Structure of the Public Health System. . . . . .    56
C-3  Project Management Organization Chart. . . . . .    57
Maps
M-1 IBRD 16182
M-2 IBRD 16326
3.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project
File.    .   .   .   .   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   .  58



- i -
SENEGAL
HEALTH PROJECT
Basic Data
Total Area. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 197,000 km2
Total Population (mid-1981) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.8 million
Density per km2 (mid-1981). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Rate of Natural Increase of the Population (1980) . . . 2.7%
Crude Birth Rate (1979) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48/1,000
Crude Death Rate (1979) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21/1,000
Life Expectancy at Birth (1979) . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
Infant Mortality Rate (1979). . . . . . . . . . . . . . 114/1,000
Urban Population as Percent of Total Population (1979). 25
Adult Literacy Rate (1976). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10%
Primary School Enrollment (1978).  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  41%
Age Structure
0-4 ..                          .. . .. . 18.4%
5 - 14         .............. . 26.3%
15 - 49 ....  .  .  .  .    ......  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 45.3%
50+ ......................... . 10.0%
Population per Physician (1977) . . . . . . . . . . . . 15,710
Population per Nurse (1977) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,660
Percentage of Married Women of Reproductive Age
using a Modern Contraceptive Method (1978). . . . . . 1%
Per Capita Gross National Product (1979). . . . . . . . US$430



- ii -
DEFINITIONS
Adult Literacy Rate          : The percentage of persons aged 15 and over
who can read and write.
Case Fatality Rate           :  The proportion of persons contracting a
disease who die of that disease; usually
expressed as a percentage.
Child Mortality Rate         : Annual deaths of children 1-4 years per 1000
children in the same age group.
Crude Birth Rate             : Number of live births per year per 1000
people.
Crude Death Rate             : Number of deaths per year per 1000 people.
Dependency Ratio             : Ratio of population 14 years or under and 65
or over, to population aged 15 to 64 years,
multiplied by 100. Indicates proportion of
population that needs to be economically
supported.
Incidence Rate               :  The number of persons contracting a disease
as a proportion of the population at risk,
per unit of time usually expressed per 1000
persons per year.
Infant Mortality Rate        : Annual deaths of infants under 1 year per
1000 live births during the same year.
Life Expectancy at Birth   : Indicates the number of years a newborn child
would live if subject to the mortality risks
prevailing for the cross-section of
population at time of birth.
Maternal Mortality Rate    : Number of maternal deaths per 1000 births in
a given year attributable to pregnancy,
childbirth or puerperal complications.



- iii -
DEFINITIONS (cont.)
Morbidity                   : The frequency of disease and illness in a
population.
Mortality                    : Deaths as a component of population change.
Neo-Natal Mortality Rate   : The number of deaths of infants under 28 days
of age in a given year per 1000 live births
that year.
Peri-Natal Mortality Rate  : The number of fetal deaths after 28 weeks of
pregnancy (late fetal deaths) plus the number
of deaths to infants under 7 days of age per
1000 live births.
Prevalence Rate              : The number of persons having a particular
disease at a given point in time per
population at risk. Usually expressed per
1000 persons per year.
Rate of Natural Increase   : Difference between crude birth and crude
death rate; usually expresed as a
percentage.
Total Fertility Rate        : The average number of children a woman will
have if she experiences a given set of
age-specific fertility rates throughout her
lifetime. Serves as an estimate of average
number of children per family.



-iv-
ABBREVIATIONS
CESSI     Centre d'Enseignment Supgrieur        Center for Advanced Nursing
en Soins Infirmiers                  Education
DAGE      Direction de l'Administration         Directorate of General
Generale et de l'Equipement          Administration and Equipment
DHPS      Direction de l'Hygiene et de la    Directorage of Hygiene and
Protection  Sanitaire                Health Protection
DRPF      Direction de la Recherche, de         Directorate of Research,
la Planification et de la            Planning and Training
Formation
EPI       Programme Elargi de Vaccinations   Expanded program of
immunization.
MCH       Protection Maternelle et             Maternal and Child Health
Infantile
MOPH      Ministare de la Sante Publique       Ministry of Public Health
MUHE      Ministere de l'Urbanisme,            Ministry of Urbanism, Housing
de l'Habitat et de                   and Environment
1'Environnement
PMU       Unite de Gestion du Projet           Project Management Unit
PNA       Pharmacie Nationale                  National Drug Supply
d'Approvisionnement                  Department
PPF       Fonds de preparation du projet        Project Preparation Facility
PPNS      Programme pour la protection          Nutritional and Health
nutritionnelle et sanitaire          Protection Program
SIPOA     Societe Industrielle                 Industrial Pharmaceutical
Pharmaceutique de l'Ouest            Company of West Africa
Africain
SOFFIN    Societe Financiare France
Ingelheim
UNFPA     Fonds des Nations Unies pour          United Nations Fund for
l'Assistance en Matiare de           Population Activities
Population
USAID     Agence Americaine de                  United States Agency for
Developpement International          International Development
WHO       Organisation Mondiale de la Santg  World Health Organization



I. THE HEALTH SECTOR
A. Introduction
1.01      Senegal's population was estimated at 5.8 million in mid-1981, at
which time the natural rate of population increase averaged 2.7% annually.
Economic growth, which averaged 2.3% per year between 1971 and 1979, has not
kept pace with population growth. Periodic droughts, price fluctuations,
unsatisfactory economic management, and disproportionately heavy investment
in favor of urban areas have contributed in the past to a bleak macro-
economic situation. About 70% of the population derive their livelihood from
agriculture. Their health status is poorer than other countries elsewhere in
Africa (Annex 2, T-1). The infant mortality rate is as high as 204 per 1,000
live births in some rural areas; only two-thirds of all children survive
through age five. This loss of life contributes to a persistent pattern of
high fertility; the average woman bears seven children which, in turn, is
harzardous to maternal health.
1.02      Aware of the health and economic consequences of high fertility and
infant mortality, the Government recognizes the need to: (a) develop
integrated maternal, child health (MCH) and family planning programs;
(b) upgrade the existing network of basic health services so that they might
become strategic points in Senegal's public health system; and (c) promote
village-level primary health care programs whereby minimal care,
vaccinations, elementary health education, sanitation and, above all, MCH
activities might be developed and managed by the communities themselves.
1.03      Since 1978, there has been an impressive response by the inter-
national/external donor community in pursuit of these objectives. UNICEF
supported rural MCH services; UNFPA and USAID have followed in developing
population programs with an emphasis on family planning. Switzerland and the
U.S.A. are assisting local government authorities to upgrade health posts in
greatest need of repair. UNICEF, Canada, the Netherlands, Belgium, France
and the United States have assisted in structuring community-level primary
health care programs (involving the selection and training of community
health workers, the establishment of village health huts or pharmacies, rural
maternities, and vaccination programs). The World Health Organization and
France are supporting an expanded program of immunization--a key component of
the primary health care strategy.
1.04      These inputs are major contributions to the development of a
comprehensive health system incorporating maternal and child health, family
planning, and community-level primary health care programs. But the present
system is under strain because basic pre-conditions have been insufficiently
addressed to date. Most health centers have insufficient technical capabili-
ty and have lost their credibility among the rural population (para. 1.12), a
situation which must be reversed if they are to play a strategic role in the
near future. Under the current (sixth) Development Plan, the Government is
attempting to re-establish this credibility by improving the quality of
services at health centers where curative, preventive, MCH, family planning



- 2 -
and health education services are being integrated. While responding more
efficiently to an immediate demand for services, the health centers are
required to support and guide primary health care programs being targeted
toward the community. Community-level health care has, in addition, created
urgent new demands or accentuated other needs to which the health centers and
the rest of the system must respond. In particular, there is a need to
improve the availability and distribution of basic drugs, and to develop
health education programs in support of community-level efforts. IDA
assistance is being sought in these areas, which are the focus of the
proposed project. Furthermore, given the large number of primary health care
projects financed by different external donors which require coordination,
the project would as well assist the Government to strengthen its capability
in health sector planning, project implementation and evaluation.
B. Health Status
1.05      Mortality.  Data on morbidity and mortality patterns in Senegal
rely mainly on hospital and health center records and are therefore
incomplete. Nevertheless, key indicators show that the health status of the
population has improved little over the past decade. Between the early 1950s
and the late 1970s, life expectancy at birth increased from 33 to 42 years.
More recent gains in life expectancy have slowed to half the rate achieved
between 1955 and 1965. Current life expectancy (43 years) is lower than the
average for sub-Saharan Africa (47) and is at the same level as Senegal's
poorer Sahelian neighbors. This reflects high infant mortality, estimated to
range by geographic area from 114 to 204 per 1,000 live births. Infant
mortality (Annex 2, T-2) dominates all reported deaths; most infant deaths
are due to various combinations of interrelated causes, chiefly diarrhea,
malnutrition, malaria and measles. Maternal mortality, directly and
indirectly associated with childbearing, is estimated at 500 maternal deaths
per 100,000 live births (compared with about 820 in Ghana, 300 in Algeria and
Peru, and 22 in the United States). High neonatal and maternal mortality
underscores the substandard quality of prenatal and obstetric care in
Senegal. It also reflects the adverse impact of frequent, closely spaced
pregnancies on the health and nutrition status and survival chances of
pregnant women and infants. Fertility remains at very high levels; the crude
birth rate is currently estimated at 48 per 1,000 population. Average age at
marriage is 15.6 for rural women. Only 1% of married women of reproductive
age in Senegal are estimated to have ever used a modern method of
contraception. Child spacing and the promotion of fertility moderation
(para. 2.08) together with improved maternal and child health services, are
important factors in improving the health status of the population.
1.06      Morbidity.  Preventable and treatable diseases--malaria, measles,
whooping cough, tuberculosis, and acute respiratory infections--account for
much of the high morbidity (Annex 1). Malaria is the leading cause of
illness; over 80% of the population are at risk. In the 0-4 age group, the
prevalence of malaria parasites at the end of the rainy season is as high as
90%. In addition, intestinal parasites reduce the absorption rates from food
consumed and thereby contribute significantly to malnutrition and associated



3
complications. Through baseline surveys conducted with IDA assistance in
1979/80 (para. 2.07), there is now substantial information available on
nutritional status, food intakes, the prevalence of parasitic diseases among
the rural poor, child weaning practices, and the adequacy of energy intake by
women and male workers during periods of highest energy expenditure on pro-
ductive activities. The data show: (i) significant seasonal undernutrition,
particularly during the May-September preharvest or "hungry" season,
resulting from low energy (calorie) intake; (ii) protein/calorie mal-
nutrition, deriving from inadequate protein/calorie balance in the diet and
exacerbated by infections; and (iii) specific nutrient deficiencies,
particularly of iron, Vitamin B, and iodine. Of these problems, that of
anemia (caused mainly by low iron intake or absorption) is the most wide-
spread, with debilitating effects on stamina and worker productivity. Up to
70% of the population in Diourbel region and 45% in southern Casamance are
affected. In southern Casamance, close to 30% of children aged 1-5 show
signs of chronic malnutrition. Under these conditions, other infectious
diseases such as malaria and measles become extremely dangerous and often
fatal (para. 2.07).
C. Structure and Performance of Health Services
1.07      The stagnation in health status, particularly in the countryside,
is associated with low purchasing power, adverse environmental conditions,
inadequate and unsanitary water supplies, and low public awareness of disease
causation and prevention. But the structure and performance of the public
health system is a central feature of the problem. The worsening economic
situation after the 1968-74 drought led to a marked deterioration of health
services. The Government then readily endorsed the principles of primary
health care (para. 2.01) drawn up at the Primary Health Care Conference held
in Alma-Ata (U.S.S.R.) in 1978 in order to improve health and nutrition
status among the most vulnerable groups--mothers and children-- particularly
in peri-urban and outlying rural areas.
1.08      Past Policy.  Until then, the approach to Senegal's health problems
was conducted entirely through pre-independence structures with the following
characteristics: urban based curative medicine, often sophisticated and
unadapted to local patterns of pathology and morbidity; mobile and military
control of transmissible disease; limited attention to hygiene and health
education; indifference to general nutritional status and opposition to
contraception and abortion; limited national health planning, with health
sector investments persistently favoring the national capital area; health
administration dominated by physicians and pharmacists; and cumbersore
central administration, often compartmentalized, with minimal ties between
the central Ministry and regional health authorities. The mobile endemic
disease program, which, in colonial times, penetrated deeply into rural
areas, fell into relative neglect due to the diversion of resources to
curative services.



1.09      The Ministry of Public Health.  Most health services and facilities
in Senegal are operated and financed by the national Government, although
there has been a steady increase in local and private contributions
(para. 1.20). The Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) is the principal organ
responsible for health services. Prior to the adoption of its primary health
care policy, the MOPH was organized around three departments: Equipment and
Administration; Public Health Inspection; and Central Services (Public Health
and Social Affairs). The central Ministry, with limited staff and even more
limited staff skills in planning and management, found it increasingly
difficult to coordinate various programs outside the capital. In 1979, the
MOPH was reorganized in an attempt to help it better support the Government's
primary health care policies by integrating curative and preventive health
care; decentralizing technical support functions within the Ministry;
creating an inservice training capability; and improving the coordination and
planning of the entire system with a view toward ultimately strengthening
local level services. (A MOPH organization chart is shown as Annex 2, C-1.)
Curative and preventive health care, excepting national and regional
hospitals, are the responsibility of a Directorate of Hygiene and Health
Protection (DHPS) in charge of supervision of health services in the
country's eight medical regions, regulation of private medical practitioners,
endemic disease control, public hygiene and sanitation, MCH, family planning
and nutrition services, health education and primary health care develop-
ment. The remaining Directorates are General Administration and Equipment
(DAGE); Research, Planning and Training (DRPF); Hospitals; Pharmacy; and
Procurement Drug Supplies and Medical Equipment. Several national health
institutes and paramedical training institutions are controlled directly by
the MOPH.
1.10      The DRPF was an entirely new entity which was expected to improve
MOPH internal operations, external coordination and planning. But its
immediate development has been constrained principally by three factors: the
lack of qualified staff, particularly in health sector planning; the
inability of the DAGE to provide ready, reliable information for planning
purposes; and, the inappropriateness of epidemiological surveillance and
health service reporting (para. 3.16) both at the health center level and
between health centers and the central MOPH. Short and long-term training
already is being provided to new staff. Additional support is being sought
for staff training to render the DRPF, DAGE and DHPS more effective
instruments of planning and coordination.
1.11      Hospital Services.  There are 11 national and regional hospitals in
Senegal, of which four, including a university hospital center and a
psychiatric hospital, serve principally Dakar and the Cap-Vert Region (Annex
2, C-2). Of the seven remaining medical regions, Fleuve is served by three
regional hospitals, whereas Louga and Senegal Oriental have no regional
hospital. Most hospitals are equipped to handle major surgery, and have
pediatric and maternity wards. Hospital utilization rates are high: the
average reported occupancy rate for hospital beds is about 85%. Access to
hospital-based services varies greatly between regions because of the uneven
distribution of hospitals. In 1978, for example, the ratio of population
served per hospital bed ranged from 426:1 in Cap-Vert to 7,254:1 in
Casamance. Despite the concentration of qualified physicians, nursing staff



- 5 -
and medical equipment available in national and regional hospitals, they do
not serve effectively as referral facilities. Much of their services is for
technically simple care to patients who have by-passed health centers because
of the low quality of care provided at the peripheral level.
1.12      Regional Services.  The organization of rural medical services
follows the administrative division of the country into eight regions.
Medical regions are headed by a physician, who, as Regional Chief Medical
Officer, is in charge of supervising the health care delivery system in the
region. Each regional system consists at the apex of regional hospitals
and/or endemic disease control centers; at the mid-level, of health centers,
MCH centers and maternities; and, at the periphery, of satellite health posts
and rural maternities. On average, each regional system serves a population
of 600,000 covered by four health centers (serving an area within an average
radius of about 64 km) and 45 satellite health posts (serving an average of
12,000 persons within a radius of about 12 km). Within their immediate
catchment areas, health centers are (along with many mission owned
facilities) major providers of primary health care. In addition, health
centers are assigned an important function of programming, supervising and
providing technical and patient referral support to village-level primary
health care based on health posts and community health workers. The physical
conditions of health centers and their quality of care are generally
substandard to the extent that many are little more than large health posts.
Out of 36 health centers in 1980, only 24 were considered operational and 17
were currently in need of repair. About half of Senegal's 492 health posts
are also in poor operating condition. Many health centers are 30 to 50 years
old. Basic commodities, such as water, latrines and electricity are
unavailable. Technical equipment is missing or in disrepair; laboratory
facilities are poor or non-existent. The Government's meagre yearly
allocations of essential drugs are often exhausted within six months (para.
1.18), requiring patients to purchase drugs over the counter, thus reducing
health centers and health posts to ineffectual dispensaries. In short,
Senegal's basic health service network has lost credibility in many parts of
the country; it is inefficient and wasteful. Until this situation is
rectified, basic health services will be incapable of contributing toward
more rapid improvement of the health status of the population at risk.
1.13      Village-level services.  As shown in Annex 2, C-2, a new level of
care is emerging comprised of rural maternities, village pharmacies, and
health huts, owned by village health committees and operated by community
health workers. This is a result of the gradual implementation of the
Government's Administrative Reform measures adopted in 1972, and its primary
health care policy. The 1972 Reform Law decentralized the civil
administration, granted greater powers to the regions, fostered the creation
of regional and local participatory structures, and created a new peripheral
administrative rung called the "rural community." These rural communities,
which group several villages within a maximum radius of 10 km., offer an
institutional framework for extending the health system to the village
level. Governed by Rural Councils, rural communities decide what local
development projects would be undertaken with the proceeds of rural taxes, as
well as how the community's share of the National Solidarity Fund would be
used. A significant portion of these proceeds to date has gone toward
supporting community health activities (para. 1.20). From 1974 through 1979,



- 6 -
rural communities built and equipped about 190 rural maternities and 170
village pharmacies, and trained rural matrones (midwives) and community
health workers with the help of UNICEF. Although they are locally
self-managed, the promotion and maintenance of village-level services
requires supervisory linkages and logistical support at the regional level,
as envisioned under the MOPH decentralization reform. These linkages are
weak, and unless they are strengthened --particularly at the health center
level--the future of village-level primary health care is seriously in doubt
(paras. 2.03 - 2.05).
1.14      Health Personnel.  With over 7,000 persons employed in the health
sector, and a manpower/population ratio of 1/800, there is no overall short-
age of health manpower in Senegal. The geographic distribution and qualita-
tive deficiencies in health manpower, however, are key impediments. In the
Dakar/Cap-Vert capital area are concentrated 70% of Senegal's physicians,
two-thirds of its pharmacists, 62% of its midwives, 44% of nurses and
virtually all of its dentists. Annexes 2, T-3 and T-4 show the geographic
and functional distribution of health personnel. Mandatory rural service of
seventh year medical students and assignment of military physicians to
unserved regions have been effective mechanisms to redress physician
shortages in rural areas. Throughout the country, there exists a core staff
for health centers which includes 1 physician, 1 certified nurse, 1 nurse-
midwife and 4 auxiliaries. Core staff for health posts comprises I
registered nurse and 1 sanitation aide. There has been a general increase in
student enrollment in the Dakar University Medical School even as the
Government is attempting to control the size of the public service,
particularly in manpower intensive sectors such as health. The MOPH, in
addition, has begun to place more emphasis on improved monitoring of its
staff, particularly in the outlying regions, and on incentives to attract
current and future personnel to rural areas. The provision of staff housing
at the health center level, and improved working conditions at health centers
and health posts are important steps in this direction.
1.15      Training.  Senegal's medical and paramedical training institutions
(many of which are accredited under the French system) have not adapted to
the epidemiological, social and technical conditions of the country.
Inadequacies lie not only in the content of basic and clinical sciences, but
also in the transmission of practical skills, insufficient exposure to
laboratory sciences, management, reporting, clinical and community work.
With the notable exception of the MOPH's School of Advanced Nursing Education
(CESSI), the medical and paramedical teaching process transmits professional
attitudes and expectations that become sources of frustration when graduates
confront field conditions. Qualitative improvements in health manpower are
an important adjunct to efforts to improve health status. As a consequence
of the deterioration of the basic health service network, many public health
personnel in rural areas lack sufficient competence in important skills which
they have used infrequently or under poor supervision over the years. These
cadres include civilian physicians in rural service, midwives, nurses,
technicians and auxiliary personnel. The proliferation of community health
workers under Senegal's primary health care policy requires that they be
trained by the MOPH at the rural community level, even though they are not
employed by the Government. Likewise, physicians, midwives and nurses



-7-
operating out of district-level health centers and community-level health
posts must receive pre-assignment and inservice training in primary health
care. These needs, taken altogether, have caused the MOPH to create its own
training capability for conducting inservice training and programs of
continuing education. The DRPF (para. 1.10) is in charge of these
functions. To date, the training division of the DRPF has acquired a small
capable staff, but not the resources for a full-fledged inservice training
program aimed at improving the quality and performance level of health
center, health post and community-level health workers. UNICEF assistance is
being directed principally at initial training of community health workers;
other donors, notably American and Belgian, are helping at the health post
nursing personnel level.   IDA assistance has been sought at the health
center level and inservice training of community health workers.
1.16      Drug Supply.  The private and public health systems together
utilize an extraordinary range of about 6,000 different pharmaceutical
products, with a corresponding foreign exchange import bill of CFAF 5 billion
(US$18 million). This list contrasts sharply with countries such as Tunisia
(with less than 3,000 products). The wide range of imported products attests
to the importance of the private drug retail market in urban areas, and the
high profit earned by wholesalers and retailers who dominate the urban
market. The availability of imported brand-name drugs at the peripheral
levels of health care contrasts with persistent shortages of basic drugs such
as chloroquine. In an attempt to redress this situation in the public
sector, the MOPH has drawn up an essential drug list based on World Health
Organization recommendations, and intends to prepare a new vademecum
(prescribers' manual) to accompany the list.
1.17      Senegal is fortunate in having its own local drug manufacturing
capability that is also expanding into the West and Central African markets.
The Socift6 Industrielle Pharmaceutique de l'Ouest Africain (SIPOA) is a
joint enterprise with 78% shareholding by the Socifte Financiare France
Ingelheim; the remainder is held by the Senegalese Government and a few
private Senegalese pharmacists. Its financial position (shown in Annex 2,
T-5) is satisfactory, but there is room for improvement which could be
stimulated if the Government became more active in encouraging the expansion
of private drug manufacturing and distribution. The private drug retail
market is dominated by 87 locally owned pharmacies concentrated in Dakar and
large towns. About 200 smaller retail depots supply outlying areas; they are
authorized to sell only non-injectible basic drugs, but, in fact, also sell a
wide range of more profitable items. It is often noted that private sector
stocks of basic drug items needed at the rural community level are deficient,
possibly due to the small profit margin for these items. Consequently,
village health committees have begun to procure drugs directly from the
central MOPH which supplies its own public health network with essential
drugs at low cost. However, the MOPH has difficulty coping with the supply
of both the public health system and the village pharmacies. The solution
lies in granting these committees access to the private sector.
1.18      The MOPH manages its drug supplies and the provision of medical
material to public health facilities through its Pharmacie Nationale
d'Approvisionnement (PNA). Aside from that portion of basic drugs which it



procures locally (mainly from SIPOA), the PNA relies chiefly on a limited
number of foreign suppliers. Unfortunately, in the recent past, the PNA was
poorly managed and not financially viable. Payment by public health
facilities for goods received from the PNA have not been accounted for; many
foreign suppliers have gone unpaid. The result has been nonsettlement of PNA
accounts with the Treasury, and greater reliance on fewer suppliers at higher
cost. Simple laboratory facilities for testing generic and cheaper brand-
name drugs from new supply sources are urgently needed. Existing PNA
warehouses suffer from a lack of maintenance, equipment and poor ventilation
resulting in a loss of stock due to spoilage. PNA inventory management and
accounting are inadequate resulting often in insufficient stocks to cover the
supply needs of health centers and health posts. Furthermore, annual budget
allocations to these facilities are inadequate to cover their needs. Their
annual drug allotment is often used up within six months (para. 1.12).
Shortfalls are increasingly covered by community health associations
(para. 1.21); otherwise, patients are given prescriptions which are filled
through over-the-counter purchases at prices many of the urban and rural poor
find unaffordable.
D. Health Sector Financing
1.19      Recurrent Expenditure.  The health sector's share of the recurrent
budget has steadily decreased from 9% of the total national operating budget
in 1971/72 to only 5.8% in 1981/82. The current budget totals CFAF 6.7
billion (US$20 million), representing about 24% of total estimated national
expenditures in the health sector (Annex 2, T-6). About half of the budget
is spent on hospital services. Recognizing the need to increase funding for
rural services, the National Assembly adopted a resolution in 1981
recommending that the MOPH budget be increased to 9%. However, the
Government is unable currently and in the foreseeable future to commit any
substantial increase.
1.20      Local Participation.  The Government has relied increasingly on
local government taxes, user fees, and the financial contributions of
community level health associations to increase resources for public health
services in rural areas. The 1972 Administrative Reform Act granted each
region a greater degree of financial decision making authority. The newly
created "rural communities" (para. 1.13) have allocated a significant
proportion of their revenue to supporting health services at the village
level. In 1980, 33 rural communities in Thies region spent 13% of total tax
receipts on health and sanitation; in Casamance, health expenditure was as
high as 25%.
1.21      In addition, under the Government's primary health care policy,
health associations are being organized with notable success. These
voluntary associations represent groups of villages located in the catchment
area of health posts and health centers.  Each association appoints its own
management committee, treasurer and fee collector who collects payment daily
from patients when they arrive at these facilities for services. The
association's treasurer banks these funds which are drawn upon only with the



-9-_
authorization of the association's executive in consultation with the local
public health official. Funds typically are spent on drug purchases, minor
repairs and maintenance of health posts and health centers, incentive
payments to health volunteers and remuneration of fee collectors. Annex 2,
T-7 shows that the scheme is already generating substantial resources.
Associations' subsidies now represent on average 38% of the recurrent expen-
diture of health posts, and about 15% of the cost of operating health
centers. Cofinancing by the State, urban communes, rural communities and
village health associations can therefore be relied upon to finance an
increasing portion of the recurrent cost of local health services. Once
again, the Government recognizes that it must rapidly improve the technical
performance and efficiency of health centers and health posts--to make them
more credible service providers--in order to assure continued support by the
population.
1.22      Investment Budget.  The MOPH investment budget earmarked in the
Fifth Plan (1977-81) was CFAF 8.8 billion (US$26 million) representing about
2.3% of the Government's total investment budget. Weaknesses in the MOPH's
capacity to prepare and implement investment projects, however, resulted in
actual expenditures of only CFAF 4.1 billion, or about 47% of the target
budget. About 80% of these investments were financed and carried out by
external assistance or through supplier credits, and concentrated on the
construction of national and regional hospitals. Forty-six percent of the
Fifth Plan projects were based in the Dakar/Cap-Vert capital region, 10% in
neighboring Thies, and the remainder divided among the other six regions with
an average of 5% per region. The 1982-87 national health development plan's
emphasis on upgrading the basic health service network, and on the
development of an expanded program of immunization at the community level
represents an important shift of emphasis in favor of rural areas.
1.23      External Assistance.  French aid has since Independence represented
about one-half of total aid in the health sector (Annex 2, T-8). Over 75% of
French aid in the past has been in the form of technical assistance to the
hospital and endemic disease control centers. France is now, however, the
major contributor to an expanded immunization program. Canada pioneered in
supporting primary health care activities at the community level in Sine
Saloum region. UNICEF, Belgium, the United States and the French Volontaires
du Progress have since followed in expanding Senegal's primary health care
program. The United States and UNFPA are also supporting Senegal's family
planning program. The World Health Organization has played a major advisory
and technical assistance role to date, and is considering supporting the
creation of a regional health development (training) center in Senegal.
German aid has concentrated in the hospital sector but is expected to support
health service maintenance in the future. Brazil and Italy are providing
lines of credit for medical equipment at the health center level; Switzerland
is doing the same to upgrade and re-equip 234 health posts. These are
important, well-chosen investments aimed at testing the feasibility of
primary health care on a pilot scale in urban and rural areas. However,
there has been very little aid coordination to date, in part due to the
piecemeal, sub-regional nature of many projects as well as the weak planning
and coordination capability of the central MOPH. In the past, most aid has
flowed to the two extremes of the system - hospitals and the urban commune or



- 10 -
village levels - thereby leaving the middle tier of health centers and health
posts seriously neglected prior to the current Plan period.
II. HEALTH SECTOR STRATEGY AND CONSTRAINTS
A. Strategy
2.01      It is evident that there has been a rising demand, and willingness
to pay, for health services in Senegal. The Government's health sector
policy and Sixth Development Plan reflect this situation and are based on the
primary health care strategy (para. 1.07). The major components of the
Government's strategy are as follows:
(a) To give renewed priority to preventive measures, by strengthening
programs in environmental sanitation, nutrition surveillance and
rehabilitation, health education, maternal and child health care
and family planning, and malaria prevention; and by introducing an
expanded program of immunization (EPI), designed to achieve 75%
immunization coverage of children 0-2 years of age against seven
diseases.
(b) To cover all villages by the year 2000 with a framework of village
health volunteers under the supervision of the public health system
(nurses and physicians) and supported by a referral system of
health posts and health centers.
(c) To develop and expand cost recovery mechanisms throughout the
health system, while strengthening community participation and
control over financial, resources generated at the village level.
(d) To improve the management and distribution of basic drugs to public
health facilities and local communities in accordance with a
restricted list of essential drugs for each level of care.
(e) To upgrade the entire network of health centers and health posts so
that they are able to serve as (i) fixed-points from which to
manage the EPI, environmental sanitation, health education, family
planning, nutrition and other outreach programs, (ii) primary
levels of care for surrounding communities, and (iii) centers for
patient referral.
(f) To improve the performance of all categories of health personnel
working in rural areas through refresher courses, in-service
training, and continuous education.
(g) To develop an appropriate planning, implementation, management
information and evaluation capability within the MOPH.



- 11 -
B. Key Constraints
2.02      This strategy is an appropriate response to current health condi-
tions in Senegal. With its emphasis on prevention, MCH services, family
planning, nutrition, health education and improved curative services for the
rural poor, it is both comprehensive and ambitious. For example, to achieve
75% immunization coverage of eligible children at current birth rates would
mean reaching approximately 200,000 children each year. Maximum coverage
attained to date has been 50%; effective coverage in terms of delivery of
efficacious vaccines to children at the appropriate ages has been only about
20%.
2.03      Nevertheless, the primary health care program is moving forward in
Senegal with political commitment and with a mixture of successes and
disappointments. The most impressive achievements to date are the
development of cost recovery mechanisms through community participation,
together with the promotion of a new service stratum of village health huts,
pharmacies and community health workers all managed by the rural communities
concerned. The structuring of community level services is most evident in
the peri-urban suburb of Dakar (Pikine), and in the Sine Saloum, Casamance
and Senegal Oriental regions which have benefitted from external donor
support and field level technical assistance. Evaluation of the major pilot
schemes range from the unqualified success of the Pikine experiment, to the
initially disappointing experience of the USAID funded village level primary
health care project in Sine Saloum. The Sine Saloum project was designed to
build, equip and provide an initial stock of drugs for 600 village health
huts, each staffed by a health worker, a birth assistant and a sanitary
worker. Villagers were expected to pay for the medicines and services of the
health team who were to have been supervised by the health post, and trained
by appropriate staff from the health post and health center.
2.04      In 1980, a joint Government of Senegal-USAID evaluation team found
that one-third of the huts constructed in one area of the project zone had
closed within 9 months after construction. The evaluation identified three
vital elements which must function effectively for the project to survive:
(i) huts must be financially viable; (ii) the Government must deliver
adequate support and supervision; and (iii) an efficient medicine resupply
system must be organized. In addition, matters such as the selection of
health workers, location of huts, drug procurement procedures,
transportation, and project management style were identified as major
constraints. It was recommended that the project be scaled down, and its
design reassessed particularly with respect to location and size. Other
successful experiments elsewhere in the Sine Saloum have emphasized payment
for services, information campaigns and logistics over the creation of
community level infrastructure.
2.05      Primary Health Care Pre-Conditions.  Primary health care is a
system of health services, not a string of health outposts nor a
proliferation of unsupported community health volunteers, village health huts
and pharmacies. The Government has thus correctly identified a major
constraint surrounding the implementation of its primary health care policy:



- 12 -
community and external donor investments at the rural periphery can be
sustained only if, as a pre-condition, resources are directed toward
developing a credible basic health service network in rural areas. The
growth of community participation and village health services are increasing
demand and pressure on a poorly equipped, weakly managed public health
system. At the same time, the health centers are increasingly being
identified as strategic fixed points for integrating and coordinating key
preventive and curative programs, including the expanded program of
immunization. Their viability is a clear prerequisite for purposes of: (a)
providing effective primary health care to the population immediately
surrounding them; (b) serving as receiving points for patients, particularly
mothers and children, who have been identified at the village level as being
at risk and in need of immediate outpatient or hospital care; and (c) guiding
and coordinating village level primary health care programs.
2.06      Emphasis on Health Education.  The current curative emphasis of the
primary health care program reflects a strongly felt need for quality care;
this, however, must be used as a vehicle that leads to greater awareness of
disease causation and prevention. The Government recognizes that the
community health associations provide a new opportunity for promoting health,
nutrition and family planning education by using committee representatives as
educators known to and respected by their communities. The MOPH's health
education service has rudimentary resources which do not permit it to
produce, test, evaluate, commission and disseminate appropriate information.
To overcome these constraints, the MOPH has taken an important initiative by
planning to create a small national health education center whose activities
would concentrate initially on programming, training, and light production of
information aids.
2.07      Appropriate Nutrition Interventions.  Because they increase
susceptibility to disease, alleviation of the seasonal nutrition problem
(para. 1.06), malnutrition and anemia, is an important preventive aspect of
the primary health care strategy. In the wake of the 1968-74 Sahelian
drought, the Government placed increasing emphasis on the prevention of
malnutrition through nutrition surveillance and rehabilitation, accompanied
by the promotion of more nutritious local weaning foods, vegetable gardens,
and nutrition education. The primary mechanism for redressing malnutrition
has been the Nutritional and Health Protection (PPNS) Program's nutrition
surveillance, education and feeding activities under the Ministry of Human
Promotion. However, the value of supplementary feeding has been increasingly
challenged in terms of its effect on improving child growth. Vegetable
gardens have met with very limited success. In an initial attempt to obtain
IDA support for a nutrition project which included a primary health care
component, the Government received an IDA project preparation facility (PPF)
advance to conduct scientific field surveys and to draw up more viable
nutrition interventions. These surveys have provided important health sector
baseline data of potential use in evaluating future changes of health
status. However, following a review of the preparation studies, it was
decided that an Integrated Food and Nutrition project was not appropriate at
present given the complexity of proposed village-level interventions and the
degree of institution-building that would be required. The Bank is helping
to draw up administratively feasible nutrition interventions on the basis of
these studies, which can be used by the Bank to incorporate certain



- 13 -
activities in its projects in relevant sectors and by the Government to
mobilize external assistance from other sources. The disbursed portion of
the Food and Nutrition PPF advance would be refinanced under the proposed
Health project (para. 4.07).
2.08      Family Planning.  Constraints to a rapid increase in family
planning acceptance include the strong social value placed on children, the
high probability of infant deaths, and cultural reticence or opposition to
matters related to contraception. As part of its efforts to create a
constituency for family planning, the Government has taken important steps
since 1979 by: (a) establishing a National Population Commission to develop
population policy recommendations for incorporation into the Sixth National
Development Plan; (b) creating in the Ministry of Planning and Cooperation a
population unit, with UNFPA technical assistance, to integrate demographic
variables into national economic development planning; and (c) assigning
family planning education to the Secretariat of the Human Promotion, and the
delivery of family planning services to the MOPH. The Government's approval
in 1979 of its first officially sanctioned family planning project (to be
implemented first in the main Dakar MCH center, then in MCH centers in four
regions, and finally on a pilot basis through the primary health care
facilities under development in the Sine Saloum) stands out as a key
expression of commitment.
2.09      However, achievements have fallen short of expectations.  The
National Population Commission is still in the process of developing a
population policy. The first USAID family planning project is just getting
underway in part because of past confusion (since clarified) about the
respective roles and responsibilities of the MOPH and the Secretariat of
Human Promotion.  It is expected that, in regaining initiative and making up
for lost time, the USAID-financed project will set the stage over the next
three years for introducing family planning services into rural areas at the
MCH and health center levels (para. 3.03).
2.10      Emphasis on Improved Drug Supply.  The provision of basic drugs to
peripheral levels of care and rural consumers is unreliable and, as such, is
a major impediment to the development of primary health care. This contrasts
sharply with the unusually wide range of available imported non-essential
drugs. To redress this situation, the Government has begun to reassess the
needs of the pharmaceutical sector with a view toward developing a national
drug policy which strengthens the role of both the private and public sec-
tors. Such a policy would favor the private sector in part by reassessing
the profit margin for the sale of basic drugs at rural drug retail outlets,
and by enlarging the range and distribution of locally manufactured drugs.
With regard to the public sector, the Government intends progressively to
improve the organization and management of the PNA. The MOPH has already
obtained IDA assistance, through a PPF advance, to (a) examine the management
needs of the PNA, and (b) to undertake an external audit of the PNA's assets
and liabilities. The audit will assist the Government in determining the
magnitude of unpaid accounts, prior to drawing up a program for settling past
accounts and improving the PNA's accounting, payment and management
procedures (para. 3.14).
2.11      Cost of Primary Health Care.  The key issue confronting the health
sector at this time is, without doubt, the growing need to estimate the total



- 14 -
cost (capital and recurrent) of expanding the primary health care program on
a nationwide basis. This needs to be assessed against the availability of
resources through the national budget, the rural community contributions and
external assistance in order to design a phased program to match the
resources. Furthermore, the cost burden on peri-urban and rural communities
for supporting basic health services is not shared by urban residents, who
continue to receive free outpatient care in most hospitals. Equity
considerations, and the need to begin shifting greater Government resources
toward satisfying basic pre-conditions for primary health care, have already
prompted the Government to extend the principle of fees for service
experimentally to two hospitals in the Fleuve region. This experiment will
be evaluated as a part of the project (para. 3.16 (b)).
C. Need for the Project
2.12      Despite the Government's initial success in attracting widespread
local and external support for its primary health care policy, several
important problems continue to affect the quality, efficiency and coverage of
Senegal's health, family planning and nutrition programs. To redress past
emphasis on urban health services, particularly hospitals, there has been a
dramatic shift of political emphasis toward the promotion of services at the
village level where, by all indications, there is a widespread felt need for
improved, accessible health services. This swing of emphasis, however, has
preceded and far outstripped the Government's ability to put in place some
basic pre-conditions for supporting its new policy. Although the central
MOPH was restructured and decentralized to facilitate the integration of
preventive, curative, MCH and family planning services, it is still a long
way from acquiring adequate technical capability in planning, coordinating
and implementing the Government's policy.  Likewise, few resources have been
made available to improve the training of central and regional MOH
administrators as well as physicians, nurses, midwives and technicians in
rural areas--all of whom are critical inputs in developing primary health
care programs. Past curative emphasis associated with urban hospital
services is likely to persist unless health education programs are developed
around preventive, MCH, family planning and nutrition themes. Most
importantly, the circumvention of Senegal's basic network of health centers
and health posts in an attempt to develop services at the grassroots level
has been shown to lead to failure. But, to make health centers and health
posts strategic fixed-points from which to guide and coordinate programs
close to the community, it is necessary first to re-establish their
credibility by upgrading their performance. In addition to efforts currently
underway by local municipalities and rural communities to upgrade the network
of health posts, the Government has obtained assistance from Switzerland and
the United States to renovate a total of about 250 health posts in greatest
need of repair. Current United States' aid to improve the quality of trained
health post nurses is expected to expand. With regard to its health centers,
the Government seeks IDA assistance in helping to transform them first into
viable centers of integrated health care with a view toward reaching out and
managing primary health care programs at the rural community level.



-15 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.01      To provide adequate technical, logistical and management support
for Senegal's primary health care, nutrition and family planning efforts, the
proposed project would:
(a) strengthen the basic health services at the health center level;
(b) improve the training of health service providers;
(c) improve the supply and utilization of basic drugs;
(d) develop health education services; and
(e) strengthen the capability of the MOPH to plan, implement and
evaluate activities in support of primary health care.
As such, the project would strengthen institutional and health service
capability.  The project was prepared by the MOPH during 1981, with the
support of consultants and advances through IDA's project preparation
facility (para. 4.07). The project marks IDA's first operation in the
population, health and nutrition sector in Senegal, and consequently was
prepared with a view toward keeping the project as simple as possible,
without expanding the sector at a time of severe economic constraint, and
without intervening directly at the village level during this initial,
nationwide health project effort. Because of the difficulties of the health
sector in Senegal, emphasis has been placed in this project first on setting
up credible primary and secondary health services and support systems
capable of subsequently moving on to manage outreach programs at the village
level. This capability barely exists at the present time.
B. Project Composition
3.02      In summary, the project would:
(a) Strengthen Basic Health Services:
(i)    The construction and equipment of new facilities to replace
5 functionally inadequate health centers; and the renovation
and re-equipment of 4 existing centers;
(b) Upgrade the Training of Health Personnel:
(i)    Three years of specialist services, teaching materials,
equipment and incremental operating costs for field training
of medical and paramedical students; refresher/inservice
training for health center staff, as well as community



- 16 -
health workers; and the design of a long-term national
inservice training program for health center and health post
personnel and community health workers.
(c) Improve the Supply and Utilization of Basic Drugs:
(i)    Minor upgrading/renovation and equipping of the central
Pharmacie Nationale d'Approvisionnement (PNA) and three
regional pharmacies; together with vehicles for the national
PNA;
(ii)   Equipment to develop a PNA drug testing and quality control
laboratory;
(iii)  Specialist services, teaching and research materials and
incremental operating costs for preparation of an essential
prescription manual, and for orientation of doctors, nurses
and midwives in its use; and
(iv)   Three years of specialist services to audit the PNA
accounts; improve PNA's management and distribution
capability; train PNA staff; and develop a national
pharmaceutical policy.
(d)  Improve Health Education Services:
(i)    The construction and equipment of a national health
education center, including the provision of educational
materials for the center;
(ii)   Audiovisual equipment, furniture, educational materials and
vehicles for regional health education services; together
with audiovisual equipment and educational materials for 36
health centers;
(iii)  Four fellowships and local training for MOPH health
education personnel; and
(iv)   Two manyears of specialist services to assist in developing
program material and inservice training activities in health
education.
(e) Strengthen MOPH's Planning, Implementation and Evaluation
Capability:
(i)    Equipment and furniture for the central MOPH Directorates of
Research, Planning and Training (DRPF), General
Administration and Equipment (DAGE), and Hygiene and Health
Protection (DHPS), Directorate of Pharmacy, and the Public
Health Inspectorate;
(ii)   Provide the DRPF, DAGE and DHPS with 8 fellowships, and with
about six manyears of specialist services to assist in
developing a capability in health sector planning, personnel
monitoring, improved financial monitoring and reporting, and



- 17 -
pre-investment studies; and
(iii)  Support of a project management unit (PMU) within the MOPH
including office materials, operating costs and specialist
services in procurement, architectural design, the
supervision of construction and external auditing.
(f) Support activities undertaken for the preparation of an integrated
food and nutrition project, as well as the proposed health project
(para. 2.07 and Annex 2, T-15).
C. Detailed Project Features
Strengthening Basic Health Services
3.03      As mentioned in paras. 2.05 and 2.12, Senegal's 36 health centers
are key elements of the basic health service network and important for the
establishment of primary health care. The project, as designed, provides a
package of services to be conducted on a standardized basis in all health
centers in accordance with the following functions:
(a) Family planning and MCH Services (prenatal care, routine and
complicated deliveries, postnatal care, child care);
(b) Immunizations (children 0-2 years; others);
(c) Health, Family Planning and Nutrition Education (within and outside
the health center);
(d) Endemic/Epidemic Disease Surveillance and Reporting (liaison with
special disease control programs against malaria, tuberculosis,
leprosy, and sexually transmissible diseases);
(e) General Outpatient Services;
(f) Sanitation Inspection;
(g) Emergency Care;
(h) Administration, Training, Referral of Patients to Hospitals; and
(i) Supervision of Health Posts and Community Health Workers.
3.04      The development and standardization of these activities--most of
which already comprise the official functions of existing health centers--
would be the responsibility of the MOPH's Directorate of Hygiene and Health
Protection (DHPS) supported by the proposed project management unit (PMU)
(para. 3.17).  The PMU (for which an organization chart is shown as Annex
2, C-3) would be staffed in part by a medical officer, planner, trainer and
family planning advisor whose responsibilities would include frequent tours
to the health centers to guide the implementation and conduct the evaluation
of this component.



- 18 -
3.05      In view of their poor physical condition and the importance of
their catchment area, the project would reconstruct, equip and furnish
dilapidated health centers at Dagana, Dahra, Bakel, Guinguineo and
Koungheul. The existing centers at Fatick, Goudiry, Kolda and Kedougou would
be renovated, re-equipped and furnished. Their catchment areas are estimated
to cover a total of 660,000 beneficiaries, many of whom are in high density
or outlying areas where the health center is the major available medical
facility (see Map 16326).
3.06      These facilities and services determined the standards for the
scheduled upgrading of 8 additional health centers to be financed by the
Government (thereby upgrading a total of 17 facilities most urgently in need
of physical improvement), and the design standards adopted minimize costs for
the level of services required. The health centers would have on average of
40 beds, depending on actual and projected catchment. On-site housing would
be provided for the resident physician and midwife. Space would be provided
for sanitation services and for inservice training and health education.
3.07      Design and supervision of construction of the five new health
centers would be the responsibility of the Ministry of Urbanism, Habitat and
Environment (MUHE), in accordance with an architectural program drawn up by
the MOPH, and in liaison with the MOPH staff architect assigned to the pro-
posed PMU. Renovation of four additional centers would be supervised by
consultant architects to be appointed by MUHE (paras. 5.02, 5.03). The
upgrading and re-equipping of 234 out of Senegal's 472 health posts with
Swiss Government support, together with the proposed uprading of health
centers, will cover most of the immediate infrastructure needs at the peri-
phery of the public health system. The Government has provided a list of
those health posts (in the catchment areas of the 9 health centers financed
under the proposed project) which have been upgraded or are scheduled to be
upgraded during the life of the project.
Training
3.08      Objectives.  In attempting to strengthen basic health services, the
project would: (a) support field training in public health; and (b) develop
the inservice training of health center staff and community health workers.
3.09      Categories and Targets.  The project would improve the practical
training of an estimated 50 final-year or recently graduated medical and
nursing students who are expected to serve the health centers over the life
of the project. Each medical student is expected after graduation to serve
for two years in a rural health center. The project would also provide
priority inservice training to about 60 midwives, 60 certified nurses and 36
head nurses at the health center level. The remaining staff of the health
centers--registered nurses (25), practical nurses (165), auxiliaries (290),
technicians (70), maintenance workers (105) and administrative/secretarial
staff (72) would receive inservice training on site at the health center.
Finally, about 2,000 community health workers would be eligible for training
under the project.



- 19 -
3.10      Implementation.  Field work in public health, primary care, family
planning and management would be conducted in the Mbour, Joal and Fatick
health centers under the direction of the Dakar University Medical School.
Pre-assignment and inservice training courses would be organized by the MOPH
and delivered at select regional medical headquarters (St. Louis, Kaolack and
Ziguinchor). All other courses would be conducted at the health center level
or satellite health post(s). The MOPH is already assessing the training
needs with the use of PPF funds. The project would provide about three years
of technical assistance to help the MOPH to: (i) plan, prepare materials and
implement the training; (ii) evaluate the project training program; and (iii)
on the basis of this evaluation, develop a long-term national MOPH inservice
training program and assess how the training programs of other donor-financed
projects could be integrated. During negotiations, the Government provided
assurances that, by the end of the third year of the project, it would
prepare and submit to IDA for review the proposed continual inservice
training program for health center and health post personnel as well as for
community health workers, and subsequently take steps to implement this pro-
gram.
Improved Drug Supply and Prescription
3.11      Supplies.  Drugs are the life-line of the primary health care sys-
tem and, as mentioned in paras. 1.18 and 2.10, inefficiencies in public
sector drug procurement, storage, inventory control, transport, usage and
financing have been constant problems. The project would assist with modest
renovations of the existing central PNA in Dakar, particularly improved
warehouse ventilation, and provide basic equipment (shelves, fork-lifts).
Similar assistance would be provided to the only existing regional PNA
pharmacy in St. Louis. To assist in developing other regional PNA
facilities, the project would convert two regional hospital drug depots at
Kaolack and Ziguinchor to serve as regional pharmacies. The central PNA
would be provided with two vehicles to supply the network of regional
pharmacies. As the PNA lacks the capability to test the quality of imported
drugs and their ability to withstand climatic conditions in Senegal, (thus
discouraging attempts to procure generic and other brand-name drugs more
cheaply), the project would provide equipment to the PNA's central laboratory
to develop a more appropriate drug testing capability. During negotiations,
the Government provided assurances that, by the end of the second year of the
project, it would undertake drug testing at the PNA laboratory for which
purpose adequate PNA laboratory staff would be promptly selected and given
training to upgrade their skills.
3.12      Prescription.  To guide doctors, midwives, and nurses in using the
new MOPH essential drug list (para. 1.16), the project would prepare, publish
and disseminate a new prescribers' manual. The project would provide two
manmonths of consultant services to assist in preparing the manual and
organizing brief orientation sessions for about 260 practicing physicians,
350 midwives and 1,400 nurses.
3.13      PNA Management and Development of National Drug Policy.  In res-
ponse to the need to strengthen the PNA's procurement, inventory, accounting



- 20 -
and distribution capability, and to develop a national pharmaceutical policy
which strengthens the role of the private and public sectors, the project
would provide about three manyears of technical assistance to assist in:
(a) improving the PNA's distribution and administrative procedures;
(b) establishing an appropriate PNA accounting system;
(c) training PNA staff in inventory management and laboratory
techniques; and
(d) developing a national pharmaceutical policy, which would inter alia
ensure a more active role for the private sector in the marketing
of basic drugs.
3.14      To these ends, assurances were obtained during negotiations that
the Government of Senegal would undertake the following specific actions:
A. Measures in respect of MOPH
1. Assure that for its fiscal year 1983/84 and for all fiscal
years thereafter, the budget allocation for drugs will be separately
specified for each health facility, in particular health centers and
health posts.
B. Measures in respect of PNA's accounts
1. Assure that the initial audit of the PNA shall be completed
before the end of the fiscal year ending June 30, 1983, and that annual
audits shall identify all operations of PNA.
2. Undertake all necessary measures to settle all amounts due in
respect of PNA's activities promptly and not later than six months after
completion of the initial audit referred to in B. 1 above.
C. Measures for the purpose of strengthening PNA's management capability
1. On the basis of the findings and recommendations of the its PNA
management study, promptly take appropriate measures in consultation with
IDA for strengthening the management of PNA. Subsequently, in
consultation with the Association, (i) take such further measures for
strengthening PNA's management capability and operations as shall be
appropriate in view of the recommendations of technical assistance teams
financed under the project; and (ii) review the effects of such measures
annually.



- 21 -
D. Measures in respect of PNA's drug supply system
1. Develop and implement an appropriate policy for drug pricing,
procurement and distribution which shall, inter alia:
(a) ensure that all expenses incurred on account of PNA's drug
distribution operations shall be covered by revenues from the
sale of drugs;
(b) ensure a more active role for the private sector in the
marketing of basic drugs in Senegal; and
(c) allow private non-profit organizations, including community
health associations, to procure drugs directly from domestic
pharmaceutical manufacturers on the basis of arrangements
between PNA and any such manufacturers.
This policy is expected to be developed in consultation with the
Association and implemented by December 31, 1983 and its adequacy shall be
reviewed annually in consultation with the Association.
2. Take all measures necessary to induce domestic pharmaceutical
manufacturers to enlarge their production range, and distribution
capability.
3. Prepare and publish by March 31, 1983 a list of approved basic
drugs for hospitals, health centers, health posts and village health
associations.
Health Education
3.15      As the present ability of the MOPH is weak with regard to producing
and disseminating appropriate public health information in support of primary
health care, maternal and child health services, and family planning
(para.2.06), the project would construct, equip, furnish and provide
materials for a small national health education facility in Dakar. The
proposed center (360 m2) would limit production initially to simple printed
material. It would store and circulate film material produced by the
Ministry of Information or obtained from overseas. It would serve as the
central office of the MOPH health education division and as a venue for
seminars regrouping regional health educators. Two manyears of specialist
services would be provided to help set up the national center, to develop
program material and inservice training activities, and to undertake a
performance evaluation at the end of the fourth year of the project. The
project would provide fellowships for training one national level cadre
(future Director of the Health Education Center) in public health and health
education, and for training four regional health educators. At the regional
level, the project would provide furniture, equipment and vehicles for
regional health education services, and light audiovisual equipment for all
of Senegal's 36 health centers. This component is expected to benefit the
population served by health centers and health posts.



- 22 -
Strengthening MOPH's Planning, Implementation and Evaluation Capability
3.16      Planning.  Since the MOPH's planning directorate (DRPF) was created
in 1979, staff have been receiving training overseas and are expected to take
up their positions during the course of implementation of the proposed
project. The project would strengthen the MOPH planning capability by
providing eight fellowships for training central MOPH staff in health
personnel planning, public health, and health statistics. The project would
provide about six manmonths of specialist services in physical planning of
health facilities, and one manyear in personnel planning. In addition,
office furniture and equipment would be made available for the DRPF, DAGE,
DHPS, the Directorate of Pharmacy, and the Public Health Inspectorate which
make inputs into the planning process. To permit the DRPF to develop further
the project identification and formulation process begun during the
preparation of this project, the project would finance consultant services
provided to the DRPF for pre-investment studies with a view toward the:
(a) preparation of proposals for setting up an improved MOPH financial
planning, monitoring, reporting and evaluation system;
(b) preparation of a cost and feasibility analysis of a nationwide
primary health care program;
(c) improvement of monitoring of personnel; and
(d) establishment of outreach programs and projects for strengthening
primary health care activities including nutrition at the community
leve'
These studies should be completed by the end of the fourth year of the
project with a view toward possible preparation of a second health project
which will be contingent upon satisfactory performance of the first project
as indicated by the midterm evaluation of the project (para. 5.11).
3.17      Implementation.  To strengthen the MOPH's project implementation
and coordination process, the project would support a project management unit
(PMU) within the MOPH (organizational details are given in para. 5.02, and an
organization chart is provided in Annex 2, C-3). The PMU would be
responsible for coordinating implementation of the proposed project and would
authorize all project related expenditures. To ensure that the PMU liaises
closely with key MOPH directorates involved in the project (DRPF, DHPS, DAGE,
the Directorate of Pharmacy and the Directorate of Procurement of Drug
Supplies and Medical Equipment), the PMU director would participate in the
weekly MOPH coordination meeting of Directorate heads and technical advisors
which is conducted by the Minister of Public Health. The Directors of the
DRPF, DHPS and the PMU would also organize periodic meetings to review the
implementation progress of primary health care projects. Donor
representatives would be expected to participate from time to time. To set
up the PMU, the Government has received an IDA project preparation facility
advance (para. 4.07) to provide office furniture, equipment and vehicles, and



- 23 -
to enter into contract with an accounting firm which would:
(a) design a PMU accounting system prior to credit effectiveness;
(b) audit PMU accounts; and
(c) conduct an initial audit of the PNA.
The project would provide two manyears of specialist services in procurement
to assist the PMU in acquiring equipment financed under the project. In
addition, the project would provide operating expenses for the PMU including
office supplies, vehicle operation and maintenance, salary supplements for
MOPH staff seconded to the PMU, salaries for contract staff, fees and travel
allowances. The MOPH's Inspector of Administrative and Financial Affairs
would be responsible for monitoring and evaluating the performance of the
PMU.
3.18      Evaluation.  To strengthen the MOPH evaluation capability, the
project would provide office equipment, materials and operating costs,
including transportation, to design an appropriate statistical/information
system. Two manyears of specialist services would be provided to assist in
the design. Short-term local training for seven statisticians is also
included. The evaluation system would be designed to provide a small data
base for evaluating the impact of the health center component of the
project. Annex 2, T-9 shows the key evaluation indicators envisioned. DRPF
would take the lead in conducting the evaluation as well as the midterm
review of the project and in coordinating the health education and training
evaluation. In addition to monitoring and evaluating the performance of the
PMU, the MOPH's Inspector of Administrative and Financial Affairs would
review all proposals for improving the management of the PNA and evaluate
their implementation.
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL PLAN
4.01      The total project cost including contingencies is estimated
at US$16.7 million equivalent net of taxes. The estimated costs and
foreign exchange components, given in Annexes 2, T-10, T-11 and T-12 are
summarized as follows:



- 24 -
TABLE 4.1
SFNF1DA
HEALTH PROJFCT
PRaJECT 0(ST SUR4RY
(CFA Million)                (US$ Million)             % of
Foreign   % of Total
Local   Foreign   Total       Local   Foreign   Total       Exchange  Base Costs
A. HEALTH SERVICE STRENGTHENING AND TRAINING
a. Health Center Infrastructure               1,250.3    818.1  2,068.4           3.7      2.4       6.1      39.6        49.7
b. Trainiag Health Personnel                    132.4    135.7    268.1          0.4       0.4      0.8       50.6         6.4
Sub-Total Healtlh Services                 1,382.7    953.8  2,336.5          4.1       2.8      6.9       40.8        56.2
B. BASIC DRUGS
a. Depot Construction/Renovation                 92.5    259.6    352.1          0.3       0.8       1.0      73.7         8.5
b. Training of Prescriptors                        1.1      9.8      10.8        0.0       0.0      0.0       90.2         0.3
Sub-Total Basic Drugs                         93.5    269.4    362.9          0.3       0.8      1.1       74.2         8.7
C. HEALTH EDUCATION
a. Physical Facilities                           77.1    156.4    233.5          0.2       0.5      0.7       67.0         5.6
b. Health Fducation Training                       5.0      5.2      10.2        0.0       0.0      0.0       51.2         0.2
Sub-Total Hiealth Education                   82.1    161.7    243.8          0.2       0.5      0.7       66.3         5.9
D. CENTRAL MOPH
a. DAGE/DRPF/DHPS                                 19.8     77.5      97.3        0.1       0.2       0.3      79.6         2.3
b. Staff Training                                13.9      44.1      58.0        0.0       0.1      0.2       76.0         1.4
c. Project Management UJnit                     496.6    217.2    713.8          1.5       0.6      2.1       30.4        17.2
d. Information & Evaluation                       21.8     60.6      82.5        0.1       0.2       0.2      73.5         2.0
Sub-Total Central MOPH                       552.2    399.4    951.6          1.6       1.2      2.8       42.0        22.9
E. REPAYMENT PPF                                     92.0    173.7    265.7          0.3      0.5       0.8      65.4         6.4
Total BASELINE CMSTS                          2,202.5  1,958.0  4,160.5          6.5       5.8      12.2      47.1       100.0
Physical Contingencies                        139.7    119.1    258.8          0.4       0.4      0.8       46.0         6.2
Price Contingencies                           858.8    395.6  1,254.4          2.5       1.2      3.7       31.5        30.2
TOUML PROJECT OO'TS                           3,21D.0  2,472.7  5,673.8          9.4       7.3      16.7      43.6       136.4



- 25 -
4.02      The cost estimates for civil works and furniture are based on con-
tracts awarded in Senegal during the period 1979-81 and on MUHE cost
estimates. The September 1982 Dakar base construction cost for health center
facilities is estimated at about US$299/m2 and this relatively low cost
reflects the simple facilities proposed by the MOPH. In-patient
accommodation, including maternity facilities, accounts for 33% of new center
construction costs or about $4,190 equivalent per bed place. About 26% of
the health center construction cost is for staff housing and simple shelter
for visiting relatives. The facilities to be provided will be functional but
also the minimum necessary to achieve the basic objectives of the project.
The cost of local architectural and engineering consultants is estimated at
about US$40,000 per staff year. The base cost of expatriate specialists
based on recent recruitment experiences of international organizations and
the Government is about US$100,000 per year including travel and housing.
4.03      For unforeseen physicial conditions, 10% has been added to the base
cost for civil works and for architectural/engineering services; 10% has been
added to the base costs for furniture and equipment. Estimated price
increases are based upon the application of the following annual percentage
rates of price escalation from the base cost date (September 1982) in
accordance with the implementation schedule (Annexes 2, T-12 and T-13).
Table 4.2
Construction               1983        1984        1985       1986        1986
Foreign                     8.0         7.5         7.0        6.0         6.0
Local                      15.0        12.0        10.0       10.0        10.0
Other
Local and Foreign           8.0         7.5         7.0        6.0         6.0
The estimated local price increases for construction are based on recent
trends and forecasts by the Ministry of Equipment. These have been reviewed
by Bank Group Staff and found appropriate.
4.04      Foreign Exchange Component.  The foreign exchange component of
US$7.3 million equivalent or 44% of total project costs has been calculated
as follows: (a) civil works: 25%; (b) furniture: 60%; (d) equipment,
vehicles and materials: 90%; (e) architectural/engineering services: 50%;
(f) specialist services: 80%; (g) auditing and accounting expenditures: 60%;
(h) fellowships: 70%; (i) Project Preparation Facility advance: 60%; (j)
preinvestment studies: 34%; and (k) operating costs: nil. In line with
Government policies and practices, goods and services financed from the
credit will be excempt from customs and duties and taxes.
4.05      Financing Plan.  An IDA credit of SDR 14.2 million (US$15.0 million
equivalent) would represent 90% of the total project cost net of taxes. The
credit would finance the foreign exchange costs and 82% of local costs. The
overall financing plan would be as follows:



- 26 -
Table 4.3
Financing Plan
US$ Million Equivalent
Category                                 Govt.       IDA   TOTAL
1.  Construction                                      -       6.76   6.76
2.  Furniture, Equipment, Vehicles &
Materials                                    0.17       2.26   2.43
3.  Architectural/Engineering, Technical
and Fellowships                                -        2.23   2.23
4.  Project Preparation Facility                      -       0.78   0.78
5.  Pre-Investment Studies                            -       0.78   0.78
6.  Operating Costs                                 1.43        -    1.43
7.  Initial Deposit IDA Special Account               -       0.60   0.60
8   Initial Deposit in Local Revolving Fund         0.10        -    0.10
9.  Unallocated                                       -       1.59   1.59
TOTAL                                          1.70      15.00  16.70
4.06      In any year during project implementation, the maximum Government
contribution would be US$0.67 million equivalent. Additional annual
recurrent costs generated by the project when it is fully operational in 1988
are estimated at about US$0.26 million equivalent per annum or about 1.3% of
the estimated total recurrent expenditures of MOPH for 1981/82. Project
generated incremental costs are low principally because all facilities would
replace or upgrade existing buildings. Except for a few temporary (contract)
PMU staff, the project would not require new personnel to be posted. Rising
demand for services at the health center level would be partly supported by
user charges and the financial contributions of local communities (para.
1.21). Nevertheless, during negotiations the Government provided specific
assurances that health centers will be adequately staffed, that it will
operate all facilities appropriately, and ensure adequate maintenance of all
buildings, furniture and equipment provided by the project.
4.07      Project Preparation Facility (PPF).  An advance ($400,000) was made
for preliminary nutrition studies, (para. 2.07). Of this, about $351,500 has
been disbursed so far and the remaining funds will be cancelled. Advances of
up to $430,000 were made for pharmaceutical, health center and training
studies; site surveys; preliminary architectural design work; the initial
costs of technical assistance specialists and the procurement of
miscellaneous furniture and equipment. These expenditures are included in
the overall cost of the project. Annex 2, T-15 provides a summary of these
PPF authorized expenditures.



- 27 -
V. PROJECT 1iMPLEl        0, .OUcLR&iS   DISBURSE)CMT AND AUDITING
Implementation
5.01      The project would be implemented over a period of six years
including one year for completion of payments and withdrawals. The project
is expected to be completed by December 31, 1987 with a closing date of
December 31, 19E8.  Construction of the main element of the program, health
centers, is expected to start before the end of 1983. Preliminary project
implementation work is well underway:  training needs are currently being
reviewed; equipment lists were drawn up as a part of the Government
preparation document; MOPH and MUHE have prepared designs for the five new
health center facilities; and consultant architects for the renovation of
four existing health centers have been selected.
Administration
5.02      The MOPH has identified the following principal positions as needed
for coordinating the administration of project implementation: a director,
who is a senior MOPH official, a technical director/medical officer, a MOPH
staff architect, office administrator/procurement officer, and an
accountant. Staff to fill all positions have been selected. The team would
be supported part-time by a planner, a training coordinator, a drug advisor,
a family planning advisor, by 4 years of specialist services to strengthen
planning and project organization, and by clerical staff. The project would
pay the salaries and allowances of the administrative/procurement officer,
accountant. and support staff (1 secretary, 1 typist, 3 chauffeurs, 1
maintenancen <:A `    : ;,achman, and 1 messenger).  As the prevailing Government
travel and subsistence allowances are insufficient to permit effective field
work, the project would finance field trip expenses for key project staff,
including the di-rector and medical officer.  This would enable them to travel
frequentl, 7:      - nloect zcnes in an effort to evaluate implementation
performanc: a,     organizational structure of the proposed project management
unit is shown in Annex 2, C-3.  The formal establishment of the PMU is a
condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit.
5.03      Ard,-itectuiral/E-ngineering Services.  The Ministry of Urbanism,
Habitat and Environment (MUHE) will have general oversight responsibility for
the civil works component of the project. In addition, MUHE has agreed to
undertake the design and supervision of the five new health centers, the
National Health Education Center and the drug warehouse renovation.  To this
e d, MUTE hasstabiished a design team of four architects.  Additional
engineering, surveying and drafting personnel will be recruited by MUHE on
short-term contracts as required and subject to approval by IDA. MUHE, in
cooperation -with the MOPH, will prepare all necessary contract documents,
p,itblic ancciiPsoments for construction tenders, and will participate in the
normal cos-, sat bid-award committee.  MUHE field staff will be responsible
tor verification of consultants' certificates of payment to contractors.



a 28 -
With respect to the upgrading of four additional health centers in the
project, two consulting firms have been selected by the MOPH and MURE on the
basis of their experience and ability to design appropriate, economical faci-
lities. The MOPH has its own coordinating architect who has drawn up the
overall architectural program in conjunction with MUHE. Architectural/
engineering firms have been selected on terms and conditions acceptable to
IDA to undertake the design and supervision of the four health centers to be
upgraded under the project. The Government has also submitted to IDA design
proposals for the five new health centers.
5.04      Site Selection.  Sites for all physical facilities have been
selected and surveyed and are appropriate.
5.05      Procurement.  Contracts for furniture and equipment (expected to
amount to about US$2.3 million equivalent including contingencies) would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance
with IDA's guidelines for procurement. Exempted from ICB would be:
(a) construction contracts (total value $6.8 million equivalent including
contingencies). These contracts are all small ($50,000 - $500,000 equivalent
each) and distributed throughout the country, and are unlikely to interest
contracting firms from outside Senegal; (b) furniture and equipment contracts
costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each (total value including contin-
gencies US$0.5 million equivalent). Such contracts would be awarded
following competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with
procedures acceptable to IDA. Purchases of medical equipment using UNICEF's
international procurement procedures would be permitted where feasible as a
recognized means of limiting costs.
5.06      Architectural sketch designs, draft tender documents, and master
lists of furniture, equipment and materials, would be reviewed by IDA. Items
would be grouped to the extent practicable to encourage competitive bidding
and to permit bulk procurement. Construction contracts costing more than
$250,000 equivalent, and furniture, equipment and materials costing more than
$50,000 equivalent would be subject to IDA review of procurement documenta-
tion prior to award. This is expected to result in coverage of about 90% of
the total estimated value of works contracts and about 85% of goods
contracts.
5.07      Where ICB procedures are used, domestic manufacturers of furniture
and equipment would be allowed a margin of preference of 15% of the existing
applicable rate of duties, whichever is lower, over the c.i.f. prices of
competing foreign suppliers.
5.08      Disbursements.  Funds from the credit account would be disbursed
according to the following schedule:



- 29 -
Table 5.1
Amount of
Credit           % of
Allocated      Expenditure
Category                       (US$ equiv.)   to be Financed
(a)  Civil Works, including construction/         6,760,000      100%
renovation of 9 Health Centers,
upgrading of 4 PNA warehouses, and
construction of new National Health
Education Center.
(b)  Furniture, equipment, vehicles and           2,260,000      100% of foreign
materials.                                                  expenditures;
50% of local
expenditures.
(c)  Professional Fees for consulting archi-    2,230,000        100%
tects and MUHE to undertake civil works;
technical assistance; consulting
services; fellowships.
(d)  Preinvestment Studies                          780,000      100%
(e)  Repayment of Nutrition and Health Project    780,000        100% of amounts
Facility advances,                                         disbursed under
the advance.
(f)  Initial deposit in Special Account             600,000
(g)  Unallocated                                  1,590,000
TOTAL                                       15,000,000



- 30 -
Disbursements would be fully documented. The disbursement schedule is shown
in Annex 2, T-16; it is based on the implementation schedule shown in Annexes
2, T-13 and 14, and assumes a six month lag in disbursement time.  The
project management unit would operate under government financial procedures
and its staff would include an accountant (para. 5.02) who would maintain the
necessary accounts and records according to procedures acceptable to IDA
(para. 5.10).
5.09      Revolving Funds.  Because the Government is expected to have diffi-
culty in pre-financing expenditures to be reimbursed under the IDA Credit, an
IDA financed special account of $600,000 equivalent would be established for
all items eligible for IDA disbursements except those which IDA would
disburse directly.   The Bank Group would replenish the account upon receipt
of evidence of disbursements from the fund for eligible expenditures. The
Government would be responsible for replenishing the account resulting from
any payment being unacceptable to IDA. An account would be opened in a local
commercial bank for the purpose of establishing the proposed IDA-financed
revolving fund under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The Government
is expected, as well, to open a local revolving fund of CFA 25 million
($75,000 equivalent) to finance Government counterpart expenditures. This
would be replenished every quarter and would be established under terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA. The opening of both these accounts would be a
condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit.
5.10      Accounting and Auditing.  The Project Unit would establish and
maintain account records, in accordance with accepted accounting practices,
of all expenditures under the project. Unaudited financial statements for
all project accounts should be submitted to IDA within three months of the
end of the fiscal year. During negotiations, the Government provided
assurances that it would carry out for all project accounts an annual audit
by independent auditors appointed on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA,
and submit these accounts to IDA no later than nine months after the end of
each fiscal year. The estimated cost of such auditing is US$35,000
equivalent and is included in the credit.
5.11      Reporting and Project Review.  Semi-annual implementation progress
reports should be submitted to the Bank for review within one month of the
periods ending March 31 and September 30. A joint mid-term project review
conducted by the Government (DRPF) and IDA would also be undertaken. Not
later than six months after the Project Closing Date, the MOPH should provide
to IDA a report evaluating the execution, initial operations, costs and
benefits of the proposed project, and the performance of the Government and
IDA as well as the lessons learned during project implementation.



- 31 -
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
6.01      The proposed project is in line with health sector priority needs,
and would support the Government's attempt to improve the health status of
the population by developing primary health care at the community level. It
would yield significant health service delivery and institutional benefits by
improving the provision of basic health services to a large segment of the
underserved rural population; establishing basic conditions for current and
future attempts to lessen severe illness and, consequently, death,
particularly among women and children; developing the quality of locally
trained health manpower; and strengthening the planning and implementation
capability of the MOPH. Specifically, the project is expected to yield
significant benefits by 1987 in the following ways:
(a) providing improved basic services, including family planning, to
about 660,000 persons served by the nine proposed project health
centers, 100,000 of whom are expected to be recipients of primary
care close to the health centers;
(b) by improving the supply of drugs, health programs, staff quality
and performance at the remaining 27 health centers, the benefits of
improved basic health services would be extended to an additional
2.8 million persons;
(c) improving the use of basic health services and supporting community
level activities through health education/promotion and better
referral services at the health center level;
(d) providing the health center level with a capability from which to
manage key preventive programs (such as an expanded immunization
program, malaria control, and maternal and child health), the
health benefits of which are very high;
(e) improving the skill and performance levels of about 530 MOPE
medical and paramedical staff and about 2,000 community health
workers;
(f) improving the relevance and content of basic training in support of
primary health care, and strengthening the MOPH's inservice
training capability at the central and regional levels;
(g) supporting the Government's attempt to promote cost recovery in the
health sector, by offering the population better services in return
for their participation and financial contributions; and,
(h) strengthening the MOPH's capability in management, planning,
implementation and evaluation with a view toward more efficient use
of resources.



32 -
6.02      Because adequate baseline health data are unavailable, it is diffi-
cult to predict and quantify the expected health impact of the project. The
health center evaluation component will provide baseline data during the
first two years of the project, thus providing a basis for discerning
trends. Nevertheless, it is expected that the health centers will have a
direct, primary impact on reducing infant mortality below the current
estimated level of 204 per 1,000 in many rural areas, and maternal mortality
below the current estimated level of 500 maternal deaths per 100,000 live
births. The number of family planning acceptors at health centers is
expected to rise significantly for the simple reason that no such services
are currently being provided.
B. Risks
6.03      First, past MOPH performance in execution of its health investment
program (para. 1.22) has been less than satisfactory, resulting in its
inability to implement all projects as planned during the Fifth Plan period.
Such a risk to this project would be minimized by the creation of a MOPH
project management unit comprising key staff who have participated in project
preparation and start-up activities. While current management realities have
strongly suggested the need for a project management unit, every effort is
being made to minimize its isolation; the PMU is, for example, wholly within
the MOPH and represents no real increase in staff or funds. The use of the
PPF to undertake architectural designs prior to project effectiveness, the
simplicity of these designs, and the assignment of a full-time MOPH
coordinating architect to the PMU would reduce the risk of undue delay in
executing the major civil works component. Likewise, the recruitment of
specialist services to assist in the implementation of the training component
would lend substantial support to the MOPH in another area of implementation
where the MOPH has had limited experience to date.
6.04      Secondly, success in developing family planning services at the
health center level would depend on continued Government commitment and more
rapid progress in the implementation of USAID and UNFPA supported projects in
population and family planning. These projects have been designed to set up
pre-conditions for extending services to the health center level. The inclu-
sion of a family planning advisor within the PMU is expected to assure close
liaison between the IDA-financed health project and other project efforts in
family planning. Future IDA missions will continue to monitor their progress
and, if necessary, assist in identifying and circumventing obstacles.
6.05      Thirdly, if the Government fails to meet incremental recurrent
costs incurred by the project, the level of health center activity will be
less than envisaged, which will adversely affect the health benefits. This
risk has been reduced by the fact that the project health centers include a
minimal level of incremental recurrent cost and focus more on better utiliza-
tion of existing resources. A success in this respect will improve the
utilization of existing resources in other health centers (outside the
project) and thus help in minimizing the overall additional recurrent cost
burden. It is expected that health associations will continue to contribute
financially toward the maintenance of health centers (para. 1.21), such



- 33 -
maintenance having been neglected in the past. Nevertheless, adequate
maintenance will also depend on the Government's ability to improve building
maintenance supervision, a function which is currently being developed within
the MOPH.
6.06      Fourthly, there is a risk that the health centers will fail to
develop the requisite outreach capability (in the form of supervision and
technical support) to the posts in the catchment area of each health center.
This risk stems from the fact that the functional components of primary
health care are still insufficiently defined. Consequently, training and
supervision requirements linking health centers and health posts are still
being thought through. The high cost of vehicle operation is an overriding
impediment in primary health care program development and supervision. Since
many of the rural primary health care programs are likely to continue to be
financed by external sources, donor coordination within Senegal needs
improvement in order to reduce the risk of insufficient linkages between
health centers, health posts and village level services. The project would
improve coordination by strengthening the DRPF and through the evaluation/
coordination role of the PMU. However, even if the health centers failed to
develop effective outreach, the project would make a signficant immediate
contribtution by restoring their credibility and allowing them to provide
effective primary and secondary care to their immediate catchment areas.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, the Government of Senegal gave assurances that
it would:
(a) by the end of the third year of the project, prepare a national
inservice training program which would be submitted to IDA for its
review and subsequently implemented (para. 3.10);
(b) by the end of the second year of the project, undertake drug
testing at the PNA laboratory for which purpose adequate PNA
laboratory staff would be promptly selected and given training to
upgrade their skills (para. 3.11);
(c) undertake appropriate measures including those specified in para.
3.14 (A-D) to improve the financial status and management
capability of the PNA, and assist in developing a national
pharmaceutical policy;
(d) maintain adequate staffing of all project health centers, operate
all facilities appropriately, and ensure adequate maintenance
of all buildings, furniture and equipment provided by the project
(para. 4.06); and



- 34 -
(e)  carry out for all project accounts an annual audit by independent
auditors appointed on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA and
submit these accounts to IDA no later than nine months after the
end of each fiscal year (para. 5.10).
7.02      As conditions of effectiveness of the IDA credit, the Government
should: (a) formally establish the project management unit (PMU) (para.
5.02); (b) open an account in a local commercial bank for the establishment
of the IDA-financed special account (para. 5.09); and (c) open an account for
the establishment of a local revolving fund for Government counterpart
financing (para. 5.09).
7.03      With these assurances, the project constitutes a suitable basis for
an IDA credit of US$15.0 million on standard IDA terms.



- 35 -
ANNEX 1
SENEGAL
DISEASE PRIORITIES BY TYPE OF INTERVENTION
Diseases                       Impact                       Intervention
A. Diseases preventable by immunization:
1.  Measles            High incidence, highest      Highly effective low-cost
specific mortality, 20-25%  vaccine.
lethality, important
biological damage in
complications.
2. Whooping cough      High incidence; high in-    Immunization against
cidence of complications.   whooping cough, tetanus
Important contributing       and diphteria is usually
factor in other causes of   given in an effective low-
mortality/morbidity.         cost triple vaccine.
Tetanus            Moderate incidence but 50
to 75% lethality.
Diphteria          Low incidence but
important residual
biological damage.
Poliomyelitis      High incidence, low          Highly effective low-cost
morbidity but still high    vaccine.
residual incapacity in
Senegal.
3.  Meningitis         Low incidence in endemi-    Partially effective vac-
city, high lethality.        cine.
Risk of periodic
epidemics.
4.  Tuberculosis       High prevalence and          Value of mass BCG immuni-
disability.                  zation in children and
adolescents is being
questioned. BCG to new-
born remains unquest-
tioned.
B. Diseases controllable by service delivery
1.  Diarrheas          Highest incidence; high      Mortality and, to a lesser
mortality.                   extent morbidity can be a-
bated by rehydration and
education.
2.  Maternal           Unacceptably high in         Risk approach to pregnancy
mortality and      Senegal.                     and delivery .
Perinatal mor-    The hLghest mortality hv    Soacing of preanancies/
tality             group cauises.               family planning.



- 36 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
SENEGAL
DISEASE PRIORITIES BY TYPE OF INTERVENTION
Diseases                       Impact                       Intervention
3.  Malaria            Highly prevalent.  High      Seasonal chloroquinisation
mortality.  High morbidity. of groups at risk.  Early
treatment of attacks.
4.  Acute respira-    High incidence; high          Early treatment and educa-
tory infections   mortality.                    tion.
5.  Intestinal para-  Both highly prevalent with  Periodic deworming.  Iron
sitosis and       low morbidity but impor-    and vitamin supplementa-
specific nutri-   tant contributing factor    tion.
tional deficien-  in other causes of
cies              morbidity/mortality.
6.  General Patho-    Varying incidences.  As an  Screening, or early diag-
logy              aggregate, high temporary   nosis and treatment.
incapacity, undue residual
damage and incapacity, i.e.
rheumatic fever, eye infec-
tions, trachoma, tubercu-
losis, leprosy, typhoid.
7.  Schistosomiasis   Varying incidences, low       Periodic treatment with
mortality and varying        new drugs now permit a-
morbidity.                   batement of morbidity.
C.  Diseases controllable by large-scale programs
1.  Malaria           High prevalence, high         Effective control of these
morbidity.                   major endemic diseases re-
2.  Schistosomiasis   Scattered foci, varying       quires massive resources
morbidity.                   and combination of inter-
3.  Onchocerciasis    Prevalent in southeast.       ventions for vector con-
.4.  Trypanosomiasis   Scattered foci, high         trol and treatment of
mortality.                   carriers.
D. Diseases that will recess with improvement of general life conditions
Water-borne            Highly prevalent, varying   Domiciliary piped water
diseases               mortality and morbidity.    supply; sanitation; educa-
tion.
Malnutrition           Highly prevalent, high       Raising income in rural
morbidity, important         areas.  Development of
contributing factor in       food crops.  Education.
other causes of mortality!
morbidity.



ANNEX 2
T-1
SENEGAL
COMPARATIVE HEALTH STATUS INDICATORS
Low-                                   Middle-
Income                                  Income
Developing                               Developing
Year   Countries   Tanzania  Kenya  Senegal  Countries
GNP per
Capita (US$)  1979       240         260      380      430       1,420
Infant
Mortality
Rate          1979       160        n.a.      91      147          94
Life
Expectancy
at Birth      1979        51         52       55       43          61
Access to
Safe Water
(%)           1975       25          39       17       37          58
Daily per
Capita Calorie
Supply as %
of Require-
ment          1977        96          89      88       95         109
Source:  World Development Report, 1981.



- 38 -
ANNEX 2
T-2
MORTALITY--SENEGAL 1978
A. Causes of Death by Major Groups of Diseases
Neonatal mortality                                      29.8
adrA parasitic diseases                     25.9
Cardiovascular diseases                                  5.0
Malnutrition                                             4.4
Accidents and injuries                                   4.2
Respiratory diseases                                     3.9
Gastrointestinal diseases                                3.0
Delivery and complications                               2.0
Other causes defined                                     5.3
Other causes ill-defined or unknown                     16.5
100.0
B. Mortality by Age Group
Age Group                      No. of Deaths                 X
0-1 year                          6,593                     41.2
1-4  "                            2,542                     15.9
5-14 "                            1,313                      8.2
15-54                             3,608                     22.5
.-<. t.u;7rI                     1,960                     12.2
TOTAL                           16,016                    100.0
Source: Ministry of Public Health, Dakar, 1980.



- 39 -                                       ANNEX 2
T-3
GEXNA C DISEMTMI(CN OF MINIStY OF HEALIH PESSL   BY REIN, 1981
Dacar &                                     Senegal     Sine
Category           Cap-Vert  Casamnce   Diourbe    FleFle   Oriental  Saloum   Thies  Itug   1TTAL
Professionals
Physiciais                80            8          8        14          3         8       11       4     137
Pharmacists                6            2          2         1          -         1        -       -       12
Dentists                   7            -          -         1          -         1        1       -       10
Techzlogists
Technicien superieur
in rwrsing              15            2          2         2         -          -        2       1      24
Certifiedmrrses          168           96         45        54         34        57       57      21     532
Midwives                 113           16         15        20          6        27       36      10     243
Tebhnicien suFrieur
In dentistry             -           -           -         -         -          -        -       -       -
Technicien sueperieur
In sanitaticm            4           8           5         4         6         26        3       3      59
Techdtciams
Registered nrses         339          123         51       111         64       107       85      52   1,136
Social workers            63           -           -         -         -          -        2       -      65
Sanitation tecmiciarw
Lab tecmicians            20            -          -         1          -         4        2       -       27
X-Ray technician          17            -          -         -          -         1        1       -       19
Amdliary Personrl
Practitioners            238           28         20        32         10        56       58      14     456
Orderlies                210           10         10        35          4        23       33       4     329
Practical midwives         5           16          6         2         6         32        5       7      89
Services
Workers                  290           35         21        26         11        43       25      16      337
Drivers                   55            -          3        11          -         -        7       1      77
1,630         344        188       284        144       386      328      133
Source: Ministry of Public Health.



- 40 -
ANIEX 2
T-4
SENRDAL
FUNCMI4AL DISJYON OF HEALTH MA R BY TYPE OF FACILIY (R SEICE, 1981
Public Service
Teachirg   National   Regional
Private      or      Hospitals  Hospitals   Health  Health
Practice    IDH      & Services  & Services  Centers Posts   TLt
Professionals
Physicians            130         77         73         33          36       -       349
Pharmacists            70          8         6           4           -       -        88
Dentists               19          1          1          -           -       -        21
Technologists
Technicien superieur
in tirsing            -         10         7           8           -       -        25
Certified nurses        -         -         192         89          63     212       556
Midwives                -          8        320         69          61       -       458
Technicien superieur
in dentistry               -          -          -           -         -             -
Technicien superieur
i saritation          -          4         8          19          31       -        63
Technicians
Registered nurses      83          -       377         302         151      274    1,187
Social workers          -          1        61           4           2       -        68
Sanitation technicians  -         -          -           -           -       -         -
Lab tecnicians         17          -        45          19           8       -        89
X-ray technicians       -          -         16          7           1       -        24
Adzliary Persormel
Practical nurses        -          -        209        180         144      142      675
Orderlies               -          -       191          62         10B      70       431
Practical midwives      -          -         -          36          22       57      115
Services
Workers                 -          -        183        111          53      12)      467
Chauffeurs              -          -        67          45          32       -       144
319       109      1,756         988        712      875    4,759
Source: Ministry of Public Health regional reports.



- 41 -
ANNEX 2
T-5
SENEGAL
SOCIETE INDUSTRIELLE PEARMACEflTIQUE DE L'OEUST AFRICAIN
(SIPOA)
Performance and Financial Indicators
1976     1977      1978      1979     1980
Ratio of Gross Profit to Turnover                47       52        51        48       49
Ratio of Inventory to Turnover          X        39       49        53        34       54
Ratio of Export to Total Turnover       %        34       45        45        47       41
Ratio of Net Profit to Turnover         %        -5     -0.2         9         4        6
1 /
Ratio of Net Profit to Equity           %      NJE   - N,'E        N/E        26       15
Term Debt/Equity Ratio                  X      NWE       N/E       N/E    26/18    25/22
1/   N/E - Negative Equity.  Net equity was negative in the first
5 years due to early losses and a low initial share capital
of only CPAF 60 million.
Source: Government of Senegal



42 -
ANNEX 2
T-6
EMCAL
fotdl Recurrent Expenditure on Health
(in thousands of CFAF)
19"            1978           1979           1960             198l
Cestral Governent !xnenditure
iflastry of Realch Budget                          5,369,908       6,133.799     6,572,014      6,698,202      6,890,380
Special ludget for Civil                           1,040,000       1,240,200     1,240,200      1,240,242      1,201,240
State Contribution to Rousing and
ItAdn   Lties of Foreign Techuical Assistants      352,890         352,840       541,320        541,320        601,200
Ulitary Forces                                       276,000         276,000       278,000        124,000        220,000
Pftstions Rumain*                                       -              2,108         2,808          S,019          8,019
Osivirsity of Dakar, Faculry of Medicine and
raaxmacy  ~ ~  ~      ~     ~     ~     -       -                      -          160,000o164,431
S ecal Security                                       S9,146         102,427       166,158        1752748
_1315  -   -   -   50,000  _  50,000
Total                                         7,127,944      8,008,074      8,800,600      9,093,528    10,115,270
Local Government Ezienditure
irbas Comunes                                        6",571          9,3851      1,107,557      1,143,498        954,073
Rural Ceoiunes                                          -                             -           225.000        225.000
Total                                           699,571         944,851     1,107,557      1,368,496      1,179,073
PaspublIc Enrterises  Exvenditure
Total                                              -         1,112,454      1,575,625      1,525,061      1,525,061
ftivate Exnenditure
mpoet.of P?arzaceuticals                           2,812,799       3,251,989     ',726,471      5,238,.i4      6,494,920
11.Dpital Prlncipal                                     -                             -         2,074,000      2.294,000
ftivate Doctors                                         -               _             _           562,800        562,800
Private Clinics                                         -              -              -         1,300,000      1,300,000
4'-.m1xy Participation                                 -               -             -           350,000        425,000
Total                                          2,812,799      3,251,989      4,726,471      9,425,424    11,076,720
External Contributions
Rilateral Funds                                   3,383,833       3,727,095      3.169,330     3,144,133       3,563,328
!oltilateral Funds                                   173,230        lM3,%5         1e&,ee        260,077         222,483
Other                                                580,000.       606,097        696.297       696.297         745.068
Total                                        4,137,063       4,486,757      4,050,511     4,070,507       4.530,879
Total Expenditure                            14,477,377     20,804,125    20,980,765    25,483,018       28,427,003
Source: Government of Senegal



SENEGAL
FINANCTAL SITIIAT'ION OF IIEAI.TII COtMtEKS
19B00a1
(in thousands of CFAF)
31              3/                             benegal         Sline
Cap Veit      C. Ciwassiance    Diourbel      Fleuve    Oriental        Saloum       Thloa       LOURa       Total
Receipts                   53,734         14,145            9,241       6.359       5,945        18,666      20.086        3,678    131,854
Expendtture                50,240.          7,551           4,958        2,058        -           8,859      11,186        1.798      86,650
Treasury Account             3,514          6,694           4,283        4,301        -           9,811       8,900        1,880      45,204
Starting Ditte            Jan 1981      Aug-Oct 80        Asg 80       Pec 50      Nnv 80        Nov 80      Aug 80       Oct 80
Audit Date                Hiar 1981       t1ar 81          Nov 80       May 81     Apr 81        Feb 81      Dec 80       Jai) 81
Receipts Extralated
to  itle Wlbole Year     96,952         27,526          21,276       13,407      11,631        74,664      60,258       14,712    245,762                4
Source;  (1) 11nstlaLere do le Seiote Pibtlique, D11PSg (11) Consultatlon uith, adicins Chefs of Casawance, Tusei, and Fietive.
1/ Note that there is a great diversity in reporting of data accuracy between regions. Most figures used are
expected to be takenurder estimated actual receipts.
/ Eikine circonscription started in 1978.
3/ In Casamance, actual receipts are believed to be much higher and increasing; the probable yearly receipts are
expected to be CFAF 10 million.
It3l



- 44 -
ANNEX 2
T-8
SENEGAL
TOTAL EXTERNAL CONTRIBUTION  TO THE HEALTH  SECTOR
(in thousand of CFAF)
M77          1978         1979         1980         1981         1982
~Francw b/          2,597,900   2,764,500   2,452,000   2,639,000   2,333,775   2,290,000
Belgium-/                          257,484       324,581      319,652      533,032      270,871
c/Kand-                      45,090       4,S71        45,360       14,855       13,582
VWA-                    92,433       56,521       71,436       75,121      326,666      205,306
;iad,/ a              563,500      563,500       241,742         -            -            -
Switz land                                                                 113,000      113,000
ItalyIh/                                                                   270,000       70,COQ
8razil-3                                                                   180,000      180,00c
Cermany-                90,000
404,000       40,000       35,000       35,000       35,000       35,000
Sub-Total         3,383,833   3,7Z7,095   3,169,330   3,114,133   3,563,328   3,377,759
Xultilateral
Fonds Europeam de
Developpament                                               57,000       41,000       264,000
WHO                     70,980       77,740       86,500       99,964       80,557      106,110
UNICEF                102.250        76,82        98384       103.13       100,926       69.293
Sub-Total           173,230      1.53,S65     184,884      260,077      222,483      439,20_
Others-/
Catholic MIssions    580,000       600,000      684,000      684,000       720,000      744,000
Follereaau         6_07                          12,297        12,297       25,068       58.078
Total             4,137,063   4,486,757   4,050,511   4,070,507   4,;30,879   4,619,040
Government of Same-
gal s contscbution
to housing and in-
deazitea for foreign
technical assistants  352,840       352,840      541,320      341,320      601,200      661,320
a/ France: includes investment. research, Inscitut Pasteur, technical assistance.
bl  Belaium: includes technical assistance, aid to Pikine, Matam, and Leprosy Inst'tute.
c/ Holland: inc.ludes aid to primary health care, as well as the BOPP, and other nicro
projects as well as the Guedia Saye Canter.
d/ USA: includes USAZD project in Sine Saloum (as well as the Peace Corps concribution),
and the population project du& in 1981/82.
e/ Canada: includes aid to tha Pediatry Pavillion of Farn hospital and the bossas
project.
f/ Switzerland: includes COAF 350 million linc of credic for 234 health posts to be
built during 1981-83.
L/  ttaly  $3 million line of credit at 8Z, 20 years, 2 years grace period, for
43 ambulances and as yet undetarmined aumber of small vehicles as well as medical
equipment.
hB 8razil: $2 million lina of credit to the Government (8Z, 20 years, 5 years grace),
for equipment for 16 health centars and spraying/disinsectizacion equipment.
/  CGrmy: Budgat due to the Heinrich Lubko hospital.
/ China: M'onatary valuation of 1.7 Chinese doctors and nurses done at che average
salar leve.l of Sanegalese doctors, and pharmaceutical inputs.
hi Others: includes only major donors; other smaLler religious and charity inscitutons
vera noc found co be significant and therefore omitted.
Source: World Bank



- 45 -                                     ANNEX 2
T-9
SENEGAL HEALTH PROJECT
Evaluation Criteria and Major Indicators
 ---------    Source of Data----------------
Data Presently   Project
collected by   Evaluation  Special  Medical
Main Indicator                       the MOH        subsystem   Studies  Records
1. Health Status and Family Planning
Indicators (by H.C.)
1.1  Infant mortality                               X
1.2  Perinatal mortality                                            X
1.3  Neonatal mortality                             X
1.4  Child mortality                                X
1.5  Maternal mortality - direct                    X               X
1.6  Maternal mortality - indirect                                  X
1.7  Birth weight                                                   X
1.8  Growth curves in children 0-5                                                        x
1.9  Specific morbidity in selected                                             X
^ diseases used as tracers
1.10 Family Planning Acceptors                                      X
2. Indicators of coverage
2.1  Catchment area of Health Center                                x
2.2  Catchment areas of satellite                                   X
health post
2.3  Intensity of care by stratum                                   X
(5 strata)
2.4 Specific morbidity in selected
diseases, used as tracers,
by stratum (5 strata)
3. Indicators of quality and efficiency of care
3.1  Quality indicators by type of pro-                                         X        X
gram or activity: outpatients, minor
surgery, deliveries, hospitalization
referrals
3.2  Cost indicators                                                X
4. Indicators of utilization of basic drugs
4.1  Epidemiological monitoring                                     X           X        X
4.2  Accounting                                                     X
5. Support to Health Posts and Village Health
5.1 Indicators of transfers from HC to HP
- Training                                                   X
- Budget                                                     X
- Logistics                                                  X
- Drugs                                                      x
- Supervision                                                x
5.2 Indicators of transfers from HP to HC
- Referrals                                                  x           x
- Reports                                                    X
6. Satisfaction
6.1 Satisfaction of consumers
- Villagers (families)                                                   x
- Health committees                                                      x
- Village Health Workers                                                 x
6.2  Health Personnel Attitude Survey                                           x



- 46 -
ANNEX 2
T-10
SENEGAL
HEALTH PROJECT
ESTIMATElD ANNUAL PROJECT COST
(CFA Million)
Total
Base Costs
(USs
1983   1984   1985    1986    1987    CFA   Million)
At HEALTH SERVICES
HEALTH CENTERS                    7.8  283.9 1.153.2   604.9   18.6 2,068.4          6.1
HC STAFF
TRAINING                      48.0   79,9    65.3    56.6   18.3   268.1          0.8
Sub-Total HEALTH SERVICES           55.8  363.8 1,218.5   661.5   36.9 2,336.5          6.9
B. BASIC DRUGS
DEPOT
CGNSTR/RENOV                  88.9  106.0   131.4    15.6   10.2   352,1          1.0
TRAINING OF
PRESCRIPTORS                     -    2.1      2.9      2.9    2.9    10.8        0.0
Sub-Total BASIC DRUGS               88.9  108.0   134.3    18.6   13.1   362,9          1.1
C. HEALTH EDUCATION
PHYSICIAL
FACILITIES                    75,4   69.8    85.4       1.6    1.4   233.5        0.7
-HEALTH ED
TRAINING                       3.5    4.3      2.4        -      -    10.2       0.0
Sub-Total HEALTH EDUCATION          78,9   74.0    87.8       1.6    1.4   243,8        0.7
D. CENTRAL NOPH
DAGE/DRPF/
DHPS                          49,2   22.1    13.8       6.1    6.1    97.3       0.3
STAFF
TRAINING                      33.3   17,4      7.3        -      -    58B0       0.2
PROJECT
MNGT UNIT                    190.2   96.7    75.4   126.7  224.9   713.8         2.1
INFO A
EVAL                          24.2   22.8    16.5       9.5    9.5    82.5        0.2
Sub-Total CENTRAL MOPH             296.9  159.0   113.0   142.2  240.5   951.6          2.8
E. REPAYMENT
PPF                             265.7       -       -        -      -   265,7        0.9
Total BASELINE COSTS                 786.3  704.9 1,553.5   823.9  291.8 49160.5         12,2
Physical Contingencies             15.1   41.8   136.8    62.4    2.7   258.8          0.8
Price Contingencies                41.8  138.8   553.6   393.6  126.7 1,254,4          3.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                  843.2  885.5 2,244.0 19279,9  421,2 5,673.8         16.7
Foreign ExchBnse                  569.0  480,5   890.4   401.4  131.4 2P472.7          7.3



- 47 -
ANNEX 2
SENEGAL.                                                                                 T-11
HEALTH PROJECT
PROJECT COMPONENT COSTS
_(CFA '000)
-A-                    -5                       C--                                                   --
iATHSWRIMS               BAsic NoP           NCATH EmjEUoN                                                                       Phnnical
-             ~~~Contirgenies
NC STAFF    DEPOT    TRAINING OF POYSICIAL. WEA-TM D BAEJIW9I SIW   F  IE            -       II~ N    AY6102
WCALTR CENTERS TPAINING  CONSTW/ENOIJ POESC8IPTUS FACI.ITIE8 TPAINIWG    CN'    TRAINING N UNT  IT   E'a         PP9       Total     I    Aaeot
A. CONTROCTIWI
1.1 KwcaNER
NEU CONTRS                                    984,250.5         -            -           -          -         -          -       -          -        -          - 984,250.5 10.0  90,425.1
SITE EYWLOINT                                                   -    10,109.2             -   0,470.9         -          -        -         -        -          -    18668.1 10.0   1,866.0
LOCAL COST FACTOR                                               -      8,534,4            -         -         -          -        -         -        -          -     8,534.4 10.0     853,4
OFFICES i CWE BOONS , ISC                            -          -                         -  41,244.2         -          -        -         -        -          - 41.244.2 10.0   4,24,4
VALLS. , C288LTION                                   -          -            --  15,863.1                     -          -        -         -        -          -    15,863.1 10.0    195B6,3
Sub-Total NEU CENER                             984020.5           -     18,722.6           -  65,578.2          -          -                  -        -          -  ,68,552.3 10.0  1064855,2
Phresical Cee,tinimncies                      98,425.1          -      1,872,4            -   6,557.8         -          -        -         -        -          -106,8552  0,0           8.0
Price Contingencies                           453,610.4         -      6,300.8            -  24,333.5                                 -                             404.260.8  9,1  44,023,7
Sub-Tote) INCUWNG ENNZNENCIE8                 1,536294.0           -     26,984.8            -  96,469,5         -          -        -         -        -          - 1.659.66.3  9.1 150n07.?
Foreign Exchang                               389,750.0         -      6,980,9            -  24,877,2         -          -        -         -        -          -  421,616,0  9.1  30,328.7
2. LIWIACE CENTERS
ADDITION TO EXISTING FACILITY                 393,152.0         -            -            -         -         -          -        -         -        -          -  393,152.0 10.0  39,315,2
010806118  OF EXISTING FACILITY               256,188.4         -    59,391,6             -         -         -          -        -         -        -          -  315,500.0 10.0  31,558.0
Sub-Total 105061D CENERS                        649,340.4          -    59,391,6             -         -         -          -                  -        -          -708,731.9 10.0  70,873.2
Flneical Contingencies                        64,934.0          -      5,939.2            -         -                             -                                  70,873.2  0.0       0.0
Price Contingencies                           272.889.0         -    20,011.7                                                                                       M,M - -- -    9 .907  9.1  26,627.3
Sub-Total INCLUDING0 CONTOOEIES                 987,163.4          -    85,342.5             -                                                 -        -          -1072,505.8 9.1  97,500.5
Foreign Exchange                             252,202.9          -    22.143.4            -          -         -          -                  -        -          - 274,346.3  9.1   24,9406,
Sub,-Total CONSTRUCTION                          1,633,590.9          -    70,115,2            -  65,570.2          -          -       -          -        -          -1,777,204,2 10.0  177,728.4
Phosicel Contingencies                           163,359.1         -      7.011,5           -   6,557.8          -          -        -         -        -          - 177,728.4  0.0         0.0
Price Contingenies                              726,507.4          -    26,320,5             -  24,333,1-5                      -         -         -                  777,161.5  9.1  70,651,0
.Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCI                  2,523,457.4         -   112,247.2             -  96,469.5                    -        -          -       -          - 2,732,174,1  9.1  240,379.5
Foreign Exchwne                                  641,960.8          -    29,124.3            -  24,877.2         -          -        -          -       -          -695,962.3  9.0  63.269,3
8, FUINITtIRE                                       79,33,3 -3       9,017.2                   -   9,120.7          -14,756,0          -          -        -         - 112,267,2 10.0  11,226.7
Phanic-al ont,ingenies                            7,923.3          -        90.7            -      912,1         - 1,473.6           -         -        -          -    11,226,7  0.0       0.0
Price Continsgenies                              19,264.15                2.249,2           -    1.433,0         -   1277.2         -          -                   - 24,224.0  9.1   2,02.2
5.ub-Total INCLOING CONINGEOIES                     106.531.2         -.    12.212.2           -   11,465.7         - 17,500,8         -          -        -          - 147,717,9  9.1  13,420,9
Foreign Exchange                                 67,706.7          -      7,761,5            -   7,207.1         -  11,27,9          -         -        -          - 93,003.2  9.1  08524.8
C. EG1IPMENT,VEHICLES I
EOOIFNEN                                        299,000.0   5.622,8   109,400.7             -  53,604.7          -20,330.7          -          -1,526,9            -  490,283,6 10.0  49,03.4
CENICLES MID TRUCKS                                     -          -    49.48002            -  23,324.0          -          -        --                 -          -   72,004,2 10.0   7,200.4
INITIAL MATERIAL A0D
SUPPLIES                                             -   48,170.0            -      9,371,3    4,467.7    601.7          -                  -2,343.5            -   65,434,9 10,0    6,423.5
Sub-Totel EQUIPINEMT,VEHICLES I
NATERIOLS                                       299,000.0  54,193,6   15W0.009         9,371.3  61,396,3    681.7  20,330,7          -         -   ,800.4          -636.622,7 10.0  63.662,3
Phasical Contingencies                         29,900.0   5,419.4    15.800,1         937.1   8.139,6      60.2   2,033.9         -              388200,             63,662.3  0.0        0.0
Price CGntingencies                           72,025,5  14,68004      26,979,0      2,971.2  13,624.9      00.5   3,700.9         -         - 736.0             -135.602,5  9.1  12,334.0
Sub-Tntal lINCUING CONTINGENCIES                   402.692,5  74,293.4   201,740.0    12,283.7  102,160.9    830.3  34.903,4           -          -5.004,4            -   31967.6  9.1  71,997.1
Foreign Exchange                                 267,56.2  67,812.5   104,148.8    12,124.9  94,161.0    757.9  31,904,3             -          -4,567.9               763,043,2  9.1  6,9,367.6
D. AMEOITECTORM SERVICES
RNUIIECTURAUEOIIICCING
CONSULTANTS                                   28,327,1          -            -    -          -           -         -         -         -                  -          20,227,1 10.0   2,03.7
NINI.S18Y OF 00160150                            27,264.9          -      4,002.0            - 2,625,1           -          -        -                  -               33.091,9 10.0   3,309.2
Sub-Total ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES                    11,592,0          -      4,002.0           - 2,625.1            -         -        -          -        -         - 62,219.1 10,0     6,221.9
Phesical Contingencies                            5,559.2          -        400.2            -     262,5         -          -        -         -        -          -     6,221.9  0.0       0,0
Price Contingencies                               11,140.1         -      1,024.7           -       00.6         -          -        -         - -  -                   16,973,8 9.1   1,542,1
WubTota1 WIOCOlO  C8NiIEIE                          76,299.7          -      1,426.8            -    ,688.2         -                                                      5-- 0,414,7  9.1   7,761.0
Foreign Excheewe                                 39,201,0          -      2,.793,                1,8.85,-                            -         -        -          -   43,886.5  9.1   2s.9,7



- 48 -                                                              ANNEX 2
T-11
Page 2
SEHEGAL
HEALTH PROJECT
PROJECT COMPONENT COSTS  (cont.)
(CFA '000)
-A-                     -B-                    -C-                              -D -E
HEALTH SERVICES           BASIC DRUGS         HEALTH EDUCATION                  CENTRAL MOPH
-                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Co ntiruertreje
HC STAFF    DEFOT     TRAINING IF FHiSICIAL  HEALTH ED DAGE,DRFF/ STAFF   PROJECT   INFO I REPAYMENT
HEALTH CENTERS TRAINIHG CIASTR/RETVI FRcSCR2FTGRS FACILITIES TRAIhNING    DHFS   TRAINING MGHT UNIT   EvAL       FFF       Total      I    AtouDnt
E. TECH ASSISTANCE AND FELLOWSAIPS
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                    - 102,013.1   102,013.1             -   60,888.8         -  31.806.6 17,082.2  13,019.7 68,O88.8           -   561,072.3  -.o       8.8
ClNSUITING SESUICES                                     -          -            -      1,475.6         -    209.            -       -          -   334.7           -    2,010.4  8.0        8.8
AUDITING AND AMCOUNTING EXPENDITURES                    -          -            -           -          -         -          -       -   12,495.0        -          -    12,405.0  o.o       0.8
FELLOWSHIPS                                             -   2,540.7             -           -          -  6,037.1           - 40,932.7         -        -          -   49,510.4  0.8        0.0
Sub-Total TECH ASSISTANCE AND FELLOWSHIPS                  -  104,553.8   102,013.1       1,475.6  68,888.8  6,246,1  51,006.6 57,934.9  165,514.7 68,343.5           -  62s,097.1  8.8        8.0
Price Contingmcies                                      -  20,73S.2    21,137.9         429.2   7,917.6  1,089,5   9,437.5  7,07S.3   1,385.0 100,814.0                 99,214.3 0.0        8.0
Su-Total INCLUDING CGNTINGENCIES                              125,289.0   123,151.1       1,904.8  7,,926.4  7,335.7  60,444.1 65,013.1  183,B99,8 81,347.5               724,311.4 8.1        0.0
Foreign Exchuoje                                        -  182,843.5   101,356.1       1,567.7  62,489.2  5,381.4   49,746,8 49,190.3  148,439.2 66,58.8           -   587,965.0  8.0       0.0
F. PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY
PROJ PREPARATION FACILITY A                             -          -            -           -          -         -          -       -          -        -  32,308.1   32,300.1 8.8          0.0
PROJ PREPARATION FACILITY B                             -          -                  -           -         -         -         -         -             - 113,899.6  113,899.6  O.0         0.0
NUTRITION PROJECT
PREPARATION FACILITY                                 -                                                                                                  119,524.9  ll,524.9  0.0       080
Sub-Total PROJECT PREFPO TIRN FACILITY            .        -          -            -           -          -         -          -        -                    265,724.6    25,724.6 0.0        08
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                          -          -           -            -          -         -          -       -          -        - 265,724.6  265,724.6  o.o         0.0
Foreign Exchang-e                                                  -            -                                -                                      - 173,743.0  173,743.0  0;.         0.0
S. PREINVESTNENT AND STUDIES
PMEINOESETNT                                            -          -            -           -          -         -          -       - 204,918.0         -          -   204,918i0  8.o       0.0
STUDIES                                                 -          -            -           -          -         -          -       -  13,661.2  1,707,7           -    15,368.9  0.0       0.0
Sub-Totl PREINVESTMENT AND STUDIES                         -          -            -           -          -         -          -       - 218,579.2  1,707.7           -  220,286.9  0.0        0.0
Price Contingencies                                     -          -            -           -          -         -          -       -  84,120.8   568.0                 84,693,8 D.0        0.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES        .                 -          -            -           -          -         -         -        - 312,785.0 2,275.6            -  304,980.7  8.0        8.0
Foreiso Exchanoe                                        -          -            -           -          -         -          -       -  1.3O86,6   852.4            -   114.239.0  0,0       0.0
TDtal INVESTMENT COSTS                              2,068,396.2  158,747.4   322,068.4    10,846.9  226,729.1  6,927.8  94,101.2 57,934.9  3a4,693.9 73,931.5  265,724.6 3,699,501.  7.0  258,839,3
Ptssical Continuencies                             206,139.6   5,419.4    25,885.5         937.1  15,872.0       68.2   4,309.5        -          -   3aa.0           -  258,839.3  8.8        8.0
Price Contitngecies                                831,745.9  35,415.6    77,711.4       3,404.4  48,109.7   1,170.1  14,495,6  7,078.3  182,518,9 14,30B.0           - 1,137,949,8  7.6  86,731,1
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                       3,108,980.8  199,582,4   454,783.3    15,188.4  290,710.7  8,166.0  112,906.3 65,013.1  486,604.8 88,627.5  265,724.6 5,196,291.0  6.8  345,070.4
Foreign Exchange                                 1,116,437.7  170,655.9   325,186.7    13,692.5  190,700.8  6,139.3  92,77908 49,190.3  261,82S.0 72,371.1  173,743.0 2,472,722.2  5.8  145,161.4
11. RECURRENT COSTS
SALARIES,FEES AND ALLONANCES                              -  86,344.0             -           -      999.6  1,851,6   3,213.0    8o.9  169,871,3  8,381.2            -  270,741.7  8.8        0.0
TRANSPORTATION                                            -  22,980.1             -           -   5,813.2   1,430.4           -       -  96,400.7   147.6            -   126,771.9  8.8       o0.
SUPPLIES AND RISC. MATERIALS                              -          -           -            -          -         -         -        -   9,639.0         -          -    9,639.0 8.8         8.8
VEHICLE OPERATION AND MINTINAE                            -          -            -           -          -         -          -        -  5,8017.8        -               53,817.8  0.0       8.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                         -  109,324.1           -            -   6,812.8  3,2a2.0   3,213.0    88.9  328,728.8  8,528.7             -  460,970.3  0.o        8.o
Price CootiougeCies                                        -  25,526.1            -            -    1,768.4    427.9       970.4     7.4  85,589.9  2,203.4           -   116,493.5  0.0       0.0
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                 --134,850.2            -            -   8,581.2  3,7D9.9   4,183.4    a8.4  415,318.6 10,732.1            -  577,463.8 0o.          8.8
Total BASELINE COSTS                                 2,D68,376.2  268,071.5   352,068.4    10,D46.9  233,541.8  10,209.8  97,314.2 5B001S,8  713,822.7 82,460.3  26S,724.6 4,160-472.2  6.2  258,839.3
Ph9sical Contirsercies                              206,839.6   5,419.4    2S,005.5         937.1  15,872.0       68.2   4,309.5        -          -   388.0           -  258,839.3  0.0        8.o
Price Continoeocies                                 833,745,9  60,941.7    77,711.4       3,404.4  49,878.1  1,598.0 1o,466.0  7,085,7 108,10.7 16,511.3               -1,254,443.2  6.9  86,731.1
Total PROJECT COSTS                                  3,1088981.8  334,432.5   454,785.3    15,182.4  299,291.9  11,875.  117,089.7 65,101,5  ?01,923.4 99,359.7  265,724.6 5,673,754.8 6.1  345,570.4
Foreigo Excbhane                                  1,116,437.7  170,605.9   325,186.7    13,692.5  198,780.   6,139.3   2,779.0 49,198.3 261,825.9 72,371.1  1730743C 2,472,722,2  0.s  145,161.4
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~-                        -------------------------    ---m---------------------------m-----    -------



- 49 -
ANNEX 2
T-12
SENEGAL RURAL HEALTH PROJECT
ESTIMATED PROJECT COST BY EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
(US$ Million)
Capital Costs                             Local      Foreign       Total
Construction, renovation
and site development                           3.75         1.48         5.23
Vehicles, equipment,
furniture, materials                           0.29         1.92         2.21
Technical assistance,
fellowships, professional
fees.                                          0.42         1.60         2.02
Preinvestment studies                            0.40         0.25         0.65
Repayment of PPF Advances                        0.27         0.51         0.78
Operating Costs                                  1.35         0            1.35
Total Baseline Costs                           6.48         5.76        12.24
Physical Contingencies                           0.41         0.35         0.76
Price Contingencies                              2.53         1.16         3.69
TOTAL PROJECT COST                             9.42         7.27        16.69



* 30 -
ANNEX 2
SBNRGAT, HEALTH PROICT                                                                    T-13
IWtLEMXNTATION YCHEDULkI  CIVIL WORKS
(Quarters)           Ya-iY               Year    -           e34 i                               Year                 r
1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   5  6           7 8      9   10  11  12  13  14  15  16  17  18  19  20 21  22  23  2
Planned Credit Effectiveness and
Limit of PPF activttie-
Health Centres
Group A
5 Health Centres (new)
1)  Establish  MUHE architectural  XXXXX                                    ....1
t eam                                                                   ...............,..---.2
2)  Sketch Plans, Bank Review                   XXXXX                           ------------
3)  Working Drawings, Tender/                          X XXXXXXXXXXXXXX               .......        ..........-4
Award                                                                         .....               ... =-5
4)  Construction Pertod                .              _----CCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCC _ _Retenti_on_
Group B
4l Health Centres (renovated)
1)  Appoint Consultants                             XXX                                                     6
2)  Sketch Plans, Bank Review                            XXXiXXX                               ............   . 8
3)  Working Drawings, Tender/                                      XXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Award                                                                                                 . ... I......... *., -9 
4)  Construction Contract Period. A_                           t      -                    CCCCCCCCCCCCCCCC LCCCCCCCCCCCCCC :CCC               Re tent on
Pharmacy Component
A. Renovation of regional depots and
warehouses
1)  Sketch Plans, Bank Review                                 XXXXXX                                                                   E
2)  Working Drawings, Tender/ !                                           XXX                                                          toa
AwardXXXX  tX
3)  Contract                                                                     CCCCCCCCCCC CCCo
Health Education Centre - Dakar                                     i
1)  Sketch Plans, Bank Review                                iXXXXXXX                                                                  01
2)  Working Drawings, Tender/                                          XXX,XXXXXXX 
Award                                                 i                                                                                                       '4
3)  Contract                                                                c___c._        CCCCCCC CCCC_ etention   _                ..
Source: IDA.
Note: Expected date of effectiveness: March 1983.
Expected date of project completion: December 1987.
Expected closing date: December 1988.
Xey:  -==-       ====:  Construction period for individual health center.
CCCCCCCCCCCCC: Construction period for entire component or subcomponent.
_Retention_   Retention or Guarantee period after construction.
XXXKXXXXXXXXXX: Time period for completion of specified task.



SENEGAL HEALTH PROJECT
TRAINING COMPONENT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
PreProject                                        Project Life (Quarters)
(Quarters)      Year 1           Year 2            Year 3            Year 4           Year 5           Year 6
Program or Activity               1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9   10  11  12  13  14  15  16  17  18  19  20  21  22  23  24
1.  Strengthening of the DRPF
-Training of staff of Central
and Regional levels                       XXXXXXX|XXXXXXxXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXXxX
-Preparation of training
programs                              XXXXXXXXXXX XXXXX
-Preparation of teaching                           I
materials                              XXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXX
2.  Training of Health Center Staff
-Courses for Circumscription                       l
Medical Officers                                       X X X            X X X             X X X            X X X           X X X
-Refresher courses for Health
Center cadres
MDs                                                      X         X        X
Midwives                                                   X         X        X
Nurses                                                       X         X       X
-Inservice training for support
staff                                                                          XXX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXX
-Continuing education
Preparation of programs                                     XXX XXXXXXXXXXX
Production of materials                                         XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Implementation of programs                                                       XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXXX
3.  Improvement of Basic Training                                       XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXXX



- 52 -
ANNEX 2
T- 15
Page 1
SENEGAL
PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY ADVANCES
A. Health
Activity             Types of Expenditures               Cost (US$)
First
Advance:  - Analysis of        Consulting fees, operating
Drug Procurement  expenses                                50,000
- Inventory of       Consulting fees, operating
Existing Health   expenses
Infrastructure                                            25,000
- Analysis of In-   Consulting fees, operating
-Service Training  expenses
Requirements                                              20,000
TOTAL:                                                                95,000
Second
Advance:  - Start-up expen-   Soil study, site development,
ditures for        reviewing of architectural
construction      bids                                   195,000
- Start-up expen-   Equipment, furniture, supplies,
ditures for Pro-  vehicle maintenance, fuel,
ject Management   utility installation and ini-
Unit and contin-  tial fees, salaries
gencies                                                   68,000
- Setting up of      Technical Assistance
accounting system
for PMU and
auditing of PNA                                           25,000
- Overseas train-   Trainers' fees, transportation,
ing in             allowances, materials
pharmaceuticals                                           25,000
- Personnel/         Technical Assistance
Planning
Administration                                             8,000
- Revision and       Technical Assistance
finalization of
project document                                           8,000



- 53 -
ANNEX 2
T-15
Page 2
- Training study    Transportation, Allowances
by Div. of
Statistics                                              6,000
TOTAL:                                                             335,000
B. Nutrition
- Preparation of    Consulting fees, operating
project           expenses
document                                              260,000
- Baseline          Transportation, allowances
surveys           materials                            91,500
SUBTOTAL                                                         351,500
TOTAL for Health and Nutrition                                   781,500



- 54 -
ANNEX 2
T-16
SENEGAL
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US$million)
Fiscal Year/           Disbursements     Cumulated      Cumulated      Undisbursed
Quarter               Per Quarter        Amount                        B Balance
FY83
September 30, 1982          -
December 31, 1982 /1        -                 -
March 31, 1983             0.78              0.78 /2                        14.22
June 30, 1983              0.10               .88            6%             14.12
FY84
September 30, 1983         0.12              1.00                           14.00
December 31, 1983          0.20              1.20            8%             13.80
March 31, 1984             0.35              1.55                           13.45
June 30, 1984              0.55              2.10           14%             12.90
FY85
September 30, 1984         0.66              2.76                           12.24
December 31, 1984          0.76              3.52           23%             11.48
March 31, 1985             0.83              4.35                           10.65
June 30, 1985              0.99              5.34           36%              9.66
FY86
September 30, 1985         1.11              6.45                            8.55
December 31, 1985          1.12              7.57           50%              7.43
March 31, 1986             1.21              8.78                            6.22
June 30, 1986              1.18              9.96           66%              5.04
FY87
September 30, 1986         1.14             11.10                            3.90
December 31, 1986          1.13             12.23           81%              2.77
March 31, 1987             0.99             13.22                            1.78
June 30, 1987              0.60             13.82           92%              1.18
FY88
September 30, 1987         0.45             14.27                            0.73
December 31, 1987 /3       0.21             14.48           97%              0.52
March 31, 1988             0.16             14.64                            0.36
June 30, 1988              0.14             14.78           99%              0.22
FY89
September 30, 1988         0.12             14.90                            0.10
December 31, 1988 /4       0.10             15.00          100%              0.00
/1  Expected date of effectiveness:  January 1983.
/2  Disbursements from PPF advance.
13  Expected date of project completion.
/4 Closing date.



saQJ nI0f   JoISOlOwif q,
~~00~0~)  PISOOl.,:: V~~~~Sa,~S  0W~~IA  01101                 IloploId                  1~~~~OIP, OIlqm    foy nao,im  I
4001,A ao0o( V2tL          fl001.
IPV.v al'0 =101up 
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0001 r10 .,W   t0W1 -1
t   !  0  Wt  -  t  r , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OIV-Iamgz
,<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0100 00135014
ss~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1001 1010                                                                                                                         101 1100 005                                                                             3010
050 ~ ~    ~     ~    ~     ol 1q10l4f 711                                                                              000104
011031010 ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ n  mg0011
1010V111 001,10         _           11  w11r,5s 51041,141,   qIT                                  M- TOVV                                               W
vmysl:^ld  Val:W ~~~~~~~ WlAlazqW fgSrddV7 ff- aafaL iwO~11101130
0000V  01IOW01  10010051                      101501001 0J0II0000011                     111111                                                                                    P0110P00 1011001301 -lm eu                                000101,f 
ambA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10uI LssId lo- (w1l                                                               qnfe)41"5_'00m fW R fV014 1f00r013 9p f n
&~~~~~~~~~00021204111,1   34                                                                                                                                     ISV U-II OWIGfflslwm-fl.qmT       lf 119STf'>E01wf 910100fS
011, ibTfHTw  1,2   f fm f b l00            .Q19'000   10mm1,11                                     15001                                                                              00f _ 1005011        f       9             VIsOl 001001011
Wn                                                       s      9<q9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(00   50)4S a                                      1015 01 Il-S 100100005                                                                                                                 09 .na pafWzzszOf                           zym  pAs116A100110100  10511   01 fe0013-wlWf  m    q
|   2aSsefilEv[el2sElsOlwfs- r- _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4035 4000r1,
al~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~000105   101110                                                                                10550, 10044 400                       1010  0500r1110,103                                                                                      100501                          01:0 501 00,:1 r11
01110054~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ lIle 40  1050
-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(j, --I oloo11lIb
1,01141  001SV   '5'S8o:,31,101  0                                                                                           ooajs50000004                                    1101 510                               101011V   0l010100100101011101                                                            -I0100l00140
0011050,:5101040  0011
(I', ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~m    ff!)  101111040 01001
05054-0041~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~I 00101l070511                     AaSql
lv x.zas w: DI e             01I01d



- 56 -
ANNEX 2
C-2
SENEGAL; STRUCTURE OF PUBLIC HEALTH SYSTEM
Administrative Ldvel: NATIONAL
CENTRAL MINISTRY OF PUBLIC HEALTH                                                     Key:
no         University hospital
Fl   Hospital
0          Health center
J1   jufl0 X1__A                                                                                                                                       Maternity
Nationel Hospitals i4)                                                           0          Health post
Le Daneec iuniversity hospital)
Authority  Hospital Infrastructure                                               Fann (University hospital)                                                                  Village pharmacy
Directorate (MOH)                                                    Principal                                                                                    Health hut
Thiaroye tPsychiatric hospical)
Administrative Level: REGIONAL                                                                                                              MOH
Regional
Regional Hospital (8s                                                           O ffice iai
Existing: (6 + 11                                                              One in Each
St Louis. Thi*, Diourbel,                                                         Region
Kaolack, Ziguinchor.
Ourossogue, Ndiou.m,I1/
Authority; Medical Region                                 Under Construction: (2)
(Chief Medical Officeri                       Louga, Tembacounda
Administrative Level: DEPARTMENTAL
Health Centers (36l
_a----------Maternal/Child Health Care Centers
Authority: Medical Circumscription
(Doctor)                                                                                                                     Matarnities (661
Administrative Level: ARRONDISSEMENT
Health Pots
(404 public + 88 privatel
/                     F Plus--In Sine Saloum and
/        \                         Casamance:
/                             Rural M8 ternities:
Authority. Nurse                                                                                                                          60 In Sine Saloum
/                \                 24 in Casamance
=  t3      lVillage Pharmacies:
76 In Sine Saloum
14 in Casemance
Authoritv  Community Council                                          -                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Heaelth Huts:
Authority: Community Council                                                                                                               600 foreseen in the country
2/Ndioum hospital functions as a subregional hospital in Fleuve Region.
Norld Bank-23807



- 57 -
ANNEX 2
C-3
SENEGAL
HEALTH PROJECT
Project Management Organization Chart
Minister of
Public Health
Weekly Ministerial
Coordination Meeting
of Department and
Technical Advisors
Cabinet
Director
._____ I____. _____              Ministry  of
Urbanism,
_______ _______ ______ Project                         Habitat  end
Manag ment Unit       _  _ _        Environment
Director
|Medical Officer/ |
D   Technicat Doirector
Generrl Adm|  |ee ,Admini strator/    Dg                                          DrugS
Architect   Procurement                               TanrCo mponent
l          ~~~Officer                                                Advisor               dso
|ICentral Directorates)                       -    -    -    ;-                
Director of                             Dieteserch,              Procurement of                          Director of   || Director of |
Genratio admnid                           Resanninhan              Drug Supplies                           Pharmacy              Hygiene and 
strat ion and                          Planning and                and MedicalHelhPoctn
Equipment                                Training                  Equipment
Source: IDA                                                                                                                     World Bank-23942



- 58 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
SENEGAL HEALTH PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. Reports and Studies Related to the Sector
A.1 Senegal: Key Health Sector Issues and Development Constraints,
November 1981.
A.2 A Study of the Financing of the Health Sector in Senegal,
November 1981.
A.3 Senegal: First Health Project--Sector Background Information.
A.4 Analyse des donn6es sanitaires et proposition de la "Composante
Sante" susceptible d'8tre integr6e au projet integr6
d'alimentation et nutrition au Senegal (PANS), Consultant's
Report prepared by Dr. C. Ralinoro, 1980.
A.5 Contribution du Senegal a la Conference - Atelier Inter-Pays sur
les soins de Sante Primaires, Ministere de la Sant6 Publique,
Dakar, Fgvrier 1981.
B. Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B.1 Proposed Document for an IDA-Financed Health Project, Ministry of
Public Health, Dakar, July 1981. Mimeographed.
B.2 Functions of a Model Health Center, Chart prepared by Ministry of
Public Health, Dakar, May 1981.
B.3  Etude des Fonctions Administratives de la Pharmacie Nationale
d'Approvisionnement, Consultant's Report prepared by SECFFA -
SEN, Dakar, June 1981. Mimeographed.
B.4 Etude sur les Opgrations Techniques de la Pharmacie Nationale
d'Approvisionnement (PNA) du Senegal et sur les Caracteristiques
techniques des Dep8ts Regionaux, Consultant's Report prepared by
Prof. G. Le Moan, May 1981.
B.5 Etude des Rgseaux de Distribution des M6dicaments, Consultants's
Report prepared by Dr. L. Robineau, May 1981.
B.6 Projet de Sant6, Banque Mondiale, Composante des Medicaments,
Consultant's Report prepared by Dr. Mohammed El Fekih, December
1981.
B.7 Technical Assistance Draft Terms of Reference for Establishment
of Accounting System and Audit of PMU and PNA.



- 59 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
C. Staff Working Papers
C.1 Back-to-Office Report outlining the Functional Requirements
of the Proposed Health Centers.
C.2 Working papers on the Proposed Training and Evaluation
Components.
C.3 Civil Works and Architect's Briefs.
C.4 Equipment List.
C.5 Detailed Cost and Disbursement Estimates.






IBRD 16182
FORMER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MARCH, 19822
SPAN SH SEEm RAI       -,    ALGER A            'M    A    U                                                                                                     R     I    T     A     N     I   A                                          SENEGAL
MAUEIITALA A                                                              OLE    A'                                                                                                                                        HEALTH  PROJECT
L M A  I    N2 IIGER  ;         /      i                          TARP                                                                                                                                                   I. ' FAFAAFAA
SENEGAL      ^J , ;-                          i                                                                                                                                                                                                  .  d b P
GUINtA-  >         "N    j  9OT                             K                                                                                                                                                  I                            fE R  HA I,A > "*<_A T  oRnwae  yP
SIERRA            ORE                 A                                                                                                                                                                                                     R
EfERIE, 
N <                                   0           \  rRP()RooaCpts
-9 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~-
E.AEAJ'          L'R9A A~                                     <FLIAJ'FA                                                           -C   I C                                                             ED  40 RE  S   7
Lpupout WouramR < Dznrs < j i j >> K C>METERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K~~ETER
~~q- R -
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
D A ,,,h OAARC              i I  't 0t R        o  o e     /'                                                     * *  -\                                *?                                             
B A N J U L E R RiG                                                                                  / ,'  
Xjf~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                                                                                                                             A  A2A                         T9no    M       A       LI
Nr'anr?;'2s' -AYt *   <   r  *  w   YaE,,         1         i                                                                      .. a',,I
I                                                                                                                         4E$-'   - '-  -   - -.-                                                   I,,
AL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
G   U I   N                         E0
; nokone Y~~~~ M                        Ai>  )N '   :ndS 2 R   , -      _      (    _  A        /  
&~ 0*                           '                                                                                     10 -2elg                                                                                            
2R    z       e                          /            --*                 -                               *                                                                              A  \    .-) 
R9A _)                                           -A :-N ,;                                                                                                                           A  '0,),  J. k %0-
*s L






________________________________   ____________________________________     ___________                                                                                                        IBRD   16326~~~~~~~~~~IB-R   1632
MARCH 1NH?
SOAN'9 AI,HHAAAACOA'N*t                                                                                            O                A    RTNA                                                                            SENEGAL
MAP TAN~A                                                            S-RO AN                                  4AH~-                                                                                    HEALTH PROJECT
___                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HEALTHICENTERS  _
ENAMEJA~ ~ ~~PE                                                                                                                                                                                       N.,AA.I\y~-    FAoo --AOA         Pooooo
-'N -                                                                                                                                         DR.;? CEROTS                - 0, AO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D.JEEP)5
vS 6.  ,--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  . o                                                                   I     ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      -
H At CAN A  ~~~~~~~~~                               goie                                                                                                                                        A-                        R-, '.  4
A  0                                                                             A'. AL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    NA-  S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IooPo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"I00
'                                                                           V~~~~~~~~~~6
OJNA                          C                                                                                                                                             '
--    /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~        
AAJOOApO     /   -             iP   ~    P -                                                                                           & ~A~                         0   0202405060   N
EAADA-AE1   ~ ~ i~~AN                  'NAA    '                                                                                                                                   AtONED 0'i
ERA',-? A-OO,?     /   JUL  7G
-,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~6 
Ev    
N  'A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                           
<-7>                                                                          go~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



