Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3420-SE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$15.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR A
RURAL HEALTH PROJECT
November 29, 1982
This doeumewt    a restited dtiution and may be used by recipients nly in the _t  Of
thekr .ffieit 4tes. Its eotents may nt otherwise be discosed witot Word Rank d'



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:      CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1.00             = CFAF 340 1/
CFAF 1 million      = US$2,940
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
MCH                 Maternal and Child Health
MOPH               Ministry of Public Health
MUHE               Ministere de l'Urbanisme, de l'Habitat et de
1'Environnement
PMU                Project Management Unit
PNA                 Pharmacie Nationale d'Approvisionnement
PPF                 Project Preparation Facility
SIPOA              Societe Industrielle Pharmaceutique de l'Ouest Africain
DAGE                Directorate for General Administration and Equipment
DRFP               Directorate for Research, Planning and Training
DHPS                Directorate for Hygiene and Health Protection
FISCAL YEAR:
July 1 - June 30
1/ The CFA Franc (CFAF) is tied to the French Franc (FF) at the ratio of FF 1
to CFAF 50.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
RURAL HEALTH PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:     Republic of Senegal
Amount:       SDR 14.2 million (US$15.0 million equivalent)
Terms:        Standard IDA
Project
Objectives    The project would help the Senegalese Government improve the
and           health status of the rural population by providing a strong
Description:  referral and technical support system directed at village-
level primary health care activities. Nationwide in scope,
the project would (a) strengthen basic health services;
(b) support the in-service training needs of health person-
nel; (c) improve the supply and utilization of basic drugs;
(d) develop health education services; and (e) strengthen
the capability of the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) to
plan, implement, and evaluate the effectiveness of primary
health care activities.
Benefits and
Risks:        The project would yield benefits by providing better health
care services in general, and maternal and child health in
particular, to a large segment of the rural population which
is now severely under-served.  Family planning services,
hitherto limited to the capital city, would be extended to
health centers in rural areas. The project would also sup-
port Government's attempt to promote cost recovery in the
health sector by offering the rural population better ser-
vices in return for their financial participation. A
probable risk stems from the fact that past implementation
performance of MOPH has not always been satisfactory. There
is also a probable risk that linkages will remain weak
between project-financed regional facilities and village
level health services. By strengthening the MOPH's
planning, implementation, and evaluation capability, the
proposed project includes appropriate measures to reduce
these risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- iij -
Estimated
Project Cost: 1/
Local     Foreign      Total
------(US$ Millions)------
A. HEALTH SERVICE STRENGTHENING AND TRAINING
a -  Health Center Infrastructure              3.7         2.4         6.1
b -  Training Health Personnel                 0.4         0.4         0.8
4.1        2.8         6.9
B. BASIC DRUGS
a -  Warehouse Construction/Renov.             0.3         0.8         1.0
b -  Training of prescribers                   0.0         0.0         0.0
0.3        0.8          1.1
C. HEALTH EDUCATION
a -  Physical Facilities                       0.2         0.5         0.7
b -  Health Education Training                 0.0         0.0         0.0
0.2        0.5         0.7
C. CENTRAL MOPH
a -  DAGE/DRPF/DHPS                            0.1         0.2         0.3
b -  Staff Training                            0.0         0.1         0.2
c -  Project Management Unit                   1.5         0.6         2.1
d -  Information evaluation                    0.1         0.2         0.2
1.6        1.2         2.8
E.  REFINANCING PPF                                 0.3         0.5        0.8
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                                            5.8        12.2
Physical Contingencies                    0.4         0.4         0.8
Price Contingencies                       2.5         1.1         3.7
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                9.4         7.3        16.7 2/
Financing Plan
IDA Credit                                         7.7         7.3        15.0
Government of Senegal                               1.7        -            1.7
TOTAL                                     9.4         7.3        16.7
1/   Net of identifiable taxes and duties.
2/   Total may not add due to rounding.



- iii -
Estimated Schedule         FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89
of Disbursements:          -- ------------US$ Million-----------------
Annual                0.88    1.22   3.24   4.62   3.86   0.96   0.22
Cumulative            0.88   2.10   5.34   9.96  13.82  14.78  15.00
Economic Return:           N.A.
Project Completion Date: December 1987
Staff Appraisal Report:   Report No. 4003-SE dated November 15, 1982
Maps:  - IBRD No. 16182
- IBRD No. 16326



I



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL FOR
A RURAL HEALTH PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Devel-
opment Credit to the Republic of Senegal for the equivalent of SDR 14.2 mil-
lions (US$15.0 million) to help finance a Rural Health Project.  The Credit
would be on standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       A report entitled "The Economi c Trends and Prospects of Senegal"
(1720a-SE) was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 10, 1980,
followed by a President's Report for a Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit
(P-2869a-SE) dated November 26, 1980, which contained an expanded section
on the economic situation. Since approval of the Structural Adjustment
Loan/Credit, a series of supervision missions have visited the country to
monitor execution of the program. The following paragraphs reflect the
conclusions of those missions. Country data appear in Annex I.
Economic Structure and Past Developments
3.       Three-quarters of Senegal's territory lies in the Sahel zone, which
suffers from low rainfall and periodic droughts. The mainstay of the tradi-
tional economy is millet cultivation and nomadic cattle-raising for domestic
consumption, and groundnut cultivation for exports. The modern sector of the
economy is concentrated in Dakar, the capital, a city of about one million in-
habitants, the economic base of which consists of excellent port facilities,
an important industrial sector, and a small but fast-growing tourism indus-
try. With a population of 5.8 million in mid-1981, Senegal's per capita GNP
for 1981 was estimated at US$500.
4.       During the 1960s, the Senegalese economy experienced virtual stagna-
tion as real output increased at a rate estimated at 2.7 percent per annum,
hardly more than the rate of population growth. With Independence, Senegal
lost its privileged position as the center of French West Africa, and subse-
quently had to adapt to its reduced economic, administrative, and political
circumstances. Moreover, in the latter part of the decade, income from
groundnuts (the principal export) fell, due to unfavorable weather and de-
clining export prices.
5.       In the 1970s, Senegal's narrow-based export sector was again hit by
sharp fluctuations, and even with higher rates of both private and public in-
vestment, average annual growth did not rise above the level of the previous
decade. After recovery from the earlier droughts, real GDP increased at about
5 percent a year between 1973 and 1977, but between 1977 and 1981 it declined
by 2 percent a year, reflecting the effect of three severe droughts during



- 2 -
this period. 1982 is expected to show a recovery from the previous depression
with 10 percent GDP growth. Reports on the present growing season are excel-
lent. which could substantially improve Senegal's chances to overcome its
present economic difficulties.
6.        The large fluctuations in physical production were aggravated by the
price movements of Senegal's major exports and imports. In 1974, the terms
of trade improved by over 21 percent because of exceptionally high prices for
phosphate rock, Seregal's second export commodity; however in 1975 export
prices for groundnuts declined sharply, followed in 1976 by a drop in export
prices for phosphate rock; increases in oil and rice prices brought a further
deterioration in the terms of trade, causing a total loss in income between
1974 and 1982 of roughly 6 percent of GDP. This deterioration in terms of
trade, together wi+h the unsatisfactory performance of the economy as a whole,
led Government to develop an economic and financial stabilization program that
was launched in 1980. This program was informally but extensively discussed
with the Bank and the Fund, and was the basis for an agreement on the purchase
of US$243 million equivalent under the IMF Extended Facility approved by the
IMF Board in August 1980, and a US$60 million Structural Adjustment
Loan/Credit (SAL) approved by the Bank's Board on December 18, 1980. The
global objectives of the Government's program were to stabilize the economy
during the first two years of the five-year Plan period, and to achieve a
modestly higher rate of economic growth of 4 percent a year in the following
three years.
Execution of the Structural Adjustment Program
7.        The structural adjustment program had a slow start as a result of the
change in Government in early 1981, and also because of a record low 1980/81
crop, and steep increases in the price of imported rice. The new Government
reaffirmed the general objectives of the program, but during its first year
in office, chose to focus on the economic and financial crisis caused by the
bad crop. Some of the measures and policies adopted by the new Government
contradicted the objectives of economic stabilization and structural reform
undertaken by the previous Government, and the agreed calendar for execution
of the SAL program was not respected (para 9 to 16).  In early 1981, the IMF
suspended Senegal's access to the Extended Fund Facility, to replace it later
in the year with a Stand-by Arrangement to help Government overcome its severe
short-term economic problems. The Bank withheld the release of the SAL second
tranche. Although considerable progress has been made by Government since
1981, to date only the first tranche of the SAL, US$40 million, has been dis-
bursed, pending the implementation of a renegotiated action program in the
agricultural sector.
Balance of Payments
8.        The new balance of payments policies introduced under the rehabili-
tation program were based on strict control of overall demand thTough tax and
consumer price increases, combined with increases in the prices paid for the
major export crops and the introduction of special incentives for manufactured
expor+s (para 9). However, the targeted reduction in the resource gap could
not be achieved mainly because of the 1980/81 drought, and also because of



organizational problems in the agricultural sector.  The fall in groundnut
products exports from a five-year past average of US$220 million to US$94
million in 1980 and US$34 million in 1981, together with exceptionally high
import bills for petroleum, rice, and oil seeds (imported to keep the
factories going), increased the resource gap in 1981 to US$523 million, or
about 21 per,snt of GDP. In 1980 and 1981, Government received exceptional
aid from bilateral and multilateral donors, averaging US$170 million a year.
This was, however, insufficient to avoid a further fall in net foreign assets
by US$78 million, to a level of negative US$463 million at the end of 1981,
financed by IMF for an amount of US$148 million. For 1982 the resource gap is
estimated at 14 percent of GDP. The good rainfall during the 1981/82 growing
season permitted a five-fold increase in the value of groundnut exports,
despite exceptionally low world market prices for vegetable oils. Moreover
the good local cereals crop in this year, combined with measures to contain
urban demand (para 11), are expected to limit overall import growth to about
11 percent in current prices. A second year of good crops may shrink the
resource gap to 12 percent of GDP in 1983. However. with projected imports
for 1983 still at a level of 40% of GDP (as compared to 33 percent in the
early 1970's), further economic adjustment has to be achieved in the coming
years, mainly through strict containment of urban consumption levels, further
import substitution of imported rice, and strong promotion of exports.
Producer and Export Incentives
9.       The structural adjustment program laid the basis for further balance
of payments improvements through an export premium system on certain
manufactured goods. The export premium system has already increased
significantly export and employment levels in the sectors to which it was
app'lied. An extension to 18 other agricultural and industrial branches, as
well as a considerable refinement of the system, will be implemented during
the current fiscal year. In February 1982, after a 31 percent increase in the
official consumer price for imported rice, the Government also completed the
introduction of the basic import duties, although more frequent price
adjustments are required to reflect changes in import costs, mainly related to
the realignment of Franc zone currencies. Senegal's competitive position has
been improved by constraining average wage increases in 1982 to only 10 per-
cent. This is a remarkable performance considering urban cost of living
increases of about 20 percent following the series of value added tax and con-
sumer price increases passed by Government in 1981 and 1982.
Public Finances
10.      The first budget (1980/81) under the new financial and economic
policies respected the 15 percent public savings target set under the struc-
t+ural adjustment program.  However, the economic depression drastically
reduced tax receipts on corporate profits and luxury imports in particular.
On the expenditures side, under pressure of growing unemployment among
graduates from the school system, Government was lax on restraining civil
service growth; after an increase in the wage bill of 36 percent in FY80, it
continued to grow at a rate of 11 percent a year. Moreover, the price
stabilization fund started to generate vast losses. The severe deviations
from the budget estimates put tremendous strain on the Treasury, and it soon



- 4 -
became clear that Government's inability to pay its bills threatened the
stability of the entire economic system. Whereas Government had always given
priority to payment of its external obligations, in mid-1981 it asked the
Paris Club for a rescheduling of publicly held foreign debt, and in October
1981 a rescheduling of US$81 million amortization was agreed. During the same
month, Government also called a donors' conference held to save the core of
the investment program from a complete lack of local counterpart funds.
11.      In accordance with the IMF standby arrangement, subsidies on basic
food and petroleum products were removed by increases ranging from 25 to 60
percent in the Government controlled consumer prices. Other consumer prices
were affected by increases of 1 to 2 percentage points in value added tax, and
of 4 to 12 points for taxes on various services. Government purchases were
reduced to an absolute minimum and IMF credit ceilings respected.  In fact, by
end June 1982, all performance criteria established by the IMF had been met.
But despite satisfactory fiscal performance, it is unlikely that by 1985
Government will be able to finance from its net budgetary savings 25 percent
of its public investment program, the target Government set itself in the
original structural adjustment program. The main reason for this shortcoming
is that in 1982/83 debt service will reach 33 percent of Government receipts
instead of the 15 percent projected in 1979, owing to an additional 20 percent
previously unregistered debts, debt service on exceptional aid during the
drought years, rescheduled amortization payments, and debt service on the
US$265 million debt of ONCAD (paras. 14-16). Because of these unfavorable
public finance prospects, in November 1982 Government has asked the Paris Club
for another round of debt rescheduling. Government agreed also with IMF upon
the renewal of the stand-by arrangement, based on a program of further tax
increases and reduction in the growth of civil service.
Investment Program
12.      The outlook for the national investment program has deteriorated
drastically, since the establishment of the structural adjustment program in
1980. While the structural adjustment program imposed ceilings on the
investment program to re-establish macro-economic equilibrium, implementation
of even the initially planned program has become the main problem. Private
investments are stagnating because of the depressed national economy. Govern-
ment investments are suffering from financing problems because for the next
few years the budget will not be able to generate an investable surplus, the
country is uncreditworthy for commercial loans, and domestic credits are under
tight IM1F ceilings. A positive development is the progress being made on the
new parastatal phosphoric acid and fertilizer complex based on locally mined
phosphate rock, and with production intended largely for export to India and
other African states. Since Government continues to give priority to projects
in productive sectors, the share of directly productive projects will probably
reach 65 percent and thus surpass the objective of 55 percent set in the
structural adjustment program. The combined investments of the public and the
parapublic sector will be in the vicinity of the agreed ceiling of 10 percent
of GDP set for this category.



N-5
-5-
Parastatal Sector
13.      The Government has made the establishment of "program contracts" with
public enterprises an active policy instrument aimed at reducing budgetary
support to the companies, increasing the autonomy of their managements, and
allowing the enterprises to achieve their objectives. So far, Government has
signed or is negotiating eight contracts with public enterprises, and five
more companies are to enter into negotiations this year.  The growing impor-
tance of these contracts will oblige Government to establish an overall
ceiling on financial support which the budget can afford in favor of public
enterprises.
Agricultural Reforms
14.      At the time of establishment of the economic and financial rehab-
ilitation program in 1979, the problems in the agricultural sector had been
vastly underestimated, both in terms of the size of financial deficits gene-
rated, and the strength of the vested interests supporting existing struc-
tures. The liquidation of the Government controlled agricultural marketing
organization (ONCAD) set in motion a slow process of sorting out these defi-
cits and building up a national consensus around the new organizational
formulas.
15.      The heart of the envisaged reform is in the cooperative structure and
credit system, where farmer groups at the village level would collectively
maintain their credit rating and undertake certain tasks such as storage of
groundnut seed. A new law for agricultural cooperatives that determines the
legal status of these farmer groups has been presented to the National
Assembly. Regarding credit, Government has absorbed the farmers' old seed
debts, considered irrecoverable after the drought years, and announced crea-
tion of a new agricultural credit organization in which a French agricultural
credit bank has been asked to participate. Tests with the new system are on-
going in certain irrigation perimeters, the cotton area, with market gardeners
close to Dakar, and on a very limited scale in a few districts in the Ground-
nut Basin. In the interim, the absence of agricultural credit for the
majority of groundnut farmers would be dealt with by a system of cash sales
for fertilizer and a levy on the groundnut purchase price to finance seeds.
16.      Little progress was, however, achieved in the reform of field opera-
tions. SONAR, a state enterprise created in 1980 to phase out Government's
direct involvement in the supply of agricultural inputs, has already shown
some weaknesses of the former ONCAD.  It inherited a good part of ONCAD's
staff, more than required to execute its limited functions. It promised to
sell fertilizer at 80 percent subsidy, but since it could not make the usual
down payment to the fertilizer factory, only a minimal quantity could be
delivered for the 1982-83 season. Subsidies on centrally distributed seed
accounted for one-sixth of the US$67 million losses that accumulated last year
in the State's price stabilization fund. Because of the high subsidies the
private sector could not enter the market for agricultural inputs, while
farmers already experimenting with more efficient systems of stocking seed at
the village level were discouraged. Government is now considering modifica-
tions in the SONAR system for the 1983/84 crop; the Bank is waiting for a
beginning of its implementation to make a final ruling on the second tranche
of the SAL.



-6-
Long-term Prospects
17.      Government's long-range development strategy continues to be based
on the promotion and diversification of agriculture and export-oriented acti-
vities.  The agricultural program calls for development of areas less afflic-
ted by drought (Casamance and Eastern Senegal), where cash crops other than
groundnuts can be grown.  Agricultural research will be oriented more to farm-
ing systems than to individual crops, with the objective of lowering the costs
of agricultural techniques propagated, and better adapting them to farmers'
needs.  Irrigated cereal production is being developed in the arid northern
part of the country along the Senegal River. The construction of one of the
two planned dams on the Senegal River has started, but the high level of State
subsidies required on irrigated rice will force Government to pace new irriga-
tion development prudently.
18.      The phosphoric acid project is now well advanced, and the export
premium and realignment if the Franc Zone currencies will, hopefully, attract
more light export industries and tourism once the world econmy has improved.
Construction of a ship-repair yard has been completed. However, these export
diversification efforts are unlikely to offset the severely lessened prospects
for groundnuts, still Senegal's main export commodity. Groundnut oil exports
suffer from irregular supplies and from improvements in competing vegetable
oils; exports of groundnut cakes suffer from the risk of aflatoxin contami-
nation, a risk which diminishes their value as cattle fodder. As a conse-
quence, in the next few years the share of total exports in GDP is expected to
remain below the levels attained in the early 1970's.
19.      Governnent's economic policies and the exceptional foreign aid grant-
ed to Senegal have helped the country pass through the most difficult years of
its economic history, but these efforts have not been enough to bring the eco-
nomy back on a path of balanced growth. The overextended public sector, as
well as the vast arrears and debt service charges (more than 20 percent of ex-
port earnings), will impose heavy burdens on the State Treasury, and has
created a need for further debt rescheduling. The State Treasury will not be
able to absorb substantial additional recurrent cost charges from public
investment projects, and for a few years, will need exceptionally high shares
of foreign financing for projects in order to maintain minimum investment
levels. The unfavorable balance of payments situation calls for a reassess-
ment of Senegal's longer term prospects and the establishment of a new program
of action to achieve the required structural adjustments. The Bank will focus
its country dialogue on these problems and, in the interim, reduce consider-
ably the IBRD share in the Bank Group blend Senegal used to received.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
20.      As of September 30, 1982, the Bank Group has had 52 operations in
Senegal for a total of US$43..2 million including 27 IDA credits, 14 Bank
loans, 4 blends of Bank and IDA funds, 5 IFC operations, 2 blends of Bank and
IFC funds, and one blend of Bank, IDA and IFC funds. Most project lending has
been for agriculture, transportation and education. Annex II contains a



- 7 -
summary statement of Bank Group operations in Senegal. Physical execution
of projects is progressing reasonably well, although some operations are af-
fected by the shortage of counterpart funds due to the Government's continuing
difficult public finance situation as described in Part I of this report.
Institutional weaknesses in several sectors and a lack of qualified local
staff for key positions constitute serious obstacles to efficient project
implementation.
21.      The Bank's Group strategy and lending objectives for Senegal fall
under two broad headings: (i) to offer financial assistance and policy advice
in high priority areas (particularly in directly productive sectors) where
Government is ready to take corrective action; and (ii) to help formulate and
promote macroeconomic and sectoral policy reforms aimed at increasing the
efficiency of public sector activities, and at helping diversify Senegal's
export base and its production and export earnings. Top priority is for the
agricultural sector where projects can be expected to have a beneficial impact
on economic growth, export earnings, income distribution and rural incomes.
Progress in agriculture and other sectors, however, is hampered by unsatis-
factory performance of several key government and parapublic agencies. The
Bank is planning to continue financial and institutional support (through
project lending and technical assistance operations) to efforts that would
improve the quality of public services, and support institutional reforms that
would encourage a stronger role for the private sector.
22.      In agriculture, project lending will continue to promote productivity
improvements for traditional food and cash crops, together with diversifi-
cation into new crops and new regions. This effort has led the Association to
finance a high-priority Agricultural Research Project focussing on agricul-
tural systems improvements, that should give a new impetus to extension
services and lead to a more integrated approach to rural development in semi-
arid areas. The Bank is now preparing a cotton/food crop project in the
rainfed Eastern and Casamance regions, and is considering support for a Fourth
Irrigation Project that would rehabilitate and expand existing medium-sized
irrigation perimeters. The feasibility of new activities in the Groundnut
Basin depends on further progress with structural reforms in input distribu-
tion, crop marketing and agricultural credit (paras 15-16).
23.      The Bank Group has also supported economic diversification by lending
to the growing industrial sector through the Societe Financiere Senegalaise
pour le Developpement de l'Industrie et du Tourisme (SOFISEDIT), a development
finance company established with Bank assistance in 1974, and for which a
third line of credit was approved in FY82.  The Bank is also helping construc-
tion of the phosphoric acid/fertilizer complex by financing the infrastructure
component, and is now preparing a project to extend the life of Senegal's
phosphate reserves, by developing the utilization of shares and low grade
deposits.
24.      Bank Group projects have supported economically desirable moderniza-
tion and expansion of the country's infrastructure. But with the stagnant
economy and heavy infrastructure investments in the past, our emphasis has
shifted to better utilization and maintenance of existing facilities. The
Port of Dakar has recently been expanded and should be able to handle



-8-
foreseeable traffic, except for containers for which a new terminal may be
required in a few years.
25.      While the Bank Group's overall lending strategy responds to the
importance in Senegal of financing directly productive projects, it also
recognizes the need for some assistance to the so-called social sectors.
Project design and preparation have taken due account of the ability of
Government and users to bear the recurrent costs involved. In education,
efforts have been directed to technical and vocational training to support
activities in the productive sectors. The Bank Group is now finalizing
preparation of a Regional Management School Project scheduled for Board
presentation later in FY83, and a possible Fourth Education Project may focus
on increasing access to primary education. In the related areas of public
health and nutrition, the Bank Group has made studied efforts over the past
few years to respond to a critical need in Senegal for attention to these
sectors. However, project identification and preparation have been difficult
and slow, largely because institutions in the sector are for the most part un-
tested and ill-prepared for implementation of externally financed projects.
It has also been important to work carefully within the numerous activities
of other external donors in the sector. The Rural Health Project proposed in
this report is the first stage of Bank Group efforts to assist Senegal in this
vital area. Some further assistance in meeting basic needs for the rural
population will be provided under a planned FY 83 project for water supply to
several secondary centers.
26.      As it became increasingly clear that many of Senegal's economic and
financial problems went beyond the limits of specific subsectors, the Bank
started to shift some of its program toward multi-sectoral technical
assistance and structural adjustment lending. A FY78 technical assistance
operation to the parapublic sector and a FY80 Structural Adjustment Loan-
Credit are examples of this changing strategy. The latter aims at supporting
the Government's efforts to control aggregate demand, redirect its public
investment program and promote industrial exports and other productive acti-
vities through improved price and incentive policies. The local currency
counterpart funds of the SAL are being used for financial rehabilitation of
some parapublic enterprises which have agreed with Government on comprehensive
"program-contracts" spelling out their respective objectives and obliga-
tions. A proposed Second Parapublic Project would help consolidate the
results already achieved, and possibly also create a medium-term facility to
support rehabilitation of viable public enterprises. The FY81 Technical
Assistance Project for Economic and Financial Planning will strengthen the
Government's capacity to expedite preparation of selected investment projects,
and to identify bottlenecks in project execution and take remedial action.
Additionally, substantial technical assistance is being provided under the
Bank's economic and sector work program, as well as under engineering loans
and credits and PPF advances for project preparation. In the important energy
sector, for example, PPF-financed studies have allowed preparation of a
Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project with important technical assistance
features, which is scheduled for Board presentation later in FY83.
27.      Given the need to focus Senegal's public investmert program on high
priority projects and to finance almost all of this program from external



- 9 -
sources, improved donor coordination now assumes increased importance. The
Bank is pursuing its economic dialogue with Senegal in close coordination with
the IMF, and with strengthened consultation with bilateral and multilateral
donors. Recognizing the importance of helping Senegal extend its access to
donor assistance, the Bank financed consulting services for preparation of a
donor conference in October 1981, and has been participating actively in
follow-up discussions on policies and investment priorities in specific
sectors.
253.     The Bank Group's share in total external aid disbursements to Senegal
over 1982 will stay at an average of around 18 percent, of which roughly two
thirds in IDA financing, largely reflecting the disbursements on existing Bank
Group commitments. The Bank Group's share in outstanding disbursed debt was
21 percent in 1981, and may approach 25 percent by 1985. The Bank Group's
share in public debt service is expected to increase from 4.3 percent in 1980
to about 9.5 percent in 1985.
PART III - THE HEALTH SECTOR
Background
29.      Senegal's population was estimated at 5.8 million in mid-1981.
Forty-six percent of the population is under 15, compared with 40% in most
developing countries. With a natural rate of population increase averaging
2.7% annually, Senegal's population is expected to double in about 25 years.
This postulated rapid growth is due to constant high fertility combined with
slowly declining, though still very high, mortality.
30.      About 70% of the population derive their livelihood from agricul-
ture. Their health status is poorer than other countries elsewhere in Africa,
such as Kenya, even though Kenya, in 1981, had a lower GNP per capita (US$420)
than that of Senegal (US$500). The infant mortality rate which averages 147
per 1,000 live births (91 per 1,000 in Kenya) is as high as 204 per 1,000 in
some rural areas, and only two-thirds of all children survive through age
five. This contributes to a persistent pattern of high fertility: a woman on
average bears seven children. Current life expectancy, 43 years at birth (55
in Kenya) is below the average for low income developing countries (51). Life
expectancy is currently increasing at about half the rate achieved between
1955 and 1965. The health status of the Senegalese population has improved
4       little over the past decade.
31.      Aware of the health and economic consequences of high fertility and
infant mortality, the Government recognizes the need to develop integrated
maternal, child health and family planning programs together with community
level primary health care managed and financially supported by benefici-
aries. But, whereas the grassroots response to primary health care has been
keen, the public health system and information network in the countryside are
of low quality, inefficient, and technically incapable of promoting a rapid
change in health and fertility. Until about the mid 70s, the health sector
has been characterized by the predominance of urban-based curative medicine.



- 10 -
There was general indifference to nutritiona'l status, active opposition IC,
contraception and abortion, limited attention to health education, poor health
sector planning, a deterioration in the quality of health care, inadequate
logistical support, and little community participation. Since 1978, the
Government has attempted to redress these shortcomings in order to build a
firm basis on which to promote more efficient, vigorous and effective outreach
programs to those most in need, particularly women and children.
Sector Strategy
32.      The Government's policy and current Development Plan are based on a
health sector strategy intended to give renewed priority to preventive
measures; to cover all villages with primary care provided by village health
volunteers; to develop and expand cost recovery mechanisms throughout the
health system; to improve the supply of basic drugs; to upgrade the rural
public health network of health centers and health posts (dispensaries); to
improve the performance of all categories of health personnel; and to develop
an appropriate capability within the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) to plan
and manage primary health care services.
33.      The Bank Group has reviewed the various elements of this strategy and
considers it an appropriate response to current health conditions in
Senegal. The Government itself has attempted to gain support and to move
forward on all the components outlined above. The Government's population
policy is based on the view that birth spacing is a desirable and needed
component of health programs to improve the health of the urban and rural
poor. Legislation banning contraception has been repealed. The United
Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA) and the United States' Govern-
ment (through USAID) are assisting in the development of family planning
services and in assuring a stronger Government capability in demographic
analysis and population planning. A nationwide expanded program of immuniza-
tion has begun with substantial French Government assistance. The most
impressive achievements to date stem from the diffusion of community level
prima-y health care whose main components are community participation (in the
form of payment for health services and an active role by communities in
managing community-based dispensaries and health centers); the training of
community-paid health volunteers (who provide first aid and health education
in villages and dispensaries); and the promotion of village pharmacies (which
sell essential drugs to villagers) and health associations (voluntary groups
composed of community representatives who set the level of fees for services
and assist in managing health services at the community level).  The gradual
introduction of fees for services has partially offset the steady decline of
the share of recurrent budget allocations for the health sector (from 9% of
the total national operating budget in 1971/72 to only 5.8% in 1981/82).  Fees
raised from patients now average 8% of the recurrent expenditure of health
posts, and about 15% of the cost of operating health centers.
34.      The growth of community participation and the demand for improved
services, however, are outstripping the ability of Senegal's weak public
health system to provide them. The system is structured around a pyramid of
regional services at the base of which are numerous village pharmacies and
volunteer health workers, supported by a network of public health posts (or



- 11 -
dispensaries) which, in turn are backed-up and supervised by more specialized
health centers, as well as maternities and maternal and child health care
facilities. At the apex of each regional system is a regional hospital and
endemic disease control center.  All health centers and dispensaries are now
adequately staffed. Health centers are each staffed with a physician, a
certified nu-se, a nurse mid-wife, about six auxiliary nurses, laboratory
technicians, and hygienists. Health posts are each staffed with a nurse and a
sanitarian aide.
35.      At the national level, services consist of four national hospitals,
the national pharmacy, and a full range of Ministry of Public Health (MOPH)
services, the most important of which are the Directorate of Hygiene and
Health Protection (DHPS), the Directorate of General Administration and Equip-
ment (DAGE); the Directorate of Research, Planning and Training (DRPF); and
the Directorates of Pharmacy, Hospitals, and Procurement of Drug Supplies and
Medical Equipment. In addition, the MOPH controls directly several national
health institutes and paramedical training institutions.
36.      To meet the challenge of providing more adequate and efficient
services, there is an urgent need to strengthen key aspects of the regional
and national public health structure. At the regional level, about 17 out of
36 health centers are in disrepair; many are 50 years old, without water,
laboratory facilities and adequate drug supplies. Poor quality of services,
inadequate logistical support and insufficient inservice training all con-
tribute to low performance by the national health care system and a loss of
its credibility in the countryside. This situation is untenable in view of
the fact that the health centers are called upon, under current Government
strategy, to play a pivotal role in reducing the heavy flow of patients to
overcrowded national hospitals, as well as organizing and managing outreach
family health programs down to the village level. Staff need to receive
refresher training as a pre-condition for improving performance. At the
national level, a major effort must also be made in several key areas --
improvements in health sector planning and program implementation, better
basic training under field conditions for medical and nursing students, and a
more reliable provision of basic drugs to the village level.
37.      Especially on this latter item the Government's national pharmacy
(Pharmacie Nationale d'Approvisionnement, or PNA) has suffered from poor man-
agement and insufficient trained personnel, inadequate warehousing, non-pay-
ment of accounts and a dwindling line of credit, greater reliance on fewer
high-cost suppliers, and inadequate laboratory facilities for testing and
4       controlling low-cost bulk purchases from new supply sources.  To redress this
situation, the Government plans to develop a national pharmeceutical policy
with technical assistance to be provided by the proposed project (para. 45).
Steps have already been taken to reduce the list of basic drugs for public
health facilities, a measure which could potentially generate savings for the
Government budget. The Government is also attempting to encourage the private
pharmaceutical sector in Senegal to support its national primary health care
policy in part by authorizing village pharmacies and public health facilities
to procure drugs from private suppliers, and by supporting attempts by the
local pharmaceutical manufacturing sector to increase the range and
distribution of locally manufactured basic drugs.



- 12 -
D.  The Bank Group's Role in the Sector
38.      The proposed project would be the first IDA operation in Senegal in
the related areas of population, health and nutrition, and the first free-
standing IDA-financed health project in Western Africa. Bank Group missions
visiting Senegal since 1978 have reviewed extensively the various aspects of
the health sector, and have worked in consultation with several external
donors who are actively supporting key elements of the Government's attempts
to extend primary health care to the urban and rural poor.
39.      Sector work in Senegal has reaffirmed a pattern typical of most West
African countries, on the basis of which the Bank Group has developed a stra-
tegy for phased assistance to certain countries which, by virtue of their
severe problems related to fertility and mortality levels, and to their gener-
al'ly poor economic and environmental circumstances, appear deserving of
priority support. For Senegal particularly, given the many constraints of
effective development of the sector and improvement in the health status of
the population, a three-phased approach to Bank Group assistance has been
identified in agreement with the Government, and the first of these -- sector
analysis -- has been essentially completed. The proposed Rural Health Project
marks the beginning of the second phase effort which is aimed at improving the
quality and utilization of existing service delivery networks, and assuring
better management and support systems, including provision of reliable drug
supplies. These are considered important preconditions for building a suit-
able base on which to expand maternal and child health services especially in
the poorly served rural areas, and through which related population and
nutrition programs can be developed in a possible third phase of Bank Group
assistance.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Origin and Background
40.      Following a request from Government for IDA assistance in meeting
Senegal's primary health care objectives, a reconnaissance mission visited the
country in November 1978 and recommended support for selected population and
primary health care programs. However, the Government was concerned about its
limited absorptive capacity for additional investments in population, and
hesitated to proceed at that time with project preparation. A second IDA
mission in 1979 identified a more immediate need for support for primary
health care at the village level, and preparation work was started. PPF
advances totalling US$430,000 were approved in August 1980 and in March 1982
to establish a project preparation unit in the Ministry of Public Health
(MOPH), recruit specialized consultants, inventory health center infrastruc-
ture, and carry out design work for construction and renovation of physical
facilities. These studies had been preceded by a PPF advance for epidemio-
logical studies and other basic surveys (about US$350,000 disbursed) intended
as background for a possible nutrition project that turned out to be pre-
mature. The proposed Rural Health Project was appraised in July 1981, and a
follow-up appraisal mission visited Senegal in December 1981 to refine the



- 13 -
project design and clarify some outstanding issues, particularly regarding the
project implementation and MOPH institution building needs. Negotiations were
held in Washington in November, 1982 with a Senegalese delegation led by Mr.
Mamadou Diop, Minister of Public Health. The Staff Appraisal Report No. 4003-
SE dated November 15, 1982 is being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors.
Project Objectives and Description
41.      The proposed project has been designed to complement efforts by
Senegal and by other international donors in support of the Government's
strategy for developing an effective primary health care system. In
recognition of Senegal's constrained economic and budgetary circumstances,
project design has been kept as simple as possible, and focusses on ensuring
better utilization of existing resources so as to limit incremental recurrent
costs. The overall project objective is to provide adequate technical, log-
istic, and management support for primary health care to the rural popula-
tion in Senegal, and to related efforts in nutrition and family planning.
Specifically, the project would be expected to strengthen basic health ser-
vices at the health center level; improve the training of health service per-
sonnel; improve the supply and utilization of basic drugs; develop health
education services to the local populations; and strengthen the capacity of
MOPH existing services to plan, implement, and evaluate the effectiveness of a
range of primary health care activities.
Detailed Features of the Project
42.      The project would help introduce a package of basic health services
to all of Senegal's 36 health centers, enabling them to provide family
planning and maternal and child health (MCH) services; immunizations, health
and family planning and nutrition education; endemic/epidemic disease
surveillance and reporting; general outpatient services; emergency care;
administration and training of health workers; referral of patients to hospi-
tals; and supervision of health posts and community health workers. These
activities would be developed by Regional medical authorities, supported by
the central MOPH and its Project Management Unit. (para. 55).
43.      The project provides for reconstruction, equipment and furnishing for
five dilapidated health centers, and renovation and refurbishing of four other
health centers. These centers service an estimated 660,000 people, many of
whom are in high-density or outlying areas where the health center is the
major available medical facility. Design standards were adopted to minimize
costs for the level of services required. Space would be provided for
sanitation services and for in-service training and health education, and for
on-site housing for the resident physician and midwife.
44.      To strengthen basic health services, the project would support field
and in-service training in public health. Practical training would be provid-
ed for about 50 final-year or recently graduated medical students expected to
serve the health center network during the project period. In-service train-
ing would be provided to all health center staff, and to about 2,000 community
health workers across the country. Training would be organized by MOPH in



- 14 -
collaboration with the Dakar University Medical School and the School of Ad-
vanced Nursing Education. In addition, 3 man-years of technical assistance
would help MOPH in planning, preparing materials and implementing this train-
ing component, as well as in designing a long-term national in-service train-
ing program for health center and health post personnel and community health
workers. The draft program would be submitted to IDA for review by December
31, 1985, and Government would undertake to implement the program as agreed
(Section 3.05 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
45.      The project would improve the supply and utilization of basic drugs
throughout the country, and assist PNA in strengthening its management and
developing a national drug policy. The existing MOPH central pharmacy would
be renovated and furnished with improved warehousing equipment and vehicles.
The only existing regional MOPH pharmacy would also be renovated and two
additional pharmacies would be created by converting existing hospital drug
depots into regional warehousing facilities. The project would also provide
the PNA's central laboratory with additional equipment for improved drug test-
ing so as to encourage cheaper procurement from more diversified supply
sources. Government has agreed that, by December 31, 1984, it would undertake
drug testing at the PNA Laboratory, with appropriate laboratory staff
identified and trained for this purpose (Section 3.06 of draft Development
Credit Agreement). About three man-years of technical assistance would be
provided to help improve PNA's distribution and administrative procedures; es-
tablish an appropriate accounting and budgetary system; train PNA staff in
inventory management and laboratory techniques; and develop a national drug
policy, including strengthening the role of the private sector.
46.      Government will undertake a number of measures aimed at improving
PNA's management capabilities and developing an effective national pharma-
ceutical policy as spelled out in a draft Plan of Action discussed and agreed
with IDA (Section 3.07 and Schedule 4 of draft Development Credit Agree-
ment). The Plan of Action would include measures to permit rapid settlement
of the PNA's accounts in future, and to specify the drug budget allocable to
each health facility. Further measures as proposed by the project technical
assistance teams would be undertaken in consultation and agreement with IDA,
and the effectiveness of all actions taken would be subject to an annual
review and adjustments made as appropriate.
47.      The project provides for construction, equipment, furniture, and
training materials for a small national health education center to develop and
disseminate public health information.  Two man-years of specialist services
would help develop a program of activities, including design of in-service
training activities for health educators. At the regional level, the project
would provide furniture, equipment and vehicles for regional health education
services, and audio-visual equipment for all health centers.
48.      The project also provides for eight fellowships for training quali-
fied central MOPH staff in various aspects of planning and management of
public health services, including personnel development and statistical
compilation and analysis. In addition, about six man-months of short-term
consultancies would be provided in physical planning of health facilities, and
one man-year in personnel planning. With a view toward possible preparation



- 15 -
of a follow-up project, funds would be provided for pre-investment studies.
To strengthen MOPH's project implementation and evaluation capability,
provision is made for establishment of a Project Management Unit (PMU) using
already existing resources and services of MOPH together with an appropriate
statistical/information system linked to the health centers (para 55). Short-
term local training for seven MOPH statisticians would also be provided.
Project Cost and Financing
49.      Total project costs are estimated at US$16.7 million equivalent,
excluding local taxes and import duties from which the project would be ex-
empt. These costs include 200 man-months of technical assistance at an
average cost per man-month of US$8,300 for expatriate consultant services and
about US$1,000 for local consultants. Foreign costs are estimated at US$7.3
million (about 44 percent). Base cost estimates are in September 1982
prices. Physical contingencies of 10% have been added to the base costs for
civil works, furniture and equipment, and architectural/engineering
services. Price contingencies have been applied to foreign costs as
follows: 1983, 8 percent; 1984, 7.5 percent; 1985, 7 percent; and 1986-87, 6
percent. The estimated loca'l price increases for construction are based on
recent trends and forecasts by the Ministry of Equipment. These have been
reviewed by IDA and found appropriate.
50.      The proposed IDA Credit of US$15.0 million would finance the entire
foreign exchange component and about 82 percent of local costs, representing
about 90 percent of total project costs net of taxes. Government would meet
the remaining local costs of $1.7 million equivalent. In any year during pro-
ject implementation, the maximum Government contribution would be US$0.6
million equivalent. Additional recurrent costs generated by the project when
it is fully operational in 1988 are estimated at about US$0.26 million equiva-
lent annually, or about 1.3% of the total recurrent expenditures of MOPH for
1982/83. Incremental costs generated by the project are low principally
because all facilities would replace or upgrade existing buildings, and design
standards were adopted to minimize costs. Except for a few temporary (con-
tract) staff, the project would not require new personnel. Government would
ensure that all health centers are adequately staffed, and that all physical
facilities provided under the project are satisfactorily operated and main-
tained. (Section 4.02 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursements
51.      Contracts for furniture and equipment (about US$2.3 million equiva-
lent) would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB)
in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Items totalling US$7.3 million
equivalent would be exempted from ICB. These include (i) construction con-
tracts which are all small ($50,000-$500,000 equivalent each, and totalling
US$6.8 million) and distributed throughout the country, and unlikely to in-
terest foreign contracting firms, and (ii) furniture and equipment contracts
(costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each, and totalling US$0.5 million).
Such contracts would be awarded following local competitive bidding in accor-
dance with procedures acceptable to IDA. Construction contracts costing more
than $250,000 equivalent, and furniture, equipment and materials contracts



- 16 -
costing more than $50,000 equivalent, would be subject to IDA review prior to
award. These arrangements would result in a coverage of about 90% of the
total estimated value of works contracts and 85% of the value of goods
contracts; the balance would be subject to random post-review by IDA after
contract award. (Schedule 3 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
52.      Because Government is expected to have difficulty in pre-financing
expenditures to be reimbursed under the Credit, an IDA-financed revolving
fund of US$600,000 equivalent would be established. The opening of a Special
Account in a local commercial bank for the purpose of establishing this fund
is a condition of Credit effectiveness. Government would also establish a
Project Account at the Treasury for its own local revolving fund for counter-
part financing. Opening of this account and the initial deposit of CFAF 25
million is an additional condition of effectiveness (Section 5.01(b) of draft
Development Credit Agreement).
53.      Proceeds from the proposed Credit would be disbursed as follows:
(i)   civil works, 100% of total expenditures (US$6.7 million);
(ii)   furniture, equipment, vehicles and materials, 100% of foreign
expenditures and 50% of local expenditures (US$2.3 million);
(iii)   technical assistance, professional fees, consulting services and
fellowships, 100% of total expenditures (US$2.2 million);
(iv)   pre-investment studies, 100% of foreign expenditures (US$0.8
million);
(v)   refinancing of Nutrition, Health PPF advances, amounts due, 100%
(US$0.8 million); and
(vi) initial deposit in Special Account, 100% (US$0.6 million).
An amount of US$1.6 million equivalent would be unallocated.
Accounts and Audit
54.      The project provides for services of an independent accounting firm
to set up an accounting system for the Project Management Unit (PMU) and to
audit PMU's accounts throughout the life of the project. Audited statements
would be submitted to IDA no later than nine months after the end of each fis-             P
cal year. (Section 4.01 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
Organization and Management
55.      Formal establishment of PMU within the Ministry of Public Health
would be a condition of Credit effectiveness (Section 5.01 (a) of draft Devel-
opment Credit Agreement). Key staff of PMU would include a senior MOPH
official as Director, a medical officer, a MOPH coordinating staff architect,
administrator/procurement officer, and accountant. Government has already
appointed qualified personnel to fill these positions.  The Ministry of



- 17 -
Urbanism, Habitat, and Environment (MUHE) will have overall responsibility for
execution of the civil works component, and will also undertake design and
supervision work for the five new health centers, the national health educa-
tion center, and renovation of the drug warehouse. MUHE has assigned a full-
time four-man architectural design team for this task, and in cooperation with
MOPH, will prepare all necessary contract documents and partic4Date in the
contract award committee. For renovation work on the four existing health
centers, Government has selected two consulting firms to undertake design and
supervision responsibilities. All architectural program activities will be
coordinated by the PMU architect.
Project Benefits and Risks
56.      The proposed project would yield significant health service delivery
and institutional benefits. Basic health services would be improved for about
660,000 people in rural areas served by the nine project-financed health cen-
ters. An additional 2.8 million persons would be better served by the remain-
ing 27 health centers in the country which would benefit from improved drug
supplies, more effective health programs, and availability of trained person-
nel. Improved operations at the health centers are expected to have a direct
impact on reducing infant mortality levels below the current estimate of 204
per 1,000 live births in many rural areas, and maternal mortality below the
present 500 deaths per 100,000 live births. Also importantly, the project
would support Government's continuing attempts to promote cost recovery in the
health sector by offering the population better services in return for their
participation and financial contributions. Additional long-term benfits would
be derived from the proposed training of about 530 medical staff of MOPH and
about 2,000 community health workers, and from the strengthened capacity of
MOPH to plan and implement effective primary health care services.
57.      Risks to effective project implementation and to achieving expected
benefits can be identified in three main areas as follows: (i) MOPH perfor-
mance in planning and implementation has not always been satisfactory; (ii) if
Government fails to meet incremental recurrent costs incurred by the project,
the level of health center activity will be less than envisaged; and (iii) if
there is inadequate planning and coordination, the health centers may fail to
develop the capability required to effectively service health posts in their
respective regions, and those sections of the rural population may not be
adequately served. The design and preparation of the proposed project have
taken account of these risks and appropriate measures taken to counter them,
notably the active participation of key staff of MOPH throughout the prepara-
6      tion period, the fact that the project itself focusses on improved use of
existing limited Government resources and entail only minimal incremental
recurrent costs, and the strengthening of the MOPH's planning and programming
capability in regard to rural health services. However, even in circumstances
where the project does not reach as large numbers of beneficiaries as
expected, it would still make an important contribution in the sector by re-
storing credibility of the health centers in allowing them to effectively
serve rural populations in their immediate vicinity.



- 18 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Senegal and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Associa-
tion, are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
59.      Features of the draft Development Credit Agreement of special inter-
est are listed in Section III of Annex III. Special conditions of Credit ef-
fectiveness are: (i) opening of the Special Account and the Project Account,
and initial deposit of CFAF 25 million in the Project Account (para. 52); and
(ii) formal establishment of the Project Management Unit (para. 55).
60.      I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
By E. Stern
Attachments
Washington D.C.
November 29, 1982



TABLE 3A
SENEGAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SENEGAL                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE .AGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                 - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)N-
TOTAL             196.2                                   MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      109.0                1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  NORTH AFRICA & MIDDLE EAST
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    210.0        260.0      450.0                 1053.2                    1253.6
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGR4MS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       116.1        116.6      253.1                  610.1                     713.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  3076.0         4267.0    5661.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.6           23.7       25.4                   28.3                      47.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          10.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                            34.2
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2135
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         15.7         21.7       28.1                   54.7                      35.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       31.0         40.8       50.6                  129.9                     420.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           42.7         43.9       44.7                   46.0                      44.3
15-64 YRS.                           54.3         53.2       52.5                   51.1                      52.4
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.0           2.9       2.8                    2.8                       3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                1.9           3.3       2.8                    2.8                       2.8
URBAN                                2.4          3.7        3.5                    5.2                       4.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       47.9          46.8      47.8                   47.2                      41.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       26.5          23.2      21.3                   15.7                      12.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.2          3.2       3.2                    3.2                       2.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF HARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)           125.0         83.0       86.0                   90.7                     100.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    109.5         98.8       94.8/c                 93.9                     108.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            73.2          66.2      63.7T7                 54.8                      71.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         22.5         20.8       18.6/c                 17.0                      18.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY 3          41.8         36.8       31.8                   23.9                      15.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    37.2           40.3       43.2                   51.0                      56.9
INFANT MOKTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            181.7         164.4     146.8                  118.5                     104.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..      37.0/d                   ..                      59.1
URBAN                                 ..           ..       68.0/d                   ..                      83.1
RURAL                                  ..          ..       23.07                    ..                      39.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..          ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..
4                         POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           21971.4      16224.3   15709.6/c               14185.2                    4015.5
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       2839.5/e    1888.1    1392.57T                 2213.2                    1802.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              735.0        790.3      900.5/c               1036.4                     641.7
URBAN                              391.3/f      346.5      422.07c                430.8                     538.3
RURAL                             1812.471    1311.9    1432.9Th                 3678.6                    2403.3
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..         22.2      29.2/c                     .                     25.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  ..          ..
URBAN                                  ..         7.6/g        ..
RURAL                                  ..            .0/g
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                1.5/h         ..
URBAN                                 ..            ..        ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..        ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..
RURAL                                  ..          ..         ..



Page 2
TABLE 3A
SENEGAL --SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SENEGAL                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-a
MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTLATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  NORTH AFRICA & MIDDLE EAST
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  27.0         38.0      42.0                   83.3                     88.7
MALE                  36.0         47.0      51.0                   96.1                     104.5
FEMALE                17.0         30.0      34.0                   80.4                     72.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   3.0          9.0      1O.0/j                 15.3                     39.7
MALE                   4.0         13.0       14.073                19.4                     49.3
FEMALE                 2.0          5.0       6.07                  11.3                     29.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Y OF SECONDARY) 23.1             9.2        ..                    4.7                     10.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             43.2/f       45.0      42.3/c                 38.6                     34.1
SECONDARY                           34.0         34.3      21.07W                 23.4                     23.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          5.6/i       10.0       10.0/c                35.6                     43.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           6.5          9.0       9.2/k                 31.9                     17.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          40.6         62.8      54.4                   71.8                    131.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            .-          0.3       0.4                   17.9                     44.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    6.5          4.7       4.5                   19.1                     31.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..       0.7/d                  0.6                       1.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       1424.0       1860.3    2311.2
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    39.5         39.0      38.4                   36.5                     10.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               84.0         80.0      76.0                   56.5                     42.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   5.0          7.0      10.0                   17.7                     27.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 46.3         43.6      40.8                   37.0                      26.0
MALE                                  56.3         53.7      50.8                   46.9                     46.2
FEMALE                                36.4         33.7      31.0                   27.2                      5.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0          1.1        1.2                   1.3                       1.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   36.8/1
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  62.5/i1
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.27I           ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    9.4_1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URRAN                                 ..           ..         ..                 507.0                    279.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..      82.0                  200.6                    178.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     194.0                  523.9                    403.6
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..                 203.6                    285.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..                    ..                     22.1
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..                     ..                     30.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators dependa on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977;  /d 1976;  /e 1963;  /f 1962;  /g 1973;  /h 1955;  /i African population only;  /j 1975;
/k 1974,  /1 Population.
May, 1982



Page 3
DEPIMITIOS OP SOCIAL1 INDlICATORSO
Zanes:  Altheagh thedaa  r d      raw ft     icn  utac  generally judged the wet athritative end reliable, it ahold also be noted that they may not ha ltet-
eatamaly cupereble he-asn  of the lack of etcderdieed defieltioa and conceto oned hy different ceattie  in coletig .h data.  The dtn.r,  ae
theists. uafal to describe aeders of magitade. indicate atrad, and ohertecrie  certain major dif fe_ec-  huw-oconris
The reference9gruoP  era. (1)1 the seer counry grop of the suhiect ca-tocy end (2) a coun.try gtoap with aumehat high-n vrg  intone than the co..ntry group
of the ojntco_       rylecpt for   "night Incom    Oil Eoportecs"  rOOP uhene 'Middle Incm  North Aft io  and Middle fast" to ch.one  heceon  of strougef
auci-tacarl ufloila . I  the reforeo-ce group deta thu avrges  -opopolatlue weighted arithmeiti  waus lot eah taditato  cod uhon  ciy abet
majority of the counie  it a group boo data f ow that todicaor.  Sicce the coverge of c..unttw- aug the iodicatrn depeoda on the avilahilicy  of data
and is out aniora:,t . cooiasuet he voerciand Ic rlating averages of .on  lodicator to a.tnier   Thea.  -Loorgna urn aly cuaful iccos.pring thu cube of
on -oicctatacannug the c-nory nod refernoc  groopo.
AREA (choonud sq.ks.)                                                                            Populatio  per Hgaplil fad-t totl orhacL         n  tual-Popoltiaw  (total,
Total - Total  -ufa- area c-pacieig load are  ad inland ctera; 1979 data-                        ochm, add rura) divided hy choir ree.c ive to r of hospital heda
dericoltora  - Euatmac  of ariulurl .ra u..d tempurnaily or permo- tly                           aviuble in pablic end privat  E ge.ra  na1   aputaliand hoepitL1 andre
for coops, panture, market and kithen gerden  nr to tie felo;191                  aa           haIiutio    wct.gniaeeattahlbmoapemocayetffd
by at least con physician facbliabsente providing pricaipally costa.-
GNP Pig CAPITA (U1$) - iNP pet to.Pita                    ..im.. t  uret maket pr ,    -            dial care are not included.  fraL1 hoepital, hoerr, include health
tainted byanew cnnwetia  swchd us Worldbob Atlon(19 78410 haste    96f.           ad mdclcetr    t petmattetly ntaffed by    phylian. t(hot by.,a
19 78. ad 19ff data.                                                                             medictl. aeiatn    nae ideifo, etc.) ehich offe  ta-pa teti              ct
dacina and provide u liniand rauge of  edical futilities.  PF-seas
ENERGYt CONSGMPTIO  P Rg CAPITA - annual... posori-n of  - Irci,al erg  (coa                        tical purposes obha  hoopitls include WHlOs priocipa1/ga..tL1 hospitals,
aod lignite. peroLcan,  --1o gao and hydro-.  _uana  and guath a  ale-                            ad rurl    sp1    ae.local or rata  bopitals sod medical ned maerity
triicty) iv kilugrama of coo  eo     Futnipa  capita; 1960, 1970. and 1979                       cerium.  Speaialieed honpicalo urn incodwd only under tota.1
data.                                                                                          Adm.insnn  par MoePita1 Red - Totl1 totebr of admiostuon to or diochargee
rum hoapialol divided by the outerL of hedo.
POPUILATIONl AMP VITAL STATISTICS
Total P.rltin  Mid-Year (th-uado) - An of July 1; 1960, 1970. nod 1980                       HOUSING
dn.t                                                                                         Average lice of Hoshefld (p .r.... per houshId) -crl   rban. and ral..-
irha- Poplati-n (ercent of total  - tioa of arho  o toa   ouaion                                     aahl   oesao    gEcL  of ilodividooemasoelvn   qooti rr
difetct  efniian   o  aranron my  ffet  o~rohliy  o  drnacdthir  al  soI..Ahoade  o  logedsy or may cot be ittladed 
L o  cutien; 1960, 1970. and 1988 data.                                                   the house.hold fr             :  Pctsio   puposat.
Papu1attun Prujaccinno.                                                                        Aveaeotr of paroute ee  roam- total, urban. an   url -avrage 
PopulaJtilr in Year b2001 - Cnlrrct populoctic proecun   r   usda   980                        her of     ..ro. oeromi  oiorhn  an           -ualocpied ccetionu
tota  popolatico  y aead non and their mertaity ud fertilIt  ran.                            dveligo, resp-ctively.  Dwein gs cotluda  o-eravt   tocouad
Projeotico paroatar  for mertality races  -uprisa oftre.evl.asn                              noccpied parts.
leg -ife      ..poc..ylat  rhin  ictreaiogl aih outry'  mr capita inom                     Act... no Elecric in' (pecator          elle)-ctL. . arhe, and vocal -
level,faud facao ifaspctet   thLtn   at7.iers    h   aa                                     Coaton         donios  th eetricity  i  living quarcern as p-rtoocge
astern for fertility rae  ls  lav  ahbren tuttle asnuiog declioc to                          of Itona, ncbac  and enrol dsellingn r-op-c i-ly.
frilitl  cudo   tobu    lvla    at fmiy planing performac.-
fah tcutyIscr   ssge   o  ofoanvt  cciain  of martality                                EDUCATION
and fertility croids fur projeccioc porpocan.                                              Adjosced            Rcllettatto
St-tioo..rY ropn-l-cioc- laantatio...ry Populacia  ther  to. no .groeh ntePrimar  hcko1   total, note and femle - Gross Ltota, main and f-nls
the birth  :tutuitequo  to the death rate, and alo cheagescroctreie-                            _oollant of all  gen at the primaryIve  at Peretae  of enopertire
solv  contornt        Tint  achieved only after frt-a   eaten declive to                      primary school-age popo1acicro; noal  inldncil  e                  .gd 6-il
the roplecamer leve  of -itne  Letuucio  rate,  hd.. ..ch generaion                            yases baat adjasted for differect lucgnhn at plmacy  dac-tino; tot
ofsnerplace- itself   ..octly.-  The 'ttaiunay pupluoior sice wo                          o trieooirk  universal eIdocatiac en set may enowed 100 percent
esciasted so chr hoofs of cha projecte  ch-ratoritcir  of the ppyalotior                        tintra -pupils areblwoohe the official schocl ago.
in the year  1000  andck   manr.t  of detlive of fertility  rate to reploon-                 Secodary ochooli- ttne1, malt ad f-sl  -_Computed an aho-; secondary
int  lve.                                                                                   rdaotiinnceqaiecao   leas..t font ysarn of apprcv-d primary Icu _ci_n
TereaInuay pclaisis cenhad - Tho yea  eh-  tatua.u.ery popolatiac                           provides   gevrul  notatioa,o  tcercruicg instructIons for popilo
tie ,i bronsobhd.                                                                          gnlyo  12lt  17 peac  of age;crepnec   ure  urn genrally
Popalation DunaiLy                                                                                  rotlade .      t
Put to. ha. - Slid-year population per square lilometr (100 hbottoms  o f                    loca tionl ctLlsett (percent of  _ecoofry) -Vyuctiou ...I sititucio.s
Itotl ue;1960, 1970 and 1979 data                                                            iccilda Lrh,io.idsra,o  othe  prgtson obich  oprt  iodeped-
Par Sq.A.   urccr lad- computd no shots for arioiurl  od                                       ctiyor Cadnpart_ute of  onudary inscit.tioc.
only; 1960. 197an199 data.                                                                 Ppil-teath- rot I.- Primary.            ...d seody - Totl1 studeons asralled in
PopalaciunAetctnr   pret.   Children (0-14 yesrm). vrng-oe(5                                     primary aod senedary  -levl  dicided by ou-er   of teachers in the
84 years), nod acairad (65 peers and ooer) as pecc-oge  of mid-year papa-                      coLrrspood ig level.
lot ion; 1960. 1970, and 1980 data.                                                          Adult literac   rat  (parc..t) - Litera.te  du1tn  (ski1 etc  rcdan       rie
"PouainGot fai(e                 tenl - tutu   - A-1no  grooh rates of Ltota  mid-               anapeacentagE of cota  adult populalio  aged 15 years  andovr
yappociufor19501.   1 960-70. nd 1970-MG.
"P,,"aio  Growh fat  (paccoctl - urb-o - Onuol grooth rates of urbas popo-                   CONSUM5PTION
latiano  for 1910460, 1907. nd iqy_oI-o         brhgp.h...~f   dy                            Pu.neoger Into  (per thoa....dpocct(-Paegetcoopremcr
Crude sirtch tate (portch- ...od) - Ano..i Iv bitsprhonnofldyr                                   tarn neating less thus eight peroc..a; no-ldn atIunce. hearten ecd
crude On _c            9 fte (pe   chuud)    .nna  deaths per cho..e..d  of eid-yrar           cadio Rtoariver  (rue c 0 -A..hoosand Porniutlon).- All tpes, of.recnver  for rudia
ppitino; 1960. 1970, ea   90dt.hoscnsugnrl  nlrprtosd                                                                                     y tpitic  rtlodv uL
Groan Rtr-d-ctia- Rtar- Arr.g ..otter of doughtcurt  w a  cill hear it                           liued      rcieeit cutrins sad is years ebrccta-ic  of radio
hrr  ,-Il  urdarv   pro   if she r_pri-.cs. proat-c age--up-ific  fec-                          -at, was i  effect; data for  tor   Years may  -cibh  comparable sc
aLl oris  nsolplc-year  ..aregenc dive Go 1960, 1970, mcd 1980.                                motcutris  blihd liesig
feilr PI...iog - Accpos.Ana (huodel - Ano-e1 ombe  of acceptors                                10 tRceiv-rn  prtonr  popolucic) - TV  ...eivrr  for hr-dcti it
of bilrth.-tuuI~   derico  uad- auspices of notional family Piu.o.. L        rgrn               gura   ubicpr        _hu ed poplrnicos. n _bdos oti.ic...d TV reci-er
famlyPloofg-i_c  (poec_t of mariedcmt   Pec--tge of married1  it .casti-i-nd is years whet regintrtioc of TVP sate  -  Go effect.
eas  of child-hearig age (1544 yart) toonbirah--ct-a1  device  tc                            NowpyrCruain  nrtosn   outiil-S ihow                           h ate .  aveag  tic-
olmrieditue  i  ae  g   eop                                                                 olu  oF t'dalygrr ttrs   ncpe',dfion    srrfd ira
pohli-ation devtud primarily  to   .. nodioggeroswn   It is cnidurod
POOP AuNo NUTRITION                                                                                 to be tdaily" if it appears a tust Pourr LiMasa    k.
loden of rood Production perCapita (1969-711!00l     oe  ofpr  oiuan l                         CnmaAnl   AtedsnprC iaprTa-Boned on the OuterL of
produtiaso   i  un    oi           e    Prudnotiu .. clud.  nee. ad  feed aod                  tickets sold d-nIog the year, icisdiugadm.i...os   to drire-in  iaa
-sonulsndnr year basis.  Comditi its cove  primaygo            e.g.. .ag ..e.               and mabil  units..
iaadof vegar) which or  edible end cnanatmt   eg. cfe n
tiruorneorlududl.  Aggregoto pr-d-caic ofec  c                   bcryi  hamd orLABRt FORCf
cioaoverag  Prodoot Pric   meigts; 1614,170.n  190  data.                              Tonal Labor F-r   (thu.....ds) - &-tni-oiy action  parsons. locludiog
Per -apit. sceply of caois(cent of re'quir serial - Camptied from                                armed farces  od unemployed hat.. eulading hanmive., atodunte.  -t,
noergy uqui-ae-  of cur food sPppi te  ovailuble iscoocttry Per topita                         coeigP-P'lno  of oil oge.               finic-o  in vri.ut countries ore
prday.  Available sapptasi    oprs  domatic prodactic, imports less                          va  coparable;190  1970I9   an1I Ddata
nportr. usd chegon in stock.  Nst supplies cotlode  cima I,feed,znecds,                       Pnman (ercnl - Pmanlabor fcacs en psrca-cag  of total Imbor forte.
quant itie  ased in food Procsing, aod losses in distrtuib        s.   eqirs-Aaclur   r et  - bLao  furc  is farls.K  fLrrucy, hootisa and
meio  er  rsiimIte-td by "AO bhamnd or physiolo,gica  venda for ourml atti-                      fisbiog en percetage of totallao  fcc;.1960.t. 190ud18da.
na   adhelh  -coidreisgcoioeta  tomynracoreboywihsug                                       Ivdsstry (percana  - LbhrIoc  ir misig  eotract                . too,ma .utciniro
andsesdisribtio   ofpuploaor.nsdallwin  10peaeciforwase  r                        ad eeaciciy,bste  an  gaes  ercrauego  toalf abotfoce
househodileve"l; 196145. 17  sd1 977dec.                                                         1960. 1970 mod 1900 Outs._
Per capita  -uIlly of crotois acuna Pan day) -Proteoc eto   e   uia                            Porticipetion fat  (per-tno   -  otl        1mt, end female   Participative or
oec srelyof fod ne  day.  Mec nurply of food is dcfirudan  bo.    Rie-                   aclis      .ato. err campand 00 octal, main, ad feman labor force u
qoireme-c  for1 al ..couries entublished by 0500 provide  o  mi-ia                             peec..stege  of toal 1ml  and famale population of all  gee reprtively;
ello,cocces of 60 grams  f cucl protein pen day nod 2018 grem  of anmal ad1960. 1970, end 1980 dare.  Tswor   toon.d or Ito's puticipatioc rates
posa protin, of which 10 gra_..houd be asis1 pro-eie   Thu- stand-                             rrfloc,iiogtage-soc afrtar-e, of the _poplation, and bog time trend.  A
arde11 are  ove  abet chose cf 79 enema ofltotalprotin en 32 grema of                          fe simae   are frmntoalearp
aima  pcis  sa  avrge forah  ved   rp d by FAD it the Third                                 U2onoit D Pod..ty Motto -RAtic of popolatioc ucder iS and 65 and oe
World Poud tSrvey; 1961465, 1970 and 1977 daaLt he total labor farc.
Per capita erotein  upl fom  nma adnuo  - Protnis supply of food dr-
tired  fromaiml adpulse  in  ram  pa  doy; 1914.  9)  end 1977 data.                       INC0NE DISTRIBUJTION
Child (ns16    et  ae .gtsr oLaad      ucldatsprtasr   sPeceee                                                 rvt  Income (both it teh and bind) - fa.elo-d by Licheet
agLru  1    er.   to cbldree isal   g   r ;fr  ondvtplgtu-                               ecn.rcet2  pnrc...t. poorest 20 porc...n, und pourent 40 peLrcet
ames doteP derivd from  life tables; i960. 1970 and 1980 Once.                                 of hous.eho1ds.
HEALTH                                                                                         POVERTY TOAGEf GOsUPS
LieI,   tasyanBrc         Vyet)      bvnae   ue  of years af litfe reas.ing                   Th. fa1ILemig eoi-etes ore cry opycsimastmaure  atpoetylels
nobith  160 i17  an  190dt,ad shoold be  otrprated with caostderakl. cu                                                                              itia.
Infant lrtolity fte (np- rhunesd) - Annua  deaths of infants under une year                    fntasted Abcolste P-eety In.u_ lee_01   uceie  - urban and rte1 -
of uge pr  hbMsad lic  births; 1960. 1970 end 1960 dean,                                         bacPoverty itcoe lve  is  hat L-cum  Ier-I helue tick  a msiml
cee  t  SafeI -ace  (pren f puenletini -tara, u;.rban, sod rural - Nss-                       otlliri:innly adqast  diet pissstl  oat-faadroquiromesas  Ia vet
he   fpeople (comi. scen  osdmci) mLk  .               J.snl  co .o Lu safe                offordable,
asnt  sop (.P Inclu.desintd  ofc  asters uoren .atc .ht                  ...unamlatd        Etima-d gRl1ti- Paret som  leve  (11  pa -cpitl. - rban end cora  -
eatrs nob asfObo  f ra  protectd burchols..  prioge. and sanitary malls) us                    graL1 rLeLni- peeray imaa  lvlin ny-third of avrage per capita
Pecmtoge  o  theit rnspective pupoIatiuns.  Is, me ark. an         . pspablia                   . pesoa  macaw  uf the iantry.  lbsn lsveIis duried fram  the crel
foant_i or stdnput locted nut mere thm  000   essrs f rum e house may he                       Iee  with adjant t fur higher cost of ILvn   n  ra  ams
ac=sideda  being wIhn    sMbkls evens of thee heat.-  In   -1a  ems                          fnlec  Pseltiu  Dev  Oslie P.  try I-om  lawn Ipreet) - ubso
esaunbis acase  evld iply that the h.--eife or members ofthe hevcheld                          an   oa      ece   fpplte   nbu  and eae)ekarcbsne
do not her  insada dispreprtinato  pant of the day  in fetahing the                             ea
faiysatr mdc.
sotee, of psopisfsei  sobs, ad rsrs) secod by  ..ers.ta dtmpnm1a
Pcrestsgs of their rep=tiv- pupalentssa   Easreta dipasoas sy Licldc
mo    at-tebpester-he   sysia  -r cbs .s  of pit prIes med sim-
PI: mlstlem  acPhyIcan- Papsietims divided by s..  r of rasigphys..-                                                                  aM-nia and Sotim1 Data Dtsias
slas qsli let Prona -di.s  make1 en  nIversity imes.                                                                    tanneS  iAlysim  mmd Prejeastams Dsprttet
ftsosaltiem er Ime..e  Ps. mem -   FppWtaiss didad by  .sbse af pras:tislg                                                                         MSy 1962
sc mdfmmsl  esdrstsssm.  smeisamt macass  ascasios  macin  sad



paf.~ 4
Population: 9,864 (mid-1q91. thojanisds)
INP nDr capita: 111$s5Oo (191)
Amount
(million ItS$                                                      Annual growtn ratnd (1) at cuintnart prie..
Tndic.tor                 at curro-ut pricuS)                          4ctual                                    Preliminary                                   'rojuctua
MS           1976       1977       1978          1979         1980         t981         1982         1Q83        1994        1985
NATI(NAL ACCOItNTS
Grods Oomestic Product n/                2852                  7.0         7.9          0.8       -8.0           8.1        -7.6          -0.4         10.2          4.5         3.3        537
tgriculture                           609                  9.2          9.5         -7.2       -6.2          17.1      -11.7          -5.8          19.9          5.6         4.4         4 .8
TlJudtry                              687                  5.1          7.5          4.5      -10.6           9.8      -14.9            6.7         10.6          5.3         4.6         4_0
S.rviced                              1956                 6.7          7.3          3.4       -7.7           7.5        -6.2         -2.7           7.7          4.2         2.6         3.8
ColadUMption                             290H                  6.5          2.4         18.7     -14.4           1.5        -5.3           -.5          4.5          2.3        -0.5         1.4
Groan Ilrveatmdnt                         363                -28.6         58.9          4.0      0.01          3f. 9      -33.5          54.3          3.5         13-6         7.6         6_3
'xportd of GNPS                           852                 12.0         24.9         5.3      -27.9          35.3       -11 .9        -17.9         41.2          6.7         2.0         1.5
Imports of GNPS                          1272                  1.2         20.9         9.6        3.5          11.5       -20.3           8.3         -5.3         -5.1        -1.3         0.5
rrodd National Savillgd                   -57                -24.1        113.6       -34.0      -29.0                                                 64.4        149.1        46.7        25_6
PRICCS
GDP Deflator (1979 - 100)                                      -            -            -         -             100         112           124          1483
Exchange Rato (11S1-                                        214.3       239.0        245.7      225.6         212.7       211.3         Z12.0        340.0          -           -           -
Share of CDP at Warket Prices (v) -                                       vrage Annual Incrane (a    )
(at current priCeds)                                                  (at constant pricus)
1970        1975         1qao       1985                      1970-1975          1975-1980           1980- 1985
Grose Domsntic Product                                       100.0        100.0       100.0    1t0.0                           2.3                0.5                 4-3
Agricultur.                                               24.0         30.2         21.3       22.0                         3.0               -0.8                 5.5
Tndudtry                                                  25.5         24.0         24.1       26.4                         3.8                5.6                 6.2
Other                                                     50.5         45.8         54.6       51.6                         1.4               -1.6                 2.9
Consumption                                                  89.0         qO.0         102.0      88.0                         0.7                 1.8                1.0
Gross Investment                                              16.0         18.0         13.0      20.0                         4.7                0.4                15.0
Nxporta (CNFS)                                                27.0         36.0         30.0      28.0                           -                 2.8                3.3
Importa (GCFS)                                                32.0         42.0         45.0      36.0                           -               -2.1                -0.2
Gross National Savinga                                        11.3         12.3        -1.9       12.0                         3.0                 0.7               40.0
PUBLIC FINANCE b/                                             7176         17          FY78       7179          FY80          7181           FY82
(in billion CPA francs)
Currant Revenue                                           77.1         91.7         97.1      107.5         134.1         125.5          147.2
Current 'expenditured                                     77.2         83.1         94.1      101.4         131.8         139.6          155.6
Surplus (*) or Deficit (-)                                -0.1          8.6          3.0        6.1           2.3         -14.1           -8.4
Capital Expenditure                                        14.9        21.6           9.5      12.5          13.2          21.3G!          5.4
Surplus (+) or Deficit (-)                               -15.0        -13.0         -6.5       -6.4         -10.9         -35.4          -13.8
a/ At sarket prices
b/ Central governmont only
e/ Includes CPAP 8.8 billton for settlemenit of 5th plan operation.



Annex I
Page 5
SENEGAL - EXTERNAL TRADE
Population: 5,864 (mid-1981,thousands)
GNP per captta: US$500 (1981)
Annual Growth rates (Z) at Constant Prices
Amount                               Actual                                   Preliminary                                  Projected
Indicator                                  (million USS at            -----------------------------------             --------------------------           --------------------------------------
current prices)          1975        1976        1977        1978        1979        1980         1981         1982         1983         1984        1985
1980
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise Exports                              492                21.9        34.6         6.0       -40.2         27.9       -31.5       -14.3          52.5          8.4        16.3         -0.1
Primary                                       324                38.0        37.0         0.5       -49.4        44.5       -33.0       -16.7          72.0          11.6        20.8         2.6
Manufactures                                   81               -15.6        39.1        19.5       -16.3        -2.3       -50.0       -20.0          16.7           7.1         6.7       -18.7
Petroleum                                      87                -4.3       -27.3        87.5         6.7          3.1       60.0          0.1         12.5           0.1         5.5       -10.5
Merchandise Imports                              905                 2.3        25.8        13.6        -7.9         16.2       -16.4         2.2         -1.6          -1.6         3.8          4.8
Food                                          195              -23.9         41.5         7.6         6.5        18.0       -29.0         15.0          0.1          -5.1         2.7         2.6
Petroleum                                     276                 4.2         4.4        12.8         5.7        14.0        65.5          6.2          7.8           2.1         4.3         8.3
Machinery and Equipment                       157               -13.0        12.1        18.4       -21.5        32.8          0.1        -3.7          7.7           0.1         7.2         3.4
Others                                        277                33.2        28.1        14.5        -8.9        10.3       -35.3         -4.0         -1.4           0.1         2.8         4.1
PRICES
Export Price Index (1979 - 100)                  114                  89           78          97         101         100         114         152           141          153         168          183
Import Price Index (1979 = 100)                  120                  87          86           92          93         100         120         141           160          175         188          201
Terms of Trade Index (1979 = 100)                 95                 102           91         105         109         100          95          108           88           87           89          91
Composition of Merchandise Trade (x)                                     Average Annual Increase (Z)
(at current prices)                                                 (at constant prices)
1975        1980        1985        1990        1975-1980                            1980-1985                          1985-1990
Exports                                                             100.(       100.0        100.0       100.0          9.0                                 10.0                                2.4
Primary                                                           70.5        66.0        79.4         78.0          0.1                                 14.6                               2.8
Manufactures                                                      22.5        16.5         9.1         12.0          6.3                                  2.9                               7.9
Petroleum                                                          7.0        17.5        11.5         10.0          8.4                                  1.2                              -2.0
Imports                                                             100.0       100.0        100.0       100.0          3.9                                  2.1                                3.0
Food                                                              23.2        18.5         19.6        16.2         10.4                                  2.8                              -0.5
Petroleum                                                         12.0        26.1        26.3        29.3           9.5                                  1.6                                5.0
Machinery and Equipment                                           18.4        14.9         16.6        15.9          1.8                                  3.3                                3.0
Others                                                            46.4        40.5        37.5         38.6          1.0                                  0.3                                3.0
Share of Trade with                               Share of Trade with                                Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (%)                          Developing Countries (%)                      Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (Z)
1970          1975         1980        1981          1970         1975        1980       1981         1970         1975        1980          1981
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                                                --           66.4          50.4        47.3          --          20.0         36.6       36.2         --            --          2.5           2.9
Imports                                                --           67.1         60.6         68.4          --          11.5         18.7       15.8         --           4.1         18.0         12.9



Annex I
Page 6
SENEGAL - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(millions U55 at current prices)
Popnlation: 5,864 (mid-1981, thlousands)
GNP per capita: US$500 (1981)
Actual                             Preliminary                                   Projected
Indlcator                                                 1976        1977        1978          1979        1980         1981          1982        1983         1984        1985
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of Goods                                             511.7        666.2      464.6         626.3       491.9        433.0         494.1       583.2        676.5       803.5
Imports of Goods                                             656.7        771.5      840.7        1004.2       905.2        919.1         820.6       882.9        944.1      1011.8
Set,ices (net)                                               -53.3        -69.5      -69.4        -113.1      -118.0       -143.4        -120.6      -169.7       -179.7      -229.1
Net Transfers                                                106.2        107.3       136.7         181.7      206.2        197.8         127.0       137.0        150.9       166.2
Current Account Balance                                      -92.1        -67.5     -308.8        -309.3      -325.1       -431.7        -320.1      -332.4       -296.4      -271.2
Official Capital                                              50.0         58.1       125.2         82.6       161.1        175.4         180.3       132.3        113.2       125.0
Private Capital                                               32.9         36.2       62.8          66.7        85.8         41.5          38.2        55.9         57.9        63.5
Monetary Capital                                               0.8         -0.4       -0.4          32.9         --           --            --          -_           __          __
Errors and Oulssions                                           6.7        -17.5        37.2          --        -31.7         36.0           --          --           --
Allocation of SDRs                                             --           --         --             5.6         5.2         8.1                       --           --          --
Overall Balance                                               -1.7          8.9      -84.1        -121.5      -104.7       -170.6        -101.5      -144.1       -125.3       -82.7
Change in reserves (-Increase)                                 1.7        -8.9        84.1         121.5       104.7        170.6         101.5       144.1        125.3        82.7
1975        1976         1977        1978          1979        1980         1981         1982         1983        1984         1985         1990
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross Disbursements
Official Grants                                --           --           --         --            --          --          45.0         30.0         40.0        40.0         45.0          0.0
Concessional Loans                            30.1         23.1         38.0       54.7          63.8        68.2        187.5        145.9        139.8       166.0        189.2        262.2
DAC                                        11.6         8.6         15.8        12.8          18.5        12.5         37.2         44.5         61.3        84.2         98.0        136.7
OPEC                                        0.2          2.2          2.2        0.0           6.7         3.7         60.0         23.3         15.9         9.3          5.0          0.0
IDA                                       11.8         12.0          7.7         9.7          16.2        12.0         62.0         43.8         28.2        31.8         36.5         24.7
Other                                       6.5          0.3        12.3        32.2          22.4        40.0         28.3         34.3         34.4        40.7         49.7        100.8
Non-conceaslonal Loans                        45.8         60.7         62.2      169.4         159.9       214.3        111.8        145.4        144.9       170.5        200.7        284.2
OEC                                         5.7          3.3         6.9        26.7          40.5        72.9         53.2         42.8         61.1        76.1         87.2         86.4
IBRD                                       7.1          4.7         12.9         6.6          11.0        17.9         21.9         29.5         11.6        12.2         15.0        43.2
Other Multilateral                          0.0          0.0         0.2         6.6           1.8        13.6          9.4         25.8         29.9        36.5         45.7         84.7
Private                                   33.0         52.7         42.2       129.5         106.6       109.9         27.3         47.3         42.3        45.7         52.8         69.9
External Debt
Debt Outstanding and Disbursed               296.6        351.4       428.3       614.4         797.5       957.0       1066.9       1231.8       1413.3      1646.2       1926.5       3459.8
official                                  164.6       187.5        245.4       349.5         464.4       617.4        843.5       1050.6       1248.2      1478.5       1743.9       3173.1
Private                                   132.0       163.9        182.9       264.9         333.1       339.6        223.4        181.2        165.1       167. 7       182.6        286.7
Undisbursed Debt                             227.9        275.7       401.2       568.4         533.1       648.4        769.2        807.1        912.3      1241.6       1174.5       1542.4
Debt Service
Total Service Payments                        39.4         42.9         56.5       99.5         122.6       181).0       216.6        209.4        176.9       182.2        197.2        384.2
Interest                                  18.5         18.2         20.8        30.5          44.1        57.0        8(.3         82.7          73.6        78.4         87.4       161.1
Payments as X Exports                          5.1          6.2         6.6        14.4          14.2        24.7         34.9         31.8         23.0        22.3         29.0         29.6
Average Maturity on New Loans (X)                23.1         19.2         11.2        12.8         20.9         8.0          8.0         18.9         21.6        22.6         17.0         17.0
Official                                      32.2         25.8         18.1       21.2           25.5        --           --           --           --          --           --           --
Private                                        5.4          6.2          6.2        6.7           6.5         --           --           --           --          --           --           --
As 2 of Debt Outstanding
at Enid of Must Recent
Year (1981)
Maturity Structure of Debt Outstanding
Prlncipal due within 5 years                                                                                     30.1
Principal due within 10 years                                                                                    56.8
Interest Structure of Debt Outstanding
Interest due within 5 years                                                                                      18.6
West Africa Region
August 1982



ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1982)
Amount, less cancellation
Loan/Credit                                                               (US$ Million)
Number       Year    Borrower         Purpose                    Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Seven Loans* and sixteen Credits fully disbursed                   29.0    104.4
530-SE          1975    Senegal      Education II                            15.0          2.40
1113-SE         1975    Senegal      Agric. Diversification         4.2 1.                0.23
1222-SE         1976    Senegal      Third Highway                 15.0                    1.65
633-SE          1976    Senegal      Livestock                      4.2                    0.48
1332 SE         1976    SOFISEDIT   Second Development Finance   4.2                      0.31
1405T-SE        1977    Senegal      Port of Dakar                  6.0                   0.68
1412T-SE        1977    Senegal      Petite Cote Tourism            8.0                   2.64
1413-SE         1977    Senegal      Petite Cbte Tourism            5.6                    1.83
764-SE          1978    Senegal      Para Public Sector
Tech. Asst.                           6.3          0.10
775-SE          1978    Senegal      Irrigation                              20.0          4.98
1518-SE         1978    RCFS         Railways III                  11.0                    2.02
1665-SE         1979    Senegal      Second Airport                 7.0                   3.58
S-23-SE         1979    Senegal      Water Supply Engr.                       2.5          1.01
908-SE          1979    Senegal      Education III                           22.0         14.41
991-SE          1980    Senegal      Small Rural Operations                  11.0          9.26
993-SE          1980    Senegal      Fourth Highway                          28.0         17.25
1810-SE         1980    Senegal      Fourth Highway                10.0                   10.0
S-26-SE         1980    Senegal      Power Eng and T.A.                       3.3          2.51
1931-SE         1980    Senegal      Structural Adjustment         30.0                   16.71
1061-SE         1981    Senegal      Technical Assistance                     4.4 2/       3.53
1973-SE         1981    SOC FIN      Investment Promotion           6.5                    6.5
SEN TOURIS
1136-SE         1981    Senegal      Investment Promo ion                     2.25 -/      2.04
2025-SE         1981    Soc.D'Expl. Rail Transport                 19.3                   19.3
Ferroviaire
1103-SE         1981    Senegal      Forestry                                 7.833/       7-55
1176-SE         1981    Senegal      Agri. Research 2/                       18.23 3/    18.23
Total                                    155.80   249.41        149.20
of which has been repaid               12.54      1.47
Total now outstanding                    143.26   247.94
Amount sold                     3.4
of which has been repaid   3.2          0.20      -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 3/        143.26   247.94
Total undisbursed                         65.45    83.75        149.20
*   A loan of US$3.5 million for agricultural credit (584-SE) made in 1969 was
cancelled on March 25, 1971.
1/ From the US$7.0 million oroginal amount, US$2.8 million was cancelled on
June 25, 1982.
2/ Not yet effective.
3/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNIEX II
Page 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1982)
Amount (us$ Million)
Equity
Fiscal          Obligor          Type of Business         Loan  Investment  Total
1967     Societe Industrielle   Fertilizer Plant          2.45     1.01       3.46
d'Engrais au Senegal
1972)    BUD Senegal S. A.
1973)                            Vegetable Export         -        0.84       0.84
1976)
1974     SOFISEDIT               Development
Finance Company         -        0.24       0.24
1980     Banque de l'Habitat    Money and Capital
du Senegal, S.A.        Market                   -        0.47      0.47
1980     Societe Hoteliere
du Barachois, S.A.      Tourism                 3.00      -         3.00
1982     Industrie Chimique
du Senegal              Fertilizer             25.00               25.00
Total Gross Commitments                        30.45      2.56      33.01
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales                            2.45      1.05       3.50
Total Commitments now held by IFC              28.00      1.51     29.51
Undisbursed Balance                            25.34      0.00      25.34



ANNEX II 
Page 3
B.   Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. 530                 Second Education Project; US$15.0 Million Credit of
February 19, 1975; Effective April 22, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
All construction has been completed and all equipment delivered. The
institutions financed under the project are operating satisfactorily. Govern-
ment has decided to reorient its policies on post-primary education, and is
considering alternative approaches to rural youth education; therefore, the
number of new rural youth education centers under the project will remain at
five, rather than 15 as envisaged earlier. The resulting cost reductions are
being used, following IDA approval, to build and equip a maintenance unit for
the science centers, and to complete the Merchant Marine School which now
needs the boarding facilities and supplementary training equipment eliminated
in 1979 to allow for rate exchange losses at that time. As the science and
technology education programs are being implemented satisfactorily, the
Government has requested that the Closing Date be postponed by one year to
allow for full disbursement of remaining Credit funds.
Ln. 1222                Third Highway Project; US$15.0 Million Loan of March 31,
1976; Effective June 15, 1976; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982.
The project consists of pavement strengthening of about 200 km of
primary roads, equipment procurement, and consulting services for preinvest-
ment studies, highway maintenance, and development of the domestic construc-
tion industry. The pavement strengthening program has been completed. The
road maintenance program begun under the Second Highway Project and extended
under this project, is being continued under the Fourth Highway Project to
strengthen the maintenance organization and operations. As a result of
currency realignments and a civil works execution period that was shorter than
planned, about US$2.5 million became available under the loan; the Bank agreed
to use these funds to cover the foreign cost of extending technical assistance
for road maintenance, improving workshops and training center buildings, and
procuring workshop and training equipment. Implementation of this is now
largely completed.
1/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular, to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4
Cr. 633                 Eastern Senegal Livestock Project; US$4.2 Million Credit
of June 17, 1976; Effective June 29, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983.
The project is designed to assist about 30,000 pastoralists in
Eastern Senegal through improved grazing and herd management practices, devel-
opment of stock watering facilities and firebreaks, improved animal health
services, livestock credit, and a functional literacy program. Parallel
financing is about 95% being provided by the Kuwait Fund and BADEA.  The
Credit is 85% disbursed but fully committed. Construction of buildings and
wells is almost completed. The pastoral service established under the project
is successfully carrying out livestock extension services in the grazing
scheme area where 53 pastoral units have been created. A follow-up livestock
component has been prepared for inclusion in the Eastern Senegal Rural
Development Project now being prepared.
Ln. 1332                Second SOFISEDIT Project; US$4.2 Million Loan of
October 14, 1976; Effective April 21, 1977; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
In addition to providing SOFISEDIT with a second line of credit for
industrial and tourism investments, the Loan has helped finance a pilot scheme
for assistance to small-scale Senegalese artisans through SONEPl, the local
industrial promotion agency. The Loan is now fully committed, and almost 95%
disbursed.
Ln. 1405-T              Dakar Fishing Port Project; US$6.0 Million Loan of
June 7, 1977; Effective March 20, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983.
Following a slow start caused mainly by time-consuming Government
procedures, project implementation subsequently became satisfactory. Civil
works have been completed. The quality of contractors, workmanship is good,
and the new quays are in use.   All the technical assistance services and
studies, including the study for a proposed container terminal, are progress-
ing satisfactorily. Overall performance of the Port Authority remains satis-
factory, but there are continuing problems with receivables, statistics, and
recruitment and retention of qualified staff. Port operations are still being
hampered by rigid customs regulations.
Ln. 1412-T              Petit Cote Tourism Project; US$8.0 Million and US$5.6
Ln. 1413                Million Loans of June 7, 1977 as amended on May 12,
1980; Effective January 23, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
The project includes construction of infrastructure and common faci-
lities for hotel development on the Petite Cote, a major tourist area where
lack of infrastructure has so far limited such development; a program of works
for renovation of Goree Island; and technical assistance and studies for long-
term financing for hotel construction at the site. Construction of infra-
structure works at the Sali site has been satisfactorily completed, and areas



ANNEX II
Page 5
designated for hotel construction are ready for delivery. The first hotel
(Palm Beach) opened in December 1980, and two other hotel projects are
expected to get underway by mid-1983. Hotel promotion to attract investors to
the Sali site is weak, and Government is seeking ways to improve this aspect
of the project. Port and street works for the Goree renovation were completed
in November 1981; however, progress has been slow in completing a package of
renovation works on the Hotel Relais de l'Espadon on Goree island.
Ln. 1518               Third Railway Project; US$11.0 Million Loan of March 17,
1978; Effective August 10, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The project consists of track rehabilitation and maintenance, supply
of material and equipment, improvement of telecommunications facilities and
track in the Dakar area, supply of spare parts for motive power and rolling
stock, strengthening of training programs and facilities, and studies. Track
repair work between Kakar and Thies proceeded satisfactorily for about 12
months, but the quality of ballast procured by the Regie was found to be
poor. Because neither the Regie nor the Government were able to provide the
local funds needed for better quality ballast in FY81, track repair work was
halted, but resumed in late 1981, though at a much slower pace, when some
funds were provided by the Government. Work again came to a standstill for
about six months in early 1982, but re-started in August 1982. All locomotive
spare parts have been received, and locomotive rehabilitation works are now
completed. The training program is progressing satisfactorily. Consultants
have completed two phases of the study of the optimum structure and ownership
of the Senegal Railway (together with the connecting Mali Railway); the
Senegal Railway will be transformed into a Societe Nationale by end-1982.
Traffic stagnated during FY80 and most of FY81, but international freight has
reached substantially higher levels since early FY81 following establishment
of a cooperative management group with the Mali railway, and has increased by
a further 10% since July 1982. The project is likely to be completed by late
1983, probably with a local cost overrun of about $2 million but with no over-
run on the foreign cost element.
Cr. 764                Para-Public Sector Technical Assistance Project; US$6.3
Million Credit of March 17, 1978; Effective June 6,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The project consists of a three-year program to help improve the
efficiency of Goverrment organizations charged with strategic analysis, opera-
tional supervision, and formal financial control of the para-public sector,
and to upgrade the auditing, financial management, and accounting procedures
for the sector as a whole and for a number of the most important public enter-
prises and mixed companies. Consulting services and technical assistance have
been generally satisfactory (and in some cases exceptional), and over the
course of the project, performance of the agencies has improved substantial-
ly. Overall guidance and direction by Project Management was not very effec-
tive in the early phases of the project, but Government later took very
positive measures to remedy this situation. Training programs for government
administrators have been executed satisfactorily, with several intensive and



ANNEX II
P)-,  6
specialized courses organized in 1980 and 1981.  The audits of State enter-
prises have been extremely useful, and follow-up of audit recommendations by
the agencies has been good.
Cr. 775               Debi Lampsar Irrigation Project; US$20.0 Million Credit
of March 17, 1978; Effective June 30, 1978; Clos-Y'.
Date: June 30, 1985
The project provides for development of about 2,760 ha through full
water control irrigation in the Senegal River Delta, and construction of re-
lated facilities; technical assistance to the project authority SAED; consult-
ing services for applied research and studies for future development of the
River Valley. Works on the IDA-financed Lampsar perimeter (2,023 ha) and on
the Debi perimeter (740 ha) financed by the Kuwait Fund under a parallel
financing arrangement, have been satisfactorily completed. Studies for future
development of the Senegal Valley are well advanced, and will be available in
time to permit appraisal of a proposed Irrigation IV project. This appraisal
could be scheduled in March 1983, depending on results of discussions on how
to relieve SAED's structural deficit.
Ln. 1665              Second Aviation Project; US$7.0 Million Loan of
April 18, 1979; Effective November 15, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983.
The project consists of levelling and strengthening the main runway
and taxiway and improving the taxiway alignment at Dakar airport, together
with the installation of navigation and visual approach aids at Ziguinchor and
Cap Skirring regional airports. Work at Dakar airport was satisfactorily
completed by the end of 1980. Equipment procurement is completed, and con-
tracts for civil works at Ziguinchor and Cap Skirring have been awarded. The
Bank has approved a Government request to use the available balance of the
loan to finance supplementary works selected from the investment plan. This
additional work, which includes rehabilitation of the terminal building and
runway night lighting system, is now underway.
Cr. S-23              Water Supply Engineering and Technical Assistance Pro-
ject; US$2.5 Million Credit of May 23, 1979; Effective
August 10, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The project provides for economic, financial, and technical studies
to prepare a priority investment project for rehabilitation and extension of            P
water supply systems in eleven secondary centers, including six regional
capitals; and technical assistance to strengthen the planning and operating
entities in the sector.  Feasibility, organizational and financial studies
have been carried out, and detailed engineering designs are well underway.
The proposed investment project was appraised in March 1982.



ANNEX :
Page 7
Cr. 908                 Third Education Project; US$22.0 Million Credit of
May 23, 1979; Effective August 16, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
TUree of the institutions created under the project, the Management
Institute (ESGE), the College of Agriculture (INDR), and the Technical Teacher
Training College (ENSET) have started to operate in temporary facilities.
Physical implementation of all components started after an average delay of
six months, but will be completed by end-1982. Equipment procurement is
progressing with only minor delays. Following a recent Government decision to
close boarding accommodations in all secondary schools, facilities at the
primary teacher training college in Kolda have been converted into classrooms
to accommodate a one-year auxiliary teacher training course. Also, because of
the large number of teachers to be trained at Kolda, construction of new
practice primary classrooms has become necessary.  Overall, the project con-
tinues to be efficiently managed. The audit report for 1980/81 was produced
in June 1982, and the report for the next period is expected shortly.
Cr. 991                 Small Rural Operations Project; US$11.0 million Credit
of April 2, 1980; Effective September 10, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984.
The project focuses on channelling funds and technical services to
small groups of rural people who will undertake to provide labor, and some
funds, for the development of several types of directly productive activities,
namely:  developmenit of small perimeters for irrigated cultivation of rice,
vegetables, and bananas; beekeeping; and fishing.   The project also includes
village water supplies, an allocation for additional directly productive acti-
vities to be identified and prepared during implementation, and provision for
a management structure. The project is progressing satisfactorily despite some
coordination problems. This is the first year of on-field implementation, and
the enthusiasm of farmer and producer groups augurs well for a good take-off.
Cr. 993                 Fourth Highway Project; US$10.0 Million Loan and US$28.0
Ln. 1810                million Credit of April 2, 1980; Effective December 9,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The major objective of the project is to increase Government's
capacity to keep the road system in adequate condition, in particular, to
train technicians and selected staff, to improve road work planning and pro-
gramming capacity, and to rehabilitate and upgrade important road sections.
The project consists of the following components: (a) a three-year training
program for road maintenance staff; (b) a two-and-a-half year technical
assistance program for road maintenance execution; (c) upgrading of the
Government's soils laboratory to strengthen its participation in road main-
tenance activities; (d) design of proper and systematic pavement maintenance
and strengthening programs; (e) strengthening and rehabilitation of about 200
km of primary paved roads; and (f) construction of the Louga-Dahra road (about
85 km) to two-lane, paved standards, financed in parallel by the Japanese
Government. Almost all procurement has been satisfactorily completed, and the
physical works, as well as consulting services for studies are well under-



ANNEX IIl
Page 8
way. The training component encountered difficulties with budget allocations
and recruitment of trainers in mid-1982, but these problems are expected to be
overcome during 1983.
Cr. S-26-SE             Power Engineering and Technical Assistance Project;
US$3.3 million Credit of June 18, 1980; Effective
August 29, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The major objective of the project is to help Government develop an
overall energy plan and reorganizing the power sector. The reorganization
study has been completed, and legislation for creation of a national power
entity is being finalized.   Two technical advisors for general energy and
power sector planning have been provided to the Ministry of Industrial
Development. An overseas training program is underway for Senegalese offi-
cials responsible for energy planning. The project also includes audits, fi-
nancial and tariff studies, and feasibility studies for a headquarters
building for the new power entity and for the renovation and expansion of
distribution facilities. Project implementation is well underway.
Cr. 1061                Technical Assistance Project for Economic and Financial
Planning; SDR 4.1 million (US$5.3 million equivalent)
Credit of October 27, 1980; Effective January 9, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The project is aimed at supporting and strengthening the Government's
ability to identify, select and prepare, monitor execution of, and carry out
retrospective evaluations of its portfolio of development projects. The pro-
ject also aims at strengthening public debt monitoring, budgeting and fore-
casting capacity, and improving coordination between project needs and public
financing. Long-term consultants have been recruited and now well estab-
lished, and a number of studies have been selected for financing. The project
is being executed satisfactorily.
Ln. 1931-SE             Structural Adjustment Loan and Development Credit:
Cr. 1084-SE             US$30 million Loan and SDR 22.9 million (US$30 million
equivalent) Credit of January 26, 1981; Effective
March 30, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
US$40 million equivalent of the Loan/Credit proceeds have been made
available to the Senegalese Government to help finance its medium term eco-
nomic stabilization and rehabilitation program. A progress report on the exe-
cution of the first tranche is being prepared by the Government. Counterpart
funds are being used principally in the agriculture sector for reorganization
of the rural development agencies, for which prospects are mixed: the agen-
cies responsible for Irrigation and cotton development have prepared accept-
able short-term programs, but rainfed crop agencies cannot prepare acceptable
programs until Government policies on farmer participation, input supply and
pricing, credit, and marketing, have substantially improved. About US$1.0
million equivalent is being used for consultant studies.



ANNEX II
Page 9
Cr. 1103-SE            Forestry Project; SDR 7.3 million (US$9.3 million
equivalent) Credit of March 11, 1981; Effective July 1,
1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project aims at meeting the steadily increasing demand for fuel-
wood and forest products in the urban center of Dakar and in rural areas of
the heavily populated Groundnut Basin, where rapid population growth is
resulting in serious deforestation. Project implementation is now underway.
Ln. 1973-SE            Investment Promotion Project:   US$6.5 million Loan and
Cr. 1136-SE            SDR 2.1 million (US$2.5 million equivalent) Credit of
July 17, 1981; Effective February 11, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985.
The project aims at promoting productive investments in Senegal by:
(i) reinforcing SOFISEDIT, both financially and institutionally; (ii) pro-
viding loan and equity finance for viable subprojects; (iii) improving the
efficiency of SONEPI, the local industrial promotion agency; and (iv) stream-
lining the investment approval process. Although project implementation is
still at an early stage, commitments under the line of credit have been
progressing quite rapidly. Little progress has been made, however, in revers-
ing the deterioration of SOFISEDIT's financial position, and the company's
portfolio continues to be plagued by a high level of arrears. SOFISEDIT's
Management and Board are now formulating a program to reverse this trend, and
also to improve administrative and operational efficiency of the institution.
Ln. 2025-SE            SEFICS Rail Transport Project:  US$19.3 million Loan of
September 30, 1981; Not yet effective; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The project aims at creating SEFICS, an operating subsidiary of the
parent fertilizer producing company called ICS, for providing and managing
rail transport services needed by ICS. SEFICS will operate the ICS trains on
Senegal railways. main line tracks after paying a track user charge.
Cr, 1176-SE            Agricultural Research Project:  SDR 17 million (US$19.5
million equivalent) of March 12, 1982; not yet
effective; Closing Date: June 30, 1988.
The project aims at reorganizing and decentralizing the national
agricultural research effort by making it more adapted to small farmer
needs. Under the project the Senegalese Agricultural Research Institute
(ISRA) would be reinforced to carry out (i) 5 production systems research
programs in Senegal's major agro-ecological zones, and (ii) six nationally
coordinated multidisciplinary commodity programs on groundnuts, millet,
sorghum, maize, rice, and cowpeas.



ANNEX III
Page 1
SENEGAL
RURAL HEALTH PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare project:  July 1980 - May 1981
(b)  Project prepared by:                           Ministry of Public Health,
assisted by IDA staff and
consultants financed under
PPF advances.
(c)  First Bank mission to consider project:    November 1978.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal and post-
appraisal missions:                        June and December 1981
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:            November 1982.
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                 March 1983.
Section II:  Special Project Implementation Actions by IDA:  none
Section III: Special Conditions.
During negotiations, Government has provided assurances on the
following principal items:
(i)   proposals for establishment of a long-teri~ national in-service
training program for health personnel and community workers
would be submitted to IDA for review by December 31, 1985, and
Government would undertake to implement the program as agreed
(para. 44).
(ii)   Government would undertake drug testing at PNA's laboratory by
December 31, 1984, with adequate technical personnel
identified and trained for this purpose (para. 45).
(iii)   Government would implement a Plan of Action acceptable to IDA
to improve PNA's management capabilities and develop a
national pharmaceutical policy (para 46); and
(iv)   Government would maintain adequate staffing of health centers,
and ensure the satisfactory operation and maintenance of all
physical facilities financed under the project (para 50).



ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) Special conditions of Credit effectiveness would be:
(i)   formal establishment of the Project Management Unit (PMU)
(para 55).
(ii)   opening of the Special Account under terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA, for establishment of the IDA-financed
revolving fund (para 52); and
(iii)   opening of the Project Account for deposit of Government
counterpart contributions and payment of the initial deposit
of CFAF 25 million (para 52).



I



IBRD 16326
MARCH I1d2
2$AN    ARCF  AMA                                                                                                                         RIT      NI                                                                    SENEGAL                             MR>  F
SI 'N 5; 5KyHAEr^s}   -   4 t t R ^  1 |   X                    +  tt                      Ah A U R I T A N  I AS                                                                         E
HEALTH PROJECT
I  T'                                          r                                                                                                                         I X    dJ
A L                                                                                                                                                                                 IA-  -  HF -.  NTFR5             ROALS
--.ADfP14 _~  E  : - ULf'EL t _   ' ' ~-   <   _   ,  L  "  .  t  [   f   I r', ceL by P veN  , P
AIA                                                                                                                                                                                                            P'- ;,d j, P.,A- - -  I,
'VA,  -~~~~~~~~~~~~L~~~~c  ~~~~~~                                                                                                                                           22   PA).  LAA.AI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,  -
MA~ V0.AG                                                             ,;-fA                                                                                                                                            0
I BR                                                                                                                                                % N
A.                                                                                                                                                         LA,,>,, Aco- -_  ,                R
-I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"
>.>.;, ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ F Me.A                                                                                                                  'A '       K / ,-,C.
X ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~ ~ ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ F-  AL '2  AL  Si  oA  A
,~~~~~~~                                             -       -                                  A CM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,TFRS
ADAKAR  2,  ~~~~~~~~~~~         ,            K~~~~~1                                                                                                                                        S\~, 
F X                   X4  M A L I
Fr,n> --4                                                                                                                                                        x>/\ti. t)ux--   
KA IiKAAR-    / '
W;~~AAt~                                          "'-~                  ' -"-\'Jp' * 'N 'L
t i , >,. - - ,> '-. ) s_,_ P >/                        9                                             \N-     Y
--t                 2
L 5 b            shennwn  ewwE~.eKx >Ue; w 'v ssS-  - =        -                                                     --G U I N E A -B I S  A U
of  ?  e sc3ders  of  res .suon fowh.te t r: neSored J be dYre  eN! used Jev inr . .? . ? ,.>e - k L of J. \ GGUUIINNEEAA
dtf.CEiS...... hOUnsten K'>USt3.tvAO'V JstdASorot: ; ~x~ ni.....................................-.........-
_ _                    _.   _____           ~       ~          t



