Tocument of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Rhport No. P-3918&MOR
REPtOT AND RECOMHENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$25.1  MILLION
TO THE
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR AN
ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
December 4, 1984
This _omeat h  a turhd dinbutlos ad may be wed by recipins ody In the perfernace of
their ofI dues Ift contets qm  na aothdewi  be _dosd withot Wrld Bla  au___riagn.



KINGClK OF MOROCCO
CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Dirham (DE)
US$l.OO   DH8.5
DHl.OO     US$0.118
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31.
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BNDE          National Economic Development Bank
(Banque Nationale pour le Ddveloppement Economigue)
EIs           Electrical and Mechanical Industries
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
FRR           Financial Rate of Return
MCI           Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Tourism
ODI           Office for Industrial Development
(Office pour le Developpemeat Industriel)
SNI           National Investment Company
(Societe Nationale d'Investissement)
SSIs          Small-Scale Industries



FOR FmCIL USE ONLY
KINGDO) OF MOROCCO
ELECTRICAL AND MEC    CAL IDEUSTRIES PROJECT
Loaa and Project Summary
Borrower;        The Kingdom of Morocco
Amount:          US$25.1 million equivalent, including the capitalized
front-end fee.
Terms:           17 years, including 4 years of grace. at the standard
variable interest rate. The Government would bear the
interest and foreign exchange risks on the Bank loan.
On-lending       i)   922 million of the Bank loan would be on-lent to
Terms                 Moroccan commercial banks at the Bank interest rate
prevailing at loan signature, and would be repayable
according to a composite amortizatiom schedule,
reflecting the amortization of sub-loans extended by
the commercial banks. The interest rate on sub-loans
to EHI borrowers would be the current minumwm
effective rate on long-term industrial loans. The
terms of sub-loans would reflect the economic life of
sub-projects, with a maximum matuzity of twelve years,
including a maximum grace period of up to three years.
ii)  $3 million of the Bank loan would be on-lent to the
Office pour le Developpement Industriel (ODI), at the
Bank interest iate prevailing at loan signature, with
a maturity of 15 years, including 5 years of grace.
Project          The project's objectives are to support the development of
Description      electrical and mechanical industries (ENIs), encourage
Moroccan commercial banks to be more active in term
financing of industry, and strengthen ODI in its role of
industrial promotion. To achieve these objectives, the
project would consist of:
i)  a line of credit of $22 million on-lent by
*                                 participating commercial banks to finance about 40
eligible EMI sub-projects; and
ii)  a subsidiary loan to ODI of $3 million, comprising
$2.8 million-for financing minority equity
participations by ODI in eligible EMI enterprises, and
$200,000 to improve ODI's market analysis capability
in the EKI area through sub-sectoral studies.
This document has a resrwted distribution and may be used by recipents only m the performance of
Ithir ofrwcial dutes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorzation.



(ii)
EKI investments under the project will create about 1,500
jobs. The project would provide an opportunity for
commercial banks to improve their capabilities for economic
and market analysis, and contribute to increasing term
financing by commercial banks. ODI's policy framework
would be improwed under the project, and its capability in
the MUI area would be strengthened. The main risks under
the project concern the receptivity of the commercial banks
to the financing scheme and on-lending conditions, their
ability to appraise sub-projects and follov procurement and
disbursement proced.rcs umder the loan. These risks are
expected to rewuin uinimal. as the participating commercial
banks have c'afirmed their interest, developed sub-project
pipelines, demonstrated appraisal capability, and are
familiar with Bank procedures for procurement and
disbursemaents.
uss '000
Estimated
Disbursements    IBRD FY     FY85  FY86   FY87   FY88  FY89   FY90   FY91
Annual:       60   1,665  7,625  8,200 4 800  2,175    575
Cumulative;   60   1,725  9,350  17,550 22,350 24,525 25,100
Rate of Return; Not applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report;                      Report No.5225-MOR dated December 4, 1984



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECCMENDATION OF TEE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED WAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USS25.1 MILLION
TO THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR AN ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Loan
to the Kingdom of Morocco, for the equivalent of US$25.1 million, including
the capitalized front-end fee, to help finance an Electrical and Mechanical
Industries Project. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including 4 years
of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY_/
2.       An economic report, entitled "Morocco; Priorities for Public Sector
Investment (1981-85)" (No. 4156-MOR), was issued on June 15, 1983.  Another
economic report entitled "Morocco: Industrial Incentives and Export Promotion"
was distributed to the Board on January 11, 1984. An economic mission on
financial intermediation was in Morocco in September 1983 and its report is
expected to be issued shortly. The following section reflects the findings of
an economic updating mission that was in Morocco in July 1984. Country data
are given in Annex I.
Iatroduction
3.       Compared with many developing countries, Morocco is well endowed with
natural resources. Morocco has the world's largest and most easily
recoverable phosphate reserves, which makes the phosphate sector a key export
sector. Other minerals such as iron ore, manganese, lead and zinc are also
exported, but in much smaller amounts. Coal and hydropower plants satisfy
only a small part of the country's energy requirements, but Morocco has some
uranium and oil stiale resources which could become significant energy sources
in the long term. There are moreover preliminary indications of natural gas
reserves. Morocco also has a relatively good agricultural potential. In
addition, Morocco's proximity to Europe has favored trade, tourism and labor
migration with the EEC countries.
4.       During the first 15 years after independence (1956), a conservative
approach to economic policy predominated in Morocco, and GDP increased at an
average rate of 4% a year in the 1960s. A relatively weak savings effort and
conservative external borrowing policies permitted only a slow rise in the
share of resources allocated to investment. Morocco thus entered the 1970s
with no major financial imbalances, but a relatively limited growth capacity.
1/ Part I is substantially the same as Part I of President's Report
No. P-3893-MOR of November 2, 1984 on a Vocational Training Project.



Economic Performance in the 1970s
5.       During the mid-1970s, economic policy became more ambitious.  In
1974) with the sudden jump in phosphate prices, phosphate export earnings more
than quadrupled, and although the petroleum import bill also quadrupled, the
current account of the balance-of-payments remained in surplus. The
Government launched a massive public investment program which brought about a
significant acceleration in the rate of growth to 6.72 per year between
1973-1977. There was also a major expansion of expenditure on social
services, which have however until now been relatively inefficient in reaching
the lower income groups, particularly in the rural areas.
6.       The phosphate boom, however, was shortlived and phosphate exports
started falling in both volume and value as early as mid-1975. Markets for
other exports as well as for tourism and labor migration were also negatively
affected by the world recession. Accelerated investment, rising social
expenditures and increased defense spending in response to growing tensions in
tne Western Sahara, soon created strong pressures on both the balance-of-
payments and the Government budget. The Treasury deficit reached 17.6% of
GDP, and the current account deficit of the balance-of-payments, 16.5% of GDP
in 1977. To help finance the gap, Morocco borrowed heavily from the
inzernational capital market, which led to rapid increases in external debt
and the debt service burden.
7.       In order to redress the rapidly deteriorating financial situation,
the Moroccan Government in 1978 adopted a stabilization program, with the aim
of reducing internal and external deficits to sustainable levels.  The program
centered on reductions in investment outlays and stricter import controls but
was not sustained long enough and did not address the fundamental structural
weaknesses of the economy. By 1980, both fiscal and external imbalances were
again substantial: the Treasury deficit remained at about 11% of GDP and the
current account deficit of the balance-of-payments at 8% of GDP. By then, the
external debt had risen to $7 billion and the debt service ratio was 27% of
exports of goods and services.
Recent Economic Developments
8.       GDP growth has slowed down since 1978 to 2.8% a year on average,
barely enough to keep per capita income from falling. Agricultural value
added, which rose rapidly in the sixties, has stagnated since the seventies.
Despite substantial public investrnzet, value added in manufacturing also
stagnated in recent years. Construction, which had experienced intense
activity durirg the mid-seventies, sbtaced declining steadily with the slow
down in public investment after 1977. Government services have been the main
source of growth since 1978.
9.       In 1980-82, renewed efforts were made to stabilize the Moroccan
economy with the help of the IMF. In October 1980, the IMF approved a
three-;ear Extended Fund Facility (EFF) in the amount of SDR 810 million. The
EFF was suspended in 1981, however, and replaced in April 1982 by a one-year



- 3 -
Stand-by, which was implemented as planned, but had relatively little impact
on Morocco's financial performance. Throughout this period, Morocco's
attempts at stabilization were severely hampered by a series of external
shocks; a) the 1979 increase in oil prices which aggravated an already
substantial petroleum import bill ($1.2 billion in 1982); b) a severe drought,
which reduced agricultural output by about 202 in 1981 and led to substantial
imports of cereals; c) the rise in international interest rates which
contributed to a steep increase in debt service; and d) the international
economic recession which contributed to a 30% decline in 1982-83 in the dollar
price of rock phosphates, as well as to a fall in workers' remittances,
Morocco's two principal sources of foreign exchange in the early 1980s.
10.      At the same time, however, expansionary public spending policies
continued to be a major source of both fiscal and external imbalance.
Adoption of the 1981-85 Development Plan, which aimed at an ambitious GDP
growth rate of 6.5% p.a., led to a sharp increase in public investment
expenditures and the Treasury deficit rose from 10.7% of GDP in 1980 to 12.3Z
in 1982. 11
11.      The combined impact on the balance-of-payments of external shocks and
expansionary fiscal policies was an overall I..&.iase in the current account
deficit from $1.4 billion in 1980 to $1.9 billion in 1982 (or from 8% to 13%
of GDP). While there were some positive factors on the export side, such as
the continued growth of manufactured exports, the emergence of some
non-traditional exports and renewed growth in the tourism sector after the
adoption of a flexible exchange rate policy in late 1980, these were more than
offset by the fall in phosphate earnings and workers' remittances and the
continued growth of petroleum and capital goods imports.
12.      To finance its current account deficit and meet its debt amortization
payments, Morocco continued to rely heavily on external borrowing. By
December 1983, total external debt, including military and short-term
commercial debt but excluding IMF obligations, reached an estimated
t12 billion. As a result of growing debt and the rise in international
interest rates, Kwrocco's debt service (excluding IMF debt service) averaged
$1.2 to 1.3 billion in 1980-82. The debt service ratio in 1982 rose to 35Z of
exports of goods and services. Loan commitments in 1980-82 averaged
$2 billion a year of which $0.9 billion from multilateral and bilateral
sources (not including grants).
The 1983 Adjustment Program
13.      In early 1933, the financial situation deteriorated rapidly and net
foreign assets declined sharply, prompting the Government to tighten import
restrictions in March. With freely usable reserves virtually depleted, and
the high level of external debt entailing an unsustainable debt service burden
for the next few years, the Government became aware of the need to put
together a package of policies, including stabilization and structural
adjustment measures, which could warrant support from both the IMF and the
Bank, and form the basis for a debt rescheduling operation.
1/ Excluding changes in floating debt to suppliers ("Fonds reserves").



- 4 -
14.      A program prepared in mid-19d3 was supported by an IMF stand-by
arrangement covering the second half of 1983 and calendar 1984 in an amount
equivalent to SDR 300 million. Its principal objective war to reduce the
current account balance-of-payments deficit from $1.9 billion in 1982 to
$1.3 billion in 1983 and $1 billion in 1984 through limits on monetary
expansion, reduction in the Treasury deficit and continued use of a flexible
exchange rate policy. Subsidized food prices were increased by 17Z to 60X and
increases were made in the prices of fertilizers, electricity, water and
petroleum products, with the result that budgetary outlays on subsidies would
be cut in half in 1983-84. Budgetary investment appropriations were also
revised downward, substantially in line with the recommendations of the Bank
report on Priorities for Public Sector Investment, so as to limit actual
Treasury investment expenditures to DH 8 billion in 1983 (compared with
DR 12.5 billion in 1982). The objective of the 1983 adjustment program was to
reduce the overall Treasury deficit from DR 11.1 billion in 1982 to about
DU 8.8 billion in 1983. 21
15.      To reinforce the adjustment process,  the flexible exchange rate
policy initiated in 1980 was continued in 1983 with the dirham depreciated by
17Z in the 12 months since August 1983. In addition, a process of debt
rescheduling was started in order to improve the debt profile and restructure
it in the light of the estimated resources available for debt servicing. The
Government asked for, and was granted by the Paris Club and the banks, a
rescheduling of its ext3rnal public debt maturing in September 1983 - December
1984. In addition, at a meeting of donors in Paris in November 1983
additional balance-of-payments assistance of about $500 million was pledged
for 1983-84 and it was a6reed that a Consultative Group for aid coordination
would be convened a year hence.
16.      Finally, along with its stabilization effort, Morocco is making a
significant start on the structural reforms needed to restore a viable
balance-of-payments position in the medium term, with a package of measures to
restructure incentives in order tc eliminate the bias in favor of import
substitution which has in recent years handicapped the growth of the export
sector and hampered efficient use of resources. In January 1984, the Bank
approved a $150 million Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan (ITPA) to
support the first phase of this program, which included actions to reduce
import protection and promote exports, in particular: a continuation of the
exchange rate adjustment initiated under the IMF Stand-by, coupled with a
reduction of the special import tax; reductions in import tariffs and an
easing of quantitative import restrictions; broader access to dity-free inputs
for exports and the rationalization of border-tax adjustmeate on external
trade under the domestic sales tax; improved administrative procedures; the
elimination of export licensing in agriculture and manufacturing; improvement
of the export credit and export credit insurance systems; and a ii-nificant
reduction in the scope of price controls on manufactured goods. Most of the
1I/ Excluding changes in floating debt to suppliers ("Fonds r4serv6s").



- 5 -
measures under this program have now been implemented. The first tranche of
the Bank loan (375 million) was drawn in June 1984, and the second tranche in
October 1984. E. follow-up loan is under preparation. The second phase of the
adjustment program, expected to be implemented in 1985, would continue the
industrial and trade policy reforms initiated in 1984 and would extend the
reform program to the financial sector.  Future phases of the adjustment
process could address further fiscal reform and initiate reforms in public
enterprises, education and in agricultural policy.
*            17.      The information available for 1983 and early 1984 confirms that the
Government's adjustment program has led to a considerable improvement in both
the external and fiscal accounts. The current account deficit of the balance-
of-payments was halved in 1983 to $872 million and the Treasury deficit was
reduced by about one third, from DH 11 billion to DH 8 billion or 8.5Z of
GDP!/. While the initial tightening of import restrictions and public
investment cutbacks were the main factors behind the improvement in financial
performance in 1983, the depreciation of the exchange rate and measures to
encourage exports also appear to have had a positive impact on exports of both
goods and services, and import restrictions have subsequently been
substantially relaxed. Current estimates for 1984 anticipate strong growth of
earnings from manufactured exports, tourism and workers' remittances, along
with a good performance of agricultural exports and a recovery of phosphate
exports. In the fiscal area, further progress is expected in reducing the
deficit, to about 7% of GDP, mainly as a result of economy measures in the
recurrent budget. Imports are also rebounding, as a result of the recent
trade liberalization measures and the need to replenish stocks. However,
their growth is expected to slow down in the latter part of the year, and the
current account deficit for 1984 is expected to remain below 98O0 million,
after allowing for the impact of the debt rescheduling on interest payments.
As was to be expected, GDP growth slowed down to an estimated 2.2X in 1983, as
a new drought hurt agriculture and the growth of the Government sector was
constrained by lack of budgetary resources.
Medium-Term Policies and Prospects
18.      A Consultative Group meeting has been scheduled in Paris in January
1985. The Consultative Groul. will focus on Morocco's medium-term adjustment
policies and prospects.  A joint Bank-IMF economic updating mission visited
Morocco in July to prepare a background paper which will present to the Group
a unified assessment of Morocco's current adjustment program and medium-term
outlook by the two institutions. The mission's preliminary conclusions are
that medium-term prospects rema::n precarious. Both the current account
deficit of the balance-of-payments and the fiscal deficit, at 6-7% of GDP, are
still too large to be sustainable. A fundamental stabilization effort needs
to be sustained over several years and combined with a strong program of
structural adjustment. Such a program would have as its basic aims:
1/ Relief on interest payments on external debt is estimated at $230 million
in 1983. The current account deficit of the balance of payments would
have been $1,100 million without debt rescheduling and the Treasury
deficit DH 8.6 billion or 9.1% of GDP.



(i) to reduce the deficit of the balance-of-payments over the short- and
medium-term through continued trade policy reforms and appropriate
development strategies in the productive sectors, particularly
agriculture and industry, that would increase production and promote
exports and efficient import substitution;
(ii) to improve the allocation of capital and the efficiency of
investment, both in the public sector (through appropriate changes in
investment policies) and in the private sector (through reform of the
protection system and of interest rate policies);
(iii) to increase the level of public sector savings through reductions in
the Treasury deficit and improvements in the efficiency of public
enterprises;
(iv) to improve the mobilization of private savings through a reform of
the financial sector involving interest rate increases, diversifi-
cation of financial instruments and greater competition in the
banking sector; and
5v) to accelerate the rate of employment creation through better manpower
planning and a revision of the protection and incentives system so as
to encourage investment in labor intensive activities.
19.   Medium-term projections for Morocco are currently being revised.
Preliminary projections based on the policies outlined above bring out the
dampening effect of stabilization on growth in the short-term and the
importance of improving the efficiency of investment, domestic savings and
export incentives for higher long-term growth. As efforts to promote exports
and increase domestic savings can be expected to bear fruit only gradually in
Morocco's circumstances, this will severely limit the level of investment that
can be financed for the next several years, under the conditions of a
constrained net amount of external financing available to Morocco, with a
resulting deflationary impact on domestic demand. Implementation of the
adjustment measures, including improved export incentives would, however,
induce an expansion of exports and a gradual increase in output.
20.   In the medium-term, structural improvements in the efficiency of
resource use should induce an acceleration of economic growth, and GDP is
projected to increase at 3.6% p.a. in 1985-90. This result would reflect a
change in the sources of growth, with the manufacturing and phosphate sectors
playing an important role in improving the balance-of-payments. As a result
of improved export incentives and the revival of foreign markets, exports of
manufactured products (including phosphate derivatives) would grow at 12%
p.a. Exports of rock phosphates and phosphate derivatives would recover from
their present low level and grow at about 9% p.a. in 1985-90. The overall
growth rate of Morocco's exports of goods and nonfactor services in this
scenario would accelerate to about 7% p.a. in constant prices in 1985-90.
With respect to imports, the change in the structure of incentives in
conjunction with the depreciation of the dirham would improve the efficiency



of import substitution and reduce the reliance on imported inputs. Overall,
import growth of goods and nonfactor services in this scenario would be
limited to 5X p.a. during 1985-90.
21.   Given the strong constraints on the resources available, gross
investment is projected to decline in the short-term from 23Z of GDP in 1980
to about 16% of GDP in 1986-90. It is assumed that the Government would start
fewer large capital-intensive projects and restrict the allocation of
investments to priority subsectors so as to improve the sectoral allocation
and the efficiency of investment. Priority is to be given to projects that
are export oriented, less capital intensive and which use a greater proportion
of domestic resources. In addition, particular attention would have to be
paid by the Government to manpower planning and to the employment effect of
investments in order to prevent unemployment from rising to excessive levels.
22.   An essential aim of the adjustment process would also be an increase in
domestic savings. As a consequence of policies aiming at a reduction in the
Treasury deficit and at an improvement in public enterprises efficiency,
public savings are projected to increase significantly. In addition,
improvements in the mobilization of private savings would also take place
through interest rate increases and reform of the financial sector, so that
the overall domestic savings rate in this scenario would rise from about 8% in
1981-82 to about 13% in 1990.
23.    The acceleration of export growth relative to import growth in
conjunction with an increase in the savings ratio relative to the investment
ratio would be compatible with a stabilization of the current account deficit
at a level of $700 to 800 million a year in 1985-90. In relation to GDP, the
current account deficit in this scenario drops to about 3Z by 1990.  This
would be consistent, under the above assumptions, with a GDP growth
accelerating from 2.6% in 1985 to 3.9Z in 1990. However, gross external
borrowings in this scenario are projected to increase from t2.2 billion in
1985 to $2.8 billion in 1990 as repayments of debts rescheduled in 1983 or
contracted in the early 1980's fall due. The debt service ratio in these
projections would remain high (40-45%) in the next few years, starting to
decline below 35% in 1990.
PART II - OTHER BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOROCCOY/
24.   Bank and IDA lending to Morocco has supported 65 projects, financing a
total of $2,453 million (net of cancellations), of which $1,630 million has
been lent since the beginning of FY78. IDA credits, totalling $51 million,
have been made available for five projects and a Third Window loan for
$25 millior has been made for an education project. IFC investments have
amounted to $99.3 million ($54.6 million after cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales). Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans
and IDA credits, and of IFC investments, as of June 30, 1984.
1/ Part II is essentially the same as Part IV in the Industrial and Trade
Policy Adjustment Loan (Report No. P-3707-MOR of January 6, 1984).



25.      Until recently, performance in project execution has been
satisfactory overall, although in some cases management problems have caused
delays in project implementation, and in others insufficient tariff
adjustments have affected project entities' financial performance. However,
during 1983, as budgetary constraints became more severe, projects relying on
the Government budget for a substantial part of financing have been seriously        4
delayed because of inadequate budgetary allocations. The appreciation of the
dollar via-h-vis the dirham in recent years has reduced considerably
reimbursable expenses in dollar terms, thus lowering disbursements via-h-vis          -
appraisal estimates.  The ratio of disbursements to appraisal estimates
averaged 42Z over the year preceding March 31, 1984, low in comparison to
other countries in the region.
26.      The objectives of Bank Group activities in Morocco are to support (a)
investments and policy reforms aimed at structural adjustment and
strengthening the balance of payments; (b) measures to reduce the Treasury
deficit; and (c) efforts to redress poverty and improve income distribution,
particularly through lowering the unit costs for the delivery of basic
services, in order to increase access by lower-income groups. Important
structural reforms must be undertaken in the coming years, in order to return
to a path of reasonable economic growth compatible with a sustainable external
payments position. A major objective of Bank economic and sector work is to
provide the analytical basis for the development of specific proposals for
structural reform, which in several cases may later be supported by Bank
lending. The Government has requested that, in addition to ongoing work on
the public investment program, the Bank assist in developing reform proposals
relating to the financial sector (for which a mission visited Morocco in
September 1983), public enterprises (for whi-h a first economic mission was
undertaken in spring 1984), and the education and agricultural sectors.
Because severe budgetary constraints are likely to persist over the
medium-term, projects now under preparation are being designed to minimize
their reliance on budgetary funds.
27.      Agriculture continues to represent the most important sector in Bank
lending for Morocco. Past Bank lending has primarily supported rural
development or irrigation projects focusing on particular geographical
regions, as well as a highly successful agricultural credit program. In the
future, increased attention will be given to agricultural support services at
the national level, which are essential for backstopping regional development
projects and would be more appropriate vehicles for addressing sectoral policy
issues. Projects are under preparation in agricultural inputs distribution,
research and extension services, cereals storage and marketing and irrigation
management. In view of limited budgetary resources, special attention would
be paid to maximizing non-budgetary financing and improving cost recovery.
Sector work on agricultural incentives - fiscal, financial, pricing and
institutional policies - is expected to provide recommendations on structural
reforms which could lay the basis for an agriculture sector policy loan.
28.      Energy and mining.  The Government has given high priority to
reducing the oil import bill, a major factor in the current account deficit,
through development of domestic energy supplies. The Bank has supported this



- 9 -
effort through loans for the exploration and appraisal of petroleum (primarily
natural gas) and oil shale resources as vell as for power generation and
traasmission. Future projects would assist in the development of domestic
energy supplies, including gas, coal and hydropower. Through these projects
as well as in our sectoral policy dialogue, efficiency in energy development
and use would be prow ted through attention to pricing, cost recovery and
management issues. A pilot project to support small-scale, export-oriented
mining activities in a remote, low-income region vill be monitored with a view
to its possible extension.
29.      Bank lending for infrastructure and utilities has helped to build a
number of technically competeat agencies in the fields of road transportation,
electricity, water supply, housing finance, and commmuity infrastructure
finance, as well as to expand the provision of essential services. Future
projects will place greater emphasis on improving the productivity and
efficiency of existing infrastructure through improved financial and
management performance. Mobilization of private and non-budgetary financing
as well as improved cost recovery in these subsectors through tariffs should
help reduce the Treasury deficit. In addition to continuing support for the
above-mentioned subsectors, projects are under preparation for ports, sewerage
and telecommunications.
30.      Industrial development in Morocco has been supported primarily
through strengthening the financial and institutional resources of the Banque
Nationale de Developpement Economique (BNDE), the major source of industrial
medium-term credit.  In addition, policy changes were introduced to widen
access to credit by small-scale labor-intensive industries. Other projects
focused on phosphate processing and cement production. The Bank's efforts are
now fc-used on the development and implementation of medium-term policy
reforms aimed at encouraging exports and improving incentives to domestic
production_ The first phase of such reforms is supported by the recently
approved Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment (ITPA) loan. and further
sectoral adjustment lending is likely in industry to support subsequent phases
of the medium-term ITPA program adopted by the Government.
31.      Education, health and urban development projects will increasingly
concentrate on lowering unit costs in order to widen the access by low-income
groups. Policy dialogue in these sectors continues to encourage the shift
away from capital-intensive investments benefitting limited clientele and the
development of more cost-effective delivery systems for basic services. While
previous Bank-financed projects have supported technical education, rural
primary education and improved teacher training, these should be complemented
by efforts to expand basic education and skill training, as well as
restructuring of the formal education system, which has represented a major
drain on the recurrent budget. The proposed Vocational Training project
represents the first step in this direction. A project to test new health
care delivery systems in order to improve basic health services in rural areas
is under preparation. Finally, the experience of projects in urban upgrading
will be continued and expanded, with increased efforts to mobilize private
financing in order to reduce budgetary costs.



- 10 -
PART III - SECTORAL BACKGROUND
The Manufacturing Sector
32.      The share of manufacturing in GDP has remained at about 17 percent
since 1975. The sector accounts for about 8 percent of total employment, with
about half the jobs in the modern sector, and half in small-scale and
artisanal industry-  The growth of manufacturing slowed from 7 percent
annually in real terms in the Third Plan (1973-77) to 1.6 percent per annum in
1978-82, as a result of increasing financial constraints on the economy and
the limitations on dynamism of an industrial development strategy based on
import substitution. Since 1983 the Government has implemented a program of
industrial and trade policy adjustment focussing on restoring dynamism to
industrial growth, reducing manufacturing costs, and promoting exports (see
paragraph 35 below). Preliminary results for 1983 indicate the resumption of
a more vigorous growth of manufacturing, of over 4 percent per annum in real
terms.
33.      Prior to the Government's recent shift in policy as demonstrated by
the adjustment program, the manufacturing sector was oriented tovard the
production of consumer goods for the domestic market; import substitution and
large public investments in capital intensive projects were major features in
Morocco's industrial development, and the incentive system provided little
encourageaent for labor-intensive processes. Manufactured exports generally
stagnated in the 1970s, when manufactured imports exceeded exports by a wide
margin. However, manufactured exports have increased substantially in recent
years (24 percent annually in volume from 1979 to 1982). This trend was
maintained through 1983, and into the first half of 1984. The share of
manufacturing in total exports increased from 25 percent in the mid-1970's to
45 percent in 1982. The principal and fastest growing exports have been
phosphate based products, textiles, carpezs, and leather goods.
34.      The current (1981-85) Plan emphasizes export promotion, employment
creation through encouragement of small-scale industries, and promotion of
efficient import-substitution industries for capital and intermediate goods.
Howe7er, investment levels have been much lower than projected in the Plan, as
a result of macro-economic constraints, both for industry (DR 2.1 billion or
$344 million annually during 1981-83) and the economy as a whole. With a
continuing decline in the magnitude of public investment in manufacturing, the
private sector's share of approved industrial investments has increased
steadily. Excluding small scale industries, approved investments in
manufacturing are expected to average DR 1.7 billion (0200 million) annually
in 1985-87, of which DR 320 million ($38.5 million) would be in electrical and
mechanical engineering industries (EMIs).



- 11 -
35.      Sector Constraints and Adjustment Program.  The critical constraints
to the growth of manufacturing, and particularly export production, have been
in the areas of protection policy, industrial incentives, and administrative
barriers. As a result of these deficiencies, a bias against export production
evolved, and there was a tendency to establish uncompetitive and inefficient
enterprises in industries producing consumer goods and durables for a limited
and protected local market. Following a detailed Bank-supported study of
effective protection and industrial incentives (see Report No. 4893-MDR,
£            t1"orocco: Industrial Incentives and Export Promotion"), the Government
undertook a far-reaching reform program in 1983. This program is supported by
the Bank's Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan (Ln 2377-MOR, for
Wl50.4 million, approved on January 31, 1984), and introduces structural
ch.-nges to eliminate bias against export production. It cover. measures to
reform the systems of export incentives, import protection (tariffs and
quantitative restrictions), fiscal incentives, financial policy (interest
rates and export credits), and price controls (liberalization of prices).
36.      Overall, the program of adjustment is being put in place smoothly.
The Government has maintained a flexible exchange rate policy, implemented a
general reform of the special customs regimes, and reduced administrative
barriers by removing export certificate requirements for a number of
products. Special customs programs have been introduced to assist exporting
firms. In the tariff area, the special import tax (levied on nearly all
imports) has been reduced from 15 to 10 percent, and its progressive
elimination is expected within two years. The maximum level of customs duties
has been reduced to 60 percent. At the same time, the Government has effected
a significant liberalization of quantitative import restrictions by
eliminating import licensing requirements for several products. A
comprehensive fiscal reform is being prepared, and price controls have been
removed on several manufactured products. As a result of these measures, the
competitivity and efficiency of Moroccan industry are expected to improve.
37.      Other constraints to the growth of manufacturing in the past have
included the lack of well-trained technicians, foremen, and skilled workers,
and inadequate incentives to foreign investors. These factors, which have
limited the possibilities of technological diversification, are progressively
being addressed. There has been a recent expansion of technical training
capacity and there is currently a heavy emphasis on vocational training (a
Bank loan for a first Vocational Training Project has been approved in
November 1984). In 1983, a new industrial investment code was published,
removing past barriers to foreign investment.  As a result, the foreign share
of approved investments in manufacturing doubled to 20 percent in 1983.
Electrical and Mechanical Engineering Industries (EMIs)
38.      EMIs in Morocco account for a small share of GDP (3 percent),
manufacturing value added (18 percent), industrial employment (15 percent),
and exports (1.5 percent). In 1981, there were an estimated 550 ENI
enterprises in the organized, modern sector, employing about 33,000 workers,
and spanning the major activity categories of foundries, metal products,
machinery and mechanical equipment, transport equipment, electrical products,



- 12 -
and measuring equipment. In addition, thousands of artisanal firms produce a
further 10 percent of the output of the larger EKT enterprises, mostly
traditional or standard metal articles for household consumption, and sm
artisanal castings. Most EMI enterprises are in the private sector. Foreign
partners and technical staff have had a significant influence in upgrading
technology 4-nd management in a few cases. Output of EMIs grew by 10 percent
annually between 1973 and 1978; subsequent reductions in public investments
and the decline of rural incomes due to drought adversely affected the growth
of EMIs in general, although electr-^al industries continued to expand output
rapidly. There was a resumption of higher growth in 1983 (about 4.6 percent
in re". terms). Most EMIs are import-substituting assembly industries,
relying largely on imported raw materials and components.
39.      EMIs producing consumer goods, durables, and related intermediate
products account for about 45 percent of total EMI output and meet about 70
percent of domestic demand for their products. They are freauently marked by
excess capacity and high levels of production costs, and have been protected
by high tariffs. Their product-mix is generally excessively diversified, and
their markets are too small and fragmented to permit economic
production-runs. By contrast, capital goods EMIs meet only 10-15 percent of
domestic demand for their products, and have received low effective
protection. They are generally efficient and relatively labor-intensive.
40.      Imports of EKI products (especially of capital goods) have
contributed significantly to Morocco's balance of trade deficit, and totalled
$1.4 billion in 1982. Capital goods have represented more than 60 percent of
EMI imports, while intermediate DKI products (mainly iron and steel) and
consumer goods and durables have accounted for 20 percent each. Efficient
import substitution could be realized principally for less specialized goods
using intermediate technologies and simple assemblies, which together account
for 40 percent of imports of capital goods. EMI export volume has been
limited; exports include traditional items such as lead ingots, as well as
newer products such as automotive sub-assemblies, electrical and electronic
-omponents, and some lifting and handling machinery.
41.      Protection of the output of EKIs is provided through a combination of
import duties and quantitative restrictions. Duties cascade, with higher
duties levied on consumer goods and end-products, and lower duties on
intermediate and capital goods. About 94 percent of the duties on EII
products range between 0 and 40 percent. A significant proportion of capital
goods imports are exempt from duties, and duties on about 85 percent of
capital goods imports are below 20 percent. Quantitative import restrictions
on EMI imports have focussed on consumer goods and end-products.
42.      Morocco has a comparative advantage in certain EKIs because of the
availability of relatively cheap labor with a productivity (measured by value
added per worker) which is quite high (about $7,100 in 1981). The selective
development of capital goods EMIs would utilize this advantage to realize the
potential for efficient import substitution and increased exports. The
Government has identified capital goods embodying relatively simple or
intermediate technologies, for which domestic markets are large enough to



- 13 -
sustain economic operations, and whose production would meet economic
priorities.  It is estimated that of the approximately $800 million worth of
capital goods imported annually in 1981-83, about one-fourth could be produced
locally without major difficulties. Increased ENI exports are expected from
joint-venture activities of Moroccan EMIs and foreign enterprises, and
sub-contracting by foreign firms.  Such sub-contracting has been initiated for
the manufacture and export of automotive, electrical, and electronic
components.
43.      Apart from the general constraints in manufacturing (see paragraphs
35 and 37 above), EMI development has been hindered in the past by the lack of
design engineering capacity, inadequate systems of standards and quality
control, the absence of credit facilities for marketing locally manufactured
capital goods on terms competitive with those offered by foreign suppliers,
and the insufficient capacity and inadenuate technology of foundries. These
constraints are progressively being addressed. Design engineering firms have
recently been created by the Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Tourism, and
the Office Cherifien des Phosphates (OCP, the public phosphate agency), the
latter, as a joint venture with foreign engineering firm. As a result, local
participation in large engineering projects is expected to rise
substantially. After consulting with the International Standards
Organization, the Government has carried out a feasibility study, in
collaboration with the French Standardizati-x Agency (AFNOR) to develop
standards more rapidly and ensure their application through in-plant quality
control procedures in industry. Recently, the Moroccan central bank (Banque
du Maroc, BdM) has created a medium-term credit facility for the marketing of
local capital goods. The Government is aware of the problems affecting -
foundries (critical for EMI input supplies), and is evolving approaches to
foster foundry development. It has recently established, with UNDP financing,
a quality control laboratory for foundries.
The Financial Sector
44.      Morocco's financial sector includes fifteen commercial banks, five
specialized institutions (including the industrial development bank, Banque
Nationale pour le Developpement Economique, BNDE), and two savings banks.
There is also a stock market in Casablanca with a limited role, and an active
inter-bank market.  Three of the specialized public financial institutions are
responsible for the bulk of medium- and long-term lending,and are
differentiated by sector of activity; agriculture and agri-busi.ess, tourism
and housing, and industry.  Financing of industrial investment takes various
forms. In 1981, 42 percent of investment credit to industry was from BNDE,
with the rest distributed between commercial banks, suppliers' credits, and
leasing. Within industry, EM4Is are the third largest recipient of credit,
after food and textiles, but the greater part of such credit (81 percent at
end-1983) consists of short-term funds. About 45 percent of total investment
in manufacturing is financed by equity. Three public agencies (Office pour le
Developpement Industriel or ODI, Societe Nationale d'Investissements, and
BNDE) take equity participations in industry; their equity portfolios totalled
about $145 million at end-1982. There is currently no private investment
bank/venture capital company in Morocco. Although IFC has engaged in a
dialogue over the past several years to develop the capital market through
creation of such an institution, lack of a consensus among the Moroccan
authorities has delayed progress.



- 14 -
45.      In 1983-84, the Bank has carried out a review of the financial sector
in Morocco, with the objective of assessing the policy environment, and
formulating recommendations for expanding the financial system, improving the
efficiency of financial intermediation, and increasing the level of public and
private savings through measures in the areas of interest rates, credit, and
capital market development.  The national savings rate declined from 19
percent of GDP in 1974-76 to an average of only 11 percent in 1980-82. The
inability of national savings to cover investment and the prospect of
declining foreign capital inflows have made it essential to address issues in
these areas.
46.      The conclusions of the Bank review have been discussed with the
Government, and a reform program in the finauzial sector, which could be
supported by a possible Bank loan, is being evolved. The review found that
reduction of the Government's financing needs is a basic condition for
expanding the role of the financial system in supporting private productive
investment.    The Government absorbs more than 40 percent of total lending by
Moroccan banks, and more than 70 percent of total outstanding credit,
including foreign loans.  At the same time, the Government has borrowed at
artificially low rates, which have distorted intermediation spreads and
structure. Competition in the financial sector has been limited and the
degree of concentration is high. Reasons for this situation are the
regulatory framework affecting interest rates and credit ceilings, the
specialized role of certain institutions, and the high level of obligatory
placement requirements imposed on commercial banks. Limited conpetition has
adverse effects on sector efficiency and savings mobilization.  Credit
allocation is strongly influenced by selective credit policy operating through
a number of instruments, such as exemptions from credit ceilings,
rediscounting beyond ceilings or at special rates, interest rebates and
subsidies, and preferential credit allocation to specialized institutions.
Discussions are in progress between the Moroccan Government and the Bank
concerning development of a suitable package of reform measures to address
these issues which could be supported by a Bank loan.
47.      Interest Rates. Interest rate ceilings on both deposits and loans are
set by the Banque du Maroc. Following consultations with the IMF, the
interest rate structure was readjusted recently to increase rates on term
deposits (leading to a significant increase in term deposits) and loans.  The
cost to banks of local currency resources varies widely depending on the
maturity of the deposits,  Commercial banks derive a much higher spread (6-7
percent) on short-term than on medium- and long-term credits (about 2
percent). This factor would seem to be important in explaining the largely
short-term nature of commercial bank intermediation in Morocco, and would be
addressed by freeing medium- and long-term lending rates and bank commissions,
as recommended by the Bank review of the financial sector. The effective cost
of long-term industrial borrowing (total of interest, commissions, and taxes)
varies from 14 (in the case of BNDE loans) to 16 percent (on commercial bank
loans).
48.      Lending rates were positive in real terms in 1979 and 1980, but
became negative in 1981. This decline was reversed in 1982, as the rate of
inflation fell. Annual rises in the cost of living index were below 11
percent in the period 1978-80, 12.5 percent in 1981, 10 percent in 1982, and
6.5 percent in 1983. The inflation rate is projected at 9.5 percent per annum
during 1985-87.



- 15 -
49.      The Commercial Banks. The total assets of Morocco's 15 commercial
banks were DH 29.6 billion ($4.7 billion) at end-1982, of which two banks
accounted for 44 percent, and six others for another 47 percent. The degree
of concentration is high in commercial banking, and the Government is the
majority shareholder in the two largest banks. The banking network is
well-developed, with 643 branches at end-1982, of whic  over half are on the
Atlantic coast. Commercial banks in Morocco generally have a record of high
profitability, which is explained by the lack of competition. The
intermediation spread of commercial banks averaged 5 percent in 1980-82, and
the average ratio of profits before tax to total assets was 1.1 percent in
1982. Sight deposits represent the major portion of commercial bank
resources, and short-term loans (DH 15.9 billion or $1.9 billion at end-1983)
account for over 90 percent of their lending. Apart from the spread factor
(see paragraph 47 above), another reason for this feature is probably the
conservatism of commercial banks with regard to the greater risks inherent in
mediumr and long-term lending. One of the conclusions of the Bank review of
the financial sector is that commercial banks should play a more active role
in medium- and long-term financing of industry. Reform measures which are
expected to help increase the term of commercial bank intermediation, and
which have been discussed -with the Government include elimination of BNDE's
monopoly of endorsing rediscountable medium-term loans granted by commercial
banks, the freeing of interest rates on term deposits, introduction of an
adjustable interest rate for medium- and long-term credits, reduction of
obligatory placements by the banks in Government securities, and the
progressive liberalization of b.ak commissions.
50.      Office pour le Developpement Industriel (ODI). Under the supervision
of the Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Tourism (MCIT), ODI is a public,
autonomous agency responsible for industrial promotion activities. ODI
undertakes pre-investment studies, acquires equity shares in new industrial
enterprises (see paragraph 44 above), and promotes collaborative private
ventures with foreign partners. ODI thus combines the role of a public
industrial extension agency providing non-commercial services, including
technical assistance, with the role of an investment bank providing equity
funds. ODI also makes loans to finance shareholders' equity, and provides
advisory services remunerated through management fees. ODI's structure
comprises Finance, Promotion, and Small-Scale Industries Technical Assistance
Departments, as well as technical departmeuts specialized by sector of
activity (e.g. textiles, food processing, chemicals, and EMI). The EKI
Department is well-managed and dynamic, but is insufficiently staffed.  The
other technical departments vary in their levels of competence and adequacy of
staffing. In general, ODI's capability for technical evaluation of projects
is satisfactory, but there is a need to reinforce market analysis.
51.      Overall, ODI has effectively provided useful industrial extension
servicc:. In its equity participations, ODI's policy since 1977 has been
increasingly to invest selectively in small- and medium-scale private sector
projeccs as a minority shareholder. However, from its establishment in 1973
to 1977, ODI functioned principally as a channel for investment of Government
funds in large public-sector projects. As a result, although ODI
participations in private enterprises have increased from only 3 percent of
its portfolio in 1980, 93 percent of ODI's current investment portfolio is



- 16 -
represented by public sector participations, with the bulk (83 percent at
end-1983) as majority participations in four large enterprises. The
performance of these enterprises has been, tiil recently, unsatisfactory, and
depressed the yield on ODI's investment portfolio to an average of 1.6 percent
in 1980-83. These four large enterprises bave now turned the corner; three of
them began earning profits in 1983, and tle fourth is expected to do so in
1986. However, because of the financial charges and losses accumulated by
them, they would begin paying ODI dividends only in 1985-86. In general, ODI
has monitored its investments closely, and exercised a tight control of growth
of its operating expenses. In 1984-88, ODI's private sector portfolio is
expected to increase by 31 percent annually, to reach DH 157 million
($18.5 million) by end-1988, or 23 percent of total portfolio.
52.      ODI's sources of funds are dividends on investments, interest on
equity loans, management fees, and budgetary transfers. Government transfers
currently only cover operating costs (mainly salaries), and amounted to 43
percent of -otal income in 1983. Previously, they have also financed
investments, and by 1983 88 percent of ODI's assets had been financed by such
non-repayable transfers, which represent quasi-equity.  The level of transfers
has declined since 1980, and ODI is expected to cover its expenses completely
from self-financing by 1984. However, to strengthen its financial position it
would continue to receive relatively minor additional funds of DR 6.9 million
($812,000) a year in 1985 and 1986 from the Government. Budgetary transfers
are expected to be completely eliminated by 1987.
53.      In 1984-88, ODI's tntal investments are projected at DR 179 million
($21 million). ODI would coatinue during this period its current policy of
restrained expansion, focussing on minority participations in private
enterprises, and would rely for its funding on internal cash-generation and
prudent borrowing. This policy would be reflected in a policy statement,
which is being finalized in collaboration with the Bank. Total assets are
expected to grow by about 3 percent annually to DR 710 million ($88 million)
by ead-1988, while term-debt would remain below 10 percent of total
liabilities. ODI initiated provisions for risks on losses in equity
investments in 1983, and would continue this policy. ODI's financial position
has improved in recent years, and this trend is expected to continue.
However, because of the long pay-back period on its public portfolio, and the
average time profile of equity investments in Morocco (dividend payments
generally commence five years after first investment outlays), which would be
relevant for its newer private sector participations, the average yield on
ODI's total portfolio would remain modest, at 4 percent, in 1988. ODI's
annual budget and financing plan are approved by the Ministry of Finance.
ODI's accounts will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
(see paragraph 71 below).
Performance under Previous Bank DFC Loans
54.      The Bank has made nine loans to BNDE, totalling $254.7 million, net
of cancellations. The first eight loans are fully disbursed. The ninth line
of credit to BNDE (Ln 2037-MOR, for $70 million) became effective on November
1, 1982, a year after signature. The delay in effectiveness was due to a



- 17 -
financial crisis which had been caused by a policy of rapidly increasing
operations and high-cost borrowings. With active Bank involvement and
Government support, a co-iprehensive package of measures was evolved and
approved before effectiveness, to restore BNDE's liquidity and long-term
financial viability. These measures included a substantial inflow of new
funds, revision of BNDE's on-lending rate, stipulation of a minimum operating
margin, and a plan for settlement of BNDE's arrears covered by financial
guarantees. In addition, a program has been evolved to strengthen BNDE's
organizational structure, institutional effectiveness, capability for project
analysis and evaluation, and planning and budgeting. Although, as a result
of the crisis, there has been a decline in the volume of BNDE's operations,
the situation has begun to improve, and BNDE's commitments in 1984 are
projected to increase by about 15 percent compared to 1983. During the
commitment period of the proposed loan (1985-87), BNDE will continue to use
its foreign exchange resources, in particular, the BEDE IX loan, to finance
EMI sub-projects. BNDE's direct medium- and long-term financing in this
period is expected to reach 30-40 percent of total industrial investment
financing, leaving scope for other sources of term financing, in particular
co50ercial banks. PPAR No. 1805, dated November 23, 1977, covers the fifth
loan to BNDE (Lu. 736-MOR). The PPAR was generally appreciative of BNDE's
institutional achievements, but singled out a few areas for improvement. The
two main points were the need for more realistic interest rates, and the
dangers inherent in financing large public sector projects in which BNDE's
influence on project design is marginai. They were taken into account in
preparation of future projects; lending rates have been revised upward, and
BNDE now applies the same appraisal criteria to all projects it finances,
public or private, and whether or not financed under a Bank loan.
55.      The Bank has also made two loans with funds on-lent through BNDE and
commercial banks (Lu 1687-MOR, for t25 million in 1979, and Lu 2038-KOR for
$70 million in 1981) for development of small-scale industries (SSIs).
Co5mitments on the first loan were more rapid than estimated at appraisal;
However, disbursements lagged, and the loan account was closed in July, 1984.
Commitments under the second loan have been slov, mainly because of a decline
in SSI investment demand in 1982-83. At the Government's request, $30 million
of the original loan amount was cancelled in June 1984. The loan is nov
expected to be fully committed and disbursed by the original dates expected at
appraisal.
Bank Role in Industry
56.      The role of the Bank in the industrial sector in Morocco has been to
support si-ructural change, contribute to efficient development of priority
sub-sectors, strengthen institutions concerned with industrial development,
and maintain a dialogue on policy issues. Past Bank financing has supported
the processing of phosphates, the development of the cement industry, and of
BNDE as a source of termr-financing for industry of growing importance and
sophistication. Through financing SSI development, the Bank has assisted the
Government in meeting its objective of employment generation. Recently, the
policy dialogue has focussed on the structure of protection and incentives,
the expansion of manufactured exports, and improving the capacity and
efficiency of the financial sector. These areas are receiving priority from
the Government, and are expected to provide the basis of Bank financing over
the medium-term.



- 18 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
57.      The proposed project emerges from a detailed Bank review of
engineering industries (Report No.3233-MOR of November 16, 1981). Following
appraisal in 1982, and re-appraisal in April-May 1984, negotiations were held
in Washington in November 1984. The Moroccan delegation was led by Mr.
Aissaoui of the Ministry of Finance. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled
"Electrical and Mechanical Industries Project" (No.5225-MOR, dated December 4,
1984) is being circulated separately. The ma- features of the loan and
project are listed in the Loan and Project Summary; special conditions of the
loan are listed in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
58.      The objectives of the proposed project are to support the efficient
development of EMIs, which have been identified as a priority sub-sector, to
promote long-term industrial lending by commercial banks, particularly for EMI
financing, and to strengthen ODI in its role of industrial promotion. These
objectives are in line with the Government's priorities, and in conformity
with the conclusions of the Bank's reviews of engineering industries and of
the financial sector. To achieve these objectives, the project would consist
of; i)a line of credit of $22 million, which would be on-lent through
commercial banks, to finance about 40 EMI sub-projects; and ii)a subsidiary
loan of $3 million, which would be on-lent to ODI, and include $2.8 million to
finance equity participations in about 10 eligible enterprises for EMI
sub-projects, and $0.2 million for financing technical assistance to carry out
M1I sub-sectoral studies.
Line of Credit for Financing EMI Sub-projects through Commercial Banks
59.      The line of credit of $22 million will be on-lent by six commercial
banks to finance the foreign exchange costs of EKI sub-projects. To be
eligible for financing, EMI sub-projects would need to be non-SSI, with total
investment costs not exceeding DR 50 million ($5.9 million), and yield
financial and economic rates of return of at least 12 percent (Loan Agreement,
Annex to Schedule 4, Part A, paragraph 2 (b)). In order to support the
Government's emphasis on fostering development of private sector
manufacturing, firnancing of enterprises with majority public shareholding
(direct or indirect) would be limited to extensions/modernizations of existing
profitable enterprises, where the s'ib-projects would meet all other
eligibility criteria. Tle total of such financing under the proposed Bank
loan (whether through commercial bank sub-loans or ODI equity financing) would
not exceed $ 5 million (Loan Agreement, Annex to Schedule 4, Part A,
paragraph 2 (a). E£I sub-projects which would fall in the SSI classification
because of investment size and cost per job criteria would be financed through
the on-going Bank-financed SSI project (Ln.2038-MOR, see paragraph 55 above).
An investment cost ceiling of DR 50 million is considered reasonable to avoid
straining commercial bank appraisal capability with excessively large and
complex projects. Since several activities involving assembly of consumer
durables contribute low value added, and have a low economic return, they
would be ineligible for financing because of the requirement for a minimum
rate of return. Bank financing of sub-projects would not exceed 60 percent of
total investment costs (which is the average estimated foreign exchange cost),



- 19 -
and would be further subject to a ceiling of $2.5 million per sub-project
(including, for calculating total Bank exposure, financing of ODI's equity
participation in the sub-project). The balance funds would be provided by
equ 'y (at least 30 percent of total investment cost for expansion of existing
firms, and 40 percent for new projects), and the commercial banks, from other
sources. The terms of sub-loans would reflect the economic life of
sub-projects, with a maKimum maturity of twelve years, including a maximum
grace period of up to three years. The interest rate on sub-loans to EMI
borrowers would be the current minimum effective rate on long-term industrial
loans (at present 14 percent per annum, see paragraph 47 above, and Loan
Agreement, Annex to Schedule 4, Part B, paragraph 1). This rate is expected
to remain above the inflation rate, projected at 9-10 percent per annum during
1985-87.
Protection Criteria for Sub-projects
60.      All EMI sub-projects would conform to the principles for considering
protection requests for new investments, set forth by the Government under the
Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan (see paragraph 35 above). These
principles are: (a) protection will generally be given only through tariffs,
and not through quantitative restrictions; in the exceptional cases where
quantitative restrictions are considered necessary, these will be limited to a
period of three years; (b) while a level of tariff protection in excess of
25 percent may be granted during the first three years after project
completion, tariffs wu.zld be set at a level providing protection not in excess
of 25 percent thereafter; (c) protection along the lines of (a) and (b) will
only be accorded to new products whose profitability is demonstrated after
rigorous economic and financial analysis; it is also understood that the
anti-dumping provisions, as defined by GATT, could be applied for these new
products. No EKI sub-projects would be eligible for financing which would
benefit from local content legislation or similar measures which-would have
the effect of extending protection beyond the guidelines agreed with the Bank.
Appraisal Capability of Commercial Banks, Appraisal Standards and Review
61.      The appraisal capability of the commercial banks which would
participate in the project is generally satisfactory, and they have developed
project evaluation capabilities through extending rediscountable medium-term
credits and Bank-financed small-scale industry loans. In particular, these
banks are among the most active in term lending to industry, and have
competent appraisal staff consisting of financial analysts, engineers, and
economists. However, they would need to strengthen the quality of their
market analysis and economic evaluation. Their capabilities in these areas
would be upgraded by collaborating with the Bank in the proposed project, and
by using the market studies prepared by ODI (see paragraph 65).
62.      There would be no free limit under the proposed line of credit.  Bank
review of sub-project appraisals is expected to contribute to strengthening
commercial bank evaluations, particularly as regards their economic and market
analysis. The appraisal reports prepared by commercial banks would follow



- 20 -
guidelines agreed with the Bank, and include details on products to be
manufactured, structure of project ownership, break-down of costs, financing
plan, analysis of demand, markets, and marketing arrangements, description of
the context of protection for the proposed products, and calculation of the
financial and economic rates of return.
Sub-project Pipeline and Allocation of Line of Credit to Participating
Commercial Banks.
63.      The Ministry of Finance canvassed the interest of major commercial
banks in Morocco in participating in the proposed project. From the
expressions of interest received, the Government has selected six banks based
on demonstrated appraisal capability and availability of pipelines of EMI
sub-projects to be financed. These banks have developed EHI pipelines
(totaling 27 sub-projects, for a total cost of $25 million, which could be
financed over the peried 1985-86). Their total assets at end-1982 represented
66 percent of the assets of Moroccan banks. The proposed line of credit would
be shared by the participating banks in proportion to their pipelines. The
individual allocations have been discussed during negotiations and would be
specified in the standard on-lending agreements to be signed by the Ministry
of Finance with the commercial banks. There would be a provision for review
of these allocations and re-allocation if necessary, on an annual basis,
starting in 1986. The on-lending agreements would reflect the obligations of
the participating banks, the eligibility criteria of sub-projects, and terms
of sub-loans. Signature of such agreements satisfactory to the Bank by at
least two commercial banks, for a total amount of not less than t13 million
equivalent, would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Loan
Agreement, Section 5.01 (b).Signature of such an agreement with each remaining
commercial bank would be a condition of disbursement for sub-loans made by
that bank (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, paragraph 4 (c)). On-lending by the
Government to the commercial banks would be at the Bank interest rate
prevailing at signature of the Bank loan. The last date for submitting
sub-loan (and ODI equity participation) applications to the Bank would be
December 31, 1987. Repayment by the commercial banks would be according to a
composite amortization schedule reflecting amortizations of individual
sub-loans, including 3 years of grace. The Government would bear the interest
and exchange risks. However, in order to help shoulder the exchange risk, the
commercial banks will pay a flat foreign exchange (front-end) fee of one
percent of each sub-loan amount. This fee would be passed on to the ultimate
sub-borrowers (a comprehensive reform of the system of exchange risk coverage
is being discussed with the Government in the context of a package of measures
in the financial sector which could be supported by a Bank loan (see
paragraph 46 above)). The participating commercial banks would pay the
Government a commitment fee of 0.75 percent of the unwithdrawn amount of the
line of credit, apportioned according to each bank's share in the line. This
feature is expected to encourage rapid utilization of the line of credit.
Subsidiary Loan to ODI
64.      Under the proposed project $3 million will be on-lent by the
Government to ODI, of which $2.8 million would be to finance minority equity



- 21 -
participations in private or public sector EMI enterprises for eligible
sub-projects. ODI has developed a pipeline of 10 EMI sub-projects,
representing a total equity investment by it of DH64 million (t7.5 million)
for 1985-87. ODI's participation in these sub-projects would average below 35
percent of total equity in each case. ODI equity participations in EMI
*(W          sub-projects would be eligible for refinancing under the sub-loan only where
the sub-projects meet the criteria for financing under the line of credit
on-lent by commercial banks concerning magnitude of investment costs, economic
and financial rates of return, line of activity, and minimum level of equity
financing (see paragraph 59 above), and where ODIts participation would not
exceed 50 percent of the equity raised for the sub-project. Bank financing of
ODI's equity investments would not exceed 35 percent of the sub-project's
total equity, and the total of such financing and Bank financing through
commercial bank sub-loans would be subject to a ceiling of $2.5 million per
sub-project, or 60 percent of the total investment cost, whichever is less.
Technical Assistance for EMI Sub-sector Studies
65.      The subsidiary loan of $3 million to ODI includes $200,000 to finance
EMI sub-sector studies to be carried out by specialized consulting firms, so
as to strengthen market analysis of sub-projects and sub-sectors (see
paragraphs 50 and 61 above). In 1985, ODI would hire an engineering
consulting firm to identify specific EMI products whose development could be
encouraged. Following this phase, detailed market studies would be carried
out by consultants to assess the market viability of identified projects. The
terms of reference for the studies as well as the qualifications and
experience of the consultants would be satisfactory to the Bank, and they
would be employed in accordance with procedures under the Bank's Guidelines.
In all, Bank financing would cover 15 man-months of consultants' services.
ODI Policy Statement
66.      In consultation with the Bank and IFC, ODI has prepared a draft
statement of policy, specifying a focus on minority participations in small
and medium private projects, measures to strengthen portfolio performance
(greater emphasis on equity loans, minimum rate of return stipulation for
sub-projects), ensure adequate provision for risk, limit its debt and
sub-project exposure through acceptable ratios, and permit delegation of
authority to operating management for approval of small investments. The
adoption of this policy statement would provide a clear framework for ODI's
operations, which would be especially useful in delegating responsibility from
ODI's Board to its Executive Committee. Approval of the policy statement, in
a form satisfactory to the Bank, by ODI's Board, is a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed Loan (Loan Agreement, Section 5.01 (c)).
On-lending Terms
67.      In view of ODI's projected cash-flow and the average time profile of
returns on equity investments in Morocco (see paragraph 53 above), the
subsidiary of $3 million to ODI would be repaid to the Government over
15 years, including a grace period of five years. The interest rate payable
on the subsidiary loan would be the Bank rate prevailing at signature of the



- 22 -
Bank loan. The Government would bear the interest and foreign exchange risk.
The terms and conditions of the subsidiary loan, and details of the
eligibility criteria of sub-projects eligible for equity financing by ODI
under the sub-loan, would be specified in an agreement to be signed between
the Ministry of Finance and ODI. The signature of this agreement,
satisfactory to the Bank, will be a condition of loan effectiveness (Loan
Agreement, Section 5.01 (a)). To strengthen its EMI department (see
paragraph 50 above) ODI would hire two experienced engineers.  The recruitment
of these engineers will be a condition of disbursement of the subsidiary loan
(Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, paragraph 4 Ce)).
Procurement and Disbursement
68.      Given the small size and cost of individual investment items,
procurement under the project would follow normal procedures fcr Bank-financed
DFC projects, which have led, as a result of the self-interest of
entrepreneurs, to general international bidding or shopping. EMI equipment
purchases would be made on the basis of a comparison of at leasc three price
quotations from suppliers. Civil works contracts would also be small, and
awarded on the basis of a comparison of at least three price quotations. In
the few cases where industrial promoters would have the construction
capability, and find it more economical to execute such works themselves,
these works would be authorized by the Bank. The participating commercial
banks and ODI would be able to effectively evaluate construction costs and
verify that they conform with the current norms.
69.      Disbursements would be made on the basis of standard documentation,
except for expenses with a contract value of below $100,000, for which
disbursements would be allowed against statements of expenditure.
Disbursements from the line of credit for approved sub-projects financed by
commercial banks would be against 60 percent of expenditures for goods, works,
and services. Disbursements in the case of ODI equity participations would be
against 100 percent of amounts paid by ODI. For consultants' services,
disbursements would be against 100 percent of foreign and 85 percent of local
expenditures.
70.      To facilitate and ac.elerate loan disbursements for sub-projects, a
Special Account, in local currency, for an amount equivalent to $3 million (or
4 months'peak disbursements) will be established at the Treasury Department of
the Ministry of Finance. Retroactive financing of up to t2 million would be
provided to finance eligible expenditures on about five sub-projects already
appraised by participating commercial banks, where payments would have been
made after August 1, 1984 but before the date of signature of the proposed
Bank loan. The proposed loan is expected to be disbursed by December 31,
1990; this estimate is based on standard regional disbursement profiles for
DFC projects.
Reporting, Accounts and Auditing
71.      Participating commercial banks and ODI would prepare semi-annual
progress reports on sub-projects. The Government would ensure that detailed
project accounts are maintained: separate accounts would be maintained by the



- 23 -
comex-cial banks for the sub-loans extended under the project, and by ODI for
equity investments and technical assistance. These records, as well as the
progress reports, would be made available for examination by Bank supervision
missions. The project accounts, including accounts covering statements of
expenditure, as well as the Special Account, would be audited annually by
t'            independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audit reports would be
_            submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year in the
case of accounts maintained by the Government, and within four months, in the
case of the financial intermediaries.
Justification and Risks
73.      The proposed project would provide direct support to the Government's
policy of deepening the industrial base of the Moroccan economy, and
alleviating pressure on the balance of payments through efficient import
substitution and increased exports of EMI1 products.- For effective development
of EIs, adequate medium- and long-term financing is a pre-requisite. Such
financing has so far been relatively limited, both because of the greater
complexity of EXI projects, and distortions in the financial sector which
discouraged commercial banks from undertaking such financing. While these
distortions are expected to be addressed through appropriate reforms, the
project would represent a coordinated effort to meet the demonstrated
financing needs of the priority area of EKIs, and strengthen the capability of
the main intermediaries. About 40 EKT sub-projects would be financed under
the project in 1985-87, with a total investment cost of about $43 million
(equal to about 57 percent of non-SSI private investment in EMIs in this
period), creating about 1,500 jobs at an average investment cost of $30,000
(in 1983 prices). The project would encourage commercial banks to be more
active in term financing of industry, and help strengthen their capability for
market and economic analysis. At the same time, it would strengthen ODI in
its role of industrial promotion in the EMI area, improve its capability for
market analysis, and strengthen the institutional framework within which it
operates.
73.      The main risks in the proposed project are the receptivity of
commercial banks to the financing scheme and on-lending conditions, their
ability to appraise relatively complex EKI sub-projects, and to follow the
procedures for procurement and disbursement under the Bank loan. These risks
should, however, remain minimal, since the participating commercial banks have
confirmed their strong interest in the project, developed pipelines of EMI
sub-projects, and would Ke encouraged to rapidly utilize loan funds by the
project design. They have demonstrated appraisal capability, and are familiar
with Bank procedures for procurement and disbursement under the SSI loans.
Terms of Bank Loan
74.      The proposed Bank loan of $25.1 million includes the capitalized
front-end fee of about $60,000; it would be at the standard variable interest
rate, and would be repayable over 17 years, including 4 years of grace.



- 24 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUJHENT AND AUTHORITY
75.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Morocco and the Bank,
and the Report of the committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii),
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
76.      Special condition- ,f the project are listed in Section III of                  -
Annex III.  The conditionz  of loan effectiveness are:_
(a) signature by at least two covmercial banks of the standard on-lending
agreements with the Ministry of Finan.e for a total amount
representing not less thaw $13 million equivalent;
(b) Signature of the on-lending agreement between the Ministry of Finance
and ODI;
(c) Approval of ODI's policy statement by its Board.
The condition of disbursement of the subsidiary loan to ODI is
recruitment of two experienced engineers by ODI to strengthen its electrical
and mechanical industry (EMI) department. The condition of disbursement for
each commercial bank other than the two meutioned in (a) above is the
signature of the on-lending agreemert between the Ministry of Finance and the
concerned bank.
77.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMHENDATION
78.      I recommend that the Executive Direct,. s approve the proposed Loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
December 4, 1984
Washington, D.C.



-25 -                                                    AMN  I
TAIIE it
1 l                 zuuzumk   w.S. xm  a  un m              .c Am    a a
AM C2WMin SM 30
.a:AL                              46  c   46.6 l 
AC31oZU3a1.                        192.7k   200. .             T
t PM cam  CMi)                       19.0       300.0        87.              1169.6                2108
-                     CKflomAuS OF on. E~?IVA1z3TO       113.O      176.0        2IJ.0             6Z.l                  9S
-EWaZI am WI20L SmuzUUU
POPMAflnW.!I1D-EAR C7AO  Ft)  11626.0    16968.0        2026.0
URBAN POPULATON CZ OF TOQAL)       29.3        34.6        419               682                   6
P0PCLATZ0 P UOECMN
Pn9MAT1O  IN MIA  2000 CMILL)                            31.2
STATIONARY POPULAZIO  CxILz.)                            70.6
POPIIUASIO 1i9m
sOM47  omrv --
PER sQ. m.                       26.0        33.5        4.2               36.3                  35.7
PEm sq. Il. ACR. LARD            60.3        74.8        96.5             661.7                  9.4
POPULATU AGE STRUCURE (Z)
0-16 mmS                         4.3         7.4        65,3              83.6                  39.9
L-66 URS                         52.6       68.3         31.4              33.1                  S.O
65 A  AOVE                        2.6    *     .2         3.1               3.3                  461
-POPTATIoF C0Z  NAE CE)
TOTaL.2i                           2.4 m  X)2.5            2.3               2.8                   2.4
:OTL                              Z.6         7S          7SLO2
URBAN                             3.7         4.2         4.1               *.5                   3.6
C    JXE UZNT RAD E (PER THOS)     30.3       47.5         40.3              40.6                  31.3
DE CK RIATE CPt XMIUS)             21.2        16.9        14.6              IL.5                   8.1
dOS  REPODTIO NATE                  3.5        3.S          3.0               2.8                   2.0
FAMILY PLAUCM
AQTOSS. AWlL C )                    ,,       25.1        78.0 d1.
1SRS C OF SUAuED iR)             ..        ..         19.0              222                   40.3
YinEX OF FOWD P9    P  CAPNTA
(1969-71-100)                      99.0        60          84.0              97.3                 1163
ER CAPI  SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (C OF REQUIUB ES)       101.0      106.0      113O              110.8                  110.6
P0R6EIRS CCIS PM DAY)             i6.0       67.0        73.0              704                   61.3
OF IHUIOIAL AND PULSE           16.0       1M0         16.0 to           17.8                  36.1
CILD CACES I-) EAID RATM           36.8       26.0         22.0              14.6                   5.7
LIFE EXPECr. ATB    CY6 ( )        4*67       50.1         51.9              57.5                  6.7
DIFANr MOR? RarE (PER TIWS)       160.3      136.0       12.0              101.5                   60.6
ACCESS To SAFE WAZER CiPOP)
TOTALL                            30.6       51.0       53.0 Id            59.7                  6%.4
URiaN58.7                                   92.0        1oo.0o 7w          86.5                  78.1
RURAL                             19.0       28.0        23.0 7            384                   46.2
ACCESS TO ETAD DISPOSAL
C., OF POPULXflONt)
TOrAL                               .        29.0          ..                ..                   2.9
''AW     75.0          ,,                .,                   7.0
RURtAL                             ''        4.0            '                ''                  26.5
POPULATIO  PgR PuYSiCas          9410.0    12790.0      10750.0 If         4365.1                1917.7
POP. PER NURStSIC PERSO              ..      2740.0      1007              1331                   813.
POP. PER HOSPTAL EED
TOTAL                            630.0      660.0          .0 h           1329                  367.2
CR345                              ,,       450.0       610.0 W           535.3                 611.5
RtRAL                              ..      5810.0      3010.0 o          z213.                 2636.3
ADISSIWS PER ,,rrAL E.                         15.5        17.9      /       26.2                  27.3
AVERAtE SIZE OF HUSEHOLD
XOTAL                             6.         3.5.
URBAS                             6.3        6.9
RURAL                             Li3         5.8
AVERACE Co. OF PERSOHSIROOR
TorAL                             2.2         2.4
IR343                             2.1        2.1
RURmA                             2.3        2.6
ACCESS TO ELECT. (- OF DIRELLIPWS)
TOTAL                              ,.          .           .,               .2
URN                                4, 8.                 63.0  .            7.7,
RURAL                               ,         ..           .,              16.1,



- 26 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3&                                          FACE Z
HOROCCO                - SOCIAL INDICATOIS DAtA SE1
muoF         kEPERESCE WO|GROS [WEIGKED AVERAGS) la
M=sr                (MUST REC    ESNTD     lb:  b -
19d                    USCE.- *        !ID0tLE ZBCIE         -=fLeODim
19^1970    ! ESTIMAXEC._    AICA A RMD EASr    .J. _ A4ICA £ CR
ADJUSTED EmOLUJhE RATIOS
PRIMA!:-  TOA                      47.0   5'.0              7S_0       8       9.3                   105.4
-J"AE                   67.0        67.0         97T0              102.5                  106.3
FEMALE                  27.0        36.0         60.0              73.6                   104.5
S`ECOSRUR: TOTAL                    5_0        13_0         26.0              43-0                    43.2
_AOE                     7.0        11.0         31.0               52_3                   42.3
FEMALE                   2.0         7.0         Z0.0              33-0                    66_5
VOCATISgJ Cz OF 5ECmUAR!)            3G.2   2_      3          1.6              1I03                    33.6
PIIPL-TEALHER RATIO
PRrMAitY                           42_0        34.0         36.0              30.3                    30.1
SECOIDAR!                           6.0        20.0         20.0              23.1                    16.6
ADOLT LrEEACr KATE CM)               13mg        Z1.4         28.0              63.S                    79_5
PASSMC    CADSITHOVSASD PUP          10.7        14.9         21.5              17.8                    460
RAl3 lEVUs/Di0S5D  POp               45.8        62.5        155.9             138.8                   225.6
rV RE     EIT1CSAD POP                0.4        1 .6        38_9               46.1                   107.2
3SE;PEI C-DA1LY TGEERAL
ISTEREsT) CIXOCLAXOS
PER D0CsSD POFLAYIOK               22.1        16.2         12.3 If           31.2                    63.5
'1-s ASNCAL ArrESDA/ECAPA             1.5         1.5 /b       2.0 re            1.7                     Z.9
TOTAL 130Cz   FE (RS)              3389.0      3939.0       5361.0
FEALIE CPERCET)                    10.0       1:42          16.0              10.8                    23.2
AcGcOLZRE (PERCE)                  0Z.0        57.0         52.0              42.'                    31.5
3^'5rar CPERCESI)                  14.0        17.0         21.0              27.9                    Z3.9
PARTICIPATtOS RAME (PERCEST)
OT0AL                              29.1        26.3         26.5              Z6.2                    32.2
r111E                              5Z.1        45.2          4.6              46.4                    49.3
FEMALE                              5.9        J75          8.5                5.8                    15.2
ECMSOMIC DEPESUE3CY RAZIO            1.6         2.0          1.J               1.8                     1.4
EHc  alsUIBUTION
PERCETI OF PRVA1E INCOME
RECElVED lli
HICHEST 5z OF HOSEHOSLDS           19.0 /I    20.0 tI
lIGHEST 20% OF HOCSE)OLDS          63.3 71     49.0 -a 7_               
L0tS _TZ  OF IoUSEHOLsDLS           7.0 rl'     4.0 7r        -
L06EST 40 OF HOLSEltOLDS           19.0 T      12.0 7_.
Rry TARGET 
ES!ZIATED AISOLLTE POET!MY INCO
LVL  CSS PER CAPXTA)
1R3N                              107.0       157.0        3B9.0 If          276.9                   286.2
0tAL                               66&.0      101.0        238.0 If          177.2                   184.0
ES?ZED RELAIVE POWERTY INCI
LVL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBN                                 ._          ..        Z2.0 if           402.6                  S52.8
33.                                  __          ..        157.0 7           284.9                   372.4
ESMlATED PoP. BELWJ ABSOLTE
POVEkTY 11SC  E LEVEL (2)
UR3AN                              51.0        38.0         28.0 if
RURAL                              49.0        45.0         45.07               ''
110? AVAI
M0r APPLICABLE
N OT E S
/a   The group averages for each LSdicaor are populatlon-uwlghted arftrhntlc nes. Coverage of countrles mong cbe
Indicator, depenods    avalablIty of data and is tnot uniform.
/b   UnlesK .ozh.rriwe noted. -Iata for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; -Dct- for 1970' betwaen 1969 and
1971; and data for -oet Recent EAtimtc  between L980 and 1982.
Ic   Escides the ex-Spmosb Sahara; Id 1976; 1e 1977; If 1979; /R 1978; th 1972; 1 Consumption expeadLeure of
househol,s.
JMIE. 1964



3FI     -   -" -9=3333 -. .33an*3            39.*       Sq- 93          
*3-333       -3~32 An           -9.    - 32      I I 33  W..3-33
- -33 .3.-43  33-33- .*33933 -% -MA &.P3 -a
W                   ~~    ~~~3*93433 A *T333. 3V 3333-  5 314,.
333  S... -.A        m30*3 33338333   -  933.93 .32.93 A-           3.35
333 33  _%   3 33.9333   3-343-- -  33"-9=  93344   -                  ft
3933sc-W   P   "-r                                                                        W33.3I4    .333   *333  3333                  _.=3 .-.3-]- n&3-3
- 33WP  flP *34    333   - 533333343 -.8323333249 3..l
-V-     13 1-  3-Ar T-3  1*133434 ni             T --9=i   -M
--Ad - t ~ ~   ~                     -all3a333-.   3               -( 3 43   .*3339-3
33333.93. -. 93 P- 3. 3 3-  93431 M.M       3AA-  3d,J.1344 -   353  33*                             -P.3.3323   33   333  336 33-2i !3333  -33403 P_2v.a M313   fif
7- 93  3-33-        .39333   3-  3333  303 3323.--                                                                   -.-P3333392033  333333334333    0B3- P- a3-3a   43331 *3*3 33P.M c,-3 333 I.=
333 3  9338333333-  z3   1333303  232333 2         --  w: 33333 %330 n3.9=              33 94.  3-. M&   P33- W. 3.-         32 .., .3333  3- 33333333-* 9       S.3.
3.43-3 .33833. 53*3343         *33j   3 3333-  -p.  34 rm"=33-3 -,--  IT.3  -a .33-_34 
M. --.333  M   33 3    3-*33233M3  3.3.-d *3--t43  03 33-3   *3343                                           W.4   P- sam5 M P-j aA sl - 3.t   *3m 3-  33  a. A33d3.-
IA3334334 3339.339-(..333333  . X          33334-5   -I43  2313  33-I   .333933                       A"43.3  J. 3I-33  T--. -                   M33-313   7332  33 *3933 31434*8
33A39=3353.33   mj                                          ---3P 3-f 3- C91 ,333      !6331 3     3339=
*3 3- -J -43  GI 3$3333   3-13333343 383393343                       -   3- 333
,333_-I V-    3313              Al.3333-- .333-.. s-  p33-3 -3                        -       I  -33      33  33343333  33373  V- A3.3333                                          3
M3 3.3  3- so 9.- Si 433-                Jo33    523 33237- *33   .3294333J431.3   323..3  333133.334  -3 p.334 MS A33 p3333  3.3 M
3343  10333  .34  ...  333333533333   1333334 .393  3333  v-                                               ~33.3*   -M 2. P-      333
-W.. AMQ P33.-3  3-133-              33523333433..333334*93    3* 333   p33333   -333349  M33*33                                                    -&-,  P-  33
-33  233333133-w 2.am -  P-"3 93   .3    .3p13    -  ug&4  93                                       .3  333.   33339*4333    330  314-  33333 33
5333333."4    -        t .3*9    33   -Ia331""  v1-S9 7 333 *33--` I3.33333                    -s'  -i  3-  32-3 M  n3-  -334_3  3-3-9.333.33334
-  3333.Wn -l-333 P-   33_   33333 -          33.333  333   AIIA313323                                                                                         333- J-
-:-a p--1-   I.. - 9-Af)    33f 1-     33                      3213-3t.IP1333*a..  344339.3-.3333339
0.33 *,.3 :3*35  32331  3333  3    -3334  -  -333.33333343oot                     3192-  3333 033-~               .33m.       _             I.n3 5523332-;  -333
3333  333-=       333   39-1  323  333   33  3  3333      933                                3.. A   3334333               P33   33 .12303  Pm-33  .3-3 3333a. 333 --T
P-33   393  333  5 n              834.---         334     .3133  304333,                                        4 '3-  ..,-i-1235*3  833i3394  3333333
-jp.%-  W, P_._    V- A-J-3333334.4.                                                      .3 34s..3-39
P-_ S"WI-3  AAS3-                             A~~~~~~-313   343.32  433331394  -W(.3- 93.43F                                  3333)23.   33.12334 333
93313- 3  3   --3-333.9323  3  -373                 9.239          33                                                                                              Z3_331 7-     -n3     -__     --_ wI
333934333933.9 *4              3333333333 33339..Wa 3333333333A3                            3-   343.lO3  233 .9s. .P-.J .-.4.:  £1;39033333153133
3-4   323-  33*830323-  335  333333333333.                                     3)333.33                  3433 ::;3-I332  333-33  38*. 33
33353-6 V3          I-*   .        ~       35 -43  * A         340  13. M33 3n333333333ptz-1NM--                                                          t-I.09=31-333333-33.9 333
3*8333332  3333          333333333333a3-               M 3343- 3 AM3-3 1                                                          -    33. 3d-    353033  3333
33   93-34- 335 -AAI3-3AZ - (33-333`33  33-ft.38 -           33333  13                     -23391  523 P-      M 43    -3-333  399   - (9P -03.33  833  _3333 393
19333333 363433-  33435   3333 33  3339 3333 3933 039                              -w9. 33. 3--343333             33333  - f939W -          3 -  33   3233 3333
-   333333   33833  333333  333j3333333831333  .9333 333                                                             333  3         '"3- *  33*.33333833333
a  3~   33'  3933-  -  333              3099321.33333                                      3393393333    53                        3*43.  333    -.333.
33..340  333333.33333  ~4      3..3.333331. -  23.3433 333*33333133333323
:.M                                                                                                 _A-A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~33  13.3 3333'- 
VAAA           33333392  33  3                                               33 W     .33..33323-33  33333  AM33.3  33-1343  3   3343
33 (33333 3   93333-.333  -3                 - 2393 323-                                                    AMl   -T.3.333333333533.333 3-*33 -la  1    .3133  3333.
,3f:j  -W   B-   -&-I   - aw  -1  A._qW                    -I33   333433332   3323 -13-.4                   33.33   3  33333  33-3--..~ 
AA.3 3.33333  33.       3332= I-- 339.3.   3                 S.33     233                      ftm-, -333 333.-                                    V     333 593   3.3.
At   33333 - 312. 33.33  4333.3.*333333*   3333  333:333  .  33  333 3.-1                                                -   333333333 . 2 3333333  23*33333  33-3
332333333333   - 34333333.43 333333  333332.33  33.342-335  -13-332   -A3332 A3333 3I- 3 33   3313_ J.  _33_3333
33.333~-3323383.3              33   .333  32333  M3% 333. 332 339333*3  .93-I- 3 343333-
43332333  343 A333334-3 33   -33.33331         33  3332  .3-39   33333.-33  333V                                           33.33333.   *3   33333
33      .33233333P-         *333333*33A323 33..3333.*3*3033  2.-33  3333-35333-3 22-  333   3                                                                       ,33
3333339=3333343333*43 3 343.693  333  ~33333.3833w*333 333333343  333 *33343  532 331193 33.                                                      -I-
333133  .3333  3330 -3359333 -                     3333  - 393   3313.                               A.13.         A. -        A33   333-334933 9; 338333333333
332333 .        33   333-30 3.3 3333 *.13.-  333331334 v                                      33.333333.3    -    M 333    33                       3V33          392
3333.93333333*333333        .323.344 33333(33  'I3 3-2334333333   332333   3=3
j-   AN.    Ww r ~.Sd~    3.32-                         33239-3333333.333=333 3*5 332233
..V-P.lv -  M  J. _ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~       13-  33  3  33230333.392.3  333333  .3333393
33333.333.93  3433-*.33  1333                           3433033   3.233   3  3=  302333323334-3343   3-W  3333 v- 333..3
.3032333333    -  933   33  - 933I-3 43.I -33.3  5                .843                                                                             3332333333
333433333334  3333333-3P  333   *3333,3840 
P-  A%3   -                                                                        -3                                             3333.543*331  3337343 
.1     A%. J.     *33*3333 .-    33W   . 3-   93333;  * 9334                        *3337*.30j     3_ 33333333. 333p3.3333  33 _533232333_333
31-0 3133. 3-3333 3-   -, V%3.3P9            A 32333.333-  -333   3.  3333*                      .44  pAb-832A3l--. -3333333333  33r  -    -P 335.3                * 3: 2-3.-
I   39333                                                                          -         L335-  333333393  333     3   3233.3333314'35223   -35.



- 2B -
Pogilatom    - 23.e .1111., tmti-I63)
UP ^o Capta: USS 7S   16)                                                                                                             Pon _ *    a
(.1111gm  M5 at                                           igmm   Faf, tu  6
currEnt grids)                   A~.1  #46 n t et      1_Iin                        int.c. ___     9        mwm
163               igr      162      lu      11        *ga      163-1      
Gross i_st1c  redurt  f  14617                 2.2     4.8      3.6    -1.3      6.3       2.2               3.6      2.7     2.a      3.3
Agric"iAb    hi 2ha9                       18.6    -1.7      6.1   -22.9    19.6       -4.6               6.9      2.0     2.e      2.0
Ind*5t"  hi              4724              .4.9     7.7    -2.5    -D.1       2.2       3.1              3*0      306    3*5        e.g
Sibnricus Vhsi                              *.0     S.1      6.4      6.a     6.4       s.6.              8.6      L.      3.       3.5
Co3154vttf                  1326               4.2     5.5      2.S      1.9     e.0       6.5               2.1      2.4     24.      2.6
Grass tawastfAt             3412             -25.9     1.2    -7.3    -9.6       7.6    -14.4                3.3   -4.1    -1.1        3.6
Esm rtS aC UFS              26                 3.2     6.9      3.7      Z.2     5.3       7.6               3-2     S.4  5 .4         8.S
2art5 or US                 s199            -17.6     3.3    -9.5       4.1     3.7    -11.6                0.2      1.9     4.3      5.3
GS       o .tnal saIngs     1162             -15.4     3.2      6.6   -33.4      3.9      21.6               8.9     2.6      *.2      3.9
GP dulatmr t1630 . too)        .              1.4    91.7   103.6   1l1.3   121.8    125.6
Exchnge   u rum (to per  )     .              .46    .256    .254    .193    .16          .141
Suhr  of GP at ISrkmt Prices It)                        Augi  .1  2acf61  (31)
LMt rt urle  dJ                        tat   tat   1633 n             ta e tt           wInte
1666   1676   1671   1616   1e6   1666         !6876   197-7    1614 n1a.a                    turn -
Grss dstic Poduct aJ                                                           4.0       4.1      5.3              2.7        3.6
£Vicultawe               29.1   19.9   17.9   18.1   14.4  13.6             3.5      -1.4      4.4             -1.9        2.3
Xn6atTy                  25.s   27.6   35.2   32.3   31.6  32.7             4.7       7.1      4.1              2.2        4.2
Sarvices S               47.4   53.1   66.9   49.6   14.0  53.7             4.1       s.1      G.               4.4        u.7
CmCtgn                      N9.2   U.1   4s.S   U.S  1U.1  16.8                4.1       4.9      5.9              2.4        3.3
Gross invutsnt              10.3   11.5   25.4   22.6   16.9  16.3             8.6      12.2     -1.1             -2.2        5.1
ftoarts UPS                 27.4   17.6   22.5   15.4   20.3  23.9             1.3       3.6      4.5             4.8         7.0
oarts UPrs                  20.9   21.6   33.4   29.4   25.3  27.0             3.5       7.9      1.7            -4.3        .5.6
Gross natinal savings       11.6   14.3   19.3   14.6   12.1  14.9             3.5      14.2     -4.5            -4.          7.8
at. S of m
1638     16        * 73 1   lw 1               16
crut  v                                     16.5     16.1      23.3     21.6      ZZ.7      22.2
C4rrot e3mitus                              15.      14.I      20.2     21.5      z2.6      22.7
Srplus (.) or doficit (-1                    6.9      1.6       3.1     -6.Z       6.1      -6.5
apitUal U66IitUY                             3.8      1.7      12.2     12.2      13.3       8.4
Fag  finacing                                ..       1.3      3.7       1.6       7.2      3.6
13-76   1673-70    u7s-a7    613.41   1 15.410
gop . owti rate Ml                  4.0       6.6      4.9       2.4      1.7
CA Pr dw ta gawthl rate CZ)         1.6       3.1      1.3      -6.1      1.1
Fnrey ceS'swtion .rmth rate Ml   3.3          6.7      s.4      3.1       3.1
e a.3.9                                       3.6      4.1       7.4      0.6
'r"inal savings rate                6.16      6.35    -6.11s     .16      6.2z
Ipart elasticity                    6.9s      1.34     6.13    -.43       1.33
aI At rkgt Wrtiff.
of at facr cost.
Cr Iprt tuXns Included in servicas.
Ui Projected igars at ostawnt 1963 incas.
re  Gooos only.
Ottgr 29. 1934      1
hEm   CP 2-5
la DM   .1V



- 29 -
population       20.5 fuilTion (mid-1953)
GNP Per Capita: US 756 (193)                                                                                   e6 1 sof6 
_ - *    m_ t i_
Aunt                               Anual Growth Rts (2)
dricator              (million USt (at                                   In*tat 19* eVc*
current prices)                     u
1932               l*al      19*2       11            190* l     iE      1i         1
mXEquL TIME
q        NmrchauiSe exports (FOB)         2043                4.0        1.1       10.2           6.6       5.6      5.4        S.S
Priury prUcts                1318               -2.9      -11.5        4.7           9.7       4.6       3.4       3.6
Phosphate rock             572               -5.4      -10.6        4.5           1.5       4.0       3.6       3.0
Others                      746              -1.0      -12.6        4S           12.4       4.0       3.7       3.6
*          Zntenwdiate & mnufactures    725                 2S.2       21.7      19.1           2.3       6.1      15.8      16.5
Nerch;ndise imorts (CIF)        433S                4.4        6.1       -7.5           3.0       1.2       3.7       4.7
Food                         50                2Z.9      -1l.8       -5.3          12.0       3.7       3.5       3.2
Fuels                        1173               10.6       -1.5        0.7           6.9       0.0       2.S       3.3
hachftne   and eouint         953               -3.3       36.0      -26.2         -13.3      -6.0      40.4       4.3
otenr                        1629               -3.2       13.3       -3.3           4.0       3.2       5.5       6.2
Else (190 = 100)
Export pmce Index                  .              119.4      123.1      134.6         162.4    180.3    262.5    224.3
Ioport me Index                   .               125.2      139.5      149.3         150.6    195.3    217.9    239.5
Term  of trade index               .               93.1       85.0       90.1          90.0      90.9      92.9      93.7
Com osition of Merchandise Trade (2)                Averas Annual Irease (S)
(at cUrrent nr1resl                IConst2nt 1969 nrinCml         lCnacnt le 0 imI
1970   1975    1q10    1995    1990         1970-7S     197S-30           13*6-3S      1 S-O
ExportS                                                                        -1.3         6.8               5.4          7.2
Primary products              89.4   56.9   75.S   S8.1   47.8               -2.8         5.3               0.5          3.1
intermediates * *amufactures   1066    12.9   24.5   41.9   52.2              7.6        12.5              16.5         12.2
f nnoi.s                                                                        5.6         0.7               1.3         4.4
Food                          16.9   25.0   16.5   16.3   1S.8               13.1         2.9               1.9          3.1
Petrolean                      S.5   10.8   23.5   27.2   25.0                9.1         5.2               3.2          3.5
Machinery and *maipuint       24.1   24.0   18.5    15.7   14.3              12.0        -7.3              -5.4          3.5
Oth rs                        53.5   40.2   40.9   40.8   41.9                5.2         2.5               2.6          5.5
Share of Trade with           Share of Trade with         Share af Trade with
Industrial Comtriei (II       Oeyvlopin1n  Cuntrie  (S1  Canital 5urm1u 01.1 OMorterc m
1960     1970      1*0 1O960S           1970      1910       1g60      1370         191*1
nREq1T94 DF TRADE
Exports                      72.3      73.7      76.5       27.7      25.4      21.6         ..       0.9          1.9
n.u"rts                      76.7      74.9      72.9       23.3      2S.1       8.3          *        *          15.5
October 29. 1954
EEA CP X1-4
ID O6156  P.3
r



- 30 -
population    : 20.3 Million Imid-I3fl
UP Ptr Capita:  05  ne 7     igs(                                                                                                  Pa9se 6 e6
cretpries)
Indicator                                                         etual                                        7    e1
1976      1979     l9SD       iUi       1962       192      194       19U      19U      I87       1990
"WI' ns pa
Eprs  of gOO   and services                29S       24        464       4132       3642      3921     4109      4594    6390        276     96"
Of which: Nsrchandise f.o.b.            1469      1938      2414      2282      2043       20K      2206      2471     2010      2623    Ua
wI rts *f goos and services                4         5256      5912      6095       5912      4na      4922      54       6147      7063    1025 
Of which: Merchndise f.o.b.             2626      3245      3770      2M4        315       3296     3377      265      4106      47*7     7005
Mt current transfers                         50        44       125        102       170        94       71        74       78        t2       94
Current accout balance                    -1348     -1530     -1420      -1561     -1899      -73      -762      -76       -679     -flu     -76a
Met Direct Foreign Investmnt                 45        37       109         73       10z        47       SI        56       62        a        91
Official Grants                             260       420        96        313       24         44       16          -
MLT linans  nst                             a90      1017      1016       110       154        22e      671        n24      91       916      7D4
official                                 i8        341       722      1033        746       34D 8     79         -        -         -        -
Private                                  502       676       314        70       614       -110      292
Other capital Cnet)                         147         3       -70        112       -46       388       36        100      110      121      161
Change In reserves                            6        53       248        260       2U        164      -12      -345    -424       -270    -193
Interatioral reserves                       772       917        14      S21         540       375      504       648      696      7        1007
Of which: bi1d                           154       360       415       280        322       269      2         269      269      269       269
*s.'rves as months  woorts                  2.1       2.1       1.7        l.e       1.1       0.9      1.2       1.4      1.4       1.3      1.2
E    _RU   pr%rAL MD OFT
Gross di:burSants                          1446      1126      1711       2047      2310       384
Officicl Grants                          260       4z2        96       313        204        44
Concessanal loans                        325       294       761       894       563        214
5AC                                   91         77       100       126       125         49
OPEC                                 19        166       Sf4       746       401        115
IDA                                     -         -         I         1         1          1
Other                                  45        49        76        21        36         49
Mon-concessional loans                  661      1i1z        816       839      1543        626
Official export credits                 3         2        10        54        40        42
oD                                     72       137        64        99       134       174
Other mlttlateral                     53         7        13       116       126        27
Private                              732        965       765       570      1243        a8
suppliers credfts                   10        a         12        26        52         8
Finanial credits and bends        722       957       753        543      1191       275
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed          5144      6204      7109      7983      9054       945
Official                             2476      2BS3      349       4373      5004       5894
PrIvate                             2663       3350      3612      3610      4049      3552
UndisbLrsed debt                        22U4      2403      2154      3146      2487       3655
Debt service
Total service payents                    540       801      1193      1266      1334       1120
Interest                             2S3       412       614        634       5al       S5o
Payments as I weorts of G*S             18.5      21.7      27.3      30.6      34.7       25.5
Average Interest rate on new loans CI)         7.0       8.2       3.2        8.4      10.1       7.4
Official                                    4.9       5.2       3.3       3.7       6.9        5.S
Private                                     9.7      11.1      13.4      13.7       11.3      10.1
Average naturity of new loans (years)         13.Z      1S.7      13.7        9.S      11.0      1S.9
Official                                   16.3      Z1.7      13.6      11.6       19.7      21.1                                                                   t
Private                                     9.1       9.8       7.9       7.1       6.3        7.6
Ac I Of Anht flutstandine at mrd of  Ranmeant Year t1ioeti
Maturity structure of debt outstanding                                                                                                                                  &
Maturities due within 5 years                                            48.8
Maturities due within 10 years                                           80.4
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                            5.9
October 29. 1984
ENEMA CP I1-B
l0 olas6 p.4



- 31-
ANNEX 1X
STATUS OF BANK OPERATIONS
A. STATEMEnT OF SANW  LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30. 1984)
Loan or                                                     Amount (less cancellat;ons)
Credit                                                              USS Million
Numter   XAr        Borrower             Purpose           Bank      IRA     Undburtsed
Thirty one Loans fully disbursed                          822.14
Four Credits fully disbursed                                        38.62
sSS     197S    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture                   14.0         7-59
1416    1977    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture          41.0                21.47
lS28    1978    Kingdom of Morocco    Urban Development  18.0                   10.83
1602    1978    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture          65.0                52.64
1681    1979    Kingdom of Morocco    Education           113.0                92.94
1687    1979    Kingdom of Morocco    OFC (SSI)            18.2                  1.14
1695    1979    Kingdom of Morocco    Power                42.0                27.83
1724    1979    Kingdom of morocco    Water Supply         49.0                 15.84
1757    1980    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture          58.0                 36.02
5-18    1980    ORAREP                 Oil Exploration    50.0                   0.10
1830    1980    Kingdom of Morocco    Highways             62-0                 15.06
1848    1980    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture          34.0                27.40
1943    1981    CIH                    Tourism            100.0                45.21
1944    1981    Kingdom of Morocco    Urban Development  36.0                   33.86
2006    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    Uater Supply         87.0                 74.43
2037    1982   BWDE                    DFC                 70.0                 57.51
2038    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    DFC (SSM)            40.0                 38.89
2082    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture          29.0                 27.87
2109    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    Mining                9.5                 9.02
2110    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    Forestry             27.5                 25.Z6
2114    1982    ONAREP                 Oil Shale           20.0                 15.19
2149    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    Educatlon            50.0                47.59
2217    1983    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture          30.0                 29.35
224$    1983    CIN                    Housing Devt.       60.0                58.21
22S3    1983    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture          42-0                41.62
22S4    1983    Kingdom of Morocco    Highways             85.0                84.37
2271    1983    ONAREP                 Oil Exploration    75.2                 52.93
2272    1983    Kingdom of Morocco    Village Infrastr.  16.0                   15.92
2367    1984    CNCA                   Agric. Credit      115.4                96.Z3
2377    1984    Kingdom of Morocco    Indust. & Trade
Policy Adjust.   150.4                  3.6
Total                                               2415.34    52.62    1065.96
of which has been repaid                           361.15     1.98
Total now outstanding                               2054 19    50.64
Amount Sold                       20.11
of which has been repaid        20.11                0.0      0.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA                      2054.19    50.64
Total undisbursed                                                        10652
IQuL
_/ The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financial projects in operation, which is updated twice yearly to
provide data as of March 31 and September 30. and circulated to the Executive
r                               Directors on April 30 and October 31.
S.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(AS of September 30. 1984)
USS Million
Fiscal Year                                                  L9on     Em2rity   Total
1963/1978/1984  ONDE                Development Bank         37.6      2.7      40.3
1966            CIL                 Canning Factory           0.9     OS         1.4
1976            Marrakech Cement   Cement Factory                      1.3        1.3
1977/198a       Temara Cement       Cement Factory            4.7      3.6       8.3
1979            Agadir Cement       Cement Factory           12.5      2.2       14.7
1980            SOMIFER             Copper Mining            13.0      2.3       15.3
1981/1983       Casablanca Cement  Cement Factory            iLl 8     Z1
Total Gross Commitments                                    84.5     14.6      99.1
Less cancellation, terminations. repayments and sales  41.5       3L S       i45
Total commitments now held by IFC                          43-0    11.1        S4.1
Total Undisbursed                                                    0-3        0.3
Agadir Cement has been cancelled.
ID.04795p9/l0
12/18/84



- 32 -
ANNEX III
page 1 of 2
MOROCCO
ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
SUPPLEKENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section 1: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to Prepare Project:         About 2 1/4 years; January
1982-March 1984
(b)  Project Preparation Responsibility:   Ministry of Commerce, Industry,
and Tourism
Ministry of Finance
Office pour le Developpement
Industriel (ODI)
(c)  Bank Missions:                         identification:  December, 1981
Preappraisal;    March, 1982
Appraisal:       July, 1982,
April/May, 1984
(d)  Negotiations                           November 12-16, 1984
Ce)  Planned Date of Effectivenes:          April 15, 1985
Section II; Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Speciai Conditions
i) Conditions of Loan Effectiveness
(a) Signature by at least two commercial banks of the standard
on-lending agreements with the Ministry of Finance for a
total amount representing not less than $13 million
equivalent (paragraph 63).
(b) Signature of the on-lending agreement between the Ministry of
Finance and ODI (paragraph 67).
(c) Approval of ODI's policy statement by its Board
(paragraph 66).
(ii) Condition of Disbursement of the Subsidiary Loan to ODI
Recruitment of two experienced engineers by ODI to strengthen
its electrical and mechanical industry (EMI) department
(paragraph 67).



- 33 -
ANNEX III
page 2 of 2
(iii)  Condition of Disbursement for each commercial bank other than
the two mentioned in (i) (a) above
-                         Signature of the on-lending agreement between the Ministry of
(                          Finance and the concerned bank (paragraph 63).






