Docurnent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22720
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-20850)
ON A CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 22.2 MILLION
US$ 28.2 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF HAITI
FOR
HT- FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
09/06/2001



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Gourdes
I G = US$ 0.04
US$ 1.00 = 23.35 G
FISCAL YEAR
October 1  September 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS                        Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
CIDA                        Canadian International Development Agency
DOTS                        Directly Observed Treatment, Short Course Strategy
HIV                         Human Immunodeficiency Virus
ICC                         International Child Care
IDA                         International Development Association
IEC                         Information Education and Communication Material
IMR                         International Mortality Rate
MSPP                        Ministry of Health and Population
(Ministere de la Sante Publique et de la Population)
MEF                         Ministry of Economy and Finance
(Ministere de l'Economie et des Finances)
NGO                         Non-governmental Organization
PAHO                        Pan American Health Organization
PMU                         Project Management Unit
PNLT                        National Tuberculosis Program
(Programme National de Lutte contre la Tuberculose)
SAR                         Staff Appraisal Report
STD                         Sexually Transmitted Disease
STI                         Sexually Transmitted Infection
TB                          Tuberculosis
UNAIDS                      Joint United Nations Programm on HIV/AIDS
WDI                         Word Development Indicator
WHO                         World Health Organization
Vice President:  David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:  Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager/Director:  Charles Griffin
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Girindre Beeharry



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HAITI
HT- FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               10
6. Sustainability                                                                   11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    11
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                    8
9. Partner Comments                                                                 12
10. Additional Information                                                          12
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                13
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                14
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                15
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                16
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                18
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   19
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               20
Annex 8. Borrower's Report                                                          23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P007311                                      Project Name: HT- FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
Team Leader: Ruth E. Levine                              TL Unit: LCSHH
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: January 31, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: HT- FIRST HEALTH PROJECT                      L/C/TF Number: IDA-20850
Country/Department: HAITI                                               Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: HC - Primary Health, Including Reproductive
Health, Chi
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   10/15/1987                             Effective: 06/20/1990        08/02/1990
Appraisal:  11/28/1989                               MTR: 02/20/1998           02/20/1998
Approval:  01/16/1990                             Closing: 06/30/1996          03/31/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF HAITI/MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Other Partners: CANADLIN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (CIDA)
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De Ferranti                         Shahid Husein
Country Manager:     Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:      Charles Griffin
Team Leader at ICR:  Ruth Levine                               Xavier E. Coll
ICR Primary Author:  Ruth Levine; Joelle Dehasse;
Girindre K. Beeharry
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U-Unsatisfactory, HL-Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UJN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Perfornance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The original objectives of the US$33.7 million project were to (a) reduce central administration
expenditures of the Ministry of Health (Ministere de la Sant6 Publique et de la Population, or MSPP); (b)
reduce the current ratio of salaries to operating expenditures; (c) improve collection of patient contribution
to the cost of medical services and drugs; (d) strengthen key management and technical functions of the
MSPP; (e) reduce maternal and child mortality rates; and (f) counter the potentially devastating effects of
AIDS and tuberculosis epidemics (Development Credit Agreement, February 2, 1990).
The project's objectives-and particularly those that emphasized structural and budgetary changes at the
MSPP (objectives a, b, c and d)-were based on a 1987 IDA sector review. That review revealed that the
MSPP had grown to be one of the largest government ministries, accounting for 16 percent of government
expenditures by the latter half of the 1980s. Central administration expenditures, including salaries,
absorbed nearly one-quarter of the budget; overall, salaries accounted for up to 90 percent of the MSPP
budget, crowding out virtually all complementary inputs. Ministry staffing was top-heavy, with a critical
shortage of nurses, technicians and auxiliaries. Health personnel were concentrated in Port-au-Prince and
other urban areas, while in rural areas there was less than 1 physician per 10,000 inhabitants.
The sector review concluded that the deteriorating health conditions in Haiti could be countered most
effectively by addressing underlying financial, organizational and managerial imbalances that characterized
the health system. The review called for reallocating public resources in favor of primary health care
through increased financing of non-salary operating expenditures; decentralization of management,
including delegation of operational responsibility to the district level; and greater participation of
non-governmental organizations in primary health care.
Additional objectives that were more directly related to health outcomes (objectives e and f) reflected a
recognition that Haiti's health conditions were by far the worst in the hemisphere. It was decided that the
Bank had a role to play in improving basic MCH services by providing badly needed financing for
non-salary inputs (both capital and recurrent), and in strengthening the government's ability to address the
threat of AIDS and TB.
The objectives were based on the analysis of sector priorities, and were consistent with the Bank's overall
country strategy. At the same time, the objectives reflected optimistic assessments of the quality of
governance, readiness for organizational change, future political stability, and institutional capacity. They
were overly ambitious, given Haiti's weak track record in implementation.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives and closing date were revised three times. Overall, the changes resulted in a major
increase in the duration of the project, and a shift in emphasis away from large-scale institutional change
toward a strengthening of specific, high-impact elements of public health and basic health service delivery.
In September 1991, about a year after implementation began, Haiti experienced a coup d'etat, a subsequent
three-year international embargo and suspension of all IDA activities. When the project resumed in March
1995, the Credit Agreement was amended (effective November 1995) to streamline project implementation,
set up a Special Account, and update provisions for disbursement and procurement. The closing date was
extended by two years, to June 30, 1998.
In February 1998, after three consecutive years of operation, a midterm review concluded that the
- 2 -



development objectives were unrealistic, given the Haitian context. The closing date was extended by 18
months, to December 31, 1999. The objectives and targets were simplified to reflect what had been
attained to date, and what-in the view of the Bank-could be achieved during the remaining life of the
project. The modifications also took into account the activities of other development organizations,
including U.S., Canadian and other bilateral donors. The revised objectives de-emphasized large-scale
changes in Ministry organization and budgeting, and were to: (a) contribute to strengthening of the MSPP's
cost recovery mechanisms and service delivery strategies and standards; (b) improve access to and
utilization of basic health services, with particular emphasis on maternal and child health care; and (c)
support interventions to increase utilization of tuberculosis treatment services and expand awareness of the
AIDS epidemic.
In December 1999, within days of the project closing, the objectives and closing date were once again
revised. At the time, Bank staff and management recognized that it would be desirable to close the project
and initiate design of a new operation. However, the political context of the time-and particularly the
absence of a functioning Parliament-made it impossible to foresee negotiation and ratification of a new
loan. Therefore, the Bank decided to extend the project to maintain a presence in the sector, and to address
critical health needs-particularly in the area of TB-that required some bridge financing until new donor
relationships could be established.
Bank management extended the project for 15 months, to March 31, 2001, on the understanding that the
remaining funds (roughly US$4 million) would be used for essential drugs, maternal and child health, and
preventive and treatment activities related to tuberculosis, HIV/AIDS and other sexually-transmitted
infections (STIs). It was agreed that the project would no long finance civil works. Reflecting areas in
which the project had demonstrated some successes, revised objectives were to: (a) improve maternal and
child health; (b) reduce infections related to AIDS/STIs and TB; and (c) improve the administration and
supply of essential drugs.
3.3 Original Components:
Originally, the project consisted of three components: (a) Institutional Development; (b) Health Services
Delivery; and (b) Epidemic Prevention and Control. Project activities were to be implemented by a Project
Management Unit (PMU), which operated outside of the rules and procedures of the Ministry, and was
physically separate from the Ministry.
Institutional Development (estimated at US$4.1 million). This component sought to provide support for
restructuring the MSPP to rationalize and decentralize staff. It promoted the development of simple budget
allocation indicators to monitor and improve the effectiveness of the use of public resources. Health
personnel-most of whom were in Port-au-Prince-were to be redeployed to rural areas in the Western
Health Region, covering 2.1 million people in four districts (Port-au-Prince, Croix des Bouquets, Jacmel
and Petit Goave). This component also was designed to strengthen the Ministry's capacities to recover
costs for medical services ard drugs, manage civil works, and procure and distribute drugs. Most of the
inputs financed under this component fell into the category of technical assistance.
Services Delivery (estimated at US$21.2 million). This component was designed to improve the delivery of
health services at the local level, under a decentralized regime in the Western Health Region. The four-part
strategy included: (a) creating 30 commune-based local health systems; (b) supporting 7 priority service
delivery areas (maternal and child health care, family planning, nutrition, immunizations, control of
diarrheal diseases, TB prevention and treatment, malaria control, and HIV/AIDS prevention); (c)
promoting the delivery of standard, basic health services in periodic community gatherings; and (d)
integrating the private sector in basic health service delivery. Inputs financed included upgrading of the
- 3 -



health center/dispensary network, medical equipment and supplies, vehicles, training, essential drugs, per
diem for sanitary officers and technical assistance.
Epidemic Prevention and Control (estimated at US$8.5 Million). This component, implemented on a
nationwide basis, focused exclusively on the development of an integrated tuberculosis control program,
and support for HIV/AIDS prevention activities. The TB control program comprised: (a) conversion of
the treatment regime to a multiple-drug short course; (b) expansion of treatment coverage; (c) maintenance
of BCG immunization at a 60 percent rate; (d) expansion of profesional and para-professional training;
and (e) provision of expert supervision and evaluation. Major inputs included drugs, training, and
diagnostic materials and equipment  Inputs financed to sUppott to HIV/AIDS prevention included
laboratory testing equipment; information, education and communication materials; protective equipment
and supplies for health personnel; and an AIDS-TB conference.
Many of the aims of the project were in line with the then-government's goals and capacities, and thus had
a reasonable chance for success, given the initial knowledge base. The largest share of project
investments-for improvement of basic health services-closely followed the stated government
programmatic intentions, supporting the basic services that were identified by the Ministry as high pnority.
In contrast, the institutional strengthening activities, although seen by the Bank as essential to long-term
effectiveness and sustainability of public health work in Haiti, did not fit well with the underlying capacity
or political will. Many of the fiscal reforms, for example, depeded not on the Ministry of Health but also
on the Ministry of Economy and Finance, which did not have the commitment to follow through.
3.4 Revised Components:
Revisions across all components genermally represented a scaling-down of the project's ambitions, in light of
political turbulence and weak governance; an increasing recogition of the institutional limitations of the
Ministry of Health; and a reorientation toward core public health activities.
In November 1995, the first amendment to the Credit Agreement specified the following revisions:
The Institutional Development component was narrowed to reinforce a set of specific capacities within the
MSPP, including: (a) developing and implementing policies for public health, public safety, health
emergencies and health technology; (b) setting priorities for health spending and research; (c) determining
standards for service delivery and ensuring compliance; (d) maintaining a national health information
system; and (e) setting norms for the training and licensing of health workers (Credit Agreement,
Amendment 2).
In November 1998, the second amendment to the Credit Agreement specified the following revisions:
In Institutional Development, the component was further narrowed to strengthen the MSPP's capabilities
in the design and implementation of (a) cost recovery stategies, stating with basic analytic work on health
service financing and costs; and (b) service delivery strategies and standards for essential drugs, quality
control of pharmaceutical products, medical emergencies and control of TB and AIDS/STIs. Inputs
include technical assistance, staff training and establishrment of norms and protocols.
In Services Deltvery, support remained similar to the original conception, but was more highly specified
under six objectives and several sub-objectives. For most of hese, the objectives were expressed in terms
of the inputs to be provided rather than as objectives in the traditional sense (e.g., the provision of medical
equipment, radio communications systems and related training to health personnel and community
representatives in the South-Eastern Health Region).
-4 -



Under Epidemic Disease Prevention and Control, the component was modified to take advantage of
up-to-date global knowledge, and support the MSPP's (a) Integrated National Tuberculosis Control
Program, including the introduction of the Direct Observed Therapy Short-term (DOTS) strategy,
following the WHO protocol; and (b) AIDS/STIs Program through implementation of social marketing and
information, education and communication (IE&C) strategies.
In December 1999, the third amendment was issued, with the agreement that, as of January 2000, the
remaining project funds (roughly US$4 million) would be used for public health programs of the highest
priority for the sector: essential drugs, maternal and child health (including immunization campaigns), TB
and AIDS/STIs. No civil works were to be financed. The closing date was extended to March 2001.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Mardnallv satisfactory. While the project objectives fit well with the prevailing understanding of issues
in the Haitian health sector, and the Bank's emphasis on social sector investments in very poor countries,
several shortcomings in the design can be identified. First, as noted earlier, there was insufficient national
commitment to institutional restructuring. The Ministry of Economy and Finance, whose cooperation was
essential for reorganizing the budget, did not have a sense of ownership of the program. Second, the design
assumed that certain changes in personnel changes could be made within the sector, when they in fact
required a government-wide transformation. Third, the Ministry's capacity to implement multiple activities
was overestimated. Fourth, the design reflected a conceptual confusion between inputs and objectives.
Fifth, judged by current standards, the project was excessively supply-oriented, with little attention to
dimensions of demand and community participation.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Unsatisfactory. The project failed to achieve most of its major relevant objectives. Overall, public health
in Haiti today cannot be said to have improved over the course of the past ten years, and there is no
evidence that the project ameliorated a significant share of the health problems associated with general
political, economic and social upheaval. If measured by the original health outcomes that the project
sought to achieve (per the Staff Appraisal Report)-reducing mnaternal, infant and child mortality by 40
percent by 1995-then the project was unsatisfactory.  In addition, virtually all the institutional
development objectives were abandoned during implementation. However, the project did have some
important successes after design revisions were made to strengthen core public health functions,
particularly in provision of essential drugs and in certain elements of Epidemic Prevention and Control (see
details in Section 4.2).
4.2 Outputs by components:
Institutional Development: Unsattsfac.orv. Failures are seen in each of the major elements of this
component, as it was originally conceptualized. First, at the start the project sought to promote the
reallocation of the MSPP budget away from salaries, and toward complementary inputs-correcting a
distortion of long-standing. Soon after the project's launch, political events in fact led to an increase in
spending on salaries. By 1998, the likelihood of achieving a better balance between spending among
administration, personnel and other inputs within the health sector was seen as so remote that a covenant
calling for reduced salary ratios and central administration expenses was dropped from the Credit
Agreement. It is interesting to note, however, that in 1999, staff salaries were brought down to 79 percent
of the budget (from 90 percent in 1987), when the government launched a national public sector reform
program. This implies that the transformation required government-wide action, and could not be realized
- 5-



within the health sector alone.
Second, although a study was conducted on cost recovery options, the recommendations were found to be
overly ambitious. Several additional minor steps were taken to strengthen cost recovery, such as some
consultancies, but there is no evidence of impact.
Third, redeployment of personnel to rural areas was never stimulated by the project, despite the original
intentions. Recognizing the low probability of success, the covenant related to salary expenditures for staff
at health centers outside of Port-au-Prince was later dropped.
Although the institutional restructuring component was reduced in scale and scope during the multiple
project revisions, the reorientation toward core public health functions did have positive spill-over effects at
the institutional level. For example, progress was made in applying standardized therapeutic protocols in
the national tuberculosis program, and in introducing drug treatment protocols for the essential drugs
program. The public-private partnerships developed under the TB program increased institutional capacity
to participate in contractual relationships. Modest improvements were also ultimately made in the
Ministry's introduction of cost recovery measures. The essential drugs program relied on revenues
generated at the health facility level to finance the availability of drugs at the peripheral level.
Services Delivery. Unsatisfactory. Crudely, the project can be judged by comparing its original outcome
targets with current health conditions reported in the 2001 World Development Indicators and elsewhere.
While changes in indicators such as infant mortality are the result of many factors outside the health
system, and cannot be attributed to the successes or failures of the project, it is clear that health conditions
have not consistently improved (and that measurement problems continue to exist). For infant mortality,
the SAR target was a decrease by 15 percent by the end of the third year of the project; and 35 percent by
the end of the sixth year (i.e., from 119 per 1,000 live births in 1987 to 78 per 1,000 by 1995). Haiti's
IMR was estimated at 70 per 1,000 in 1999, suggesting that improvements have been made. For child
mortality, the story is quite different. The project was to contribute to a reduction by 15 percent by the end
of the third year; and 40 percent by the end of the sixth year (from 22 per 1,000 in 1987 to 14 per 1,000).
Haiti's under-five mortality was estimated in 1999 at 118 per 1,000, indicating either a very rapid
deterioration in health conditions or very poor measurement, or both. For maternal mortality, the project
was designed to contribute to a reduction of maternal mortality by 15 percent by the end of the third year;
and 40 percent by the end of the sixth year (from 267 per 10,000 live births to 220 per 10,000). The rate
of maternal mortality in 2000 is estimated by the MSPP at 523 per 10,000. Again, this implies some
combination of worsening health conditions and measurement error.
Looking at output measures, which can be more directly attributed to project implementation, results are
disappointing.  Of the 28 health facilities to be constructed (5 health centers and 6 dispensaries) and
rehabilitated (16 health centers and 1 dispensary), 3 health centers were constructed and 2 were
rehabilitated. Three of the seven planned shelters/housing were completed. Half of the 10,000 planned
latrines were built; however, 3,250 additional latrines were built in areas for which they had not originally
been planned. Thus, including both planned and unplanned works, construction of latrines reached an 83
percent completion level relative to the original figures. The rehabilitation of 10 drug warehouses and 4
community centers not originally planned brings the total of completed civil works to 8,272 out of the
10,036 originally planned (or 82 percent of the works).
The quantity of civil works fell short of expectations primarily because per-facility costs were higher than
expected. Facilities were found to be in worse shape than anticipated at appraisal (about six years earlier),
and in several cases had to be replaced instead of rehabilitated.
-6 -



Whether the physical improvements supported by the project had a health impact remains an open question.
A 1999 evaluation study found that upgraded facilities were not utilized more than other facilities. In spite
of commitments made to the Bank, the MSPP had difficulties recruiting and retaining staff to work in
remote areas, and thus the facilities often operated below capacity. Bank supervision missions attempted to
persuade Ministry authorities to delegate responsibility for the management of these facilities to
non-governmental organizations, which have a better track record in operating health centers, but these
efforts were unsuccessful.
Procurement and distribution of drugs and medical supplies was unsatisfactory during much of the
project's implementation. Chronically, Hlaiti has suffered (and continues to suffer) fiom a lack of
coordination and poor assessment of health centers' needs, resulting in inadequate distribution and wastage.
In some instances, inexperienced health staff simply do not know how to use the materials; in other
instances, a lack of storage space and/or missing installation equipment has meant that drugs or equipment
have not been put into service. The project did not successfully address these systemic problems.
The project can take credit for some notable improvements in the essential drug supply after the design
revisions, however. There is documentary evidence of: (i) increased availability of drugs at affordable
prices; (ii) improved management of patient care at the peripheral level; and (iii) introduction of basic cost
recovery measures. An external evaluation conducted in 1999 found that essential drugs were available in
a high percentage of health facilities (95 percent of dispensaries; 80-90 percent of health centers; and all
hospitals). Field visits conducted during supervision missions confirmed that drugs were available even in
remote areas. Similarly, spot checks confirmed that prices of essential drugs distributed through the
national program (PROMESS) were dramatically lower than in private pharmnacies (i.e., two- to seven-fold
differentials). The achievements in the essential drugs program, which was essentially managed as a project
of PAHO, were found nationwide, and were not limited to the project areas.
At least in quantitative terms, training and technical assistance was satisfactory, with more than 800 health
care staff taking training in medical and administrative topics.
Epidemic Prevention and Control. Satisfactorv. The success of this component is due to the partnerships
between the public sector and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) that implemented the activities,
even under difficult circumstances. In addition, this component benefited from constructive coordination
with PAHO/WHO, CIDA and USAID, all of whom were involved in various ways and agreed to support
the interventions after project closing.
The TB Control component had a very satisfactory outcome. As planned in the SAR, the project
contributed to the establisit .,ent of a renewed National TB Control Program, based on the
WHO-recommended DOTE ,iodel. The program successfully involved various partners and operated
within the primary health c a infrastructure. Detection of smear-positive cases increased from 5,493 cases
in 1997 to 6,828 in 1999. fie proportion of smear-positive cases treated under DOTS rose from 0 in 1996
to more than 30 perce-. in 2000. Treatment success for smear-positive cases detected in 1998 reached 79
percent for those treated under DOTS, compared to 63 percent in non-DOTS areas. Even in areas where
the DOTS strategy is not yet used, success rates have improved. In addition, a quality control system has
been established for laboratories that diagnose TB.
Despite progress, the TB control results are relatively fragile. More than 50 percent of estimated TB cases
are not detected, reported and treated, and the epidemic is worsening due to its association with HIV/AIDS.
The success to date has resulted in large part from the formal collaboration among MSPP staff, facilities
- 7 -



and NGOs. This relationship was complicated by the short contract periods provided under the project
between the NGOs and the MSPP, the delays frequently experienced in renewing the contracts during the
course of the project, and long delays in obtaining reimbursement for expenses. Due to limited access to
vehicles provided to departmental-level authorities during the project, adequate field supervision was
inhibited. On the positive side, the objectives, work products and indicators utilized in the contracts
improved over time, and technical staff in the Ministry and PMU staff worked closely in communicating
with NGO partners. The public-private collaboration supported by the project offers a useful model for
future public health interventions.  Under Haiti's difficult conditions, developing the necessary
administrative and personal relationships to generate successful collaboration was and will continue to be
time- and resource-intensive.
With respect to AIDS/STI prevention activities, results are more difficult to quantify and have not been
formnally evaluated, but are generally viewed positively. NGOs conducted wide-ranging awareness-raising
activities (conferences, seminars, workshops, outreach to youth, caravans, community meetings, condom
distribution and so forth), testing and counseling. Observers note that the project contributed to enhanced
HIV screening capabilities, with the establishment of five departmental screening centers; and improved
access of vulnerable groups to condoms through the social marketing program.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Modest. While some 800 health care personmel received project-funded training, there is little evidence
that the new skills were applied systematically. The strong management skills of the PMU, though
invaluable for the implementation of the project, were not formally transferred to the MSPP.
NGOs participating in the TB control and HIV/AIDS activities under the project were able to increase their
capacity as contractors, in both technical and administrative terms. Although NGOs have for many years
played a critical role in operation of health facilities-and often have outperformed the government in this
area-the project further strengthened their ability to contribute to sectoral goals.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
This project-as the whole Haiti portfolio-was strongly affected by instability, civil unrest and political
crises. Project implementation was brought to a halt about a year after implementation began, following
the September 1991 coup d'etat, which was followed by an international embargo and a three-year
suspension of the IDA program. The coup and embargo devastated the economy, with grave repercussions
throughout society-from households to government agencies.
In 1997, two years after the project resumed, the resignation of the Prime Minister further strained the
political climate and distracted the administration's attention from development issues. The political crisis
became still more pronounced after the May 2000 elections, when procedures for establishing winners of
legislative and local elections were seen by many as unconstitutional and fraudulent. Presidential elections
went ahead in November 2000, despite an opposition boycott; a new administration came into power in
February 2001, headed by President Jean Bertrand Aristide and Prime Minister Jean Marie Cherestal. The
political crisis persisted and new international assistance to Haiti remained on hold.
- 8 -



Throughout these events, the government has proven unable to fulfill core public health functions, not
adequately financing the provision of public goods (e.g., vector control) and goods with externalities (e.g.,
immunizations). The breakdown of the health system, coupled with the high level of poverty, has made the
Haitian population extremely vulnerable to the emergence, re-emergence and rapid spread of infectious
diseases. Haiti has become an incubator of diseases for the region; the situation is especially worrisome for
vaccine-preventable diseases, HIV/AIDS, and multi-drug-resistant TB.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
A lack of commitment on the part of the Government, in particular the successive Ministers of Health and
Ministers of Finance, undermined the project from the outset. This factor, coupled with the high turnover
of administrations and ministers (3 administrations, 4 Ministers of Health), meant that priorities were
frequently being reevaluated. The First Health Project was unable to gamer full ownership of successive
administrations.
During project implementation, the culture and institutional incentives present in the MSPP were rarely
conducive to efficient execution. Ministry officials faced a series of natural and human-made emergencies
(e.g., measles epidemics, drug shortages, hurricanes, strikes), and viewed the project as a pot of money to
be used to resolve some of these problems. In such a context, insufficient attention was devoted to systemic
issues affecting implementation, and to the long-term goals of the project. This situation was exacerbated
by a lack of a tradition of programming and monitoring project activities.
On several occasions, the Government of Haiti failed to fulfill basic responsibilities. For example, during
calendar year 2000, the government frequently fell into arrears with IDA repayment, resulting in several
suspensions of IDA disbursements. These portfolio-wide suspensions permitted exceptions for the
procurement of drugs for maternal and child health, TB and AIDS/STIs. From November 2000 through
February 2001, an overdue audit report-largely the result of lack of performance by a private auditing
firm-led to the suspension of disbursements for activities under the project, causing several activities to
stall. As a result, many of the potential benefits of the final extension were not realized.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
In the midst of the political turmoil affecting Haiti, the PMU was able to maintain a relatively high degree
of efficiency and effectiveness. Strong management skills and remarkable continuity in key personnel
insulated the project, to some degree, from a general envirornment of chaos during several periods. The
PMU Coordinator proved able to work across political divisions, which benefited implementation
tremendously. And, by working with NGOs, the PMU was able to achieve impressive successes in TB
prevention and control activities.  The PMU was isolated physically and institutionally from the
Ministry-a situation that simultaneously helped and hindered its effectiveness--and therefore had limited
capacity to ensure that the project was integrated into the Ministry's core functions.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total cost of the project was estimated to be US$33.7 million, of which US$28.2 million equivalent
(SDRs 22.2 million) would be financed by the IDA credit; the govemnment was to allocate the equivalent of
US$3.1 million (in salaries). CIDA was to co-finance on a parallel basis the equivalent of US$2.4 million.
The base costs to be supported by the project were estimated at US$28.7 million, with contingencies of
US$5 million. The foreign exchange component (for imported materials) were estimated at US$22.4
million, or 66 percent of total project cost. The costs also included the refinancing of a project preparation
-9-



facility of US$560,000, approved in October 1987; and increases of US$190,000, approved in April 1989,
and of US$150,000, approved in November 1989.
The original allocation of project resources was modified along with the changes in project content. The
Institutional Development component, originally programmed to absorb US$4.1 million, eventually used
about US$1 million. The Services Delivery component was originally budgeted at US$21.1 million, and
ultimately used about US$17 million. For the Epidemic Prevention and Control component, which was
budgeted at US$8.5 million, approximately US$10 million was expended by the close of the project.
Final disbursements under the project amounted to US$29.1 million equivalent (SDRs 21.1 million),
resulting in a cancellation of US$1.3 million undisbursed. (Due to a chance in the US$/SDR exchange
rate, the total disbursed amount in US$ exceeds the commitment amount.) Thus, in the end, 11 years after
the start of the project, the project had disbursed 95.2 percent of the original credit amount.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Unlikely. The many activities that were initiated under the project-and particularly the institutional
development interventions, civil works, stocking of health centers-are not sustainable without government
support. That support is unlikely due to both the government's on-going fiscal crisis, and lack of
institutional commitment.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Several of the project activities constituted one-time investments that can be appropriated by the
government with no further outlays. Others, which require maintenance, additional salary support, and
other recurrent expenditures, are currently on shaky ground. There are no plans for project activities to be
part of the Ministry's regular operation. However, certain project components-in particular, the TB and
AIDS work-are expected to continue at some level with external support.
IDA currently is disengaged from Haiti and will likely remain so until the pending issues related to
governance and arrears have been resolved. The Bank is processing a number of grants that will allow it to
capitalize on the achievements of the First Health Project despite the current IDA disengagement. A first
grant of US$50,000 from the Japanese government has been approved. This grant will serve to assist the
preparation of the National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan, which will provide the framework for all future
donor operations in HIV/AIDS in Haiti. A second grant of US$250,000 from the World Bank's
Post-Conflict Fund also has been approved. This grant will assist the efforts of several agencies to contain
the recent polio outbreak in Haiti. A third grant request (for an approximate amount of US$1 million) in
support of HIV/AIDS prevention and related activities that will be implemented by NGOs will be submitted
shortly to the Post-Conflict Fund. In addition to these grants, the Bank has sought to maximize the benefits
of the First Health Project by seeking alternative sources of financing to maintain the key activities. In
collaboration with WHO, the Bank has thus successfully negotiated relay financing from other donor
agencies to maintain support to the National Tuberculosis Program . The U.S. Agency for International
Development and the Canadian Government have developed projects to support the Tuberculosis Program
beginning this year. All fundamental functions of the Program that were formerly financed from the First
Health Project, including drug supply, will be maintained and/or further developed. It is expected that the
Tuberculosis Program will continue to expand its tuberculosis case detection and its improvements in cure
rates.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
- 10-



Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. After more than 11 years, in the light of sweeping changes in Haiti's political landscape, it is
extremely difficult to judge the Bank's lending performance in health. It met the minimum criteria of
identifying priority issues for the sector. However, the Bank overestimated institutional capacity for
financial management and procurement. In addition, in retrospect it is clear that the political risks were far
greater than had been anticipated during project design.
7.2 Supervision:
Unsatisfactor. Projects in high-risk countries such as Haiti require intense supervision, yet unrest or
political upheavals frequently prevent timely supervision missions and/or field visits. As shown in Annex
4, there were several significant gaps in supervision due to security concems; those supervision missions
that did occur often were restricted to Port-au-Prince. Thus, judging supervision performance against a
"gold standard" for timeliness is difficult, but it is clear that the Bank supervision teams made every effort
to conduct missions as regularly as possible..
Supervision missions adequately reported on project implementation progress, made impressive efforts to
mobilize technical collaboration from other agencies (WHO, UNAIDS and PAHO), and quickly pointed
out design flaws and implementation problems. On occasion, follow-up on recommendations was weak,
due in part to frequent changes in ministerial leadership, as well as the lack of integration of the PMU into
the Ministry. In addition, there were several changes in project task managers (six), sector managers,
resident representatives and country directors-as well as the Bank's project management structure and
processes-over the life of the project.
Despite the supervision teams' satisfactory performance in the face of very difficult country conditions,
questions can be raised about the wisdom of the decisions taken by the Bank regarding the orientation and
extension of the project. Specifically, several observers question whether the decision to focus project
resources on public health activities, and to minimize attention to institutional reforms, was a correct one.
If it was clear that the political will for institutional change was absent, then even the most pro-poor and
urgently needed public health activities-such as those supported by the project in its later phases-could
not be expected to be sustained. In addition, given that Bank management was aware of the lack of
Borrower commitment and the low probability of sustainability, it is reasonable to ask whether an
extension to the closing date should have been granted.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Unsatisfactory. The Bank made a concerted effort to design and supervise the project well, in the face of
severe limitations. However, the Bank demonstrated questionable judgment the change in orientation of the
project and the extension of the closing date.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. Documents indicate a relatively high degree of Borrower involvement during the design
phase.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Unsatisfactorv. Throughout the project, political turbulence, lack of continuity among key personnel
within the Ministry, uneven commitment to project aims, and isolation of the PMU from the Ministry's line
operations contributed to the operation's poor performance.
7.6 Implementing Agency:



Hi0hlv Satisfacton. The PMU possessed strong management capabilities, had a strong commitment to
the aims of the project, and was responsive to Bank rules and regulations. Within the Haitian context, the
PMU stood out as a remarkably effective management team. While compliance with substantive covenants
was poor-and, in fact, many of the key covenants related to institutional strengthening were dropped as
the project was revised-compliance with most routine administrative covenants was adequate.
7.7 Overall Borrowerperformnance:
Unsatisfactory. Many positive aspects of the implementing agency's performance were dwarfed by the
overwhelming constraints associated with the political and economic upheaval affecting Haiti during the
1990s.
Table 1: Histry of Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement      Covenant     Present      Original       Revised      Description of Covenant        Comments
ISection       Type         Status       FuMilment      FuMfilmlent
Date           Date
2.03        5            After Delay   06/30196       03131101     Closing Date                    Requested for Haig's
Compiled with                                                             Pubic Health needs
2.06        2            Partially      01115191      To be        Commitment and Services Charges  Lack of payment and
Complied wfith               doterminded                                  arriers occasioned
during projecrs
implementation
3.01 (b)    5           After Delay    09120/2000     06/08/2001   Project Management Unit Completion Delay due to data
Complied with                             Report                          colebtion within the
PMU
3.01(c) (i)  10          Complied with  08/02/1990                 CoordInating unit
3.01 (e)    3           Complied with  6/20/1990                  Maitbin an account in Gourdes and
make adequate deposits In the Project
Account, so as to maintain an
average quaterly balance not less than
the equivalent of $250,000 or such
other balance as agreed upon
between the Borrower and the
Association
3.03 (a)   12           After Delay    04/30/1991    12/31/1997   Undertake a study for purposes of  Due to the 1991
Complied with                             Pert A.2 of the Project and ensure that suspension of all IDA!s
such study is completed in a timely  activities in Hait
fashion
3.03 (b)   12           Not Complied   09/30/1991    01/31/1999   Put into effect recommendations of  Due to 1991 suspenslon
with                                      the above study as agreed upon with  of all IDA's activities In
the Association                 Haiti, and subsequente
change in project focus
3.04        11           Partially     06/1/1991      07/18/1997   SubmHttotho Associaton the public  Dueto the 1991
Complied with                             sector health budget and the plan of  suspension of all IDA's
Project expendiures for the following  actities in Hait
.   year
4.01 (a)    01           Complied with  09/01/1991                 The Borower shal have the Records
and Accounts Onduding Special
Accounts) for each fiscal year audited
by hidependent auditors acceptable to
the Assodation
4.01 (b) ('')  01        Complied wIth  03101/1991                 The Borrower shall fumish to the
Assodation no later than 6 months
after the end of each fiscal year, a
certfled copy of the audit by said
auditors
6.02         5           After Delay   06/20/1990     08/02/1990   Effective Date                 Due to delays In
Complied with                                                             establishing Special
Account and because of
change of authorities
due to charnge of
Governmenit
-12 -



Covenant Type: 1: Accounts/audft; 2: Financial perfbrmance/generate revenue from benefidaries; 3: Flow and utilization of Project Funds;
4:Conterpart Funding; 5: Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency; 6: Environmental covenants; 7: Involuntary
resettiement; 8: Indigenous people; 9: Montiing, review and reportng; 10: Implementation; 11: Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or
other resource allocation; 12: Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatorymsutional action; 13: Other
8. Lessons Learned
8.1    Under the right conditions. public-private partnerships can help to mitigate institutional constraints.
The TB program owes much of its singular success to the structured partnership between the public sector
and committed non-governmental organizations, which were contracted to carry out well specified tasks.
Through partnership with the NGO sector, the program was able to engender rapid change and scale-up to
a more effective model of TB prevention and control. Key elements of this success were (a) the
development of contracts with outputs that could be monitored well, and verified; (b) recognition and
reinforcement of the role of the Ministry of Health in managing national programs; and (c) continuity and
stability of funding for NGO activities.
8.2     Supply-driven public sector projects cannot overcome systemic constraints.  Time and again,
investments made under this project failed to yield the expected benefits because of the limited management
and financing capacity of the public sector. Specifically, the physical improvements in the primary health
facilities were never matched by additional or better trained personnel, and thus the ultimate benefits on
health conditions had little chance of being realized. In retrospect, it might have made more sense to
promote demand-side financing, which would permit use of health care providers outside of the public
system.
8.3    Basic implementation capacity is essential. Throughout its implementation, the project suffered
from the lack of fundamental management skills within the public sector. Baseline data were not collected;
targets often were not set, or not set appropriately; activities were not programmed in a consistent manner,
and sound monitoring systems were not established. Development and maintenance of these skills, which
requires time, financial resources and institutional commitment, is a basic prerequisite to successful
lending.
8.4     Governance of acceptable quality and basic implementation capacitv are essential for the success
of a Bank oNeration. Throughout its implementation, the project suffered from the lack of fundamental
management skills and rules of accountability within the public sector. Baseline data were not collected;
targets often were not set, or not set appropriately; activities were not programmed in a consistent manner;
and sound monitoring systems were not established. Prerequisites for future lending should include: (a) at
least a minimally acceptable quality of governance; and (b) a commitment to developing and maintaining
project implementation skills.
8.5     Small, simple and well-defined operations will work better than more wide-ranging proiects. Given
Haiti's well known human resource constraints, the persistent budgetary shortages, and the political and
other risks, future lending should focus on well-defined operations, perhaps of a pilot nature.
8.6     Changes in the nature of public sector employment may only be realized on a govemment-wide
basis, rather than within one sector. In Haiti, as in most other countries, the "rules of the game" under
which health workers are employed are set by government-wide civil service laws and regulations, and
cannot be modified only within the sector. Making changes in the size, distribution and/or remuneration of
public sector workers requires the participation and commitment of a wide range of actors outside of the
- 13 -



health sector, and may not be best addressed through health sector operations.
8.7    Supply-driven public sector projects cannot overcome systemic constraints.  Several times,
investments made under this project failed to yield the expected benefits because of the limited management
and financing capacity of the public sector. Specifically, the physical improvements in the primary health
facilities were never matched by additional or better trained personnel, and thus the ultimate benefits on
health conditions had little chance of being realized. In retrospect, it might have made more sense to
promote demand-side financing, which would permit use of health care providers outside of the public
system.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower was given the opportunity to comment on two versions of this report. With respect to the
first version, the Borrower stated that the Government agreed with the substance of the report. The second
version differed from the first only in the overall ratings of Bank and Borrower performance -- downgraded
from "Satisfactory" to "Unsatisfactory." The Borrower provided no additional comments on that version,
after a four-month comment period.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
World Bank consultation with the non-governmental organizations that worked in partnership with the
government under this project to itnplement TB and HIV/AIDS prevention and control programs yielded the
following insights:
(a)    Shortcomings in the capacity of NGOs cannot be faulted for relative lack of success in
implementing HIV/AIDS prevention programs, because the same NGOs implemented TB program
successfully.
(b)    NGO success in TB prevention and control (compared to HIV/AIDS) can be traced to (i) strong
leadership in the national TB program; (ii) better contract specification and ability to monitor results. A
key element of success in the TB programs was the relative ease of monitoring performance and identifying
specific output measures.
(c)    NGOs became frustrated because payments took a long time to materialize, and often arrived after
activities were completed, reports remitted and all expenditures justified. NGOs would have preferred a
pure output/performance-based contract, rather than the existing arrangement of a contract that included
both output-based elements and a requirements that all expenditures be justified.
(d)    For planning purposes, NGOs prefer that the term of the contract be at least one-year, on a
renewable basis.
(e)    Some NGOs reported that the contracts with the project tended to be too small; others that they do
not have (and do not have the means to hire) the human resources to implement the activities for which they
were contracted.
- 14 -



(f)    NGOs are strongly interested in future partnerships, particularly if the suggestions for
improvements in the terms of the contract are taken into consideration.
10. Additional Information
N/A
- 15 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome/lmpact Indicators
Infant Mortality: Decrease of 15% of the current rate (11 19/1,000) by the end of  N/A     70/1,000
the third year of the project, and of 35% of the current rate by the end of the
sixth year of the project to achieve a rate of at most 78/1,000 in the project area
Child Mortality: Decrease of 15% of the current rate (22/1,000) by the end of the  N/A     118/1,000
third year of the project and of 40% of the current rate by the end of the sixth year
of the project to achieve a rate of 1411,000 in the project area
Matemal Mortality: Decrease of 15% of the current rate (367/100,000) by the  N/A         523/100,000
end of the third year of the project and of 40% by the end of the sixth year to
achieve a rate of at most 220/100,000 in the project area
Output Indicators
IndicatorlMatrix                                                  P   it  d In hst      ActuaULatest
t ''4SR                Esfdht
From Staff Appraisal Report
Number of pregnant women to be seen at least three times per year by    N/A                 N/A
trained personnel
Number of pregnant women to be immunized against TB                     N/A                 N/A
Number of all recorded births to be attended by nurse midwife or physician  N/A             N/A
Number of sterilizations performed on (a) men and (b) women             N/A                 N/A
Number of women in reproductive age immunized against tetanus           N/A                 N/A
Number of families with children to receive informaton about oral rehydration  N/A          N/A
Number of preschool children to be complete vaccinated                  N/A                 N/A
Number of preschool children to be surveyed for nutritonal status (weight/age)  N/A         N/A
Number of preschool children identified to be at risk of xerophthalmia to receive  N/A      N/A
vitamin A
Number of persons (a) screened; and (b) treated for TB                  N/A                 N/A
Number of persons (a) screened; and (b) treated for malaria             N/A                 N/A
Number of blood donors screened for HIV infection                       N/A                 N/A
Number of persons at risk to be screened for HIV infection              N/A                 N/A
Number of latrines built                                                N/A             Approx. 8,250
Number of water sources sanitized                                       N/A                 N/A
From other sources (aide-memoires, PSRs)
Availability of essental drugs                                                         Greater than 60%
nationally
Health facilities constructed or rehabilitated                                               5
Health facilities equipped                                                                   38
Staff trained in medical and administrative topics                                          800
Smear-positve TB cases detected                                                            6,828
Proportion of detected cases treated under DOTS                                            63-79%
Note: The lack of information about process indicators reflects incomplete monitoring systems
- 16 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Project Cost by            Appraisal Estimate (US$   Actual/Latest Estimate  Percentage of Appraisal
Component                         million)               (US$ million)
Institutional Development           3.6                       1                       28%
Service Delivery                    17.6                      17                       97%
Epidemic Control                    7.5                       10                      133%
Total Baseline Cost                 28.7                      37                      129%
Physical Contingencies              1.1
Price Contingencies                 3.9
Total Project Costs                 33.7                      37
Total Financing Required           28.2                      26.3                      93%
Note: CIDA was to provide US$2.4 million. The Govemment of Haiti was to provide US$3.1 million.
Note: Due to the change in the US$1SDR exchange rate, the total disbursed amount in US$ exceeds the commitment amount
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                               Procunement Method                  Total Cost
iICBlS       NCB          Other        NBF
Works                                  0.0          3.5          0.0          0.0          3.5
(0.0)       (3.5)        (0.0)         (0.0)       (3.5)
Equipment, Fumiture, Medical Supplies,  10.3       0.6           0.1          0.0         11.0
Drukqs                                (10.3)      (0.6)         (0.1)        (0.0)        (11.0)
Vehicles, Motorcycles                  3.5          0.0          0.0          0.0          3.5
(3.5)       (0.0)        (0.0)         (0.0)       (3.5)
Technical Assistance                   0.0          0.0          1.9          0.0          1.9
(0.0)       (0.0)        (1.9)         (0.0)       (1.9)
Training                               0.0          0.0          4.3          0.0          4.3
(0.0)       (0.0)        (1.9)         (0.0)       (1.9)
Salaries and Operational Costs (including  0.0     0.0           4.5          4.1          8.6
PMU)                                   (0.0)       (0.0)        (4.5)        (1.0)        (4.5)
PPF refinancing                        0.0         0.0           0.0          0.9          0.9
(0.0)       (0.0)        (0.0)         (0.9)       (0.0)
Total                                  13.8        4.1          10.8          5.0         33.7
(13.8)      (4.1)         (8.4)        (1.9)       (28.2)
Project Costs Financed by IDA (Appraisal Compared to Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million
equivalent)
Expenditure Category                         Appraisal          Disbursed       Disbursed/Appraisal
(US$ million)      (USS million)         Estimate
Works                                           3.5                5.7                 162.9
Equipment, Furniture, Medical Supplies, Drugs   11.0               10.0                90.9
Vehicles, Motorcycles                           3.5                1.1                 31.4
Technical Assistance                            1.9                2.7                 142.1
Training                                        1.9                1.9                 100.0
Salaries and Operational Costs (including PMU)  5.5                4.1                 74.5
PPF refinancing                                 0.9                0.8
Total                                          28.2               26.3                 93.3
- 17-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
-18 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year     Count          Specialty                      Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
June 1987                 N/A    N/A
November 1987             N/A    N/A
Appraisal/Negotiation
June 89                      6   Health Specialists, Family
Planning Specialist,
Operation Assistant,
Procurement Specialist,
Consultants
November 1989                3   Health Specialist, Lawyer
Supervision
May 1990                     2   Health Specialist, Financial       S
Analyst
June 1990                    4   Health Specialist, Financial       S            HS
1   Analyst
November 1990                2   Financial Analyst, Project         S            HS
Assistant
March 1991                   2   Financial Analyst, Health          S            HS
Specialist
October 1993                 2   Operations Assistant, Division     S
Chief
S
S
January 1995                 3   Economists, PAHO                   S
Representative
June 1995                    3   Economist, Consultants             S             S
August 1995                  4   Portfolio Analyst, Operation       S             S
Analyst, Public Health Specialist,
Consultant
October 1995                 5   Public Health Specialists,         S             S
Economist, Procurement Analists
March 1996                   2   Public Health Specialist, Public   S             U
Health Consultant
July 1996                    3   Health Specialist, Lead Health     S             U
Specialist, Public Health
Consultant
Fevrier 1997                 1   Health Specialist                  S             U
April 1997                   3   Project Coordinator,               S
Procurement Coordinator
Administrative Assistante
February 1998                3   Two Health Specialists, Project    S             S
Advisor
June 1998                    6   Two Health Specialist,                           S
- 19 -



Nutritionist, Project Advisor,
Project Assistant, USAID
Specialist
October 1998                 5  Project Adivisor, Health                        S
Specialist, Pharmaceutical
Specialist, Sector Leader, World
Bank Resident Mission
Representative,
10/2000                     6   Economist, Health Specialists,
Resident Mission Representative,
Procurement Specialist,
ONUSIDA Advisors
ICR
April 2001                  4    Economist, Health
Specialists, Operation
Analyst
June 2001                   4    Econornist, Operation Analyst,
Health Specialist, ONUSIDA
Specialist
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation             115.5                  523,000.00
Appraisal/Negotiation                   56.3                  115,900.00
Supervision                           114.76                  869,698.27
ICR                                    13.12                   38,689.20
Total                                 299.68                1,508,598.27
- 20-



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
D Macro policies                       O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
D Sector Policies                      OH   OSUOM      ON   O NA
DG Physical                            O H OSUOM       O N  O NA
O Financial                            O H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
I Institutional Development            O H  O SUO M    O N  0 NA
a Environmental                        O H OSUOM       O N  * NA
Social
a Poverty Reduction              O H  OSUOM      * N  O NA
El Gender                        O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
El Other (Please specify)        O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
El Private sector development          0 H  O SU 0 M   0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management             0 H  O SU O M   0 N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)              OH   OSUOM      ON   * NA
- 21 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
OI Lending                                         OHS*S        OfU   OHU
El Supervision                                     OHS   OS     *U    OHU
D] Overall                                         OHS OS * U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
M Preparation                                      OHS OS       OU   0 HU
O Government implementation performance            O HS OS      O U   0 HU
Ol Implementation agency performance               OHS OS       O U   0 HU
O Overall                                          OHS OS O5*U 0 HU
- 22 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Staff Appraisal report: Haiti First Health Project (November 28, 1989)
Development Credit Agreement (February 2, 1990)
Rapport de Cl6ture-Premier Projet Sante, MSPP/IDA (MSPP, June 2001)
Reflexions: Premier Projet de Sante (Daniel Henrys, June 2001)
Aide-Memoire (1989-2001)
Project Status Reports (1989-2001)
Amendments to the Credit Agreement
Citation: 'Evaluation du Projet MSPP/IDA,' vol. 1 & 2. Institut Haltien de l'Enfance. December 1999
- 23 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Report
Rapport de C18ture-Premier Projet Sante
MSPP/IDA
I.     Introduction
Le pr6sent rapport contient une analyse finale du Premier Projet de Sante MSPP/IDA. II r6pond a
l'obligation de pr6senter un rapport de cl6ture de projet devant servir a 6valuer les ecarts eventuels entre
les resultats escomptes et ceux qui ont ete obtenus par cet effort conjoint du Gouvernement HaYtien (GH) et
des bailleurs de fonds, dont principalement la Banque Mondiale (BM).
L'analyse couvre -d'une part-les modalit6s et strategies d'ex6cution du projet, en mettant en perspective les
difficultes rencontr6es vers I'accomplissement de son objectif principal et de ses objectifs specifiques. A ce
titre, les hypotheses de base portant sur les contextes politique, et socio-6conomique peuvent revetir une
importance toute particuliere par rapport A certains objectifs initiaux du projet.  D'autre part, une
6valuation des ressources humaines, et financieres disponibles au projet par rapport aux resultats obtenus,
permettra d'appr6cier l'efficacite des depenses consenties.
Le rapport est ainsi structure. La section II trace un bref historique du projet, et s'inspire d'un c6te des
documents d'elaboration du projet, et de l'autre c6te des diff6rents rapports et aide-memoire, de meme que
des documents d'amendement du projet. La section III se penche sur l'6valuation du projet le placant dans
sa perspective historique. A la lumiere des aspects saillants qui se d6gagent de la section precedente, la
section IV offre une appreciation generale du projet, de meme que des appreciations particulieres portant
sur les diverses composantes du projet Celles-ci utilisent les indicateurs de performance retenus lors de
l'6laboration du projet tout en tenant compte des objectifs r6vises. C'est aussi dans cette quatrieme section
que le rapport aborde de facon synthetique le theme des facteurs cles ayant influenc6s le deroulement et les
resultats du projet. Ceci se fait obligatoirement A partir d'une convergence d'informations, incluant
l'analyse des objectifs et moyens du projet. Une demiere et cinquieme section comprend des
recommandations susceptibles de ben6ficier A I'6laboration d'autres projets dans le secteur.
I.     Analyse Rtbrospective
En prelude de I'evaluation A suivre, cette sous-section tente de retracer l'historique du projet a la lueur des
risques emanant du contexte difficile de sa mise en couvre, et les changements d'objectifs et d'orientation
que de tels d6veloppements ont pu occasionner.
L'instabilite politique comptait parmi un des risques majeurs identifi6s dans le SAR. Les repercussions de
cette instabilit6 sur le projet devaient provenir des remaniements minist6riels eventuels, puisque de
nouveaux responsables prendraient du temps A assimiler, et a s'engager dans la voie des profondes
r6formes propos6es par le projet.
Le projet a en effet subi plusieurs secousses politiques depuis son articulation initiale. Son lancement a eu
lieu sous le Gouvemement Pascal-Trouillot en juillet 1990. Est venu en fevrier 1991, un nouveau
gouvernement, celui de Jean-Bertrand Aristide, puis est survenu le coup d'etat de septembre 1991. Le
projet devait red6marrer en mars 1995 a la faveur du retour de Jean-Bertrand Aristide, et 11 mois avant
l'installation d'un nouveau president, Ren6 Garcia Pr6val.
- 24 -



Chacun de ces d6veloppements politiques impliquait un nouveau gouvemement avec de nouvelles urgences
et de nouvelles priorites, un nouveau cabinet ministeriel, et donc un nouveau Ministre de la sante, un
nouveau Directeur General, et potentiellement un remue-menage au niveau meme des cadres impliques
directement dans le projet. Durant la periode d'ex6cution effective du projet, le MSPP a connu jusqu'a six
ministres, et autant de Directeurs Generaux. II est opportun de signaler ici que Bijou (avril, 1993) a
rapporte que la ostandardisation et le red6ploiement du personnel debutes A la fin de 1989.. .ont e
discontinues au depart du Ministre Pintro ... des techniciens transfer6s a des postes importants sont
automatiquement retournes a leurs anciens postes )). De plus, quelques six annees plus tard l'IHE
(decembre, 1999) a pu compter (< Les changements frequents des directeurs departementaux>> parmi les
contraintes importantes ayant peses lourdement sur l'execution du projet.
L'Unite de Gestion du Projet (UGP) etabli en 1990 constituait, 1'element de stabilit6 essentiel pour la
continuation du projet. Cette demiere a survecu jusqu'en 1992, bien apres la suspension du financement de
l'IDA en 1991, et a joue un role d6terminant dans la coordination des activit6s durant la p6riode de crise. II
importe de souligner ici que la stabilit6 de l'UGP est imputable aux procedures (organisation, gestion, et
supervision) 6tablies au sein de l'institution, aux liens etroits entre cette entite et la BM, et a la clart6 de
ses attributions. Un fait important demeure cependant, l'UGP n'est Das un oreane d'ex6cution. Son r6le
qui se limitait A la gestion des fonds du projet, et a l'6mission d'avis techniques ne pouvait lui permettre de
proteger le projet completement contre les troubles sociaux et politiques, et les derapages adniinistratifs,
proceduriers ou autres du Ministere charge de l'ex6cution du projet. Ce point est important puisque le
SAR cite la creation de l'UGP comme un facteur d'attenuation des risques identifies.
Les nombreux remous politiques n'ont pas et6 vides de consequences economiques. Lors de l'elaboration
initiale du projet, le taux de change etait fix6 a cinq gourdes pour un dollar am6ricain. Deja en 1991, la
Banque de la Republique d'Haiti (BRH) passait officiellement du regime de taux de change fixe
(5gourdes/dollar americain) A un r6gime de taux de change flottant, et du meme coup la gourde s'echangeait
A 7,5 gourdes/dollar americain, soit une decote de 50% par rapport a l'hypothese de depart.
En 1995, au red6marrage du projet, la gourde s'echangeait A plus de quinze gourdes pour un dollar. Par
consequent, la contribution financiere du GH au projet, evaluee A quelques trois millions de dollars en 1990
ou 15 millions de gourdes, devait passer du fait de la d6preciation de la monnaie nationale a plus de 45
millions de gourdes. De plus, des taux d'inflation se situant au-dessus de la barre de 20% causerent un
des6quilibre important entre le budget pr6visionnel et les cofts de realisation des projets. Dans l'enveloppe
budg6taire initiale, les contingentements ne s'elevaient qu'a 11,5% du budget previsionnel, soit US $3,9
millions d'un montant total de 33,7 millions de dollars americains, et 300/o des depenses totales du projet
devaient etre executees localement.
Ces changements economiques importants En 1995, le Produit Int6rieur Brut ne constituait, en termes
reels, pas plus de 81% du niveau estim6 en 1991, I'anne de suspension de l'apport financier de l'IDA au
projet. De plus, le taux de croissance annuelle de la population estim6e a 2.08% pour les ann6es 90 etait de
30% superieur a celui de 1.6% retenu dans le SAR de 1989. Ces changements demographiques et
6conomiques importants ont probablement occasionn6 des mouvements migratoires tout aussi importants
avec des consequences immediates sur la population ciblee par le projet, et une difficulte accrue quant A
l'analyse de son impact. , qui auraient pu constituer une base de remise en question et de renegociation du
projet, ont occasionn6 plusieurs amendements A ce demier lors du redemarrage en mars 1995. Certains
amendements apport6s au projet initial sont reproduits ci-dessous. Ces amendements font suite aux
missions effectuees par la BM en Haiti aux lendemains de la resolution de la crise politique, et apres
consultation avec les autorites ha7tiennes, et les responsables de la Sante. Le chemin des amendements a
- 25 -



e pr6fere a celui de la remise en question formelle, et de la ren6gociation d'un autre accord.
Amendements : objectlfs r6vises
Un amendement dat6 septembre, 1995 pr6voyait la reduction des centres de sante a construire ou a
r6habiliter. En effet, une des provisions de cet amendement stipulait l'annulation de I'annexe 2 de I'accord
de credit. Cette annexe contenait la liste exhaustive des centres a construirm ou a rehabiliter.
Le plus important amendement apporte au projet est survenu en decembre 1998. Ce demier renvoyait sa
date de cloture au mois de decembre 1999, et en modifiait 1'envergure de facon substantielle.  Le
renforcement institutionnel ne se resumait plus qu'a deux initiatives: 1) Recouvrement des cofits de
prestations de soins de sant ; 2) Appui technique au Ministere en ce qui a trait a la conceptualisation des
strat6gies de prestations de soins de sant6, des standards de distributions de medicaments essentiels, et
l'6tablissement de normes et standards pour les soins d'urgence, et le contrOle de la Tuberculose, du SIDA,
et des maladies sexuellement transmises. Dans le volet Prestation des Soins de Sante les Medicaments
Essentiels reapparaissaient, et le programme devait d6sormais s'6tendre a l'6chelle nationale. De plus, le
programme de construction des centres de sant6 ne couvrait plus que 10 au lieu des 29 initialement prevus,
soit une reduction de pres de 2/3 de I'effort. Les composantes structurelles du volet Contr6le et Pr6vention
des Epidemies 6taient 6limin6es. II n'6tait plus question de restructuration du MSPP ou d'Unit6s
Communales de Sante. De plus, l'implication des ONGs initialement pr6vue dans les seuls domaines de la
Tuberculose et du SIDA 6taient d6sonnais admise pour le volet < Prestation des Soins de Sante>>. Autant
dire que, par rapport aux objectifs initiaux, le projet s'est trouv6 du fait de ces changements importants,
completement denature, et on pourrait m&ne aller jusqu'a penser que cet amendement constitue un constat
d'6chec de la formulation du projet initial. Au moins cette mesure confrinnait la n6cessit6 ressentie par la
BM d'adapter les objectifs du projet aux r6sultats juges atteignables, ou deja atteints. Cependant, on ne
peut ecarter lhypothese que cet amendement reflete une tentative de mesures correctives par rapport aux
defaillances conceptuelles not6es plus haut dans l'elaboration du projet. II faut remarquer que ces
changements apport6s au projet sont encore compatibles avec la matrice de l'annexe 3.
Toujours est-il que des contraintes 6manant de l'environnement politique instable pesaient encore
lourdement sur le projet: La d6mission du Premier Ministre Rosny Smarth en juin 1997 entrainerait celle de
plusieurs membres de son cabinet, et cet ev6nement a et6 suivi d'une longue p6riode de crise tant au niveau
du Parlement qu'a celui de PEx6cutif. Plus particulierement, l'interimat du Ministere de la Sant6 serait
pendant longtemps assur6 par le Ministre de l'Interieur.
HI. Evaluation de la Performance, et Impact du Projet
L'historique dresse ci-dessus permet de distinguer trois grands moments du projet. Le premier s'etend de
juillet 1990 a septembre 1991, le second debute en mars 1995 pour finir en decembre 1998. Finalement, le
dernier couvre l'intervalle janvier 1999-mars 2001. La structure g6nerale du projet reste inchang6e durant
les deux premiers moments, alors que des changements radicaux au niveau de tous les objectifs marquent la
demiere. L'evaluation de l'impact et de la performance suit ces trois moments.
111.1 Les r6sultats interm6dialres : Juilet 1990-Septembre 1991
A ce stade (seulement un peu plus d'an d'execution) du d6roulement du projet, il serait pr6mature de baser
l'6valuation sur l'objectif principal ou meme les objectifs specifiques. Par contre, il sied de tenir compte
des r6sultats escomptes, et des activites prevues selon l'6ch6ancier retenu dans l'Accord de Cr6dit, et le
-26-



SAR. Le rapport de la Directrice de l'UGP de l'epoque, le Docteur Josette Bijou, renseigne valablement
sur les realisations de cette periode.
111.1.1 Resultats Escomptes
Au niveau des resultats escomptes, un derapage majeur touchant l'augmentation de la ponderation de la
masse salariale dans les depenses totales du MSPP (hausse a 95.5/5.5 du ratio salaires/depenses de
fonctionnement au lieu de la reduction a 84.5/15.5) devait aboutir a une suspension du financement de
1'IDA, en novembre 1990, seulement trois mois apres le lancement du projet. La suspension ne devait etre
levee qu'en decembre 1990, apres certaines assurances de la part du GH.
II est bon ici de rappeler que dans la structure d'un (< cadre logique >>, les resultats escomptes constituent
une assise ou un intrant pour les objectifs specifiques qui a leurs tours determinent l'accomplissement de
l'objectif principal. La restructuration du MSPP, rappelons-le ici, representait un resultat escompte d'une
grande importance. Ici le projet se heurte de plein fouet aux problemes conceptuels: l'insistance de la BM
sur un intrant qui n'etait pas necessairement determinant pour l'objectif principal, et les objectifs
sp6cifiques.
Par contre, bien que quelques delais aient ete enregistres et quelques ajustements encore necessaires, des
progres avaient et realis6s en ce qui a trait a d'autres aspects.
Plusieurs cadres, et techniciens avaient requ une formation en gestion, et d'autres avaient beneficie d'une
formation sur le contr6le des infections. Par ailleurs, les outils de gestion, et le processus de diagnostic
vers la mise en place des AP avait ete acheve, et le regime de traitement courte-duree contre la tuberculose
avait ete introduit. L'etude pour la mise en oeuvre du processus de rationalisation des cofits allait aussi bon
train.
111.1.2 Activites
Le projet avait, a ce stade, finalise le processus d'appel d'offres pour 47 vehicules, et des contrats avaient
ete signes pour la rehabilitation de trois centres de sante, et la construction de trois autres. De plus, des
dossiers d'etude etaient bien avances pour sept autres centres. II faut encore mentionner que dans le cadre
des volets Tuberculose et SIDA, plusieurs centres de traitement avaient ete approvisionnes en medicaments,
que les processus de procuration du mat6riel de laboratoire et d'acquisition de vehicules etaient tres
avances.
L'analyse des d6penses consenties (voir annexe 4) montre que -hormis salaires et cofits operationnels- les
deux plus fortes ponderations (exprim&es en pourcentage du budget previsionnel correspondant par poste)
sont imputables a l'assistance technique, et a la formation: 13,31%, 10,72%, respectivement. A ce stade,
seulement 8,24% du budget global avait ete depense.
111.1.3 Synthese: Objectif principal et objectifs specifiques
En resume, ce premier moment du projet se distingue surtout par la preponderance des activites de
formation, de realisations d'etudes, et de mise en place des structures prealables aux prochaines etapes.
Avant meme le coup d'etat de septembre 1991, un evenement significatif devait remettre tous ces acquis en
question. ll s'agit de la reforme administrative du MSPP introduite en juillet 1991 et qui aboutit a la
fermeture des structures administratives du Ministere. Cette demiere crea des mouvements de personnel,
- 27 -



nefastes au projet, et des cadres importants pour le suivi, la gestion, et la planification etaient depIaces. Cet
&venement, A l'avant veille de celui de septembre 1991, jetait le doute sur l'engagement r6el de l'Etat dans
la voie du type de reformes (administration centrale) pr6nees par le projet. Jusqu'ici donc, le projet etait
encore loin (volet Tuberculose mis a part) des objectifs specifiques, et de l'objectif principal.
I1 est opportun de repeter ici que les r6sultats touchant les allocations budg6taires du MSPP semblaient deja
hors des capacites du projet. Le derapage enregistr6 plus haut le demontre d'ailleurs. Cette initiative ne
pourrait etre menee a bon port-surtout dans un contexte d'urgence budgetaire, et d!instabilit6. La remise en
question formelle de la provision de l'Accord de Credit portant sur les allocations budgetaires du MSPP
viendra sous la forme d'une r6forme administrative generale administr6e par la cr6ation du Conseil National
pour la Reforme Administrative (CNRA). Cette entite etait chargee d'analyser, de valider, et d'harmoniser
tous les plans sectoriels de r6formes administratives.  Ce n'est quen aofit 1999 que la reforme
administrative de I'administration publique dans son entier fut lancee.
I1.2 Les resultats intermediaires : Mars 1995-Decembre 1998
A l'encontre de la periode precedente, cet intervalle (trois annees d'ex&eution) est suffisamment grand pour
meriter que l'evaluation prenne compte de l'objectif principal et les objectifs specifiques du projet.
Dans les circonstances difficiles dejA decrites, le projet devait donc redemarrer en mars 1995, et il fallait au
prealable dresser un etat des lieux. Cet etat des lieux devait rev6ler la necessite de rendre l'UGP
operationnel, d'activer la mise en place des UCS, la rehabilitation des infrastructures et l'acquisition
d'equipements, le besoin de dresser un inventaire des ressources humaines du projet et de relancer les
programmes de formation, et de financer l'obtention des m6dicaments essentiels.  En mars 1995, une
programmation sur tous ces points avait et6 faite couvrant 9 mois: avril-decembre 1995. HaYti est A ce
jour en pleine periode 6lectorale, un nouveau gouvemrnement sera install6 le 7 fevrier 1996.. .'histoire se
repete. A ce titre, il faut prendre note des commentaires d'une mission de la BM ayant sejourne A
Port-au-Prince entre les 11 et 15 mars, 1996: "les progris r6alises [depuis octobre, 1995] ont et plus
modestes que prevues. Ceci est dfi surtout [A ] la non-reconduction des contrats de I'6quipe de I'UGP et
aussi [A] la non-approbation par la nouvelle administration du MSPP des activit6s prevues, lies en partie A
la decision de restructurer le Ministere et de reevaluer les strategies."
HII.2.1 Activit6s
Si la periode pr6cedente avait et marquee par la pr6pond6rance du programme de formation et de
l'assistance technique, celle-ci s'etait revelee etre celle des travaux d'infrastructures et du capital physique
du projet (voir annexe 4). En effet, les acquisitions d'equipements medicaux et de m6dicaments essentiels,
et l'achevement des chantiers de construction et de r6habilitation des centres de sant6 absorbaient pres de
77%, et 63% des allocations budgetaires prevues pour ces postes, respectivement. II importe de souligner
aussi que 43% de l'enveloppe budgetaire pr6vue pour l'acquisition de v6hicules avait &6 consomme.
-28-



Par ailleurs, le taux de consommation du programme de formation avait A peine atteint 19%, mais celui de
Passistance technique s'6tait 6leve a 40% a peu pres, soit plus du double.
III.2.2 Resultats Escomptes
La restructuration du secteur sante se faisait encore attendre. En particulier, meme le concept des UCS
faisait encore l'objet de controverses, et des confusions quant A leurs modalites de fonctionnement
persistaient. Bien que des progres aient e  enregistres en ce qui a trait A l'aspect infrastructure physique et
logistique de la decentralisation (construction/r6habilitation et meilleur approvisionnement de centres), des
retards ou carences se faisaient encore sentir au niveau de la disponibilite des ressources humaines dans ces
derniers.
L'annexe 5 presente le budget execute par le MSPP entre 1997 et 1999. Une difference significative dans
la pond6ration des salaires dans le total des d6penses du Ministere n'apparait qu'en 1999, alors que cet
objectif ne devait plus etre poursuivi par le projet A partir de 1999. En 1999, la proportion des salaires
dans le total des depenses etait passe a 79%, un changement notoire par rapport aux 84%, et 85%
enregistres en 1997 et 1998, respectivement. II importe de souligner que cette reduction ne s'explique
nullement par une diminution de la masse salariale. Celle-ci est passee de 310,7 millions de gourdes en
1998 A 348,3 millions de gourdes en 1999, soit une augmentation de 12% en termes nominales et, vu le
taux d'inflation de 9,9%  entre septembre 1998 et septembre 1999, cette montee correspond A une
croissance reelle d'environ 2%.
L'annexe 6 montre l'evolution de la part relative des departements sanitaires de l'Ouest et du Sud-Est dans
le total des depenses du MSPP entre 1996 et 1999. II est evident, que l'evolution de l'execution du budget
dans ces departements ne reflete pas une allocation prioritaire des ressources financieres du MSPP. De
plus, l'annexe 6 fait ressortir que entre 1997, et 1998, les allocations salariales des departements n'ont pas
augmente de facon significative, refletant trbs probablement le non-redeploiement des ressources humaines
vers les centres concernes par le projet.
En ce qui a trait aux realisations de travaux d'infrastructure, le point suivant merite d'etre soulignee. Alors
que 77% des previsions budgetaires avaient et epuises, seulement 6 centres avaient et eriges ou
rehabilites au lieu des 28 initialement identifies, et quelques cinq mille latrines avaient et6 construites, un
effectif bien en decA des 10,000 envisages au debut. Cependant, plusieurs dep6ts peripheriques (10) avaient
et rehabilit6s, des salles communautaires avaient ete construites, et un total de 3.250 latrines-non prevues
par le projet- avaient ete erigees dans le Nord.
Bien que l'on pourrait classifier toutes ces realisations de trbs positives, la concentration des resultats
positifs dans deux secteurs du projet (Tuberculose, et Medicaments Essentiels) sans la decentralisation du
MSPP (non-implantation des UCS, non-redeploiement des ressources humaines), faisait encourir au projet
le risque de ne pas atteindre son objectif principal ou ses objectifs specifiques cles. Point n'est besoin d'etre
grand clerc pour se rendre compte qu'il existe une correspondance presque parfaite entre les realisations
enregistrees jusqu'a cette date, et l'amendement de decembre 1998.
- 29-



m.2.3 Objectif specifiques
Les aide-memoire et rapports prepares anterieurement montrent que les objectifs sp6cifiques les mieux
satisfaits se concentrent dans le volet "Medicaments Essentiels" et "Tuberculose". L'introduction de la
strategie de courte dur6e pour le traitement de la tuberculose etait effective, et avait remporte des succes tel
qu'en temoigne des taux de guerison augmentes. Encore en butte A des problemes de ruptures de stock, le
systeme d'approvisionnement des medicaments essentiels etait nettement amnliore, un fait dui en partie A
l'implantation des dep6ts peripheriques.
111.2.4 Synthese: Objectif principal
L'analyse d'impact se heurte a deux obstacles. Premierement, les statistiques permettant de discerner
rimpact du projet a partir des indicateurs de performance retenus lors de l'elaboration du projet ne sont pas
toujours disponibles pour les zones du projet. II semble opportun de souligner ici que la disponibilite d'une
base de donn6es avait ete envisagee dans le cadre du projet, mais que cette activit6 n'a pas ete menee A bon
port. Deuxiemement, il semble important de signaler dans ce contexte, que le passage du decoupage
administratif en regions, puis en departements, puis A la tentative 6chouee de l'implantation des UCS n'6tait
pas apte A conduire A des indicateurs de performance precis ou A des mecanismes de collecte d'information
adequats.
Toujours est-il que le consultant rejoint l'opinion de 1'IHE (decembre 1999) selon laquelle il n'est pas permis
de penser A une amelioration sensible de la situation sanitaire en Haiti. A ce commentaire, le consultant
ajoute qu'il n'est meme pas permis de cherir, dans un contexte institutionnel degrade et dans un
environnement de crise economique et de constantes remises en question, l'illusion de resultats durables
dans ce domaine, en conformite avec l'esprit du projet.
HII.4 Dernier moment: Janvier 1999-Mars 2001
En 1998, la date d'echeance du projet avait et reculee A decembre 1999. En 1999, cette echeance fut
encore repoussee A mars 2001.
L'annee 1999 marque un tournant important quand on admet l'hypothese d'une remise en question tacite de
certains objectifs cles du projet initial. Ainsi, il etait admis que la plupart des resultats substantiels A
obtenir A travers cette initiative etaient d6jA acquis. II s'agissait donc, autant que l'on puisse en juger, de
consolider les succes relatifs du projet: "Tuberculose" et "Medicaments Essentiels". Repetons-le ici, le
projet ne focalisait plus sur la restructuration du MSPP, et l'emphase sur les UCS avait ete abandonnee, et
la decentralisation se resumait a assurer que les quelques centres de sante, dans l'Ouest et le Sud-Est,
avaient le personnel et le materiel requis pour leurs bons fonctionnements. De plus, en 2000 le projet
apportait un appui financier au Programme Elargi de Vaccination (PEV), et de nouvelles initiatives etaient
prises dans le cadre de la Sante reproductive.
Puisque la portee du projet avait et6 reduite aux deux initiatives sus-mentionnees, le rapport MSPP-ONGs
(elargi des suites de l'amendement de 1998) venait A revetir un plus haut niveau d'importance. Cette
collaboration a constitue un appui logistique important accompagne d'un apport en ressources humaines
necessaires. II faut ajouter A cette liste la contribution des ONGs dans les activites IEC.
Parmi les realisations importantes de cette demiere etape du projet, on peut compter:
1)     Le renforcement des activites de depistage de la tuberculose,
- 30 -



2)     Le renforcement des activit6s de lutte contre le SIDA (disponibilit6 des tests) et les MST,
3)     L'appui (produits pharmaceutiques) a certains centres hospitaliers (Cap-haftien, Jacmel, Gonaives,
Hinche, Cite  Soleil) dans le domaine de la Sante Reproductive,
4)     L'amelioration sensible de la disponibilite des Medicaments Essentiels',
5)     L'appui A l'ecole des << Sages Femmes )>, et
6)     L'Appui au PEV.
IV. Evaluation
L'6valuation de la performance du projet pr6sentee ci-dessous offre d'abord une appreciation gen6rale des
modalites de son ex6cution et de l'envergure de son impact. De l'avis de consultant, cette d6marche permet
une mise en contexte appropriee des resultats specifiques observ6s. Une description analytique de ceux-ci
fait l'objet d'une deuxieme sous-section : appreciations particulieres.
IV.1 Appreciation Generale : facteurs cl6s, et vlabilWt du projet
L'instabilit6 socio-politique couplee du manque d'engagement soutenu et coherent du GH dans la voie de la
reforme du secteur explique en grande partie l'evolution du projet. L'objectif principal de ce dernier visait 1'
amelioration durable du statut de sant6 de la population. Pour ce faire, une strategie specifique avait ete
retenue dont lun des aspects cles aurait dui deboucher sur la d6centralisation effective, et le renforcement
tout aussi durable des institutions ayant pour mission, de reguler le secteur, et d'offrir des services de sant6.
La "durabilite" constitue un critere d'evaluation eleve, mais necessaire, puisque des notions tout aussi
importantes telles la continuit6, et la coherence dans le temps, aboutissant a reffet cumule des efforts la
sous-tendent. Un projet forme un tout, et il n'est pas possible (ou recommandable), pour les besoins d'une
evaluation conforrne, de s'en tenir A quelques resultats positifs, aussi importants qu!ils soient ou et quels
que soient leurs impacts ponctuels (voir annexe 7). Par cons6quent, dans la mesure o4 les circonstances
socio-politiques difficiles sus-mentionnees ne se sont pas soldees par une amelioration sensible des
capacit6s de gestion ou le redressement notoire des defaillances organisationnelles des structures du
Ministere, le consultant ne peut que constater le degre de succes tres limite, dans sa globalite, du Premier
Projet de Sante MSPP/IDA. Cette opinion se justifie au moins de deux manieres. Premierement, les
redressements organisationnels aptes A preserver/securiser les investissements consentis dans le cadre du
projet ne sont pas encore en place. Pour plus de specificite, des equipements (y compris vehicules) ont ete
acquis, des batiments ont ete construits, et il nexiste pas l'ebauche d'un plan d'entretien pour ce capital
physique precieux voire, des procedures ou provisions (voire disponibilites) budgetaires en visant le
maintien. En ce qui a trait au caital humain. la d6pravation des cadres occasionn6e par les nombreux
evenements politiques est encore a craindre. Le consultant ne possede aucune 6vidence de racceptation du
principe de l'implantation des UCS ou de quelque autre modele de deploiement des ressources humaines.
La viabilite du projet reposait sur la bonne comprehension de son objectif principal, et de ses objectifs
specifiques, mais aussi de la strategie d'ensemble. A ce titre, il est regrettable que des instruments de suivi
de projets, tel le cadre logique n'aient pas ete disponibles, d'une part, et qu'une ventilation peu judicieuse
des ses composantes ait ete faite au depart, d'autre part.
IV.2 Appr6ciations Particulikres
La methodologie retenue pour cette section s'assied d'une part sur l'execution du budget pour chacune des
composantes du projet, et sur les realisations observees d'autre part.
- 31 -



II faut noter des le debut que le budget pr6sent6 dans le SAR ne constitue pas un instrument d'analyse.
Plus specifiquement, les rubriques prisenties dams le budget pr&hlonnel se sont pas ventilees par
composante programmatrice (voir annexe 4). En l'absence d'une telle programmation, il est difficile de
juger (par volet) 1'ex6cution du budget par rapport aux anticipations scion le canevas de I'annexe 3. Plutot,
la totalite des postes budg6taires peuvent etre regroup6s sous la rubrique ( Renforcement Institutionnel >>,
ce qui ne permet qu'une appr6ciation limitee des differents aspects du progamme. Une analyse plus fine
ne devient possible qu'A partir de l'ann6e 2000 quand une p on  budg6taire detaill6e (voir Annexe
8) a e r6alisee couvrant l'intervalle janvier 2000 - mars 2001 pour chaque volet du projet.
IV.2.1 Genie Civil (satisfaisant)
Quelques 5,7 millions de dollars am6ricains auraient ete d6caiss6s au titre de cette rubrique. Ce montant
represente environ 92% 1'enveloppe budg6taire pr6vue, alors que seuement 50/e des travaux originellement
programmes ( voir annexe 9) ont 6t6 ex6cut6s. Toutefois, un menu assez consistant de chantiers ont et
entrepris. Ainsi, en ajoutant les travaux non ptevus (latrines dans le Nord, salles communautaires, et
depots p6ripheriques) on arrive a un taux d'achWvement de 82%. La note (satisfaisant) s'explique du fait
de la port6e des realisations observ6es (importance des d6p6ts p6riph6riques) en depit d'un cadre
macroeconomique degrade (inflation, d6pr6ciation de la gourde). De plus, I'6cart entre les previsions et les
realisations en ce qui a trait au nombre de centres construits et rehabilit6s s'explique par le changement
d'orientation du projet (plus de focalisation sur le modele UCS) not6 plus haut, un d6veloppement qui n'est
pas imputable a la mauvaise gestion ou l'incapacite d'ex6cution. En d'autre termes, 1'6quipe en charge des
activit6s de genie civil a su r6pondre aux demandes des d6cideurs quand celles-ci ont 6te formulees.
IV.2.2 Equipements & Mat6riels M6dicaux (son stsfaisant)
II existe une liste assez impressionnante de tnat6riels m6dicaux (voir annexe 10) achetes mais non
completement distribu6s. Cet etat de chose d6plorable s'explique par un manque de coordination d'une
part, et par une mauvaise evaluation des besoins des etablissements sanitares, d'autre part. En ce qui a
trait A certains mat6riels distribues, ils sont rest6s inutilises dans plusieurs cas soit parce qu'il n'y avait pas
de techniciens pour les installer, soit par manque d'espace dans les centres, soit par cause d'absence du
personnel qualifi6 pour les utiliser. De plus, un grand nombre de besoins en mat6riels et 6quipements ont
ete formul6s par diverses institutions sanitaires alors que du materiel reste entrepose: un gaspillage
inacceptable des ressources mises a disponibilit6 par le projet. Le matbriel et les 6quipements ont ete
achetes sur demande des responsables du MSPP.
Des 75 vehicules tout-terrain pr6vus, quarante-sept (47) ont et6 acquis et distribu6s. Ainsi, a peu pres 42%
du montant prevu ete depens6 pour l'acquisition de v6hicules. II a et6 rapport6 au Consultant que ces
vehicules n'ont pas toujours et6 utilis6s aux fins pour lesquels ils ont 6t6 achet6s (moyen logislique pour la
supervision, et les visites de terrain). De plus des disponibilit6s budg6taires ne se sont pas mat6rialis6es au
MSPP pour satisfaire aux besoins d'entretien ou de r6parations. II en a r6sult6 que l'UGP a du pourvoir A
bon nombre de requetes pour combler ces lacunes.
IV.23 M&iLcaments Essentiels (satisfaisant)
En bute A des problemes de rupture de stock au debut du projet, ce volet du programme a su r6soudre ces
problemes, et a contribu6 par l'entremise des ONG et, grace i l'implantation des depots p6ripheriques au
bon approvisionnement des institutions sanitaires.
- 32-



Le volet ME et l'acquisition d'6quipements et de materiels ont consomme pres de 91% de 1'enveloppe
previsionnelle, soit $9,97 millions des $10,96 millions pr6vus.
IV.2.4 Assistance Technique et Formation (satisfaisant)
L'assistance technique et le programme de formation ont coWte $4,6 millions au projet. Ces deux activites
visaient l'amnelioration de la qualite des ressources humaines soit par dissemination de nouvelles techniques
sanitaires, soit par l'introduction de nouvelles procedures. Une bonne partie du personnel sanitaire (plus de
800) a beneficie (voir annexe 11) d'une formation. Cette formation a couvert tant le domaine medical
(Tuberculose, et le SIDA) que le domaine administratif.
Certaines r6serves pourraient cependant etre formul6es quand a la durabilite de tels efforts si ils ne sont pas
int6gres dans la programnation du MSPP de favon continue. On se rappellera ici que la depravation des
cadres formes a constitu6 un des problames dont a souffert l'execution du projet.
L'assistance technique et la formation ont consomme $2,7, et $1,9 millions, respectivement. Alors que
l'enveloppe prevue pour l'assistance s'6levait a S3,6 millions, celle de la formation se chiffrait a $1,1
millions.  Ainsi ces deux activit6s ont consomm6 74%, et 181%  de leurs allocations budgetaires
respectives.
IV.2.5 Renforcement Institutlonmel (non satisfaisant)
Les activit6s sus-cit6es representent l'essentiel du <o Renforcement Institutiomel >>. Cet effort aura cofte un
total de $21,5 millions, soit 77,4% des $27,7 millions decaisses au titre du projet. L'absence de preuves
tangibles de la durabilite des effets d'un tel effort explique l'insatisfaction avec ce volet du projet,
particulierement en regard des resultats pas toujours probants du cote des priorites sanitaires ciblees. Les
resultats des trois priorites sanitaires sont discutes dans les sous-sections suivantes.
IV.2.5 Soins de Sante de Base (Tris insatisfaisant)
La sant6 matemo-infantile 6tait particulierement ciblee par le projet. Une nette deterioration du statut de
sante des meres et des enfants apparait dans les statistiques presentees dans l'annexe 13. Le taux de
mortalite maternelle aurait plus que doubl6 en 2000 (523/100,000 naissances vivantes) compare A celui du
SAR (220/100.000). Par ailleurs, le taux de mortalit6 infantile serait passe de 77,4/1.000 a 80/1.000.
L'annexe 12 montre aussi des statistiques alarmantes sur le taux de mortalite maternelle: 1.067/100.000 A
l'Hbpital St. Michel de Jacmel. Parmi les raisons citees pour ce taux 6leve, on retrouve le manque de
materiels adequats, et du personnel qualifie. Des trois h6pitaux identifies, seules les statistiques de
l'Hopital Justinien du Cap se trouvent en dessous de la moyenne nationale.
On pourrait ajouter, vu les causes de d6ces, l'insuffisance dans la fourniture de soin avant la naissance, ce
qui laisse supposer un nombre insuffisant d'interactions des femmes enceintes avec le milieu medical.
Compares A l'ensemble des femmes enceintes du pays, seules les femmes du Sud-Est se portent mieux,
jugees au travers du taux de s6roprevalence, et de la prevalence de la Syphilis parmni les fenimes enceintes.
Celles de l'Ouest ont un taux de s6ropr6valence inf6rieur A la moyenne nationale. Ces deux departements
etaient cibl6s par le projet.
Entre 1996 et 1999, I'annexe 12 montre une l6gere hausse du taux de seropr6valence, alors que le taux
d'infection a la Syphilis s'est amrlior6 de fagon sensible. nl incombe de souligner que le groupe d'fage
- 33-



pardielsrement A risque ed S msdtu6 par le-s moins de vingt aien milieu rural,
IV.2.6 SIDA/MST (satdaisaat)
Avec celui de la Tuborcuose, le volet SIDA/MST repr6sentait une composante importante de la lutte
contre les end6mies majeures. Six ONG ont t6 engag6s pour aider le MSPP A mener cette lutte contre la
s6ropr6valence et les MST. L'annexe 13 pr6sente a liste complete des ONG impliquees de m&ne que les
actions entreprises par elbs. On notera que des rapports sont disponibles pour seulernent quatre ONG sur
six.
On rappelle ici quo l'apport de ces organisations a et6 considerable dans les activit6s IEC,
I'approvisionnement, et le d6pistage. Pour les ONG dont les rapports sont disponibles, on peut avancer,
qu'en g6n6ral, elles se sont bine acquitt6es de leurs tiches. Le volet ONG-SIDAJMST a coWte un peu moins
de $100.000 au projet.
Bien qu'un effort consid6rable ait 6t6 consenti (Caravane des Jeunes, formation, conferences, rencontres
communautaires, distribution de preservatifs) la lutte est loin d'tre terminee. L'annexe 14 montre que la
grande majorit6 de h population est sensibilis6e sur le probleme du VIH/SIDA. Toutefois, seulement 14%
des hommes, et 6% des femmes ayant eu (en 1999-2000) des rapports sexuels durant les douze demiers
mois rapportent avoir utilis6 des pr6servatifs, soit un taux d'utilisation effectif des pr6servatifs d'a peu pres
10%/0.
IV.2.7 Tuberakose (Trbs usafabaut)
Le volet Tuberculose a connu un grand succ6s. Des objectifs sp6cifiques majeurs ont et atteints: des taux
de succs sup6rieurs a 70%/ ont 6  observ6s en 1999, et le d6pistage des cas frottis positifs a beaucoup
augment6 (voir annexes 15 et 16). De plus le taux d'abandons serait passe de plus de 45% A moins de
20%/o, soit une r6duction de plus de 100%/.
Ici encore, l'action des ONG en support d'un BPCLT dynamis6 explique ces bons resultats. Les trois
ONG retenus pour mener cetet lutte sont la ICCMCAT, le CDS, et la CCH. Le financement leur a permis
de mobiliser un nombre appr6ciable de ressources humaines additionnelles (voir annexe 17) pour la lutte
anti-tuberculose. Hormis la formation, ces ONG ont Wt6 impliqu6es dans le depistage et le traitement.
Elles ont bien rempli leurs mandats. Le financement des ONG par le projet s'est eleve A quelques 577 mille
dollars americains.
IV.2.8 Coit-Efficact
Tenant compte des limitations d6crites ci-dessus, le calcul du ratio coft-efficacit6 se base exclusivement sur
les resultats obtenus pour les programmes prioritaires : Soins de Sant6 de Base, et Endemies Majeures
(ruberculose, SIDA/MST). Le calcul du ratio est expliqu6 i l'annexe 19. Selon les criteres retenus, le
projet auralt ete effectdfi 47%, un resultat peu satisfaisant.
V. Conchlions et Recommandadems
Conform6ment & on statut, et dans un contexte strgique de "Lutte contre la Pauvrete" le secteur social
repr6sente un domane prioritaire pour lIDA.  En depit du mveau de succ'es peu eleve de ce projet,
l'implication de 1I'DA dans le secteur ne sera pas probablement remise en question. Cependant, des leoons
importantes peuvent etre tir&es de cette premiere exp6rience.
- 34 -



Premierement, un des risques identifies lors de l'61aboration du projet etait la relative inexperience du
secteur avec les programmes finances par l'IDA. Un impact positif de l'ex6cution de ce projet a e  la
formation de I'UGP, et a travers elle, la familiarisation avec les modalites, et proc6dures de l'IDA.
Deuxiemement, l'insistance sur la restructuration de l'administration centrale du MSPP a probablement et
une erreur strategique. Le projet a obtenu de meilleurs resultats pour les programmes (Tuberculose, et
Medicaments Essentiels) clairs. Ce benefice peut probablement &re etendu a d'autres domaines
prioritaires de la sante, si la programmation s'efforce de cibler des problemes de sante tout aussi
specifiques que la Tuberculose.
Troisiemement, les ONG se sont reveles etre un appui logistique important, et de plus ces entites offrent
(I'experience de 1992 I'a montre, de meme que les resultats qu'elles ont pu obtenir) des opportunites pour
la continuation des activites en cas de troubles politiques. Hafti n'est peut-etre pas aux lendemains de la
stabilite politique, et des strategies qui tiennent compte de ce facteur determinant doivent etre envisagees.
Quatriemement, II est recommande d'une part que l'IDA continue son support des domaines prioritaires
specifiques a travers des centres de sante identifies. Cette initiative pourra beneficier des competences et
expertises acquises par l'UGP, qui en outre de son role de gestionnaire financier, a pu au moment opportun
se transmuter en organe d'execution. De l'avis du consultant, forte de son experience, l'UGP devrait jouer
un role cle dans l'elaboration d'un second projet.
Cependant, l'UGP devrait jouer un r6le de supervision effective, et de suivi. Pour que cette tache soit
accomplie, il faudra penser a integrer une unite specialisee en collecte d'informations (incluses toutes les
statistiques du projet), et en redaction de rapports de suivi. A ces fins, l'UGP pourra beneficier de l'appui
technique d'une firme ou d'un groupe de professionnels. Dans ce contexte, il faudra absolument preparer
des formulaires de collecte de donnees en focalisant sur les indicateurs de performance, et les
conditionnalites. L'echeancier des collectes devrait servir les besoins de supervision, d'evaluation, et de
prises de decisions (mesures rectificatives, decaissements, etc..).
Sans des formulaires de suivi et d'evaluation etablis au prealable, la tache de supervision se reduit a
une simple politique de constats.
En consequence, il est fortement recommande que la partie haitienne soit appuyee techniquement par
un consultant ou une firme lors de la preparation du prochain projet. Cette assistance technique
devra porter sur tous les instruments de suivi.
Cinquiemement, le budget devrait etre formule sous une forme analytique, tel qu'il l'a ete durant la derniere
annee du projet. La presentation du budget ex6cute sous une forme autre que celle-IA, infirme l'analyse
cofit-efficacite.
Sixiemement, des conditionnalites specifiques, associees a des activites devant aboutir a chacun des
resultats escompt6s devraient &re formules. Les moments importants du projet devraient etre specifies au
prealable, et la supervision devrait permettre au projet de respecter un ( chemin critique >> pre etabli. Ces
conditionnalites devraient portees seulement sur les besoins operationnels du projet, et ne pas s'aventurer
dans un remaniement institutionnel de trop grande envergure.
Septiemement, avant le lancement du projet, on devrait prevoir une campagne de communication pour
divulguer la portee et la teneur du projet a l'ensemble de la communaute medicale, et aussi aupres des
- 35 -



utilisateurs. Si un effort particulier est consenti ceux qui en sont responsables (meme indirectement
devraient en etre informes), et les b6neficiaires eventuels devraient aussi en etre imbus.
Finalement, pour plus d'efficacite dans la distribution des materiels et equipements, il est recommande que
toutes les conditions soient remplies pour leurs pleines utilisations (ressources humaines, courant
electrique, programmation des interventions medicales a accomplir, espace physique, etc..). Les activites
d'acquisition d'equipements et de materiels ont et marquees par trop de gaspillages.
- 36 -



