Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
c      - d? f ?35 5t     .4               Repon No. 8008-HA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HAITI
FIRST HEALTH PRO-JECT
NOVEMBER 28, 118S
Human Resources Division
Country Deparcment III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
TMis docoent ha a *estcd distiuto ad may be used by  nensooby  Ihe perfomuance of
thei offiifl dudes. Its contnts may not othebwse be dBsosed   o Wold Bak  todza



CURRENCY BQUVALENTS
Currency Unit - courde (G)
US$1.00 - G 5.00
G 1.00 - US$.20
GOVERNM}NT OF HAITI FISCAL YEAR
October 1 to September 30
I
I
I



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
MITI
FIRST HEALTS PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
[ GLOSSARY OF ACROIKS. ..................         .       . .... ...               IV
DEFINITION OF PCPULATION. HRALTS AND NUTRITION TERS .....................v
B ASIC  DATA .RO.ECT W..I  ....                      ........ *............. vii
CREDIT  A  Stts. . Y .. ............
I.   INTBODUCTION.  ............................. 1
II.  THE BRALSE SECTOR..       .04*e.6e*000000   .00  .0   .0*.O.*  .  . 01
A.    Status .......................* .............................. .u
Population ...........1..........0....
Health ........  ..o......*..........3
Nutrition .........................5
The Health Care System         ...     ...... ............. 6
Health Financing ......................................... 9
Health Manpower ......................10
B.    tey Sector Issues          ............... ....... 11
C.    IDA' K ole ..........................12
III.  THE PROJECT                    S..........................
A.    Px-oject Objectives ........................1
| B.    Project Detcription.........                            .........                     14
C.    Project Components ............. . ........................     15
Institutional Developme t.......................... l ... 15
Service Delivery                .... ......... .17
Epidemic Prevention and Control ....21
I
This report is based on findings of an appraisal mission consisting of Xavier Coll
(mission leader), Bruce Carlson (family planning specialist), Maria Victoria Lister
(operations  assistant),  Carlos  Trabucco  (procurement  specialist),  and Jean  Pierre
Schwarta and Carlos Mena (consultants) which visited Haiti it. June 1989.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ii
Page go.
IV.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINhNCING ....      ..............................       .. 24
A.    Cost of the Prosect ...........................                   24
B.    Project FiRecing uetCos..................... ... .  .. .26
C.   IAcremuntan  Acudt ........Co ... 26
D.    Procuremeat ................ ;2
V .   Disbursement ................................................. 28
P.    Accounts and Audits .........               .... ..  ... **..29
V.   PROJECT                 *...           ...              ...     ... 00* ... 29
VI.  PROJECT BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS .... .......... ....... . .  .31
A.    Benefits and Justification .................  .,.  ...... .31
B.    Risks ...................... ............. ................... 31
VII *IAURDEENTS REACHED AND R MBMTION .....o 32
ANNEXESX  ............ S5.. .............. .                 .......    .........35
ANNEX        l      s      ......  .....         S     T        ..            003
Table 1    Prevalence of Modern Contraceptive Methods
Table 2    Total Fertility Rate
Table 3    Principal Causes of D ath, All Ages
Table 4    AIDS Cases Relative to Other Countries In the Americas
Table 5    Prevalence of Malnutrition by Region
ANNEX 2:                            ......... O...                         ,..40
Table 1    Existing Structure of the Ministry
of Public Health and Population
Table 2    Proposed Structure of the Ministry
of Public Health and Population
Table 3    Structure of the Vestern 8ealth Regional Bureau
Table 4    Health Facilities In the Western Health Region
Table 5    NGO Presence by Region in the Health Sector
Table 6    Aggregate Health Expenditures
Table 7    Patient Fees for Services - Haiti Public Health System



iii
Pago No.
ANNEX 3%                                                                     4
Table I    Reorganization of the Western Realth Region
Table 2    Planned Departinnt and Distrlct
Administration Structure
Table 3    Programatic Areas In the
Westem Health Region
Table 4   Personnel of the Programmtic Areas
of the 13SDK
Table 5    Service Activities of the Health Agent
Table 6   NGOs to Receive Project Financing
Table 7   List of Health Centers and Dispensaries
to be Constructed/Rehabilitated
Table 8    Health Centers vhere Photovoltaic Energy
Would be Installed
Table 9   Monitoring & Evaluation of Project Outputs
Table 10   Tuberculosis Control
Table 11   AIDS Prevention and Control Activities
ANNEX 4:  Areas of Technical Assistance .................................... 61
t ~ANNEX Ss5...t6
Table 1    Project Components by Year
Table 2    Suhmmary Accounts Cost Summeary
Table 3    Summary Accounts by Year
Table 4    Sumary Accounts by Project, Component
ANNBX G6s.  **   ...... &.* ..... .. 66
Table 1    Procurement Limits by Type
Table 2   Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Table 3    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Table 4    Implementation Schedule
ANNEX 7:   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File ....... 70
MAP                IBID No. 21848



iv
GLOSSARY OF ACRONY)S
ADG             Assistant Director General
AIDS            Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
AGAPCO          Agenc- d'Approvisionnement des Pharmacies Communautaires
(Haitian Agency for the Creation of Commune Pharmacies)
AOPS            Association des Oeuvres Privees de Sante
(Association of Private Health Organizations)
BCG             Bacillus Calmette-Guerin.  Vacclne Against Tuberculosis'
BCPLT           Bureau de Coordination du Programme de Lutte Contre la Tuberculose
(Bureau of Tuberculosis Control)
BHSDM           Basic Health Services Delivery Model
CAT             Croisade Antituberculose
(Antituberculosis Crusade)
CIDA            Canadian International Development Agency
CONAPO          Conseil National de la Population
(National Council of Population)
CWTO            Civil Works Technical Office
DESE            Direction d'Education Sanitaire et r'Entralnement
(Directorate of Health Education and Training)
FP              Family Planning
GOH             Government of Haiti
HIV             Human Immunodeficiency Virus
HUEH            H8pital Universitaire de 1'Etat Haitien
(Haiti University Hospital)
IDA             International Development Association
IEC             Information, Education, Communication
ICC             Internationa' Child Care
IMR             Infant Mortality Rate
iS              International Shopping.
MSPP            Ministere de la Sante Publique et de la Population
(Ministry of Health and Population)
MEF             Minist6re de l'Economie et des Finances
(Ministry of Economy and Finance)
MOP             Ministere du Planning et de la Coordination Externe
(Ministry of Planning and External Coordination)
NGO             Non-governmental Organization
NRL             National Reference Laboratory
PA              Programmatic Area
PAHO            Pan American Health Organization
PHC             Primary Health Care
PMU             Project Management Unit
PPF             Project Preparation Facility
SNEM            Service National des Endemies Majeures
(National Endemic Disease Service)
TB              Tuberculosis
TFR             Total Fertility Rate
UNFPA           United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF          United Nations Children's Fund
USAID           United States Agency for International Development
WHO             World Health Organization
WHR             Western Health Region



v
DRFIN!TION OP POPULATION. K TLT  AND NUTRITION TERMS
Adult Literacy Rate               The percentage of persons aged
15 and over who can read and write.
Child Mortality Rate              Annual deaths of children 1-4 years
old per 1,000 children in the same
age group.
Contraceptive P:evalence Rate    The percentage of married women of
reproductive age who are using a
modern method of contraception at
any time.
Crude Birth Rate                  Number of live births per year per
1,000 people.
Crude Death Rate                  Number of deaths per year per 1,000
people.
Degree of Malnutrition            The Gomp' classification scale
distingulshes three degrees in
malnutrition, namely:
first (mild): 76-902 of expected
(or standard) weight fo; age;
second (moderate): 61-752 of
expected weight;
third (severe): under 60X of
expected weight.
Dependency Ratio                  Population 14 years and under and
65 years and over as percentage of
population aged 15 tc 64 years.
Incidence Rate                    The number of persons contracting
a disease as a proportion of the
population at risk, per unit of
time; usually expressed per 1,000
persons per year.
Infant Mortality Rate             Annual deaths of infants under
1 year per 1,000 live births
during the same year.
Life Expectancy at Birth          The number of years a newborn child
would live if subject to the age
specific mortality rates prevailing
at time of birth.



vi
Maternal Mortality Rate           Number of maternal deaths per 1,000
births in a given year attributable to
pregnancy, childbirth or post-partum
complications.
Morbidity                         The frequency of disease and illness
in a population.
Mortality                         The frequency of deaths in a population.
Neonatal Mortality Rate           The number of deaths of infants under
28 days of age in a given year per
1,000 live births in that year.
Perinatal Mortality Rate          The number of fetal deaths after
28 weeks of pregnancy and of infant
deaths under 7 days of age in a given
year per 1,000 live births.
Prevalence Rate                   The number of persons having a
particular disease at a given point
in time per population at risk;
usually expressed per 1,000 persons
per year.
Rate of Natural Tncrease          Difference between crude birth
and crude death ratess usually
expressed as a percentage.
Total Fertility Rate              The average number of children a
woman will have if she experiences
a given set of age-specific fertility
rates throughout her lifetime.
Serves as an estimate of average
number of children per family.



vii
MAITI
PIRsr HATH PROJECT
Basic Data
General
Total Area                                            28.000 square km
Total Population                                      6.2 million
Population Density                                    204 4.habitantslsquare km
Rural Population as Proportion of
Total Population                                    74X
Adult Literacy Rate                                   35Z
Primary School Enrollment (1986)                      782
Secondary School Enrollment (1985)                    182
GNP per capita                                        US$360
Population, Health and Nutrition
Total Fertility Rate (1986)                           6.8
Crude Birth Rate (1986)                               35/1,000
Crude Death Rate (1986)                               13/1,000
Life Expectancy at Birth (1986)                       54 years
Infaat Moitality Rate (1986)                          11911,000
Child Death Rate (1987)                               22/1,000
Maternal Mortality Rate (1980)                        3671100,000
Population growth                                     2.12
Population per Physician (1981)                       8,200
Population per Trained Nurse                          6,333
Population per Hospital Bed                           1,150
Population within Reach of Health Services            702
Proportion of Birthe Attended in
a Health Institution                                252
Froportion of Pregnant Women Receiving
Antenatal Care                                      242
Proportion of Children Between I and 2 Years
of Age Fully Iminized (1989)                        542
Contraceptive Prevalence Rate (Modern Methods)        4.9?
Daily per capita Calorie Supply (as percentage
of requirements)                                     962
Sources World Development Report (1988) and staff estimates.
All figures apply to 1988 estimates unless otherwise indicated.



ix
HAITI
FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Republic of Haiti
Beneficiary:      Ministry of Health and Population (MSPP)
Amount:            SDR 22.2 million (US$28.2 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard IDA terms.
Project
Description:       The project aims at assisting the Government of Haiti (GOH) in
improving the country's health status through selected
investments linked to increased efficiency and effectiveness of
expenditures in health. It would specifically: (a) rationalize
the allocation of re;ources for primary health care (PHC) within
a more coherent institutional framework; (b) implement, in the
Western health region, a Basic Health Services Delivery Model
(BHSDM), based on the GOH stated PHC policy, and conceived as a
framework for all public and private health activities; and (c)
support the Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS) medium-
term prevention and control program, ani the national
tuberculosis (TB) control program. These objectives would be
supported by three key measures: (a) the restructuring of the
MSPP budget over the project implementation period; (b)
increased coordination, dialogue and inte'ration between the
private and public sectors; and (c) the implementation of
personnel recruitment and retirement policies as provided by
current legal regulations.
Benefil           The project's main benefit would be to extend health service
coverage and improve the health status of up to 2.1 million
people in the Western health region, particularly of mothers and
childrers, and control the spread of two major epidemics (AIDS
and TB) nationwide. A second major benefit would be the
improvement of the effectiveness and efficiency of the health
system: first, by addressing financial and institutional
issues; and second, by rebuilding beneficiary trust in public
services. A third benefit would be the establishment of a
framework that would facilitate future external financing of PHC
programs, and integrate more effectively services provided by
the public and private health sectors.
Risks:             The project faces four main risks:  (a) the weak organizational
and implementation capacity of the MSPP compounded by the
political aud social instability of the country; (b) the lack of
financial discipline and budgetary control in the sector; (c)



x
the possibility of delays in implementing the sector's
dec6ntralization strategy, particularly with regard to
personnel; and (d) the sector inexperience with IDA-financed and
policy-based health projects. These risks would be reduced by
attention to institutional development, technical assistance,
improved donor coordination, and the creation of a small and
high-caliber PHU. The gradual phasing of policy measures,
supported by annual progress reviews, would also minimize
project risks. In addition, technical discussions on
procurement and disbursements took place at IDA headquarters
prior to negotiations, and intense supervision efforts by IDA
(four missions per year) have been planned, particularly for the
first two years of implementation.
estkiated Costes al                         Local        Foreign        Total
…(US$ Million) -
A. Institutional Development                 2.0           1.6           3.6
B. Service Delivery                          6.2          11.4          17.6
C. Epidemic Control                          1.2           6.3           7.5
Total Baseline Costs                         9.4          19.3          28.7
Physical Contingencies                    0.2           0.9           1.1
Price Contingencies                       1.7           2.2           3.9
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                         11.3          22.4          33.7
------------------------------------------
a/ The project is rvempted of taxes and duties.
Finau inR Plans                      Amount (USS Million)                2
GOH                                       3.1                       9
IDA                                      28.2                      84
CIDA                                      2.4                       7
TOTAL                                    33.7                     100
Estimated Disbursements:  (US$ Million)
IDA FT                1990      1991     1992    1993      1994     1995     1996
Annual                  2.5      3.4      4.2      4.7      4.7      4.5       4.2
Cumulative             2.5       5.9     10.1    14.8      19.5     24.0     28.2
Economic Rate of Returns Not Applicable.
!ap:   IBRD No. 21848



RAITI
FIRS?T EALTH PROJECT
I. ITROD WCTION
1.01        Haiti is a small, densely populated, and predominantly rural country.
Its 6.2 million people occupy 28,000 square kilometers, the western end of the
island of Hispaniola, and are among the poorest in the world, with a per capita
income of US$360 in 1988.
1.02        Agricultural output has increased little since the early 1970s.
Physical production per capita has fallen steadily as relentless population
pressure has forced peasants to cultivate ever more marginal hillside land. A
shortage of cultivable land, coupled with insecurity of tenure and the demand for
wood for energy, has generated an unrelenting process of deforestation and soil
erosion. Past government policies exacerbated the decline of agriculture. Public
agricultural investment and credit programs were targeted suore to social relief
than to stimulating ei.ner growth in productivity, output and employment or
effective soil conservation.
1-03        In the second half of the 19709, economic growth, averaging 5.32 per
year, allowed for improvement in real per capita income. This was mainly due to
an increase in public investments supported by foreign aid, and an expansion in
Haiti's export assembly industry. A basic ps,sical infrastructure was established
and education and health received government attention, virtually for the first
time since the 1.309.  However, in the early 19808, external factors, such as the
1980-83 world recession and world price fluctuations of coffee, and internal
factors, such as political unrest, inefficiencies of the public sector, and the
decline in tourism, contributed to a dramatic slowdown in the economy. Investment
confidence eroded and the economy declined 0.9Z per year between 1980 and 1985.
Real per capita income in 1985 was 152 below that of 1980.
1.04        Recent political developments beginning with the departure ef
President Duvalier in February 1986, the rise of the transitional Government that
led to the February 1988 elections, the short-lived Manigat Government, and the
military coups in June and September 1988 impeded Haiti's economic performance and
also resulted in loss of momentum in economic *.eforms, development activities and
the flow of external assistance. The Government of Haiti (GOR) faces a difficult
financial and economic situation.
II. THE HEALTH SECTOR
A. Status
Population
2.01        Demographic Characteristics.  The population of Haiti was estimated at
6.2 million in 1988, Declining rural incomes have led to substantial rural-urban
and internatlonal migration.  The population is growing at 1.62 per annum, net of
emigration of 0.52, while the urban population is expanding by 42.  At the present
rate of growth, the total population will approach 7 million by the year 2000, and
13 million by the year 2050.
C!



2
2.02        The demographic problem facing Haiti has been clear since the early
part of this century? the relentless pressure of population on limited natural
resources. Two principal factors explain continued relatively high population
growth. First, primary health care (PHC) and socioeconomic development have
combined to reduce infant and child mortality, without a concomitant decrease in
fertility. During the last ten years (1977 to 1987), infant mortality has
declined from 125 to 119 per 1,000 births due to significant declines in Port-au-
Prince. Second, the distribution of modern methods of contraception has not
expanded rapidly enough to meet potential demand, especially in rural areas.
There is widespread knowledge of modern contraceptive techniques, but less than 5?
of married women use modern contraceptives, according to surveys conducted in
1983, 1985 and 1987 (Annex 1, Table 1). There is thus a wide gap between need and
practice. Fertility has risen: the 1987 survey suggests that the total fertility
rate (TFR) is now about 6.8 (Annex 1, Table 2). The crude birth rate is about 35
per 1,000 population now and has not changed noticeably in the past twenty years.
2.03        The population in towns and cities has grown at four times the rate of
the rural population and three times that of the overall population. According to
the 1982 population survey, urban population represents 26Z oi the total (compared
to 82 in 1950). The metropolitan area of Port-au-Prince represents 58? of the
urban population, or about 720,000 inhabitants.
2.04        Population Policy.  Theloutline of a population policy is contained in
the 1981-86 five year plan and has been repeated in more recent annual plans. It,
these, the Ministry of Health and Population (MSPP) sets as goals for the year
2000 a crude birth rate of 20 per 1,000; a TFR of 3 children per woman; a crude
death rate of 8 per 1,000; an infant mortality rate (IMR) of 50 per 1,000; and a
life expectancy of 65 years. The draft outline also expressed the goal of
achieving a more balanced population distribution through redirecting rural
migration to secondary urban centers rather than Port-au-Prince. This outline is
only a sketchy and incomplete guideline for the formulation of a full-fledged
population policy and is now being reviewed.
2.05        The creation of the National Council of Population (CONAPO) in 1986
was a step in the right direction. However, CONAPO has been a weak institution.
Its Secretariat, under the MSPP, is responsible for population issues at the
national level, and for coordinating population-related activities carried out by
the various ministries. With respect to CONAPO and the MSPP, financial and human
resource constraints are evident.
2.06        Efforts to strengthen CONAPO are being made by the United Nations Fund
for Population Activities (UNFPA) and by the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID). The objectives are to assess the consequences
of rapid population growth on the age structure, spatial distribution and
environment, to foster dialogue on population and development issues, and to
develop a population policy. A national seminar on population and development was
held in Port-au-Prince in June 1989. The seminar indicated a lack of consensus
among population experts on the current level of fertility and the extent of
outmigration during the 70s and 809. An intersectorial committee was established
to resolve the differences in order to move forward in the formulation of a
comprehensive population policy. A first draft of this policy will be finalized
by March 1990.



3
Health
2.07        Data on health stbtus of the population is limited to occasional
surveys, often of quite narrow definition, carried out by MSPP and by other
agencies through special programs. Accordingly, the health information system
suffers from poor coverage and irregular reporting. Even so, the available
information indicates that the health status is at the bottom of the scale in
Latin Americas the IMR of 119 per 1,000 is close to the IMR average of Sub-
Saharan Africa; maternal mortality rate reaches 367 per 100,0C0; and child
mortality 22 per 1,000, while life expectancy at birth is ex. mated at 54 years.
These levels are comparable only to those of Guatemala and Bolivia within the
region.
2.08        Diseases of underdevelopment --diarrhea, tetanus, measles, malaria,
intestinal parasites, typhoid, poliomyelitis, tuberculosis (TB), pneumonia and
other respiratory diseases-- account for the highest rates of mortality and
morbidity. Annex 1, Table 3 shows causes of deaths for all ages at the Albert
Schweitzer Hospital (ASH) in 1980, ranked. according to relative frequency, and
MSPP rankings of causes of deaths throughout Haiti in 1979.
2.09        Deaths from diarrheal disease account for the highest proportion of
total deaths followed by respiratory diseases including TB. Diarrhea accounts for
751 of the registered deaths during the first year of life, for 50X of deaths in
the 1-4 age group, and for 201 of the total number of deaths registered in the
country in the early 1980s. Measles and neonatal tetanus are also comon. Most
of these diseases could be prevented or treated early at relatively low cost
through adequate oral rehydration, immunization and health education programs.
2.10        Infectious and parasitic diseases are major causes of morbidity and
mortality among adults and children, where multiple infections are present at the
same time. Malaria is the most often reported cause of morbidity. About 601 of
Haiti's territory is classified as a malarious area. The MSPP estimates that
there are at least 250,000 acute cases of Plasmodium Falciparum malaria every year
with around 3,000 recorded deaths. The incidence of malaria is increasing due to
weakened vector control and decreased surveillance by the National Endemic Disease
Service (SNEK), an MSPP agency that has run into serious funding problems after
the cut of external aid.
2.11        The high levels of mortality and fertility, as well as malnutrition
(para. 2.21) indicate a lack of adequate birth spacing. Despite the apparent
demand for family planning (FP) and reportedly widespread awareness of modern
contraceptive methods, the use of these methods accounts for only 52 of women in
union. Overall contraceptive prevalence, including traditional methods, is about
101. Breastfeeding, also an appropriate method of fertility regulation, has been
decreasing throughout Haiti, particularly in urban areas.
2.12        While the reasons of the low contraceptive usage are not clearly
understood, two factors seem to have a significant effect: (a) the lack of easy
access to contraceptive services, particularly with respect to continuation rates;
and (b) the low levei of knowledge in safe and effective use of contraceptive
methods. However, other factors should contribute to a greater use of modern



4
contraceptive methods. First, the average age at which women enter union (19.5
years) is relatively high. Second, the level of teenage pregnancy is one of the
lowest in Latin America (yet the percentage of women in reproductive age never in
union has substantially decreased in the last ten years). Finally, awareness of
FP and of modern methods is widespread, especially for oral contraceptives (80)
and for condoms (76X).
2.13        Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) has reached epidemic
proportions in Haiti since the introduction of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)
in the late 1970s. As of December 31, 1988, Haiti had reported 1,849 AIDS cases.
Of the total, 295 have died, resulting in a case fatality rate of 16Z. Given that
underreported cases are estimated to be high, these figures only partially reflect
the severity of the epidemic. The number of reported AIDS cases represents 13Z of
cases notified in the Americas excluding the USA (see Annex 1, Table 4).
2.14        The epidemic is spreading through sexual transmission, especially
heterosexual transmission. Transmission also occurs through blood transfusion,
through injections with nonsterile needles and syringes, through contaminated skin
piercing instruments, and from seropositive pregnant women to their children. Two
studies carried out on blood donors and pregnant women show infection rates
respectively of 6.7Z and 8.5?, suggesting a high rate of HIV infection in the
general population that will have a serious impact on mortality rates
(particularly affecting children and young adults).
2.15        After a National AIDS Committee was established in 1987 with support
from the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) and the World Health Organization
HWHO), the GOB launched efforts aiming at educating and informing the population
about disease transmission and prevention. A plan for a medium-term prevention
and control program was finalized in September, 1988. Urgently needed measures
are defined in the plan and includes (a) systematic blood donor screening; (b)
prevention of transmission through injections and skin piercing instruments; (c)
promotion of condom use; and (d) health education on a large scale.
2.16        TB is a major health problem in Haiti.  In 1986, 8,583 newly active
cases were officially reported, of which 6,465 were confirmed by positive
bacteriological examination. This represents an incidence rate of the known,
infectious (smear positive) cases of over 120 per 100,000 --about 20 times higher
than in the USA and Western Europe, three times higher than in Asia, and only
comparable to the most affected countries in Africa. Factoring in the estimated
number of non-reported cases, the number of new cases may be as high as 30,000 per
year. The incidence rate is then 536 per 100,000 per year, a figure that is high
but not unlikely. The prevalence is probably about twice the incidence, bringing
the total number of persons with TB to about 60,000. These adjusted figures put
Haiti near the top in terms of TB morbidity in the world. The problem is
aggravated by the development of bacterial resistance to drugs currently used in
Haiti. Studies carried out in Haiti and among Haitian immigrants in the USA have
shown that the level of resistance to the most important drug, Isoniazid, is about
20-30Z. In view of this, continuation with the current treatment regimen will not
have an impact on the epidemiological situation.
2.17         The TB problem is compounded by increasing prevalence of HIV
infection, with consequent rise in the number of HIV-related TB. Only 5-10? of



5
individuals with normal immunological defenses develop TB following infection.
The risk of TB rises to over 502 in HIV-infected individuals. As at least half of
the adults in Haiti have already been infected, there will inevitably be an
increasing number of HIV-related cases of TB in the future. The impact of HIV
infection can be estimated to result in an additional 112,000 cases of TB in the
next decade. In the absence of an effective national TB control program, it is
not unlikely that in ten years, TB prevalence would be 1.5Z and the incidence rate
728 per 100,000 per year. This would represent a major epidemic by any standards.
2.18        At present, the national treatment program is based on isoniazid and
thiacetazone, with initial streptomycin when feasible. The streptomycin is
injected, thup submitting the patients to risks of other infections (particularly
HIV) due to the low sanitary standards of the traditional healers who may give
these injections. This regimen should provide a therapeutic efficacy of 80 in
those cases without drug resistance. Currently the compliance rate (percentage of
patients completing treatment) is a low 50Z.
2.19        Ongoing programs for TB control in Haiti can be grouped into three
categoriess (a) programs of the MSPP's Bureau of Tuberculosis Control (BCPLT);
(b) programs of International Child Care (ICC); and (c) other programs. BCPLT is
understaffed and underequipped. Much of the responsibility for implementing the
control program rests upon district health officers, most of whom, with little
supervision, training or resources, do not accord TB high priority.
2.20        ICC, an externally financed voluntary organization, opened Grace
Children Hospital for the treatment of TB in children in 1967. In 1974 this
organization initiated the Antituberculosis Crusade (CAT). This program now
attempts to provide BCG vaccination, case finding, education, and treatment on a
national basis. The CAT program has expanded to cover all of the non-metropolitan
areas of Haiti. With the exception of the outpatient clinic of Grace Children
Hospital, the CAT program has no significant presence in Port-au-Prince. CAT
provides treatment for approximately 1,500 patients in Port-au-Prince and 5,500
patients in 115 clinics dispersed throughout the country. Other private programs
provide treatment to about 4,000 patients annually.
Nutrition
2.21        Malnutrition is strongly associated with illness in Haiti and is a
major factor in the high child mortality rate of 22 per 1,000. Among the
nutritional deficits the Haitian population is facing, energy-protein malnutrition
is the most prevalent. Acute malnutrition is a major problem. At the time of the
1978 survey, 27Z of the children were severely or moderately malnourished, and
only one quarter of children under five years of age were in the normal range of
weight for age (see Annex 1, Table 5).
2.22        The causes of malnutrition are multiple and include inability of many
families to acquire required food, certain child rearing practices of households,
and inadequate environmental sanitation, including lack of safe water. Low
incomes, food shortages, as well as droughts interspersed with floods which
destroy crops, restrict food availability. Some traditional practices of feeding
children --for example, one meal per day-- and certain infant feeding practices
also take their toll. The use of bottlefeeding instead of breastfeeding has been



6
increasing throughout Haiti: 962 of urban and 59? of rural mothers are reported
to use a bottle at some time to feed their youngest child. This is a high figure
when it is recalled that only 22 of rural Haitians have access to safe water; that
fuel (for boiling water) is scarce; and that adequate instant formula is too
expensive for most Haitian families. In rural areas, weaning age (18 to 20
months) is much higher than in the cities. This alarming trend towards
bottlefeeding will further increase the incidence of diarrheal disease,
malnutrition, and fertility.
The Health Care System
2.23        The Public Sector.  The MSPP is responsible for all government
policies and public activities in health. The MSPP is one of the largest
ministries and represented 11Z of the fiscal budget in 1987. The MSPP's more than
8,000 existing employees account for over one-fifth of all public sector
employees. The Minister has ultimate authority for public health policy in Haiti.
He is supported by a cabinet of advisors and a secretariat. The Minister also
oversees the following autonomous entities: the University Hospital (HUEH); the
Haitian Agency for the Creation of Commune Pharmacies (AGAPCO), an externally
financed pharmaceutical procurement and distribution agency which is being
restructured in the aftermath of the suspension of foreign aid; and POCHEP, an
agency responsible for the development of rural water supply systems. Health
policy is defined in the GOH Nouvelle Orientation de Sante (or New Orientation to
Health)1, issued in 1982. Underlying financial, organizational, and managerial
weakresses have undermined the MSPP capacity to implement this policy.
2.24        The MSPP has three layers of management:  central, regional, district.
At the central level, much of the administrative control of the MSPP is vested in
the Director General (Annex 2, Table 1). All technical, regional, and
administrative directors report to him. He is supported by a Unit of Planning and
Evaluatior and a Unit of Coordination of the Regional Offices. The central MSPP
structure includes eight technical directorates. The nursing, dentistry,
populat±on, public hygiene, FP and nutrition directorates are charged with
developing norms and standards, supervision, and in some cases, operational
functions. In addition, the directorates of administration and budgeting handle
management and resource allocation issues. The central MSPP structure2 absorbs a
significant share (23X) of the health budget, with limited effectiveness in its
normative, supervision, and administrative role.
2.25        Operations are presently divided into four health regionst  the
Western, Northern, Southern, and Transversal regions. Regional offices are
charged with administering and supervising the execution of health interventions
by the public sector. The regional level acts as the liaison between the district
I The Nouvelle Orientation identifies seven priority programs for the public
health sector: maternal and child health and family planning; nutrition;
immunizations; control of diarrheal diseases; TB; malaria; and AIDS.
2 Central MSPP structure includes all MSPP administrative structures located
in Port-au-Prince (i.e. MSPP's national offices, regional office of the Western
Health Region, and Schools of Medicine and Nursing).



7
level sad the center, orchestrating district planning and budgeting.    The
district is the most decentralized level of administration. There are 15
districts in Haiti, comprised of 20 sub-districts and 136 communal sections.
Health districts are staffed by an administrative unit which oversees the
functioning of hospitals, health centers and dispensaries within its jurisdiction.
2.26        The major shortcomings that limit the effectiveness and efficiency of
service delivery at the district level include: (a) inefficient allocation of
financial resources:  the district level has no control over the amount of
resources made available to it by the central level, and much of its operating
budget goes to pay additional salaries or is absor'ed by district hospitals; (b)
imbalance in the distribution of human resources: under the present institutional
structure, the district level has little control over staffing decisions, and wide
disparities exist in staffing patterns throughout the country; (c) inadequate
logistics and planning: because of the limited operating budget at the local
level, inadequate attention has been given to suppcrt services such as building
maintenance, drug distribution, and purchase of materials and equipment; (d)
limited management informationt a general reluctance of health institutions to
submit reports stems from the fact that feedback from the central level is very
seldom received; and (e) lack of supervision: despite the existence of norms, the
supervision carried out in the field is very limited.
2.27        A restructuring of the MSPP is currently being planned.  Under the
authority of a Director General, four Assistant Director Generals (ADG) would be
appointed: (a) an ADG of Priority Programs would be responsible for the
coordinatioi. of the priority programs; (b) an ADG of Public Assistance would
oversee the licensing of health professionals, and would supervise public service
institutions; (c) an ADG of Public Hygiene would be responsible for the
supervision of laboratory and environmental programs; and (d) management
functions, including personnel, budgeting, and planning would be under the charge
of an ADG of Administration (Annex 2, Table 2).  The regional structure would be
dissolved to create nine departments which correspond to the political division of
the country, and a new health district office would be constituted3.
2.28        The Basic Health Services Delivery Model (BHSDM).  The restructuring
effort of the MSPP also includes comprehensive changes in the organization of the
service delivery system in order to deliver effectively the seven priority
programs of the New Orientation to Health (para. 2.23). The BHSDM strategy is
based on the creation of local health systems that would assume responsibility for
coordinating all existing resources (hospitals, health centers and dispensaries,
and water sanitation and other sanitation services) in a commune or sub-division
of a commune both in urban and rural areas.
2.29        The MSPP intends to implement this new approach progressively
throughout the country beginning in the Western health region (WHR). Initial
efforts of the MSPP have focussed on the definition of the population and
territory to be covered, and on the administrative structure required to ensure
the effective implementation of this system. The MSPP identified 28 local health
systems in the WHR, with populations varying from 15,000 to 100,000 people, and
3 The health district office of Thiotte in the Western health region.



8
involving both public and NGO institutions. Each household is assigned to a
specific local health system for community-based or institutional care.  The MSPP
also identified administrative teams, composed of a doctor, a nurse, an auxiliary,
and a sanitary officer, that will assume responsibility for the coordination of
service delivery activities in each local health system. The BHSDM needs to be
complemented by the adjustment of financing mechanisms, and the effective
decentralization of resources to the commune level. While the MSPP has already
taken actions to facilitate the decentralization of resources to the commune
level, in particular through the redeployment of personnel, financial mechanisms
remain to be adjusted (para. 2.37).
2.30        The Western Health Region (VHR).  The WHR, which covers one-quarter of
the area of Haiti, is one of four health regions in the country. It is currently
composed of four health districts: Port-au-Prince (population: 1,087,025) which
will receive a formal district office through the proposed restructuring, Croix-
des-Bouquets (population: 504,041), Jacmel (populations 266,599) and Petit Goave
(population: 254,653) for a total of 2.1 million people. About 46Z of the
population is urban and mainly concentrated in the Port-au-Prince metropolitan
area. The region corresponds to the political divisions of departments, with the
WHR containing the Western and Southeastern departments. The organizational
structure of the WHR Bureau shows a duplication of normative and supervision
functions of the central administration of the MSPP (Annex 2, Table 3).
2.31        Public and mixed public-private4 facilities include 23 hospitals, six
health centers with beds, 52 health centers without beds, and 65 dispensaries. In
addition. there are large number of private facilities, accounting for one-third
of all facilities in the region. Health facilities are fairly evenly distributed
according to the population in the districts. However, hospitals tend to be
concentrated in the Port-au-Prince area (Annex 2, Table 4).
2.32        Ron-Goverrmental Organizations (NGOs).  NGOs are very active in the
health sector in Haiti. Private health establishments, many of them run by
externally-funded private voluntary organizations, make up almost 502 of the
health facilities. Religious organizations represent a large share of these
establishments (Annex 2, Table 5). The MSPP classifies health establishments as
public, private or mixed depending on their ownership, funding sources and the
presence of MSPP-paid staff. The MSPP retains the right to revoke permits.
Revocations, which are rare, have occurred in cases of NGOs distributing expired
drugs or not presenting proper qualifications for personnel. In reality, NGOs
have operated mostly autonomously, which has led to a lack of integration of NGO
programs into the planning and information systems of the health sector.
2.33        In 1982, efforts to coordinate NGO interventions in the health sector
and to integrate private and public sector activities resulted in the creation of
the Association of Private Health Organizations (AOPS). AOPS, a non-profit
umbrella organization, currently groups nine major NGOs, including Save the
Children and ICC, and Cite Soleil and AMOSSE (two of the largest Haitian NGOs in
the health sector). AOPS main objective is to provide PHC services --in
4 Mixed public-private institutions typically consist of privately-owned
institutions partially staffed with MSPP-paid personnel.



9
particular vaccination, growth monitoring, education, and PP-- to mothers and
children. AOPS initial goal of covering one million people by 1988 has not been
attained; as of the end of 1988, coverage was estimated at less than 300,000.
Overall, the existence of AOPS has not increased the integration of activities
between the private and public sectors. Recently, the GOB and AOPS have expressed
a willingness to create a more positive working relationship.
2.34        Donor Activities.  USAID is financing child survival programs with
Haitian NGOs, and contributes over US$5 million a year to these efforts. In the
WHR, these programs cover about 202 of the population. Other bilateral agencies,
such as the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) and the German Agency
for Technical Cooperation, similarly tend to channel their aid to NGOs. The
United Nations Children Fund (UNICEF) and PAHO have collaborated with the MSPP in
the implementation of priority PHC interventions. Currently, major efforts are
underway to increase immunization coverage of children under five. Previous
efforts have focused on diarrheal disease control. UNFPA will be allocating a
total of US$2.3 million in the next four years for maternal health and VP
interventions. The Interamerican Development Bank is currently financing pre-
feasibility studies in the areas of nutrition, upgrading of tertiary care
facilities, and implementation of integrated referral systems.
2.35        External assistance in the health sector has been poorly coordinated
in the recent past, in part as a result of the lack of a clear policy framework
and operational priorities in the sector. In the process of preparation of the
proposed IDA project, donor coordination has been strengthened. Needed reforms
and possible future assistance in the sector have been tentatively agreed. Under
the project, an initial agreement with CIDA has been reached that would result in
CIDA's financing of the project's training sub-component (para. 3.28).
Health FirenR
2.36        There are three principal sources of funds to finance sector services.
Households use a portion of their income to pay for such services directly to
providers. This includes all direct payments made to physicians and institutions
for medical care and drugs, as well as payments for traditional medicine (i.e.
healers, midwives). According to estimates based on a limited household survey,
this component is the largest source of funding. In 1987, it represented about
41? of national expenditure for population, health, and nutrition activities. The
second source, or about 232 of total expenditure, is the portion of government
revenues used to finance MSPP services, including counterpart funding of
externally financed public investment. The third source, about 362 of total
funding is externally provided funds, both public and private, which are used to
pay for the current operating expenses of many private clinics and hospitals,
particularly in rural areas, and for virtually all public investment.
2.37        In light of Haiti's overall poverty, the country's aggregate
expenditures for population, health and nutrition services are substantial.
Funding of health expenditures reached 52 of GNP in 1987, and per capita spending
increased (in current US$) from US$14.4 tc US$23.2 in the 1981-87 period (Annex 2,
Table 6). The budget of the MSPP has increased over the past few years reaching
US$29 million or 16? of total government expenditures in 1987 from levels
fluctuating in the 11-16Z range over the past few years. Following large salary



10
increases in 1982 and 1987, (over 50Z in average) and continuous hiring of
personnel (over 401 increase in personnel in 10 years), personnel-related expenses
reached 87.5Z of the MSPP budget in 1988. In addition, hidden salary costs
(consisting if daily allowances and compensation for supervision) are also paid
out of the operating expenses budget and total an estimated 5-101 of the total
budget. This situation is in contrast with the more *normal" ratios of 62-672
experienced during the 1970s and early 1980s.
2.38        Budgeting and allocation of funds within the regions reflect certain
inefficiencies of the MSPP budgeting process and a high level of centralization in
decision making. The WHR, for instance, has over the past two years conducted
annual budgeting exercises which involved the district levels. However, because
funds are constantly stretched and decisions are made centrally, these budgets
have never been effectively implemented. In reality, salaries are directly paid
by the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF). As for non-salary operating
expenditures, the district administration distributes a monthly allowance to each
institution (once the overall operating budget has been centrally established for
each district). Hospitals in the region (with the exception of the HUEH) are
allocated an average of US$2,000, and health centers around US$100-400. For the
dispensaries, the district purchases materials and supplies for them and charges
these against the dispensary's account (typically US$50-150 per month). The
remaining funds are used by the district office to cover its administrative and
operational costs.
2.39        Charges to patients are defined at the central level for all
categories of institutiors. These charges typically range from US$0.10-0.25 for a
general consultation at the dispensary and health center level to US$60 for major
surgery at the HUEH (Annex 2, Table 7). It is unclear if this fee schedule is
consistently applied, and there is no system to track receipts generated. In
addition, the limited capacity to pay among the poorest households may result in
their failure to obtain preventive or essential services in health centers.
2.40        Bilateral and multilateral external assistance (excluding water
sanitation projects) represented an average disbursement of about US$12-13
million a year over the past five years. However, political circumstances have
resulted in the withdrawal of a significant portion of external support. Most
significant, the large USAID program (about US$5 million per year) has been
curtailed and is now being entirely channeled to the private sector.
Health Manpower
2.41        With about 8,000 employees (of which almost 900 are physicians) the
MSPP is, after the Ministry of Education, the second largest public sector
employer. The distribution of health personnel reflects the focus on hospital
care, and the concentration of staff in Port-au-Prince. On a national scale,
there were, in 1987, 12.2 doctors per 10,000 inhabitants. However, the ratio is
only 0.7 doctors per 10,000 inhabitants in the rural areas. The heavily
subsidized medical school produces a surplus of doctors estimated at 100 graduates
a year (1987), many of wqhom often receive specialized training abroad. Most
medical school training emphasizes curative, hospital-based care, rather than
preventive and community health care. A lack of training in PHC and practical
field experience has left medical graduates 'll-equipped to cope with the real



11
health needs of the population.  Current legal regulations specify norms for the
recruitment of personnel and for mandatory retirement at the age of 65.  These
norms, however. have rarely been complied with in the past.
2.42        The health manpower structure is top heavy with a critical shortage of
nurses, technicians and auxiliaries. In the past two years, the number of
graduating nurses and auxiliaries has been severely curtailed. Moreover, 60? of
all nurses and 802 of all laboratory technicians are concentrated in Port-au-
Prince, an inefficient allocation of support personnel. While the number of
trained health agents seems to be relatively high, the lack of supervision,
equipment and supplies makes them ineffective as outreach agents of the system.
2.43        The health system lacks a systematic approach to technical supervision
and reguIar in-service training of health personnel to increase the quality of
care. The health system is in critical need of major support to raise the
technical knowledge and skills of health workers, including auxiliaries, midwives
and healtn agents, in PHC, nutrition, and FP. The need for supervision and in-
service training opportunities is greatest for health personnel assigned to
peripheral facilities in rural areas.
B. Key Sector Issues
2.44        The Deteriorating Health Status.  The overall health status of the
Haitian population has deteriorated in the 1980s. First, the AIDS epidemic is
spreading in ur- - areas, emerging in rural areas, and will have an increasing
direct impact c    fant and young adult mortality in the near future.  The
economic impact of this disease resulting from the losses in years of healthy and
productive life among the workforce could be severe. The high incidence of TB
further compounds the problem. Second, the nutritional status of the population
is inadequate, given both the increasing population pressure and critical problems
of food availability. Third, the incidence of malaria is likely to increase due
to weakened vector control and surveillance programs. And fourth, the pervasive
rapid population growth, as reflected in a rise in total fertility rates,
continues. All four parameters may lead to an increase in under-five, young
adult, and maternal mortality. The deteriorating health status of the Haitian
population can only be countered by addressing the underlying financial,
organizational, and managerial imbalances that afflict the health system. The
impact of the AIDS and TB epidemics, and their potentially devactating economic
effect, however, require urgent interventions.
I       2.45         Unbalanced Budget Policy and Weak Financial Management.  The sectors
difficulties and deficiencies result, in part, from an unbalanced allocation of
*       financial resources, with 862-903 of the MSPP budget earmarked for salaries since
the mid-80s. This impedes the delivery of minimum quality services as the staff
lacks the adequate working "environment and tools'. The overall improvement of
the efficiency and quality of health services requires the restructuring and
reallocation of the MSPP budget. In addition, the sources and uses of revenue
generated by the fee schedule are not well understood, and the disincertive effect
of user fees on the poorest households may result in failure to obtain services.



12
2.46        Inadeauate Organization and imbnaement.  The health system at present
is unable to effectively provide basic services to rural and marginal urban areas.
This teflects the overwhelming centralization of the system, poor management
practices, excessive staffing, and inappropriate distribution of personnel by
region and level. The highly centralized nature of the MSPP has resulted in a
bureaucratic management culture with inflexible procedures, and has fostered a
reluctance to take decisive actions regarding policies affecting the delivery of
quality health care services. This management style is compounded by technical
weaknesses in staff, particularly at the district level, leading to a lack of
credibility of the public health care system in the general population. As a
result, couiunity participation, both in the planning and utilization of services,
has been low.
2.47        Inefficient Deployment and Poor Quality of Staff.  Health services
staff performance is inadequate in four aspects. There is: (a) a disparity
between training programs and the country's health needs; (b) an imbalance in the
health manpower structure, with a critical shortage of middle- and lower-level
personnel, and with a disproportionate concentration of personnel in Port-au-
Prince; (c) a lack of in-service training and technical supervision; and (d) a
lack of staff with administrative skills.
2.48        Past Prolect ExperienceslFinancial Discipline.  Past investments in
Haiti's health sector assisted by international or bilateral agencies have been
characterized by a general failure to achieve project goals. These shortcomings
can be attributed, in part, to weak institutio"?, poor systems for management and
control, and procedures that foster inefficiency in the utilization of project
funds. They can also be attributed, in part, to overly ambitious and complex
project designs, and to the underestimation of recurrent cost requirements.
Operating expenditures resulting from these proj3cts were never fully absorbed by
the MSPP. These experiences underecore the need for a limited scope and size for
the proposed proiect, and for ensuring financial discipline and realism.
C. IDAs9 Role
2.49        At present, IDA country assistance strategy for Haiti has three main
lines of action: (a) support of the economic reforms aud recovery program
initiated in 1986 through technical assistance and policy dialogue; (b) selected
investments for critical social services, education, water supply, and health,
directed to the lowest income households and in a framework of due attention to
finance, including sustainabLlity of recurrent expenditures, management and
institutional development; and (c) assistance to the GOB in securing external
financing for the social sectors by promoting consideration and cooperation among
donors. Since 1976, IDA has financed four operations to increase access to
primary education, among other objectives; a proposed Fifth Education Project is
under preparation to continue the expansion program as well as to strengthen
sector management. IDA has also recently approved a credit for a Port-au-Prince
Water Supply project (Credit 2052-HA) that will expand service coverage while
strengthening the operational efficiency. In order to address the most adverse
effects of the depressed economic situation, IDA is preparing a further credit to
support small-scale employment-generation projects and social assistance.



13
2.50        In extending the operations program to the health sector, the proposed
project would closely fit IDA country strategy, and he!p implement the
recommendations of the 1987 IDA sector review. These advocate: reallocation of
public resources in favor of PHC through increased financing of non-oalary
operating expenditures; decentralization of management including delegation of
operational responsibility to the district level; and greater participation of
NGOs in PHC. IDA's presence in the sector would facilitate the coordination of
activities of ot..r donors, by providing a framework for sector investments.  IDA
would, for axample, collaborate with WHO in implementing the AIDS and TB national
programs. Donor coordination would also be reinforced through the proposed
parallel cofinancing from CIDA for the training activities of the BHSDM component
(para. 3.28). IDA financing to rationalize PHC services delivery in one region,
the WHR, is expected to serve as a model for possible replication by donors to
other parts of the country.
2.51        In view of the mixed record of involvement of other donors in the
sector, and lessons learned from past IDA projects in the social sectors in Haiti
(e.g. aiming at resolving fundamental issues affecting the performance of the
sector rather than dealing with short-term issues5), IDA would set a cautious and
pragmatic approach for this project. First, the r_kional focus of the project's
major component would allow a less complex project detign favoring iai;oved
management control. Second, a limitation of project size would encourage faster
project implementation and, most importantly, restrict funding requirements for
incremental recurrent costs to sustainable levels. Third, the project's policy
reform and institutional development orientation would ensure continuity in the
emphasis to support basic health services.
MII. THE PROJECT
A. Pro4ect Obiectives
3.01        The project aims at assisting the GOH in improving the country's
health status through selected investments linked to ir-reased efficiency and
effectiveness of expenditures in health. The objectives ares (a) reducing MSPP
central administration expenditures by about 352 in real terms; (b) changing the
ratio of salaries to operating expenses from the current 87.5/12.5 tn 70;30; (c)
implementing improved cost-recovery mechanisms for vedical services and druge; (d)
developing a moze coherent institutional framework involving the selective
atrengthening of key management and technical functions, and the development and
enforcement of personnel norms and standards; ke) for the population of the WHR,
reducing maternal and child mortality rates by 15? by the end of the third year of
the project, and by 40? by the end of the sixth year of the project; and (f)
countering the potentially devastating effect3 of the AIDS and TB epidemics.
5 Haiti- Second Education Project -PCR, June 1986.



14
B. Project Description
3.02        The proposed project consists of three components:  (a) institutional
development; (b) service delivery; and (c) epidemic prevention and control.
3.03        Institutional Development.  The objective of this component is to
facilitate the effective execution of the project's health service delivery
activities while ensuring the future sustainability of PHC programs in Faiti.
This would be accomplished throughs (a) development of simple budget allocation
indicators to monitor and facilitate a more affective use of public resources in
health: (b) design and implementation of more equitable cost-recovery mechanisms
for redical services and drugs; (c) reinforcement of MSPP's capacity to manage
civil works and development of better procedures for purchasing and distributing
drug supplies; and (d) redeployment of personnel in the WHR to achieve a more
balanced distribution between urban and rural areas. To support these actions,
the credit would finance about 20 man-months of technical assistance.
3.04        Health Services Deliver.  This component would consist of the
implementation of a Basic Health Services Delivery Model (BHSDM) in the WHR. The
BHSDM would make PHC services available to 2.1 milLion people living in rural ant
marginal urban areas in the four districts of the WHR and would be based on: (a)
creation of 30 commune-based local health systems called Programmatic Areas (PAs);
(b) the MSPP priority programs, in particular maternal and child health and FP;
'c) increased emphasis in the role of health workers to provide standard, simple,
health services in periodically scheduled population gatherings; and (d)
integration of activities with private sector institutions. The credit would
finance investments linked to increased efficiency in the delivery of PHC
services, including the upgrading of the health center/dispensary network, medical
equipment and supplies, vehicles, essential drugs, and technical assistance.
3.05         Epidemic Prevention and Control.  This component would include:
(a) Development of an integrated national TB control program; and (b) Support to
the WHO-coordinated medium-term AIDS Control Program. The project would support a
national TB control program aimed at reducing current prevalence rates through:
(i) conversion of the current treatment regime to a multiple drug short course
treatment to improve compliance and success rate without creating bacterial
resistaInce to the newly introduced drugs; (ii) expansion of treatment coverage;
(iii) maintenance of the present rate of BCG immunization of 60Z nationwide; (iv)
expansion of professional and para-professional education; and (v) provision of
expert supervision and evaluation. The project would support AIDS prevention and
control activities nationwide and would finance: Ci) laboratory testing
equipment, (ii) information, education, and communication (IEC) materials, (iii)
protective equipment and supplies for health persornel; and (iv) a conference on
AIDS-TB. This sub-component would be executed by the National AIDS Committee
under the coordination of the PAHO office in Haiti.



15
C. Pro1ect Components
Institutional Development   (estimated cost, US$4.1 million including
contingencies).
3.06        The institutional development cotuiepnent would focus on two key areas.
First, it would provide support for a restructuring of the MSPP, in particular for
the eff, tive implementation of decentralization and personnel policies, through
the development and monitoring of budgetary control systems based on simple
indicators. Second, it would strengthen the MSPP operational capacity through the
financing of technical assistance to reinforce key management and technical areas.
3.07        The restructuring of the MSPP is currently being carried out,
including a proposed organic law that will formalize, by December 31, 1990, key
changes at the central level of the MSPP, create nine departments, with the
concomitant phasing out of regional offices, and reinforce the administrative
structure of district offices. The effect of this restructuring on the WHR is
defined in Annex 3, Tables 1, and 2. Key changes contained in the proposed
restructuring contain IDA and PAHO recommendations. The complete draft
legislation has been submitted to IDA and is consistent with the scope and
objectives of the proposed project.
3.08        Given that prior reorganizations of the MSPP, while theoretically
designed to streamline the organizational structure, have led to substantial
increases in personnel and salary levels (in particular at the central level), it
was agreed during negotiations that, in order to attain the overall containment on
salary expenses (para. 3.11), central administration expenditures will decrease
(in real terms) by 25Z by September 1990 from their June 1989 level; and by 15Z by
September 1992 from their September 1990 level (para. 7.02).
3.09        While the MSPP favors a decentralization policy, no mechanisms are in
place to guarantee an effective transfer of human and financial resources to the
district and commune levels. The project, as part of the Service Delivery
component, would redeploy existing personnel in the WHR to attain a more balanced
distribution of staff between urban and rural areas (para. 3.17). This would be
achieved through the enforcement of recruitment and re¢:irement policies; the
strengthening of personnel norms and standards, including job descriptions and
prerequisites for each position; and the creation of incentives for staff to work
outside Port-au-Prince (e.g. building of housing facilities for health personnel
in remote rural areas [para. 3.23]).
3.10        The project would rationalize the cost-recovery mechanisms to ensure
more optimal levels of operating funds for health centers and dispensaries. It
would also seek to clarify the application of the existing fee schedule and its
impact on demand for services among the very poor. Direct payments for public
medical care and drugs may represent a substantial share of resources. However,
the lack of transparency in the collection and accountability of user charges
leads to inefficiency. Technical assistance would be provided during the first
year of the project to complete a comprehensive study of cost-recovery policies
and mechanisms, including recommendations on specific actions to be implemented
during the project. It was agreed during negotiations that the cost-recovery
study will be completed and discussed with IDA by April 1991, and improved cost-



16
recovery mechanisms, following recommendations of this study agreed by IDA and the
MSPP, will be put into effect by September 1991 (para. 7.02). Further technical
assistance would take place in years three and five of the project to follow-up on
the implementation of these improved mechanisms.
3.11        Containment of SalarZ Expenses. In addition to the proposed reduction
in budgetary resources devoted to central administration, the project would
establish goals for the MSPP's budget allocation of salary expenses. The ratio of
salaries to operating expenses would progressively change from the present
e7.5112.5 level to 70130 by fiscal year 1994. Based on the present MSPP budget
(about US$28 million), this would translate into a reallocation of US$4-4.5
million from salaries to operating expenses. This reduction of salaries by
approximately 352 (in real terms) over five years would be obtained through a
combination of careful screening of new employment, application of retirement
policy, normal attrition, and selective personnel cuts.  In addition, the ratio of
salaries to operating expenses ratio could be further reduced through a potential
increase in operating funds resulting from improved cost-recovery mechanisms.
During negotiations an agreement was reached that the MSPP shall take all measures
as shall be necessary to achieve at the end of the fiscal years 1990, 1991, 1992,
1993, 1994 and each year thereafter the ratios between salaries and operating
expenses of 84.5/15.5, 81/19, 77.5122.5, 74/26, 70/30, and 70/30 respectively
(para. 7.02).
3.12        A number of accompanying measures would need to be implemented to
reach this goal. To guarantee that resources freed from salaries can be fully
utilized for operating expenses, it was agreed during negotiations that budgeted
resources which are not required any longer to cover staff remuneration
expenditures within any given fiscal year, due to savings in staff related budget
items, remain available to the MSPP, during such fiscal year or following ones,
for other MSPP operating expenses including, but not limited to, medical equipment
and supplies (para. 7.02). To implement retirement policies as provided by
current legal regulations, a specific retirement target of 220 persons for the
first year of the project was agreed during negotiations (para. 7.01). Retirement
targets for subsequent years of project implementation would be reviewed by IDA
during the annual progress reviews (para. 5.04). To insure transparency of
financial information an agreement was reached during negotiations that data bases
and financial information of the MSPP and the MEF will be substantially
consistent, so as to enable stricter control over MSPP's salary expenses (para.
7.02). Two man-months of technical assistance would be provided by the project to
assist the MSPP in the implementation of the budgetary reforms, in particular, to
defign necessary personnel policies and actions to fulfill the annual objectives.
3.13        The institutional capacity for procurement and distribution of drugs
would be strengthened and would involves (a) the reinforcement of the national
drug procurement and distribution agency (AGAPCO); and (b) the improvement of the
local capacity to manage pharmacies in health institutions, and in particular to
oversee cost-recovery and quality assurance procedures. To this aim, the project
would finance ten man-months of technical assistance, the upgrading of three drug
storage facilities at the central and district level, and the purchase of one
small truck and two vehicles to improve the distribution and supervision capacity.
As an initial phase in the cost-recovery study, technical assistance would be
provided to clarify existing mechanisms for payment of medical supplies, and to



17
set up transparent mechanisms in the collection and accountability of proceeds
from the sales of drugs.
3.14        The Institutional caDacit? for planning. procurement and execution of
civil works would be reinforced through the creation of a small Civil Works
Technical Office (CW!O) in the Project Management Unit (PMU). The CWTO would be
responsible for: (a) developing standard plans for new facilities and large scale
rehabilitation works included in the project; (b) selecting consulting engineers
firms and regional contractors; and (c) supervising conotruction and
rehabilitation work. The proposed credit would finance the salary of a chief
engineer. In addition, the CWTO would receive periodic technical assistance
(about four man-months) to strengthen its normative and technical skills.
Service Delivery (estimated cost, US$21.1 million including contingencies).
3.15        The broad objective of this component is to contribute to a reduction
in morbidity and mortality in the VIR with a particular targeting of mothers and
children. This objective, in turn, will be accomplished by providing support to
the decentralization of the service delivery system to the commune level. The key
elements in the development of the BHSDM ares (a) organization of the project
area in conmmune-based local health systems called PAs; (b) delivery of simple,
standard services through the "rally post" approach (para. 3.18); and (c) support
to selected private NGOs in the project area. The project would finance specific
investments, most notably to upgrade the physical infrastructure, to provide
medical equipment, supplies and drugs, and to reinforce the supervision capacity
through the purchase of vehicles.
3.16        Organization of Service Delivery in PAs.  The BHSDM needs to be
flexible to accommodate the epidemiological and demographic characteristics of
marginal urban areas of Port-au-Prince as well as isolated rural areas. The
project would rationalize the system through the organization of health care
institutions in 30 PAs, of which six are in the Port-au-Prince metropolitan area
(Annex 3, Table 3). A PA is a well-defined geographical area circumscribed around
a number of health care institutions under the supervision of a multidisciplinary
team. The PA team would assume responsibility for planning, coordinating and
evaluating activities carried out by health institutions in the PA catchment area.
At the health center and dispensary level, community doctors and auxiliaries would
be responsible for the provision of PHC services. Health agents, who are outreach
health workers salaried by the MSPP, would deliver simple, standardized, and
effective health services at the community level. Health agents would receive
support from other volunteer workers of the community as well as periodic support
and supervision from the auxiliaries responsible for the closest dispensary or
health center, or other more senior personnel who would meet them at the "rally
post,. Staffing profiles for each level of the PA were reviewed and approved by
IDA (Annex 3, Table 4).
3.17        The project would, whenever feasible, reallocate human resources (in
particular doctors and nurses) from the Port-au-Prince area to other understa.fed
areas of the WM. Hiring of new staff would only take place when needs cannot be
met. It is estimated that 85Z of the identified unmet personnel needs in the
PAs --most notably 16 commune doctors, 28 nurses, 11 sanitary officers, and 160
health agents--, would be satisfied through the redeployment of existing



18
personnel. Eighteen PAs6, selected on criteria of adequate staffing, current
demand for services, and past performance, would initiate project activities
during the first year of the project. Project activities would be extended to the
other 12 PAs during the second and third years, once the selection and appointment
of personnel for the PA team and other service delivery personnel is completed.
Prior to negotiations, the MSPP submitted a detailed plan, reviewed and agreed by
IDA, for the redeployment of existing personnel in the WHR during the first year
of the project. It was agreed during negotiations that the MSPP shall maintain
each PA staffed, or cause each PA to be staffed in accordance with staffing
profiles (para. 7.02). A condition of credit effectiveness would be that the GOH
presents evidence that key staff positions in the PAs programmed to initiate
activities during the first year of the project have been filled (para. 7.03).
3.18        The "Rally Post' AyProach.  The BHSDM is based on the delivery of
selected interventions through the 'rally post" approach. This approach is based,
in turn, on initial registration of the entire population to be served by the
health agent responsible for a given geographic area. Such registration, to be
carried out by the health agent with support from personnel of the nearest health
institution, seeks to identify, in particular, the target mothers and children who
would then be gathered together at regular intervals (on average once a week) by
the health agent in a convenient location where basic health services are
delivered7 (Annex 3, Table 5). The "rally post' approach also asstumes that health
agents will treat acute illnesses whenever it is necessary and will use non-rally
post days to make follow-up visits to persons who failed to attend the rally posts
for their scheduled visit.
3.19        Sumaort for NG0.  A working group including representatives of the
MSPP and of NGOs was established during the preparation of the project. It
defined the role of NGOs in the health delivery system of the project area, and
the possible contractual arrangements that would rationalize the system
(especially to avoid overlapping of services). It also designed procedures to
channel project funds to NGOs for the rehabilitation works and equipment. Nine
NGO institutions have been selected to participate in the project (Annex 3, Table
6). As a condition of disbursement for rehabilitation of facilities of
participating NGOs, an agreement, on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA,
stipulating the role, responsibilities and reporting requirements of the NGO, and
type of expenditures to be financed under the project, would be signed between the
NGO and the MSPP (para. 7.04).
3.20        Based on the o:ganizational and operational framework defined above,
the project would finance activities to: (a) reinforce the capacity of
6 Cathddrale, Portail de Leogane, Cite Soleil, St. Martin I, Carrefour,
Petionville, Bainet, Cabaret, Croix-des-Bouquets, Jacmel, Leogane, Petit-Goave,
Thomazeau, l'Arcahaie, Kenscoff, Cbtes de Fer, Grand Go&ve and Thiotte.
7 Typicallys (a) pregnancy related services (new pregnancy registration,
antenatal care and tetanus immunization);  (b) family planning (distribution of
condoms/pills); (c) medical treatment (distribution of oral rehydration packages and
of drugs for TB and malaria); (d) infant and child care (mimmunizations, growth
monitoring); and (e) health education activities.



19
institutions to provide FP and maternal and child health services, and organize a
Safe Motherhood conference; (b) upgrade the health center/dispensary network; (c)
create a sustainable, safe and affordable supply of drugs; (d) reinforcee the
training and supervision capacity; and (e) improve sanitation and water supply
conditions.
3.21        Strenathenin   PP and Maternal and Child Health.  The project would
support a series of activities designed to strengthen FP and maternal and child
health. Eleven institutions8 (hospitals and hualth centers), and a mobile unit
would be equipped to provide FP information and services. This would involve the
financing of equipment, furniture, supplies, drugs, materials, and a vehicle9.
The training program (para. 3.27) would be supplemented by a series of special
one-day workshops and seminars on maternal and child health and FP for community
leaders and professional groups, which would be offered annually at the district
and department levels.
3.22        The project would finance IEC activities in the areas of mass media,
printed materials, and the production of flip charts and video cassettes, to
promote and reinforce maternal and child health and FP messages and programs.
These activities would be strengthened by technical assistance ins (a) delivery
of FP services at the clinical level and at the community level; (b) development
of IEC strategies; (c) implementation of procedures for screening and referring
women at obstetric and reproductive risk; (d) improvement of data collection on
maternal mortality and abortion; and (e) carrying out of a nutrition study to
assist the MSPP in identifying viable interventions to decrease malnutrition and
to assess the viability and effectiveness of these interventions on a pilot basis.
The project would also finance a conference on Safe Motherhood during the third
year of the project. This conference would be further supplemented with follow-
up seminars in the country's four health regions.
3.23        Upgradlna of the Health Center/Dispensary Network.  The MSPP has
established a priority list of 28 health institutions to be remodeled or
constructed (Annex 3, Table 7). The list includes the construction of 11 new
facilities (six dispensaries and five health centers) and the rehabilitation of 17
existing facilities (one dispensary and 16 health centers). Construction of the
11 new structures was based on the following criteria: (a) location of the new
structure would play a key role as a catchment area in the PA scheme; (b)
facilities were either non-existent in the priority areas or remodeling was not
viable due to poor physical condition of the existing structure; and (c) the
community would contribute the construction site. In addition, the project would
finance the construction of housing facilities for personnel of seven PA teams
located in isolated areas. During the rirst two years of the project two new
health centers would be constructed and three rehabilitated. Initial
architectural plans for these new constructions and remodelirgs have been
prepared, and are acceptable to IDA. Lists of equipment and furniture have been
8 The institutions include the University Hospital (HUEH), Isaie Jeanty,
P4tionville, Carrefour and St. Martin in Port-au-Prince; and Croix des Bouquets,
Bainet, Jacmel, Arcahaie, Grand Goave and Thiotte in the region.
9 The UNFPA will be providing the MSPP with contraceptives.



20
proposed by the NSPP, based on the inventory of current equipment of the centers
and dispensaries to be rehabilitated and standard MSPP lists. These lists have
been reviewed and are acceptable to IDA. The MSPP submitted to IDS evidence that
all sites for construction of new facilities are clear of encumbrances.
3.24        Lack of electrical supply has long been considered one of the
fundamental problems of a number of outreach health institutions. In many
instances, power for refrigeration boxes is provided by bottled gas which is
seldom available in a majority of sites. The capacity of these centers to
maintain appropriate stocks of vaccines and other drugs, and to sterilize surgical
equipment is limited by this lack of power supply. The project would finance the
installation of photovoltaic equipment in 14 outreach health centers. during the
third year of project execution (Annex 3. Table 8).
3.25        Distribution of Pharmaceuticals.  The overall objective of this sub-
component would be to improve the access of the public of the WHR to a sustainable
supply of safe, effective, and affordable drugs. To this end, and based on the
proposed strengthening of the institutional capacity for procurement and
distribution of drugs, the project would provide: (a) seed stocks of 30 essential
drugs and essential medical supplies to serve as working capital for the drug
supply unit; and (b) in-service training and drug information services for
practitioners to improve the skills of health workers in managing drug supply and
in prescribing and dispensing drugs.
3.26        Supervision.  The qualitative and quantitative increase in PHC
services in the WVR requires an improvement in present supervision performance.
In addition to an expanded and reorganized district administration, the project
would provide additional vehicles -- about 75 four-wheel drive vehicles, and 18
motorcycles -- and operating costs for supervision. Supervision guidelines were
reviewed by IDA during the preparation phase.
3.27        Tra! nla.  Successful execution of the BHSDM model would require
personnel (technical and managerial) capable of carrying out such a program.
Training would be specifically directed to personnel with responsibilities for
service delivery and management of PHC services at the district/commune level and
would involve: (a) training of departmental and district teams responsible for
management of health services in the WER (about 30 persons including physicians,
nurses, auxiliaries and sanitary officers); (b) management training of 30 PA
teams, involving about 120 persons (physicians, nurses, auziliaries and sanitary
officers); (c) technical updating in PHC and FP for about 100 physicians, 90
nurses, 360 auxiliaries, and 150 health agents; (d) technical training in PlC and
PP for about 20 new health officers and 160 new health agents; and (e) technical
updating for about 360 hospital personnel in the WHR.
3.28        The MSPP's Directorate of Health Education and Training (DESE) would
be responsible for the planning, coordination, and supervision of the training
component. DESE would need to be reinforced to assume this role, The project
would financet (a) technical assistance (about 50 man-months) in the form of
international consultants and local firms; (b) training materials and equipment;
and (c) per diem for trainers and trainees. Given CIDA's prior experience in
Haiti in PHC, and its current involvement in the training and IEC components of
the medium-term AIDS program, the GOH has requested CIDA financing (on a parallel



21
basis with the proposed IDA credit) for technical assistance in training. It is
expected that this cofinancing arrangement, which is already well underway, vill
be confirmed by January 1990.
3.29        Community Particioatlon.  The proposed project would also finance
targeted activities - increase community involvement and motivation in PHC
programs. These activities, to be executed only in rural areas, would involvet
(a) the construction of about 10.000 latrines under the supervision of district
sanitary officers; and (b) the protection and maintenance of 106 water sources
during the last three years of the project. Financing for this sub-component
would involve training, supervision per diem for sanitary officers, equipment and
materials.
3.30        Monitorima and Evaluation.  The MSPP prepared simple process and
outcome indicators to mon'tor and evaluate progress in project implementation and
impact on health status (Annex 3,Table 9). These were reviewed by IDA and agreed
during negotiations (para 7.01). The implementation of the BHSDH4 will require
improved data collection mechanisms in health institutions, more efficient
information flows between the various levels of the system, and enhanced data
processing. The project would finance technical assistance to help the MSPP
develop improved management information systems for the BHSDM (Annex 4).
Epidemic Prevention and Control   (estimated cost, US$8.5 million including
contingencies).
3.31        Under this component the credit would finance activities to:  (a)
develop an integrated national TB control program; and (b) support the Medium-
Term AIDS Control Program.
Development of an Integrated National TB Control Prosram
3.32        The proposed project would provide support to the MSPP in developing a
national integrated program for TB control. It would be aimed at increasing
treatment compliance and success rate, and expanding treatment coverage. To this
end, the project would finance a new multiple drug short course treatment,
integrate activities of the BCPLT and CAT programs, and expand professional and
para-professional capacity for diagnosis and supervision activities.
3.33        Conversion to a Multiple Drux Short-Course Treatment.  The current
standard treatment is inexpensive (US$10 per treatment), but has a relatively low
efficacy (80;Z 902 with the addition of streptomycin), low compliance rates due to
the long treatment period of 12 months (50X default rates), patient resistance
levels of about 202, and high risk of HIV infection concurrent with streptomycin
injections. As a result, the epidemiological impact of such treatment is
negligible. The project would finance a new drug regimen with isoniazid,
rifempin, pyrazinamide and ethambutol. The new regimen would guarantee an
efficacy close to 1002, better compliance rate as a result of the shorter
treatment period (6-8 months), no known resistance to therapy, and lower risk of
HIV infection.
3.34        On the assumption that the basic regimen would be a four drug
intensive phase of two months given three to five times per week, followed by a



22
to.'o drug consolidation phase of six months, a unit cost of US$25 per patient has
%aen derived. However, 10 of patients can be expected to be retreatment
* atients, and these patients require a more expensive regimen with a cost of
US$50. During the first year of the propoced project, it is expected that half
:.he cases would be treated with the new regimen. By the second year, 75? of cases
woould be treated with the new regimen; and this proportion would reach 100? in the
subsequent years10 (Annex 3, Table 10). In order to assist the MSPP in the
:;implementation of the program, the project would finance six man-months of
technical assistance.
3.35       Integration of Activities of the CAT and BCPLT Programs.  The project
,-ould reinforce the institutional capacity of the M1SPP to implement TB prevention
and control activities. This would be accomplished through the integration of
ctivities of the BCPLT and the CAT program.  The CAT program, initiated by ICC in
i974 is already operating in the provincial areas of Haiti (with a coverage of
around 20X), has a presence in Port-au-Prince through Grace Children Hospital and
aas an established reputation for the training of personnel in TB prevention and
control activities. ICC's operational experience and technical expertise would
::omplement BCPLT's normative capacity in achieving an increase in treatment
coverage. ICC's contribution to the project would include training of HSPP
-ersonnel and supporting the day-to-day planning, implementation and supervision
.ctivities of BCPLT. ICC will also participate, with BCPLT, PAHO and the PMU in
the TB Coordination Unit (para. 5.03).  A condition of credit effectiveness would
be that the MSPP and ICC have entered into an agreement on terms and conditions
ncceptable to IDA stipulating, inter alia. the role and responsibilities of ICC in
the implemsntation of the sub-component, and the type of expenditures of ICC to be
financed under the project (para. 7.03).
3.36        Strengthening of Diagnostic and Supervision Capacity.  Diagnosis of TB
.n Haiti would continue to be made mainly on the basis of sputum microscopy. In
-iew of the high cost of treatment, two positive findings are required for
'iiagnosis in all cases (i.e. two positive smears, or one positive smear and a
I-ositive culture or X-Ray). The project would finance microscopes, basic
laboratory equipment and reagents for 50 TB referral centers nationwide-, and 35
vehicles for supervision. Because of its expertise in TB training of laboratory and
clinical personnel, ICC would be responsible for the training and retraining of
staff, and would share respons'bilities with BCPLT in supervision activities.
Supervision would include both the review of all the positive and the equivalent
number of the negative slides by the supervisory staff and periodical inspection on
the spot.
3.37.        The strengthening of the National Reference Laboratory (NRLj is
essential. In addition to its supervisory role of all microscopy centers, it will
10 Criteria for the Selection of aatients for Treatment under Short-Term
Regsmtn:
(1) Patient with positive bacilloscopy
(2) Patient living at less than 45 min. walk from nearest health center
(3) PLtient with own transportation living at less than 1 hour by road
of the nearest health center
(4) Hospitalized patient with positive bacilloscopy
(5) All retreatment patients



23
perform sensitivity studies, diagnostic cultures, and applied research. Given
that the basic physical structure and equipment are already in place, the project
would finance only additional equipment and material needs for the operation of
the NRL. WHOtPAHO financed the participation of the NRL director at an
international training course in laboratory techniques in mid-1989.
Support to the National AIDS Control Program.
3.38        IDA, the MSPP and PAHO/WHO have reached an understanding that IDA
would finance specific AIDS control activities. These would be part of the AIDS
mid-term prevention and control program and would be integrated with: (a) the
BHSDH of the WER; and (b) the national TB control program (Annex 3, Table 11).
3.39        Integration of AIDS Control Activities with the BNSDK.  At the service
delivery level, the project would reduce transmission through injections and skin
piercing instruments by financing the supply of disposable gloves, gowns, single-
use needles and syringes in 37 selected institutions, as well as the development
of a manual on safety measures for health care workers. To reduce the risk of
transmissi')n through blood transfusion, the project would strengthen the blood
transfusion centers in Port-au-Prince and Jacmel.  Tni.s would entail supplying
equipment to perform confirmatory testing (Western Blot), training for laboratory
technicians in confirmatory testing, providing operational and safety supplies,
and undertaking renovation and modernization of physical plants. At the central
level, the project would finance materials and supplies to support the development
of a newsletter concerning AIDS situation and prevention activities in the
country. This newsletter would be distributed free of charge to health centers,
public and private physicians, and the interested public.
3.40        Integration of AIDS Control Activities with the National TB Control
Program. AIDS and TB control activities would be integrated nationwide in health
and social programs given the close epidemiological relation of both diseases.
This would require specific support for: (a) integrated training for auxiliaries,
nurses, and physicians in health institutions; (b) systematic HIV testing of
patients with TB with the use of rapid tests; and (c) joint epidemiological
evaluation of both diseases, particularly with studies focusing on clinical and
epidemiological follow-up of HIV positive TB patients. The project would finance
a conference on TB-AIDS during the third year of the project. This conference
would focus on the epidemiological association of both diseases, and on the
planning and implementation of joint TB and AIDS control programs.
3.41        The AIDS Prevention and Control Unit of the MSPP would be responsible
for the implementation, supervision, and evaluation of this component. Activities
would be conducted within the framework of the National AIDS Prevention and
Control Program which will be coordinated and monitored by the PAHO/WHO office in
Port-au-Prince. A legal arrangement specifying the role and responsibilities of
both the MSPP and PAHO in the implementation of this sub-component will be spelled
out in an agreement to be signed by PAHO/WHO and the MSPP. A condition of
disbursement of this sub-component would be that the MSPP has entered into an
agreement with PAHO on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, stipulating the
role of PAHO in respect of the carrying out of the sub-component and the
respective obligations of PAHO and the MSPP thereunder (para. 7.04).



24
3.42        Studles and Technical Assistance.  Terms of reference for studies and
technical assistance of all project components have been finalized and rev4ewed by
IDA. Final agreement was reached on these terms of reference during negotiations
(para. 7.01). Areas of technical assistance and estimated requirements per year
are defined in Annex 4.
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Cost of the ProJect
4.01        The total cost of the project is estimated at G 168.4 million or
US$33.7 million equivalent, net of taxes. Base costs are calculated at US$28.7
million equivalent, and contingencies at US$5.0 million equivalent. The foreign
exchange component would be US$22.4 million equivalent, or 66Z of total project
cost. The costs also include the refinancing of a Project Preparation Facility
(PPF) of US$560,000 approved in October 1987 and two increases of US$190,000
approved in April 1989, and of US$150,000 approved in November 1989. The
breakdown of costs by project components is shown in Table 4.1. Detailed cost
tables are presented in Annex 5.
Table 4.1s PROJECT COST SUIQURY
I          z
------- US$ Million -----    Foreign  Total Base
Local    Foreign    Total    Exchange    Cost
A. Institutional
Development                    2.0      1.6       3.6         43        13
B. Service Delivery               6.2     11.4      17.6         65        61
C. Epidemic Control               1.2      6.3        7.5        84        26
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS              9.4     19.3      28.7         67       100
Physical Contingencies          0.2      0.9       1.1         82         4
Price Contingencies             1.7      2.2       3.9         60        14
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS              11.3     22.4      33.7         66       117
Basis of Cost Estimates
4.02        Project costs are estimated at October 1989 prices.  There are no
identifiable taxes since all items imported specifically for the project would be
exempt from customs duties and taxes. Civil works estimates are derived from
current contracts for similar facilities in the project area. Costs of equipment,
vehicles, motorcycles. furniture, and supplies are based on agreed lists of items



25
and on the c.i.f prices of similar items procured in the country through UNICEF or
other sources. Costs of training, local and international consultants, and other
services reflect local or international rates, as applicable. Audit costs reflect
local rates.
Contingency Allowinces
4.03        Physical contingencies (averaging about 4Z of base costs) are
estimated at 10 for civil works, equipment, furniture, vehicles, and motorcycles;
and 5Z for educational materials, supplies and technical assistance. Price
contingencies (averaging about 14S of base costs) were estimated on the basis of
expected annual international price increases as followst 7.22 for the period
1989-90, and 4.41 per annum in the succeeding years. Local inflation is estimated
to range from 5.4X in 1990 to 4.71 in 1995. Total contingencies represent 181 of
base costs.
Foreign Exchange Component
4.04        The estimated foreign exchange content of the project is US$22.4
million or 661 of total project costs. The breakdown of the foreign exchange
content by category of expenditure is as followsv civil works, 601; furniture
98Z; vehiclea, motorcycles, and medical equipment, 10OZ; local training, 30?;
educational materials and supplies, 801; foreign technical assistance, 10O; and
drugs, 10O?. Estimates of the foreign exchange requirements is based on the
expectation thatt (i) all civil works contracts and architectut.£l services would
be carried out by local firms but the majority of construction materials would be
imported; (ii) all equipment, vehicles, motorcycles, and audio-visual materials
would be imported; and (iii) some materials used in furniture would be imported
but most of the furniture contracts are expected to be awarded to local suppliers.
S. Proect Financing
4.05        Total project costs are estimated at US$33.7 million equivalent. An
IDA credit of US$28.2 million (equivalent to SDRs 22.2 million) would finance 84Z
of total project costs, including 94Z of foreign exchange costs and 642 of local
costs.  The GOB would allocate the equivalent of US$3.1 million, which represents
91 of project costs and 271 of local costs.  Local contribution consists of
expenditures on salaries. CIDA would cofinance on a parallel basis the equivalent
of US$2.4 million, which represents 71 of total project costs (6Z of the foreign
exchange costs and 9Z of local costs). Table 4.2 shows the proposed project
financing plan.



26
Table 4.2:  IRhNCIN¢ PLAN
Amount            X
(US$ million)
IDA                 28.2             84
CIDA                 2.4              7
GOH                  3.1              9
33.7           100
C. Incremental Recurrent Costs
4.06        Total incremental recurrent costs generated over the implementation
period are estimated at US$5.3 million and represent 302 of the total cost of the
BHSDM component. These costs include incremental salaries for personnel who could
not be drawn from the existing MSPP payroll, maintenance and travel, supervision
allowances, utilities, supplies and other miscellaneous items. At full operation,
the project would require about US$1 million of recurrent expenditures or 42 of
the MSPP budget (at 1988 levels). The budget restructuring effort, including
enforcement of recruitment and retirement policies, would be closely monitored by
IDA and would provide a resource reallocation of about US$4 million by the fifth
year. This would guarantee the sustainability of project activities at the
conclusion of IDA's financing, and provide funding to aosorb recurrent costs
generated by the project. Furthermore, the rationalization of cost-recovery
mechanisms contemplated under the project should generate additional funds from
payments of medical services and drugs.
D. Procurement
4.07        Civil Works.  The upgrading of existing facilities and new
construction under the project would be contracted through competitive bidding
procedures locally advertised, satisfactory to IDA and which would &llow foreign
bidders to participate. While foreign firms may participate, it is however
anticipated that all civil works contracts would most likely be awarded to local
firms. This is because of; (i) the competitiveness of the local construction
industry; (ii) the dispersed location of health centers to be upgraded; and (iii)
t:e average low value of the rehabilitation works (average of US$50,000).  In
order to overcome MSPP's present weakness in managing procurement activities,
preparation of working drawings, managing the bidding process, selection of
contractors, and supervision of construction would be contracted with a consultant
to be selected following procedures that are satisfactory to IDA and in accordance
with IDA Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. The CWTO in the PMT, with the
support of IDA-financed technical assistance, would coordinate and supervise the
activities of the consultant (para. 5.02).
4.08        Goods.  Vehicles, motorcycles, medical/office equipment, materials and
supplies would be grouped to the extent possible in large packages to permit bulk
procurement and to benefit from economy of scale. Of these goods, vehicles,
motorcycles and other items to cost US$250,000 equivalent or more, would be



27
procured by the MSPP following ICB procedures in accordance with IDA Guidelines.
Minor technical equipment items and related supplies, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to US$5.3 million, which due to their nature are not suitable for
procurement through ICB or LIB, would be procured through International Shopping
(IS) by PAHO that would be acting as the procurement agent of the MSPP. The goods
included under this category include a large variety of items for which there are
limited sources of supply, strict quality requirements and relatively small
individual quantities.   PAHO is well suited to carry out these procurement
actions through its widespread involvement and experience in this field, with an
excellent record of economy and efficiency. Contracts would be awarded on the
basis of comparison of price quotations solicited, on the basis of detailed
technical and qual,ty requirements, from a list of at least six potential
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, with a wide geographical rep.resentation.
Any other goods, such as furniture and office supplies which would not be procured
through PAHO, and valued at more than US$20,000 equivalent but less than
US$250,000, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to US$0.6 mill-on, would be
procured through competitive bidding procedures advertised locally and
satisfactory to IDA. Purchases of small items, to cost less than US$20,000
equivalent, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to US$ 0.1 million, would be
procured following local shopping procedures, through price quotations obtained
from at least three eligible suppliers, unless otherwise agreed by IDA.
4.0v.       Druis.  Essential drugs, comprising about 30 items, mostly generic,
and TB drugs comprising about five items, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
US$5 million would, by reasons of economy and efficiency, be procured through PAHO
acting as the procurement agent of the MSPP, following International Shopping
Procedures acceptable to IDA. For this type of goods, and the particular needs of
this project, this is considered to be the most efficient and economic method for
procurement, since there is a limited number of competent manufacturers available
and the quality and testing requirements are strict. PAHO has a well established
and professional system for inviting and evaluating quotations; contracts would be
awarded on the basis of comparisons of price quotations solicited from a list of
at least six potential suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, with a wide
geographical representation. Procurement would be spread evenly through the six
years of the project to meet the annual requirements and local storage and
distribution capacities.
4.10        Services.  The selection and the appointment of consultants would be
done following procedures that are satisfactory to IDA and in accordance with IDA
Guidelines.
4.11        IDA Review Requirements.  Prior review by IDA would be required before
bids are invited and before a final decision on contract award is made for the
following procurement actions by the borrowert (i) for contracts of civil works
valued above US$200,000 equivalent or more; and (ii) for contracts for supply of
vehicles, office equipment, supplies, and furniture, valued at US$100,000 or more.
This would amount tn about 90Z of the total estimated value of civil works,
furniture, equipment and vehicles. Other contracts would be subject to post
review by IDA after contract award. Annex 6, Table 1 summarizes procurement
arrangements.



28
Table 4.3: PROUIDCURHT MHTWOD
(USS 1niUna)
Totu
Proiect Element              ICB       IS      LCB       Other     NA     Cost
Civil Works                                    3.5                         3.5
(3.5)                       (3.5)
Equipment, Furniture,
Medical Supplies,                   10.3                                 10.3
Drugs                              (10.3)                               (10.3)
Furniture, Office                              0.6        0.1              0.7
Supplies                                     (0.6)      (0.1)            (0.7)
Vehicles, Motorcycles        3.5                                           3.5
(3.5)                                         (3.5)
Training                                                  4.3              4.3
(1.9)            (1.9)
Technical Assistance                                      1.9              1.9
(1.9)            (1.9)
Project Management                                        2.3              2.3
Unit                                                    (2.3)            (2.3)
New Staff Salaries                                                 3.1     3.1
_-)   (- )
Veh. Op. & Maintenance                                    2.2              2.2
(2.2)            (2.2)
Supervision Allowances                                             1.0     1.0
(1.0)   (1.0)
'PP Refinancing                                                    0.9     0.9
(0.9)   (0.9)
TOTAL                        3.5     10.3      4.1       10.8       5.0    33.7
(3.5)   (10.3)    (4.1)      (8.4)     (1.9)  (28.2)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
E. Disbursement
4.12        Disbursements of the IDA credit would be as follows:  1001 of costs of
civil works; furniture, equipment, materials, medical supplies and drugs; vehicles
and motorcycles; local training costs (per diem, materials and transportation) and
fellowships for the training sub-component of the BHSDM; consultant fees
(excluding technical assistance financed by CIDA); salaries of the PMU and
operating costs; and refinancing of the PPF advance. The salaries of all
additional health staff would be financed by GOH. CIDA would finance technical
assistance for the training sub-component of the BHSDM. Annex 6, Table 2,
presents the allocation of credit proceeds; and Annex 6, Table 3, contains the
estimated schedule of disbursements.



29
4.13        All disbursements will be fully documented except for trainIng, and
operating costs (and contracts valued below US$20,000) which would be disbursed
against ttatement of expenditures with the supporting documentation being retained
by the Borrower for subsequent review by supervision missions and the auditors.
The Borrower would not submit reimbursement applications valued below $20,000.
4.14        Disbursements are expected to be completed by June 1996, about 6-1/2
years after credit effe-tiveness. There are no disbursement profiles available
for health projects in the country. The disbursement profile for health projects
in the region is 8-1/2 years. The project is expected to be implemented in six
years after effectiveness, having already benefited from 1-1/2 years of pre-
project activities. The project completion date would be December 31, 1995, and
the prolect closing date would be June 30, 1996.
F. Accounts and Audits
4.15        In order to facilitate timely implementation of the project, the
borrower would open and maintain a project account in Gourdes with an initial
deposit equivalent to US$750,000 million, representing three months of operating
expenditures. A condition of effectiveness would be that the GOB opens and
maintains this project account on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, and
deposits the initial amount in such account (para. 7.03).
4.16        The PMU would keep a separate account for project expenditures in
accordance with internationally accepted accounting procedures. During
negotiations an agreement was reached that the account will be audited annually by
an independent auditor acceptable to IDA, and copies of the audited statements
will be sent to IDA within six months of the end of the fiscal year (para. 7.02).
The aulditor's report would include an opinion and comments, as necessary, on the
project account and on methods employed in compiling the statements of
expenditure, their accuracy, the relevance of supporting documents, their
eligibility for financing in terms of the project's credit agreement, and the
standards of record-keeping and internal controls related to the foregoing. Audit
reports would be financed by IDA.
V. PROJECT IMPLDEENTATION
5.01        Status of Project Preparation.  The MSPP has organized a small and
high-caliber PMU, composed of capable managers who have carried out similar but
smaller scale programs with the MSPP, as well as administrative work with the
Ministry of Education under IDA-financed Education projects.  The MSPP has already
started the redeployment plan for the staffing of the WHR. A coordination unit in
charge of the TB sub-component is in place, and the AIDS sub-component would be
managed by the existing National AIDS Committee (para. 5.03). Existing facilities
are adequate to initiate the project. PPF-supported activities included the
employment of consultants, under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA, to
prepare the full aet of drawings, site plans, and bidding documents to be executed
in the first two years of the project. These documents are expected to be
comnleted by January 1990. Terms of reference for all technical assistance and



30
studies have been prepared. An overall procurement plan has been reviewed by IDA,
and bidding documents are under preparation for the first year requirements of
goods and services. All critical preparation work would be completed in time for
the scheduled project start-up in Harch 1990. CIDA's cofinancing arrangement is
well underway and final confirmation of this arrangement is expected by January
1990.
5.02        Project Hanagement Responsibilities.  Overall authority for ranagement
of the proposed project would be vested in the Minister of Health. Day-to-day
planning, monitoring and evaluation of the project would be provided through the
PHU, drawing on the relevant MSPP units. Three key positions have been identified
in this unit: (a) an Executive Director, detached from the MSPP to lead the unit,
would provide technical expertise on public health matters, coordinate the
execution of all activities of the Service Delivery component, the TB Control
Coordination Committee, and the National AIDS Committee; (b) a Project Controller,
with a financial and management information systems background would be
responsible for improving existing management information systems and for setting
up budget and control procedures; and (c) a Chief Engineer would coordinate and
supervise the CWJT0. IDA's condition thac these positions be filled prior to
negotiations was fulfilled. Qualifications of the nominees for the Project
Director, the Controller and the Chief Engineer have been reviewed and approved by
IDA. It was agreed during negotiations that the HSPP shall provide the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the operation of the PMU,
and shall accordingly maintain at all times within its staff an Executive
Director, a Project Controller and a Chief Engineer all of whom shall be persons
with qualifications and experience 5atisfactory to IDA (para 7.02).
5.03        Activities of the TB control sub-component would be managed by the
director of the BCPLT. A Coordination Committee, composed of representatives of
the MSPP, ICC, the PMU, and WHO/PAHO, would exercise control over management, and
would plan and evaluate project activities. It was agreed during negotiations
that the HSPP shall create and maintain the Coordination Committee throughout the
project implementation period. The AIDS Control sub-component would be managed by
the National AIDS Committee. As the coordinating agency of the medium-term
prevention and control program, WHO0PAHO would monitor and evaluate the execution
of activities.
5.04        Implementation Schedule, Monitoring and Review.  The project would be
completed within a six-year period beginning in early 1990 (Annex 6, Table 4). It
was agreed during negotiations that the MSPP shall, on each year during the
execution of the project, and no later than a date four months prior to the
beginning of the next fiscal year: (a) submit to IDA for review and comments the
public sector health budget and for approval the detailed plan of project
expenditures for the next following year; and (b) conduct annual proiect progress
reviews in respect to execution and impact and in respect to budgetary allocation
and management of health resources (para. 7.02). The first ycar work program and
budget were agreed during negotiations (para. 7.01) and a request for the local
budget contribution for FY90 was approved by the GOH prior to negotiations.



31
VI.  PROJECT BE=EPITS. JUSTIFIC&TION AND RISKS
A. Benefits and Justification
6.01        The project's main benefit, and thus its basic justification, would be
to extend health service coverage and improve the health status of up to 2.1
million people in the WHR; and control the spread of two major epidemics, AIDS and
TB, nationwide. Specifically, the development of the BHSDM is expected to help
reduce mortality and morbidity, particularly of mothers and children, resulting
from diarrheal diseases, respiratory diseases, diseases preventable by
immunization, and from pregnancy complications. In addition, the project would
lay the basis for intensifying FP. The financing of medium-term activities of the
National AIDS Zontrol Program, and of the national TB control sub-component, would
provide immediate support to two major public health crises that are having a
negative impact on health status, health financing, and the workforce, and have
the potential for causing severe human and economic losses in an already poverty-
stricken country.
6.02        A second major benefit of the project would be the improvement of the
effectiveness and efficiency of the health system by addressing financial and
institutional issues. A more rational and equitable awlocation of public funds
within a more coherent institutional framework would strengthen the operational
capacity of the MSPP and improve the equity and quality' of services. This, in
turn, would rebuild beneficiary trust in public services, and facilitate future
external financing of the sector.
B. Risks
6.03        The project faces four main risks.  The first concerns the
implementation capacity of the MSPP. The MSPP is organizationally weak, lacks the
operational capacity to effectively implement programs at the local level, and has
over the years experienced failures in projects financed by international or
bilateral organizations. The lack of implementation capacity of the MSPP is
further compounded by the general political and social instability of the country.
The second risk concerns the possibility of delays is implementing the
decentralization strategy, particularly in regard to personnel. The third risk
concerns the lack of financial discipline in the sector. It is key to project
success that strategies aimed at reducing salaries as a percentage of operating
expenditures, and at bringing transparency to the budgeting and accounting
processes, be implemented. A lack of financial discipline and budgetary control
would also trigger the generation of recurrent costs that could not be absorbed by
the sector at the completion of the project. The fourth risk involves the health
sector inexperience with IDA-financed and policy-based health projects.
6.04        Project risks would be reduced by attention to institutional
development, technical assistance, improved donor coordination, and the creation
of a small and high-caliber PMU. The gradual phasing of policy measures,
supported by annual progress reviews, would also minimize project risks. In
addition, technical discussions on procurement and disbursement took place at IDA
headquarters prior to negotiations, and intense supervision efforts by IDA (four
missions per year) have been planned, particularly for the first two years of
implementation.



32
VII. AGRUEENTS REACHED AND UCOIOENMTION
Asreeasnts Reached
7.01        The Government prepared and brought to negotiations the iollowing
which were reviewed and agreed with IDA:
(a) specific retirement targets for the first year of the project (para.
3.12);
(b) process and outcome indicators to monitor and evaluate progress in
project implementation and impact on health status (para. 3.30);
(c) terms of reference for all studies and technical assistance (para.
3.42); and
(d) the first year work program and budget (para. 5.04).
7.02        It was agreed during negotiations that:
(a) central administration expenditures will decrease (in real terms) by 25Z
by September 1990 from their June 1989 level; and by 15Z by September 1992
from their September 1990 level (para. 3.08);
(b) the cost-recovery study will be completed and discussed with IDA by
April 1991, and improved cost-recovery mechanisms, following recommendations
of this study agreed by IDA and the MSPP, will be put into effect by
September 1991 (para. 3.10);
Cc) the MSPP shall take all measures as shall be necessary to achieve at the
end of the fiscal years 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 and 1994 and each year
thereafter the ratios between salaries and operating expenses of 84.5115.5,
81/19, 77.5/22.5, 74/26, 70/30, and 70/30 respectively (para 3.11);
(d) budgeted resources which are not required any longer to cover staff
salary expenditures within any given fiscal year, due to savings in staff
related budget items, will remain available to the MSPP, during such fiscal
year or following ones, for other MSPP operating expenses including, but not
limited to, medical equipment and supplies (para. 3.12);
(e) data bases and financial information of the MSPP and the MEF will be
substantially consistent, so as to enaule stricter control over MSPP's
remuneration expenses (para. 3.12);
(f) the MSPP shall maintain each PA staffed, or cause each PA to be staffed
in accordance with staffing profiles (para. 3.17);
(g) the project account will be audited annually by an independent auditor
acceptable to IDA, and copies of the audited statements will be sent to IDA
within six months of the end of the fiscal year (para. 4.16);



33
(h) the MSPP shall provide the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the operation of the PMw, and shall accordingly
maintain at all times within its staff an Executive Director, a Project
Controller and a Chief Engineer all of whom shall be persons with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA (para 5.02); and
(i) the MSPP shall, on each year during the execution of the project, etd no
later than a date four months prior to the beginning of the next fiscal
years submit to IDA for review and coments the public sector health budget
and for approval the detailed plan of project expenditures for the next
following year; and conduct annual project progress revLews in respect to
execution and inpact and in respect to budgetary allocation and manag8ment
of health resources (para. 5.04).
7.03        During negotiations the following conditions of credit effectiveness
vere agreeds
(a) that the GOH presents evidence thut key staff positions in the PAs
programed to initiate activities during the first year of the project have
been filled (para. 3.17);
(b) that the MSPP and ICC have entered into an agreement on terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA stipulating, inter alia, the role and
responsibilities of ICC in the implementation of the TB control sub-
component, and the type of expenditures of ICC to be financed under the
project (para. 3.35); and
(c) that the GOB opens and maintains a project account on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA, and deposits the initial amount in such
account representing three months of operating expenses (para. 4.15).
7.04        During negotiations the following conditions of credit disbursement
were agreed:
(a) for rehabilitation of facilities of participating GOs, that an
agreement, on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, stipulating the
role, responsibilities and reporting requirements of the NGO, and type of
expenditures to be financed under the project, vould be signed between the
NGO and the MSPP (para. 3.19); and
(b) for the National AIDS Control Program sub-component, that the NSPP has
entered into an agreement with PAlO on terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA, stipulating the role of PAHO in respect of the carrying out of the sub-
component and the respective obligations of PAHO and the MSPP thereunder
(para. 3.41).
Recommendation
7.05        Based upon the above agreements, assurances, and  conditions, this
project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of SDR 22.2 million
(US$28.2 million equivalent) to the Republic of Haiti.



35
MITI - IRST  HATH PROJT
AS



37
ANNEX 1
Page I of 3
HAITI - FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
A. Population Indicators
Table 1: PREVALENCE OF MODERN CONTRACEPTIVE METHODS
(Women in Union in Reproductive Age, 15-49 Age Group)
(X)
SURVEY            RURAL    URBAN     P-AU-P      NATIONAL
EMMUS (1987)      3.7       6.2         8.2         4.9
EHPC (1983)       2.5       7.1         8.8         3.9
EHF (1977)                                          5.4
Table 2: TOTAL FERTILITY RATE
(Women in Union in Reproductive Age, 15-49 Age Group)
SURVEY
EHF          EHPC         EMMUS
TFR            5.48          6.40          6.80
EMMUS: Enqufte sur la Mortalite, la Morbidite et l'Utilisation
de Services, 1987
EHPC: Enquete Haitienne de la Prevalence de la Contraception,
1983
EHFt  EnquAte Haitienne de la Fecondite, 1977



38
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 3
HAITI - FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
B. Health Indicators
Table 3: PRINCIPAL CAUSES OF DEATH, ALL AGES
Albert Schweiczer
Hospital
Diagnosis              Percent            1lSPP, Rank
Malnutrition            31                     7
Diarrhea                15                     1
Pneumonia               12                     3
Tuberculosis            10                     8
Meningitis               7                     -
Septicemia               6                     -
Typhoid                  4                     5
Tetanus                  3                     _
Source:  Albert Schweitzer Hospital (1980) and MSPP (1979).
Table 4: AIDS CASES RELATIVE TO OTHER COUNTRIES IN THE AMERICAS
(1988)
Cumulative
Country              Cases              Percent
USA                    85,635               85
Brazil                  4,946                5
Canada                  2,449                2
Mexico                  2,158                2
Haiti                   1,849                2
Others                  3,825                3
Source: Pan American Health Organization/World Health
Organization (PAHO/WHO).  As of December 31, 1988.



39
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 3
HAITI - FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
C. Nutrition Indicators
Table 5: PREVALENCE OF MALNUTRITION BY REGION, 1978 a/
Region          Third     Second    First    Normal
…I…______ __…_ -----------------
Northwest         3.0      22.8       48.8      25.4
North             5.7      28.5       46.2      19.e
Artibonite        2.5      28.3       45.4      23.7
West              2.7      23.4       47.2      26.8
South             3.6      25.9       46.0      24.5
Port-au-Prince    1.5      13.1       43.8      41.7
Haiti             3.2      24.1       46.0      26.8
Source:  National Nutrition Survey, Haiti 1978
Bureau of Nutrition - DSPP/AID/CDC
a/ See the list of Population, Health and Nutrition terms
for the definition of the third, second, and first
degree of malnutrition.
I
!



"1°  1[   [ [X  --i Lfei Li L,.{j, 
li lI 1lii              I I-ii                              -{l
It4          .        11                           --t- 
I1                             {i~~~~1I   tl2    -{ 1]I{
HI~ ~ ~~dti   ___]   __i
I~~~~~~| ] -{1]
I                {iii]      -~~~~=~~{ilLI]
-~~~~~~~~ _                                                 .



41
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 6
HAITI - FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
Table 2: PROPOSED STRUCTURE OF THE MINISTRY OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND POPULATION
MINiSTER
DIRECTOR
GENERAL
ASSISTANT           ASSISTANT                 ASSISTANT          ASSISTANT
DIRECTOR            DIRECTOR                  DIRECTOR           DIRECTOR
GENERAL              GENERAL                   GENERtAL           GENERAL
PRIOR m         PUBLIC ASSISTANCE              PU3UC           ADMINISTRATION
rxu;
|  DISTRICTS      l



42
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 6
HAITI - FIRS? HEALTH PROJECT
Table 3: STRUCTURE OF TEE WESTERN HEALTH REGIONAL BUREAU
DIIECTOR
I
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR
|ACCOUNTINGj
-LADMINITRSION|                       PERSONNEL l
NFURSIENG                       PRIORITY PROGRAMS:
i) health education
ii) oral rehydration and
EPIDEMIOLOGY                           breastfeeding
iii) malaria/tuberculosis
iv) family planning
v) vaccination
STATISTICS                       vi) nutrition
vii) AIDS
PHARMACY
L4SN1
DETITR



43
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 6
HAITI - FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
Table 4: HEALTH FACILITIES IN THE WESTERN HEALTH REGION
HOSPITALS
Public    Mixed    Private    Total
DISTRICT
Port-au-Prince                4         4         10        18
Jacmel                        1         0          0         1
Croix-des-Bouquats            1         0          0         1
Petit Goave                   2         1          0         3
---------------------------------------
8         5        10         23
HEALTH CENTERS WITH BEDS
Public    Mixed    Private    Total
DISTRICT
Port-au-Prince                1         1          0         2
Jacmel                        1         1          0         2
Croix-des-Bouquets            0         0          0         0
Petit Goave                   1         0          1         2
----------------------------------------
3         2         1          6
HEALTH CENTERS WITHOUT BEDS
Public    Mixed    Private    Total
DISTRICT
Port-au-Prince               12         7         13        32
Jacmel                        2         0          1         3
Croix-des-Bouquets            5         8          1        14
Petit Goave                   2         1          0         3
----------------------------------------
21        16        15         52
DISPENSARIES
Public    Mixed    Private    Total
DISTRICT
Port-au-Prince                0        12         10        22
Jacmel                       10         °          1        13
Croix-des-Bouquets            7         2          8        17
Petit Goave                   7         4          2        13
24---------20--------------------65-----
24        20        21         65



44
ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 6
HAITI - FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
Tabl. 6: NCO PRESENCE BY REGION IN THE HEALTH SECTOR
Reaon             Sumntiti,       % of "Oo
Western                132                 48
Southern                87                 18
Tranversal              B8                 21
Northern                50                 1S
TOTAL              277               100
Source: Staff estimates.
TABLE 0
Table 6: AGCREGATE HEALTH EXPENDITURES, PUBLIC, PRIVATE NCO0
AND PRIVATE HOUSEHOLDS, 1921, 1983, 1980, 1927
(Current US$ Million)
80urce of Finaneo               1921       1983      1966     1987
Govt. of haitt (including          23         84        87       46
grante and conoes lonary
loane frem foreign donors
Private and voluntary or-           6         16        26       sO
ganizations
Private householda, direct         43         51        58       63
paymente to private
providers
Total health *xpendltures          72        101       116      128
Total health expenditures        14.4       19.8      22.8     28.2
per capita, US
Soure:  . H. Dovil ore-Ewenezyck,  1986



45
ANNEX 2
Page 6 ot 6
HAITI - FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
Table 7: PATIENT FEES FOR SERVICES - HAITI PUBLIC HEALTH SYSTEM
University HosPital                                                    US$
General Consul tation                                                 0.75
InJ ctions                                                            0.20
Minor surgical Interventions (local anesthesia)                          2
Dental extraction (per tooth)                                            1
HNmogram                                                              1 .2S
Elysa teat (HIV toat)                                                 Free
Tb smear ( b teat)                                                    From
Thorax X Ray                                                             8
ECO                                                                      C
Hospitalization tee per day         (non-private room)                   a
(private room)                  10-200
Minor surgical lntervention.                                            40
Major surgical Intervention*                                            6o
Deliveries                                                               5
Regional and District Hoepitals
oeneral Con.ult.ation                                                 0.40
Injoctione                                                            0.20
MInor surgical Interventions (loeal aneathesia)                          1
Dental extraction (per tooth)                                            1
Hospitall7ation foe per day         (non-private room)                   2
(private room)                    8-15
Minor surgical intervention                                             30
Major surgical intervention                                             S0
Deliverles                                                               4
HNmogram                                                                 1
Tb smear (Th test)                                                    Free
Thorax X Ray                                                             4
ECO                                                                      8
CSL and CAL
General consultation                                                  0.20
Injection                                                             0.20
Minor surgical intervention                                              2
Dental extraction (per tooth)                                            1
Minor surgicl intervsntion (local aneetheata)                           2
Hemogram                                                              0.10
Tb smoor (Tb toet)                                                    Free
DispensarTeo
General consultetion                                                  0.10
Injecttono                                                            0.20
Suture                                                                   1



46
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 15
HAITI - FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
Table 1s REORGANIZATION OF THE WESTERN HEALTH REGION
MSPP
GENERAL DIRECTORATE
WESTERN  DEPARTMENT                SOUTH-EASTERN  DEPARTMENT
DIRECTORATE                           DIRECTORATE
3 DIS TRICTS                           2 DIS TRICTS
PORT-AU        CROIX DES        PETIT          JACMEL           THIOTTE
PRINCE         BOUQUETS         GOAVE



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 15
HAITI - FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
Tablo 2: PLAEO DEPARTMENT AD DISTRICT ADMIISTRATION STRUCTtRE
Dpertment
(1 Dpartment Coodinator)
Administratlon                Technical Servicee
Services                      Epidemiology           Dental Core
Staff:                        Staff:                   Staff:
Coordinator
1   Nurse                    1 Epidmiologist          1 Dentist
1   Secretary                1 Statittieirn
1-2  Drivers
1    Mesbnsgr
I   Cleaner
The Desrtint Office will be a support unit for the districts and
its structuro will be lan. In the coae where only one district
Is Included In the deprtmnt, the District Offtie will be the
headquarter of the Department.
Total Staff: 9-10
District
(1 Director)
Administration           Technical Services         Epidemiology           Sanitary
Services                 E.idemioloay             Services               Services
Staff:                      Steff:                    Staff:                  Staff:
1    Administrator   1  District Nurse           1 Nurse for             1 Sanitary
1    Accountant        1  Hoepital Nurse            tho Priority              Officer
1    Storekeeper                                    Programs
1-2   Secretries                                 1 Statistician
1    Mechanic                                    (+I Epidemiologist
2    Drivers                                     when the service Is
1    Messenger                                   decentralized from
1    Cleaner                                     the departmental
level)
ResDonsibilities:
-    Personnel         -  Nursing Care           -  Epidemiology         -  Environmental
-    Administration   -  Personnel Admi-         - Statistics                 Control
-     Accounting            nistration           -  Control of the       - Sanitary Educe-
-     Maintenance     -   Training                     priority               tion
-     Logistics                                        programs
Total Staff:   15-17



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 1S
48
HAIT - F       MALH PPOJECT
Table 8: PROWAMNATIC AREAS IN THE WSTERN WALTH REGION
DEFINITION
A Programmtic Area (PA) Is a well-defined gographical area  irc earibed
around a number ot helth care lntitutiene under the euperviolon et a
.ultidlscipilnary tem (PA tea). Thl- team to In charge ot planning,
organizing, coordinating, lplementing, and evaluating tho health care
activltias. Such on ares can be a cune or part of It, and Its catehwAf
or" can vary.
Program_tic                   PA Referral                   year to Initiate
Commune                Area (PA)                        Center               lee   P ject Activities
1. Port-au-Prince     Zon Cathddrale                 CSL de  o CathWdrale        PS              1
Zon Portail de LJoane         CSL Portall de Loga         PSF1
2. D-lmac              Zon Clt& Solell               Coeieo  de la Cit6          P               1
Zon St-Martin I               CSL St-Martin I              e              1
3. Carrefour          Commune de Carrefour           Hop. MaternltU              PS              1
4. P"tIon-Ville       Commune de Ptlon-VIIle         CSL Ellater erwnln          Ps              1
S. An*e & PItre       Commune d'Ana  & Pltte         CSL de Ane & Pitr          PF               s
S. Fonds Verrettee    Commune de Fonds Verettes      CSL de fond Verr tt         Fs              a
7. Points I Raqutte   Com_ne de Polnt A              DlepenIre de Polnt          Pe              S
Raquette                      a Raqutte
C. Coyms Jacuol       Comune de Coy"e Jac I          CSL de Cars Jacml           PF              2
9. Cainet             Ceomune de Sainet              CAL de Eainet               Fe              1
10. Cabaret            Comune de Cabaret              CAL de Cabaret              F               1
11. Cornllton          Coemmune de Cornllon          CAL de Cornillon           PF               a
12. Crolx-D4-eouqute  Commune d  Croix-de-souquets CSL de Crels-des-ouqets   PS                   1
is. Grand-Gole         Commune de Grarnd-0ov          CAL do Grand-Ove            Pe              2
14. Jacel              Commune de Jeoel               Hop. St.-Michol/Jecnel      Pe              1
15. Leogane            Comune do Logane               Hop. Ste-Croix do LUogeae   U               1
10. Petit-olve,        Commn de P eit-Gd,.            Hop. Notre Dme de           fe              1
PetIt-Gove
17. Thlotte            Commune do Thlotte             CAL Son Berger de ThlotCo  8                2
18. Thoeasau           Commn de Thoozeau              CAL do Thoeaeu              Fe              1
19. Belle Ane          Commune do Belle Ane           CSL do BDll. An"            N               2
20. Narigot            Commune do Marigot             CSL de Marigot              PS              2
21. L Val l            Comun de l  Val le             CAL do Le Vail              d               2
22. Grand Goselr       Commun do Grand Gosier         Diopencolr do Grand         Pe              2
Goel-r
28. Ganthler           Ceune do GOnthl-r              CSL do Ganthier             Pe              2
24. Arcahale           Comne do  'Arc Ahl-            CSL de I'Arcahale           Pe              1
25. Kenecoff           Commune do Kenscoff            Hopital do FPrathe          1               1
2d. COae De Fr         Commne do CMte do    r         Dilpencslre do              U               1
Oe-41ne
27. Ane -  Glt         Comune d  Anse * Glt           CSL de AnseG I lt           U               I
28. Greaser            Commune do Greasier            CSL do GrOler                               1
* Type - PS a Public
PV a Private
M a Mixed



49
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 15
HAITI - FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
Table 4: PERSONNEL OF THE PROGRANMATIC AREAS OF THE BHSDM
For each of the 30 Programmatic Areas (PAs), a PA Team will be
responsible for the administrative and technical coordination in the
implementation and supervision of project activities. The PA Team,
while usually based in a health center (with beds (CAL], or without beds
[CSLJ) can, in some cases, be based in a dispensary or a hospital (see
Annes 3, Table 3 for details). The PA Team would be composed of:
PA Team:         1   Doctor
1   Nurse
1  Auxiliary
1   Sanitary Officer
In addition to the PA Team, institutions in the PA would be
staffed as follows:
Dispensary:      2   Auxiliaries
1   Lab. Technician
I   Driver
1   Support Staff
Health Center    1   Dentist
vithout Beds     1   Lab. Technician
(CSL):           1  Administrator
3  Auxiliaries
1   Pharmacy Technician
1   Auxiliary Statistician
1   Driver
2   Support Staff
Health Center    2   Doctors (licensed and/or on Social
with Beds                Service)
(CAL):           2   Nurses
1   Dentist
1   Lab. Technician
6  Auxiliaries
2   Auxiliary Statisticians
1   Typist
1   Administrator
1   Pharmacy Technician
2   Drivers
9   Support Staff
While an average of four health institutions integrate a PA, in
some cases (as a function of the size of the geographic area and the
population to be covered), a PA would involve only one institution (i.e.
Pointe a Raquette) or as much as 10 institutions (i.e. Port-au-Prince).
Health Agents, working in the community, will be attached to
each institution of the PA and each one will cover, on average, a
population of 2,000 to 3,000.



so
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 15
HAITI - FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
Table 5t SERVICE ACTIVITIES OF THE HEATTH AGENT
(a)  PREGNANCY RELATED
New Pregnancy Registration
Antenatal Care
(3 visits/pregnancy)
Tetanus Toxoid
(2 injectiors/pregnancy)
(b)  FAMILY PLANNING
Distribution of Condoms
(5 packets of 4/month/WRAG)
Distribution of Pills
(3 pkgs every four months/WRAG)
(c)  MEDICAL TREATMENT
Distribution of ORT packages for Diarrhea
Malaria
Tuberculosis
(d)  INFANT (0-11 MONTHS) CARE
Registration/growth chart
(after birth)
BCG immunization
(1 dose, < 1 month)
DPT + Polio
(3 doses/infant)
Measles
(1 dose, around 9 months)
Growth monitoring
(monthly intervals)
(e)  CHILDREN (1-3 YEARS OLDS) CARE
Growth monitoring
(monthly intervals)
(f)  EDUCATIONAL ACTIVITIES
All mothers and children 0-3 years
reached at least once per month
Some of these needs will be met by the Health Agent in collaboration with the
Auxiliary and periodical participation and supervision of the PA Health Team
(commune doctor and nurse).
I



51
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 15
HAITI - FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
TUble 63 N60s TO RECEIVE PROJECT FINANCING
Type of     Type of Or-   Rehabili-             Center
Facility    tanization      tation     Equip.   of PA
PROG. AnEA ]EM 1
Croix-des-Uouqwuets
Turbo                   CSL        Religious        Yes         Yes      No
Thiotte
Centre do Thiotte       CAL        Religious        Yes         Yes      Yes
P4tionville
Hopital de la Com-
munaut# Iait.ae      Hosp.      Foundation        Yes         Yes      No
Cabaret
Carrefour Proy          CSL           PVO           No          Yes      No
Port-au-Prince
SODEC                   CSL          t'VO           No          Yes      No
Belle Arse
Centre do Belle Anse     CSL        Religious        No          Yes      Yes
Delmas
Vareu                  Disp.          PVO           No          Yes      No
PR0G. ARE YEAR 2
Pointe-&-Raquetto
Centre Nethodiste       CSL        Religious        Yes         Yes      Yes
La Valle
Centre de 1 Vallee     CAL    Community Org.       No          Yes      Yes



52
ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 15
HAITI - FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
Table 7: LIST OF HEALTH CENTERS AND DISPENSARIES TO BE
CONSTRUCTEDIREHABILITATED
DISPENSARIES                                                         SOLAR
URBAN    RURAL  ISOLATED  HOUSING  ENERGY
New
Montagne is Voute
Trouin                                      X
Delatte                                     X
Bas Gris Gris                               X
Tete A Boeuf                                X
Moussambe                                    x
To be Rehabilitated
Orangers                                    x      _____     ____
HEALTH CENTERS WITHOUT BEDS
New
Bas Fond Philomene                 X                          X_2/
Cayes Jacmel 1/                              X                X_2_
Communaute Haitienne               x              .           X 2       X
Anse a Pitre 1/                                                  ,
Fonds Verrettes 1/                           X                X 2/      X
To be Rehabilitated
Saint Martin I                     X
Saint Martin II                    X
Claire Meureuse
Cathedrale                         X
Portail Leogane 1/
Aurore Du Bel Air                                          _
Eliazar Germain                    X                          X 2/      X
Cornillon 1/
Croix des Bouquets                           X
Turbe -1                                     x        x       x 2/      X
Pointe i Raquette
Meilleur  X_.
HEALTH CENTERS WITH BEDS
To be Rehabilitated                         .
Carrefour                           X                         X 3/      X
Bainet _                                                         ,3-- _7_x
Thiotte                                      X                X 3
Cabaret                                                        .
1/  First two years upgradings/constructions.
2/  Small housing facilities (144 m2).
3/ Large housing facilities (208 m2).



53
ANNEX 3
Page 8 of 15
HAITI - FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
Table 8: HEMLTH CENTERS WHERE PHOTOVOLTAIC ENERGY
WOULD BE INSTALLED
1.  Anse a Pitre                  8.  La Vallde
2.  Belle Anse                    9.  Anse a Galets
3.  Bodaries                     10.  Pointe a Raquette
4.  Thiotte                      11.  Aicahaie
5.  Fonds Verrettes              12.  Petit Goave
6.  Cornillon                    13.  Jacmel
7.  Bainet                       14.  Meilleur



54
ANNEX 3
Page 9 of 15
HAITI - FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
Table 9: MONITORING AND EVALUATION OF PROJECT OUTPUTS
Definition of PROCESS Outputs
OUTPUT                                      OUTPUTS TO BE MONITORED
CATEGORY
1. Number of pregnant women to be seen at
least three times per year by an
auxilliary, nurse midwive or physician.
A. PREGNANT                       2.  Number of pregnant women to be immunized
WOMEN                             against tuberculosis.
3. Number of all recorded births to be
attended by nurse midwive or physician.
B. WOMEN IN                   | 1.  Number of sterilizations performed on
REPRODUCTIVE AGE           |      (a) men; and (b) women.
2.  Number of women in reproductive age
to be immunized against tetanus.
C. INFANTS                    1 1.  Number of families with children to
|.    receive information about oral rehydr.
1. Number of pre-school children to be
completely vaccinated.
D. PRE-SCHOOL                    2.  Number of pre-school children to be
CHILDREN                          surveyed for nutritional status
(weight/age).
3. Number of pre-school children identified
to be at risk of xerophtalmia to receive
vitamin A.



55
ANNEX3
Page 10 of 15
1.  Number of persons (a) screened; an (b)
treated for TB.
2.  Number of persons (a) screened; and (b)
treated for malaria.
E. ADULTS
3.  Number of blood donors screened for HIV
infection.
4.  Number of persons at risk to be screened
for HIV infection.
1. Number of latrines built.
F. LATRINIZATION &
SANITATION                   2.  Number of water sources sanitized.



5Cf
ANNEX 3
Page 11 of I5
Definition of OUTCONE Outputs and Project Targets
OUTPUT                                     TARGRTS
Z-ATEGORY
Decrease of 152 of the current rate
(119/1,000) by the end of the third
year of the project and of 352 of
the current rate by the end of the
A. INFANT MORTALITY RATE                  sixth year of the project to
achieve a rate of at most 78/1,000
in the project area
Decrease of 15% of the current rate
(22/1,000) by the end of the third
fear of the project and of 40S of
IB. CHILD MORTALITY RATE                   the current rate by the end of the
sixth year of the project to
achieve a rate of at most 14/1,000
in the project area
Decrease of 15X of the current rate
(367/100,000) by the end of the
third year of the project and of
r             40Z of the current rate by the end
C. MATERNAL MORTALITY RATE                 of th.e sixth year to achieve a rate
of at most 220/100,000 in th"-
project area
I



57
AMIK 3
HAITI - FIRST HEALTH PROJEC=ae1  f1
~~~~~~~~~~~~Page 12 of 15
TABLE 10
Tuberculosis Control
New patients
ThOUMadSt
14
10
1           2           3           4            6
Project yar
Type of trestwot
tuandwd treatment         new eginmen   =  toa
*taRdaud t_ienl dIeoontifuud by yr.S
Retreatment Patients
1200
1400 0 
Sooo:                       _1  
Goo
1          2           3           4           6
Project year
Retreatment
M on4Comoffi          M O      oinMtIoi  C=  Tota
n.IIfu_t owrs out Wi  a-
t  m" -



ANNEX 3
Page 13 of 15
58
HAITI - FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
Tobl- 11: AIDS PREVENTION AND CONTROL ACTIVITIES
PREVENTION OF AIDS TRANSMISSION TIOUOH INJECTIONS AND SKIN PIERCING INSTRUMENTS
ACTIVITIES                   INDICATORS                     TIMETABLE                       LOCATION
Supplying helth care         -  Quantity and quality of    Every year of tho project.      17 centers West Region
centers  with sutoclove,        material distributed.                                       9 centers South Region
gloves, gowns, syriuges.     - Percentag  of centers                                        C centers North Region
using prot evt equip-                                      6 centers Transversale
ment.                                                        Region
- Report of health
service supervisor.
Production of brochures on   - Numer of brochures dil-   First two years of project.    17 centers West Region
*safty measures to be           sminated.                                                   9 centers South Region
dltributed to health etro                                                                  6 centers North Region
workere (8000 unite)                                                                        6 centers tranever-
solo Resion.
PREVENTlON OF AIDS TRANSMISSIaN THROUGH BLOOD TRANSFUSION
ACTIVITIES                   IDICATORS                      TIMETABLE                       LOCATION
Strengthening of blood       - Number of tests             Every yer of the project.    CTS Port-au-Prince
transfusion center. CTS         performed.
Port-au-Prlnce
- Materiel to perform        - Number of teate
confirmtery testing.         confirmd related to
- Training for Lab tech-        test screned by ELISA.    Year 1 and a
nicians In confirmtory
testing.
- Suppiles to protect                                      Every year.
health core workers and
to *llow the center to
be operational.
- Renovation and                                           First yoer.
modernization.
i



59
ANNEX 3
Page 14 of 15
Strengthning of blood
transoualon center.  CTS
Jacuel.
- Supplies to protect        - Number of test             Egvey year of the project.       CTS J.c0l.
h-alth care workers and      performed.
to aillc  the center to
be operational.
NFORNUTIL4 - ECATION - COMMICATION
CON ING ADS PREVNTON AND eONTROL
ACTIVITIES                   INDICATORS                     TIMETABLE                        LOCATION
Devlopment of a                 Number of noelotters       Triesntral publication.         Distribution systom.
newsletters concerning AIDS     distributed.                                               Printing In
situation and prevention                                                                   Port-au-Prince.
activiteso In the country.
To be distributed free to
health enters and pubile
and privato physIclans and
persons Interested (8000
units).
INEORATION OF AIDS PREVENTION AND CONTROL ACTIVMES
WITH THE NATIONAL TUBERCULOSIS CONTROL PROORAM
ACTIVIMIES                   INDLCATORS                     TIMETADLE                       LOCATION
Testing of diagnosed         - Number of patients          Every year of the project.      In the 125 centers with
tuberculosis patiente for       tested as a proportion                                    tuberculosis cortrol
HIV.                            of total diagnosed,                                       activit.
- 10,000 patients per year
to be tested with Rapid
Tet type Serodiu NIV
(Fuj Iroble).
Training of health care      - Numbr of persn              Two tlmo per year every         In each of the four
workor, In AIDS prevention      attending the training    year of the project.             regional centers.
and tuberculosis control at     course related to the
the health care center          numbr of helth
level,                          centers.
- targeted populations
health workers,
matronns, healers,
social workers.
- 2 day and half x 4
regions x 2 times per
year x 2 ti.. SO
persons.



60
ANNEX 3
Page 15 of 15
Training of health car      - Number of p;reone           Two ti _  per year evory     In each of the four
workere In AIDS preventlon     *ttnding the training    year of the proJect.            rglonal centers.
and tuberculosis.              coure related to the
- targeted populations         number of helth
physiciano and nurse        center.
- 2 day  and half x 4
rgieono x 2 timl per
year x 2 tim- 50
persons.
Evaluation of joint         - Clinicial funding and       First two year. of project.   In *alected centers with
activitie.                     number of patients                                       tuberculoseI control
- Clinical follow-up of        followed,                                                activities.
l1O H1V positive 6nd 100 - Publication of results.
"1V negative confirmed
TB patients.
INTEGRATION OF AIDS PREVENTON AND CONTROL ACTIVITIES
WKTH THE NATIONAL TUBERCUL4SIS CONTROL PROGRAM
ACTIVITIES                  INDiCATORS                     TIMETABLE                     LOCATION
- In childron study of      - Clinical funding *nd        Ongoing during the project.   In Grace Hospital Port-au-
risk of development of      number of patients                                       Prince.
TO aecording to HEV end     followed.
tuberculosoi status, 60  - Publication of results.
patient par group.
- Comparative off icacy of  - Clinical findings and       First two year.               In *lected centers with
newly introdue d short      bacteriological findinge                                 tuberculosis control
tratment course In HIV      In patients followed.                                    activites.
Infected and non         - Publicatlon of reults.
Infected TB, 100
patients per group.



61
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 1
HAITI - FIRST HEALTH PROJwECT
Table 1: AREAS OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
(Man-Months)
Specialty        PYl   PY2    PY3    PY4   PY5    PY6    TOT,AL
1. Tuberculosis
(Internatioual)            1     1       1      1     1       1       6
2. Civil Works
(International)            1     1       1      1     -       -       4
3. Family Planning
(Local)                   10     3       3      3     1       _
(International)           10     3       3      3     1       -      40
4. Nutrition
(International)            -     2       1      1     1       1       6
5. Drug Supply and
Distribution
(International)           3     2       2      1     1       1      10
6. Cost Recovery
(Local)                   6     3       -      -     -       -
(International)           2     1       1      -     1       -      14
7. Information Systems
(International)           2     2       -      -     -       -       4
8. Finance/Budget
(International)           1     I       -      -     -       -       2
TOTAL:               36    19      12     10     6       3      86
I ~ ~      ~       ~      ~=               



-62-
Pagp 1 of 4
HAITI
FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
Table 1: PROJECT COMPONENTS BY YEAR
(US$ million)
1990   1991  1992   1993   1994   1993    Total
A. Institutional
Development              1.4    0.5   0.5    0.5    0.6    0.6         4.1
B. Service Delivery           6.8    3.7   3.0    3.4    2.4    1.8        21.1
C. Epidemic
Prevention               2.0    1.4   1.7    1.5    1.9    -           8.5
TOTALs                    10.2    5.6   5.2    5.4    4.9       .       33.7
;~                             - - 



63
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 4
HAITI - FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
Table 2: SUMMARY ACCOUNTS COST SUMMARY
(USS Million)
Local        Foreign        Total
I. Investment Costs
Civil Works                        1.1           1.7            2.8
Equipment & Furniture              -             2.8            2.8
Vehicles & Motorcycles             -             3.0            3.0
Drugs                              -             4.3            4.3
Materials & Supplies               0.4            1.7           2.1
Training                           0.9           0.9            1.8
Technical Assistance               1.0           2.8            3.8
Administration                     1.9            -             1.9
PPF Refinancing                    -             0.9            0.9
Total Investments                  5.3          18.1           23.4
II. Recurrent Costs
Incremental Salaries               2.6           -              2.6
Supervision Allowances             0.9           -              0.9
Operation & Maintenance            0.6           1.2            1.8
Total Recurrent Costs              4.1           1.2            5.3
Total Baseline Costs               9.4          19.3           28.7
Physical Contingencies           0.2           0.9            1.1
Price Contingencies              1.7           2.2            3.9
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS               11.3          22.4           33.7



64
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 4
HAITI - FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
Table 3s SUMMARY ACCOUNTS BY YEAR
(US$ Million)
1990   1991   1992    1993   1994   1995    TOTAL
I. Investment Costs
Civil Works                  0.8    1.0    0.8      0.7    0.2    -        3.5
Equipment & Fur-
niture                     2.3    0.6    0.1      0.1    0.1    -        3.2
Vehicles & Motorcycles       2.3    0.2    0.3      0.5    0.2    -        3.5
Drugs                        1.0    0.8    0.9      1.1    1.1    0.2      5.1
Materials & Supplies         0.5    0.5    0.5      0.5    '.5    -        2.5
Training                     0.4    0.4    0.3      0.4    0.4    0.2      2.1
Technical Assistance         0.9    0.8    0.8      0.6    0.7    0.5      4.3
Administration               0.3    0.3    0.4      0.4    0.4    0.4      2.2
PPF Refinancing              0.9    -       -       -      -       -       0.9
Total Investment Costs       9.4    4.6    4.1      4.3    3.6    1.3    27.3
II. Recurrent Costs
Incremental Salaries         0.4    0.5    0.5      0.5    0.6    0.6      3.1
Supervision Allowances       0.1    0.2    0.2      0.2    0.2    0.1      1.0
Operations & Maintenance    0.3    0.3    0.4       0.4    0.5    0.4      2.3
Total Recurrent Costs        0.8    1.0    1.1      1.1    1.3    1.1      6.4
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS         10.2    5.6    5.2      5.4    4.9    2.4    33.7
I



ANNEX 5
65                            Page 4 of 4
HAITI - FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
TAble 4. SMMSARY ACCOUNTS BY PROJECT COMPONENT
(US$ Million)
Epidemic
Institutional    Basic Health          Prevention
Developmeat      Service Delivery      and Control
I. Investment Costs
Civil Works                    -                   2.8               _
Equipment & Furniture          -                   2.4               0.4
Vehicloo & Motorcylso          -                   2.1               0.9
Drugs                          -                   1.4               3.0
Materials & Supplies            -                  0.4                1.7
Training                       _                   1.2               0.6
Technical Assistance           0.8                 2.8               0.1
Administration                 1.9
PF?  Refinancing               0.9
Total Investment Costs         3.6                13.1               6.7
_-. Recurrent Costo
Incremental Salaries           -                   2.6               -
Supervision Allowances         -                   0.5               0.4
Operations & Maintenance       -                   1.4               0.4
Total Recurrent Costs          -                   4.5               0.8
Total Baseline Costs           3.6                17.6               7.5
Physical Contingencies        -                   1.0               -
Price Contingencies           0.5                 2.5               1.0
TOTAL PROJECS COSTS         4.1                21.1               8.5



66
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 4
HAITI - FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
Table 1: PROCUREMLNT LIMIM BY TYFE
Average
Expected        Volu-                         Type
Contract       Number           of          Aggrgate          of
Value            Of          Contract        Limit         Procure-
Com""onnt                (USS)         Contracts       (USS)           (USS)          * nt
Civil Works            More then
50,000 and
eat, than
1,000,000            5          700,000     B,600,000         LCS
Equipmont, Fur-
nitur., Medi-
cal Supplies          law then
20,000               5           20,000       100,000         LS
more then
20,000               8           75,000       600,000         LCB
more than
20,000                a        1,800,000    4,000,000         IS
Drugs                  no minlmum
limit                4        1,250,000     6,000,000         IS
V.hi1.el,  entor-
cycles                 no mintmum
Itmit                2        1,760,000    8,500,000          iCD
Technical
Assistance             no minimum           80           16,000     1,950,000        Guideline.
,lmit



67
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 4
HAITI - FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
Table 2: ALLOCATION OF CREDIT PROCEEDS
Category                      Credit Amount         Disbursement
(US$ million)               Z
1.   Civil Works                          3.4            100   of expenditures
2.   Equipment, furniture,                 8.5           100   of expenditures
medical supplies,
and drugs (other than for the
AIDS sub-component)
3.   Goods and services for the           1.7            100   of expenditures
AIDS sub-component
4.   Vehicles and motorcycles             3.0            100   of expenditures
5.   Training and fellowships                            100   of expenditures
1.5                  (a) per diem,
materials and
transportation
0.1                 (b) fellowships
abroad
6.   Technical assistance                 1.6            100   of expenditures
and Studies                                              (excluding TA
from CIDA)
7.   Salaries of the PMU and              5.0            100   of expenditures
non-salary operating costs
8.   PPF refinancing                      0.9            100   of expenditures
9.   Unallocated                          2.5              -
TOTAL:                 28.2



68
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 4
HAITI - FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
Table 3: ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
Accumulated            Undisbursed
IDA FY               Disbursements            Disbursements            Balance
Semester Ending       Amount       I         Amount         2        Amount       Z
FY90
June 30                 2.5         9          2.5           9         25.7       91
FY91
December 31             1.4         5          3.9          14         24.3       86
June 30                 2.0         7          5.9          21         22.3       79
FY92
December 31             2.2         8          3.1          29         20.1       71
June 30                 2.0         7         10.1          36         18.1       64
FY93
December 31             2.5         9         12.6          45         15.6       55
June 30                 2.2         8         14.8          53         13.4       48
FY94
December 31             2.5         9         17.3          61         10.9       39
June 30                 2.2         a         19.5          69          8.7       31
FY95
December 31             2.5         9         22.0          78          6.2       22
June 30                 2,0         7         24.0          85          4.2       15
FY96
December 31             2.5         9         26.5          94          1.7        6
June 30                 1.7         6         28.2         100          -          -
Project completion date: December 31, 1995.
Project closing date: June 30, 1996.



69
ANtX 6
Page 4 of 4
BUTZ - VZRI-a NZALTI PROIJET
Table 4. DVPLDMNTATION SChEDULE
Activities                   Year 0  Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year S  Year 0
Civil Works
Preliminary designs      -...--
'Working drawings and
specifications                ------
Tender for construction
work                               -'-'-
Selection of construc-
tori and start-up of
construction work                       ------........ ..-...........
Eouipment/Furniture/Vehiclls
- Biddbig docs for procure-
ment                         ---------
* Distribution                        ......  __ __                      ------
Trainins
Course preparation        --
Training communal teams            ---_-------       ------            ------
Retraining district level                ------      ------   -_-    ----__
New personnel                               ------
Voluntary helpers                     ------------------------------------------------
Hospital staff                              ---      ___          .     ..
Scholarship                        ------------------------- ---------------------
Sanitary offiLcrs-                   --  -  ,        --       ---      ...
Community Participation
Equipment for workshop             ------            -___-             ------
Latrines construction                 ------------------------------------------
Wells protection                                     ---------------------------------
Other community work                                          ---------------------
Technical  Assistance                 ---------------------------------------------------
AIDS and Tuberculosis                 ________________________________-_________________



70
ANNEX 7
Palg 1 of 2
HAITI - FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Proiect File
A.    Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Sector
A.1   Analysis of the Drug Distribution System in Haiti.  S.M.A. lisaillon,
PhD, LLB, Consultant, July 1988.
A.2   Institutional Development Applied to the Distribution of
Pharmaceutical Products.  Olivier Babinet, Consultant, April 1989.
A.3   The transport system of the Ministry of Health and Population.  Jean
Bogard Marseille, Consultant, August 1988.
A.4   Analysis of the Management System.  Jean Bogard Marseille,
Consultant, November 1988.
A.5   Family Planning - History and Strategies - Plan of Action.  Dr.
Adeline Jocelyn Verly, MPH, Consultant, August 1988.
A.6   Management Information System.  Edward Berrouet, Consultant, November
1988.
A.7 Human Res-urces in the Ministry of Health and Population. Dr.
Adeline Jocelyn Verly, MPH, Consultant, August 1988.
A.8 Cammunity Participation. Gustavo De Roux, Consultant, June 1988.
A.9 Information, Education and Communication, Catherine Maternovska,
Consultant, August 1988.
A.10 Study on Health Expenditures and F'nancing. Marie Hdlbne Devillers-
Ewenczyk, PhD Econoviics, Consult&.t, August 1988.
A.11 Functional Norms for the Design and Construction of Basic Health Care
Infrastructure. Anthony Bigio, Architect, Consultant, February 1989.
A.12 Procedures for the Design and Rehabilitation of Basic Health Care
Infrastructure. Anthony Bigio, Architect, Consultant, February 1989.



71
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2
B.    Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B.1   Development of a Basic Health System, in the Project Area - Basis of
the project approach. Ary Bordes, MD, MPH, Consultant, July 1988.
B.2   Infrastructure - Definition of Construction and Rehabilitation needs.
G. Brest Van Kempen, Architect, Consultant, November 1988.
3.3   The Tuberculosis Component.  Thomas Daniel, MD, Consultant, August
1988.
B.4   Evaluation and Monitoring Program.  Carlos Vallbona, MD, Consultant,
August 1988.
5.5 Ministry of Health and Population - Project Preparation Report -
December 1988.
B.6   Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance and Studies.
C.    Selected Working Papers
C.1   The 'Rally Port Approach, MSPP, December 1988.
C.2   Weekly Schedule of Rally Post Activities for the Provision of Basic
Health Services for an Estimated Population of 2,500 People, MSPP,
December 1988.
C.3  Tuberculosis Control Program and Training Curriculum, S. Grzybowski,
March 1989.
C.4   Training Strategies, MSPP, September 1989.
C.5   Project Costs



IBRD 21848
7 3Y                                                           731W                                                            72o04                                                          72°00'
Co* b an                                                                                          HAITI
FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
WESTERN HEALTH REGION
~~~~~  -  - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TO BE                                TO BE
K!                                                                                                                                    Pont Sooda°    t\                                             CONSTRUCTED  REHABILITATED   EXISTING
HOSPITALS
,,     4.    4.    HEALTH CENTERS WITH BEDS
|  ",°O HEALTH CENTERS WITHOUT BEDS
0                  0    ~~~~~~~DISPENSARIES
A     SPECIALIZED CLINICS
19,000-
* <,69 NATIONAL CAPITAL
-- S a int                                                                                                                                                                0 a    CITIES AND TOWNS
RIVERS
.M    c  r c                                                                                                                       . -.... HEALTH REGION BOUNDARY
- -> - C   h a n n elI                               ,L awpeO                                                                   DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
', GonbvE                         , is                                                       > ) -9,a, --- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY
GoNAVE
ISLAND                                                                                                            0 .ts_d  ,
I- -  ooio -ii
Ion6ve                     Ch,,nel                     '----                       ,                                                                                                                                                           I
G o n-a v e               C h a nt n e                                                                                                         A   de-iu ,l                     On(,,,,    L-t 
Port-au-Prince Boy       , 3.                                      .         %* #     __
-   3          ~~~~~~Co,a Mo.~
)Vaxvsuzc  Lake
*   *0    aC ,.b, du                                                     DOMINICAN
A        Kfke 7 *_           I                  aa         
.  S     W <* OwTintM On I1                              I
r.r*   ~~~~~   ~~ ~~~O*dor ~0,REPUBLIC                                                            83
18030'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B                                                                                                                                                                                      83'
) t THE E       AHAMAS                                                                                                                                                                     T _b;a
AO. 8;_ C4  >   Dz Po *  , >    ,£, *ente                                                                      F Foe  mo.i */e
|__   {               t        11                          --              (DeE                     e    -flE   .  - --          -   )                                                                                 '                 *            >          |~~~ *Dupstsi
a BOVA                                                                                                            N.~-a 
Lake                                Madlem~~~~~~~~~~~~~   Lfn                                                    AaeDi a Ar         Clle o
[~~~~~)   THE BAHAMA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  F- re    0t de P-insX 
La Voagee                                                                                           Chaines au Bodan e
De Jacmul            *f                            - 
s~CU.A                            '                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '---.  Caves   
-                                                         *-SS  _rend ow. s
AITI)  OMINICAt&-\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                                                                                                                                           ', tiol  N". b- 00 wpirIf
JAIMAICA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,W-.TfVW
*     011 &Vlw,.-MO F0o,
0           10          20          30                              -Cinoo11deni1
Cordbbeon           Sea                                          C       ariob       e      n b                 e  a nSKILOMVEltRS                                                                                                          APgtvo± Gljdpof i 11g. f=
- *   It rmfOdy 1,00'
73000                                                          732030'                                                         72:00
SEPTEMBER 1989



