Page  1
January 21, 1999
H.E. Fred Joseph 
Minister of Economy and Finance 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Republic of Haiti 
Palais des Ministères 
Port-au-Prince, Haiti
Re:
Haiti - First Health Project (Credit No. 2085-HA)
       Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement
Excellency:
Please refer to the Development Credit Agreement (the Credit Agreement) between 
the International Development Association (the Association) and the Republic of Haiti 
(the Borrower) dated February 2, 1990, as amended.
We are pleased to advise you that, following recent discussions between the 
staff of the Borrower and the Association, the Association hereby agrees to amend the 
Credit Agreement for the purpose of reflecting changes in the categories of 
disbursement so as to reincorporate the initial categories for which disbursements 
have already been made and which should continue to be reflected in the Table of 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 of the above-referred Credit Agreement. Accordingly, the 
Association hereby proposes the following amendment to the Credit Agreement:
Schedule 1 is hereby amended to read in its entirety as set forth in the Annex  
to this Letter Amendment.
Kindly confirm your agreement, on behalf of the Borrower, with the terms of the 
Letter Amendment and its Annex by signing and dating the counterpart of this Letter in 
the spaces provided below. Upon receipt by the Association of a fully countersigned 
counterpart of this Letter Amendment, the above amendment will be deemed effective 
retroactively as of November 9, 1998.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edgardo Favaro 
Acting Director Country 
Management Unit Caribbean 
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
AGREED: REPUBLIC OF HAITI
By /s/ Fred Joseph 
Minister of Economy and Finance
Date: February 2, 1999
ANNEX  
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
Page  2
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
 the term “training” in Category (6) of the table set forth in paragraph 
1 above includes the cost of training services, rental of space and equipment, travel 
costs and per diem of MSPPs staff providing training and of participants and/or 
recipients of training, training materials, trainees' registration fees, and other 
costs related to the carrying out of the training, study tours, seminars and meetings 
under the Project; 
(b)
the term "Operating Costs" means salaries of the Director, professional 
staff and support personnel of the Project Management Unit, expenditures for operation 
and maintenance of vehicles financed under Category (4) of the table set forth in 
paragraph 1 above, communications, office supplies and office maintenance expenditures 
of the Project Management Unit including the rent for office space of the Project 
Management Unit; and
(c)
the term “Previous Schedule 1” means the original table in Paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as later amended in the Amendment Letter dated February 
6, 1991 between the Association and the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)
payments made under any category of the table set forth in paragraph 1 
above, in respect of an NGO and on account of expenditures under Part B or C of the 
Project, as the case may be, unless the Borrower and the NGO in question have entered 
into a Participation  Agreement, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, stipulating, inter alia, the type of expenditures to be financed under 
the Credit in respect of such NGO, as applicable.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for works, 
goods and consultant services under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
