Page  1
November 9, 1998
H.E. Fred Joseph 
Minister of Economy and Finance 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Republic of Haiti 
Palais de Ministéres 
Port-au-Prince, Haiti
Re:
First Health Project (Credit No. 2085-HA)
       Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement        
Excellency:
Please refer to the Development Credit Agreement (First Health Project) between 
International Development Association (the Association) and Republic of Haiti (the 
Borrower) dated February 2, 1990, as amended. Whenever used in this letter, the 
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement have the respective meanings 
set forth therein.
We are pleased to advise you that, pursuant to your request and recent 
discussions between the staff of the Borrower and the Association, the Association 
hereby agrees to amend the Development Credit Agreement as follows:
1.
Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to read as follows:
“Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the 
respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following additional terms have 
the following meanings:
(a)
“AIDS” means acquired immune deficiency syndrome;
(b)
“DOTS” means Directly Observable Treatment Short-term, a public health 
strategy for the effective control of tuberculosis;
(c)
“Fiscal Year” means the Fiscal Year of the Borrower which currently 
begins on October 1 in each calendar year;
(d)
“Gourde” means the unit of currency of the Borrower; \0c “Health Agent” 
means any individual who is certified in basic health care, and who works in his/her 
community, under the supervision of an auxiliary nurse, on health related preventive 
activities, and the identification of some medical conditions and treatment of minor 
injuries;
(e)
“IEC Activities” means information, education and communication 
activities including, but not limited to, production and broadcasting of messages on 
health related matters on television and radio, development and production of 
materials;
(f)
“MSPP” means the Borrower's Ministère de la Santé Publique et de la 
Population, the Borrower's Ministry of Public Health and Population;
(g)
“NGO” means a non-governmental organization accredited by the Borrower's 
Ministry of Health for the purposes of carrying out Parts B and C of the Project and 
receiving financial assistance out of the proceeds of the Credit;
(h)
“PAHO” means the Pan-American Health Organization;
(i)
“Participation Agreement” means the agreement entered into between the 
Borrower and the NGO pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement;
(j)
“Project Areas” means the Western and South-Eastern Health Departments as 
defined in the Borrower’s official Gazette “Le Moniteur” dated October 7,. 1976 and in 
the document titled Les Unités Communales de Santé – Principes et Stratégies published 
by the MSPP in August 1998;
Page  2
(k)
“Project Health Facility” means any of the health centers or dispensaries 
listed in the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(l)
“Project Management Unit” means the unit referred to in Section 3.01 (b) 
of this Agreement;
(m)
“Project Preparation Advances” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
August 7, 1987 and October 19, 1987 between the Borrower and the Association, as the 
amount thereof was increased with an amount of $190,000 to an aggregate amount of 
$750,000 and with an amount of $150,000 to an aggregate amount of $900,000 pursuant to 
further exchanges of letters dated February 15, 1989 and April 7, 1989, and November 
9, 1989 and November 15, 1989, respectively;
(n)
“PROMESS” means Programme de Medicaménts Essentiels, a program 
established by PAHO in August 1992 to supply essential medicines to the general 
public, private and non-profit health providers, in the territory of the Borrower;
(o)
“Rally Post Approach” means a methodology for the delivery of health care 
services by gathering the target population group at regular intervals at a convenient 
location where the services are provided to the population through Health Agents and 
community volunteers;
(p)
“SCTL” means Service de Controle de la Tuberculose et de la Lepre, MSPP’s 
tuberculosis and leprosy control service;
(q)
“South-Eastern Health Region” means one of the Project Areas as defined 
in paragraph (k) above;
(r)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(c) of 
this Agreement;
(s)
“STD” means sexually transmitted disease;
(t)
“TB” means tuberculosis; and
(u)
“Unités Communales de Santé (UCS)” means a network of health facilities 
comprised of public and non-governmental organizations, which are responsible for 
planning, coordinating, delivering, and monitoring health services to the population 
in a given geographical area as well as establishing a joint referral system.
2.
Section 2.03 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to read as follows:
“Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date.”
3.
Paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of Section 3.01 of the Development Credit Agreement 
are amended to read as follows:
“(b)
Without limiting the generality of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall maintain and operate the Project  Management Unit within MSPP, until 
the report provided for under Section 9.06 of the General Conditions has been 
submitted to the Association and, without limitation or restriction to the provisions 
of paragraph (a) above, shall provide the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for its operation, and shall accordingly maintain at all times 
within its staff an Executive Director, a Project Controller and a Chief Engineer all 
of whom shall be persons with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the 
Association, and who shall discharge their functions under terms of reference also 
satisfactory to the Association.
(c)
Without limiting the generality of paragraph (a) of this Section, and for 
purposes of the carrying out of Part C. 1 of the Project, the Borrower shall: (i) 
establish and maintain a committee that will liaise with MSPP through the Director of 
SCTL and that shall be composed of representatives of MSPP, NGOs, the Project 
Management Unit and the PAHO; (ii) comply with all its obligations and exercise all 
Page  3
its rights under the agreement to be entered into between the Borrower, through MSPP 
and the NGOs pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (c) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement; and (iii) not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the agreements referred to 
in (ii) above, or any provision thereof, except with the Association's concurrence.
(d)
Except with the Association’s concurrence, the Borrower shall comply with 
all its obligations and exercise all its rights under the Participation Agreement 
entered into pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of this agreement and paragraph 3 (b) and of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and shall not amend, assign, abrogate or waive such 
agreements or any provision thereof.”
4.
Section 3.03 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to read as follows:
“Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall undertake a study for purposes of Part A.1 
of the Project and shall ensure that such study is completed by December 31, 1997 so 
as to enable discussions between the Borrower and the Association on the findings, and 
recommendations of such study.
(b)
The Borrower shall implement on a pilot basis, by not later than January 
31, 1999 the recommendations agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association as a 
result of the study referred to in paragraph (a) above.”
5.
Section 3.04 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to read as follows:
“Section 3.04  The Borrower shall, on each year during the execution of the 
Project, and not later than a date four months prior to the beginning of the next 
Fiscal Year, without limitation or restriction on the generality of Section 9.06 (a) 
of the General Conditions, review with the Association, at the request of either 
party, the Project progress achieved in respect to execution and impact and in respect 
to budgetary allocation and management of health resources, all on the basis of 
monitoring and evaluation indicators agreed between the Borrower and the Association.”
6.
Article III of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by adding a new 
Section 3.05 to read as follows:
“Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower may carry out certain aspects of Parts B and C 
of the Project, as agreed upon between the Borrower and IDA, with the assistance of 
NGOs; and (b) for purposes of establishing the nature and scope of the participation 
of the NGOs in Parts B and C of the Project, the Borrower shall enter into an 
agreement with each participating NGO under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including inter alia, (i) the terms of reference of the activities to be 
carried out by the NGO; (ii) the level of  commitment of the NGO to maintain and 
operate adequate facilities during the execution of its activities under the Project; 
and (iii) the level of commitment of the NGO to provide the necessary funds, services 
and other resources required for the execution of its activities under Parts B and C 
of the Project.”
7.
Article IV of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by deleting Section 
4.02 and renumbering the existing Section 4.03 to read Section 4.02.
8.
Schedule 1 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended as set forth in Annex 
1 to this letter amendment.
9.
Schedule 2, including its annexes, of the Development Credit Agreement is 
amended as set forth in Annex 2 to this letter amendment.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendments by signing and 
dating this letter in the spaces provided below.  This amendment letter shall be 
executed in two counterparts, each of which shall be an original.
Upon your confirmation, please return one fully executed originals to us.  The 
provisions of this amendment letter will become effective as of the date of this 
letter once the Association receives one fully executed original of this amendment 
letter.
Very truly yours,
Page  4
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Orsalia Kalantzopoulos 
Director 
Country Management Unit Caribbean 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED: REPUBLIC OF HAITI
By /s/ Fred Joseph
Minister of Economy and Finance
Date: December 9, 1998
ANNEX 1 
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
 the term “training” includes the cost of training services, rental of 
space and equipment, travel costs and per diem of MSPPs staff providing training and 
of participants and/or recipients of training, training materials, trainees' 
registration fees, and other costs related to the carrying out of the training, study 
tours, seminars and meetings under the Project; and 
(b)
the term "Operating Costs" means salaries of the Director, professional 
staff and support personnel of the Project Management Unit, expenditures for operation 
and maintenance of vehicles financed under Category (3) of the table set forth in 
paragraph 1 above, communications, office supplies and office maintenance expenditures 
of the Project Management Unit including the rent for office space of the Project 
Management Unit; 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)
payments made under any category of the table set forth in paragraph 1 
above, in respect of an NGO and on account of expenditures under Part B or C of the 
Project, as the case may be, unless the Borrower and the NGO in question have entered 
into a Participation  Agreement, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, stipulating, inter alia, the type of expenditures to be financed under 
the Credit in respect of such NGO, as applicable.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for works, 
goods and consultants' services under such terms and conditions as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
ANNEX 2
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Page  5
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to contribute to the strengthening of 
MSPP’s cost recovery mechanisms and service delivery strategies and standards; (ii) to 
improve access to and utilization of basic health services, with a particular emphasis 
on maternal and child health care; and (iii) to support interventions to increase 
utilization of TB treatment services and expand awareness of the AIDS epidemic.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Institutional Development
1.
Strengthening MSPP’s capabilities in the design and implementation of  cost 
recovery  strategies for health services, through: (a) carrying out a study on the 
costs and financing of health services delivered by public and private health 
facilities, including the formulation of proposals for improved cost recovery 
mechanisms at the national level; and (b) implementing the recommendations of the 
above mentioned study in selective localities to include, at a minimum, the Project 
Areas.
2.
Strengthening MSPP’s capabilities in the design and implementation of service 
delivery strategies and standards for essential drugs, quality control of 
pharmaceutical products, medical emergencies and control of TB and AIDS/STDs, through 
the provision of technical assistance, staff training and establishment of norms and 
protocols.
Part B:
Health Services Delivery
1.
Support MSPP’s essential drugs program to expand it nationwide through the 
provision of seed stocks of essential drugs, contraceptives, staff training, and the 
establishment of 15 pharmaceutical warehouses.
2.
Support the design and delivery of basic health services in the Project Areas, 
by:
(a)
Improving the physical conditions for the delivery of health services 
through the construction of about seven health facilities and the rehabilitation of 
about two health facilities in the Project Areas, as described in the Annex to this 
Schedule.
(b)
Improving the quality of services through the provision of equipment, 
medical materials and furniture, essential drugs, and staff training.
(c)
Enhancing supervision through the development of a supervisory strategy, 
including the provision of about four four-wheel drive vehicles and motorcycles.
(d)
Improving the sanitary conditions through the construction of about 5,000 
latrines and provision of related training for users and for sanitary officers.
(e) 
Designing, developing and implementing, on a pilot basis, strategies for 
dealing with medical emergencies in both urban and rural areas, including inter alia:  
(i) the establishment of  a urban emergency department in a Project Health Facility to 
alleviate pressures on the University Hospital and to develop effective and cost 
efficient ways of dealing with such cases; and (ii) the provision of medical 
equipment, radio communications systems and related training to all health personnel 
and community representatives in the South-Eastern Health Region.
(f) 
Testing, on a pilot basis, the application of an integrated approach to 
maternal and child health and nutrition at the community and primary health care 
levels through the Rally Post Approach, and the strengthening of services at selected 
health facilities through the provision of training, design and implementation of 
service instruments and protocols, nutrition interventions and educational materials.
Part C:
Endemic Disease Prevention and Control
1.
Support the MSPP’s  Integrated National Tuberculosis Control Program, through 
the following activities:
Page  6
(a)
Introduction and replication on a nationwide scale of  the use of the 
DOTS strategy and provision of staff training, TB drugs, medical equipment and 
technical assistance; and
(b) 
Strengthening the capacity of MSPP’s TB service under the Integrated 
National Tuberculosis Control Program, in coordination with the National AIDS/STDs 
program, through the provision of technical assistance and staff training.
2.
Support MSSPP’s AIDS/STDs Program through the following activities:
(a)
Implementation of social marketing strategies, including the provision 
and distribution of condoms;
(b)
Design and implementation of  information, education, communication and 
counseling activities to be delivered through NGOs; and
(c) 
Strengthening the capabilities at the department level for HIV screening 
of patients through staff training and provision of equipment.
***
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Health Centers to be rehabilitated  
Bainet *
Portail Leogane Cabaret
New Health Centers  
Cayes Jacmel
* 
Anse a Pitre
*
Fonds Verrettes
*
Thiotte
*
Cathedrale
Cornillon *
Marigot
* These Health Centers include housing facilities
