Page  1
November 14, 1995
His Excellency 
Jean-Marie Cherestal 
Minister of Economy and Finance 
Republic of Haiti 
Paials de Mnisteres 
Port-au-Prince, Haiti
Excellency:
First Health Project (Credit No. 2085-HA) – Amendment to the Development 
Credit Agreement
Please refer to the above captioned Development Credit Agreement (the Credit 
Agreement), as amended.
We are pleased to advise you that as a result of your request and our recent 
discussions on the subject, the Association agrees to amend the Credit Agreement as 
follows, so as to streamline the implementation of the Project, provide for the 
establishment of a Special Account and update the provisions on disbursements and 
procurement procedures.
Preamble
1.
Whereas (A) is amended by deleting the letter (A).
2.
Whereas (B) is deleted.
Main Body
3.
Section 1.02 (b) is amended to read as follows: "'NGO' means a non-governmental 
organization accredited by the Borrower’s Ministry of Health for the purposes of 
carrying out Parts B and C of the Project and receiving financial assistance out of 
the proceeds of the Credit;”.
4.
Section 1.02 (c) is amended to read as follows: "'Western and Southeastern 
Health Regions" means the Borrower's Departments of the West and the Southeast,".  Any 
subsequent occurrence of the corresponding definition is amended accordingly.
5.
Section 1.02 (d) is amended by adding the words “and other sexually-transmitted 
diseases” after the word “(AIDS)”.
6.
Section 1.02 (f) is amended by replacing the words “Programmatic Area” by the 
words "Unités Communates de Santé".  Any subsequent occurrence of this definition is 
amended accordingly.
7.
Section 1.02 (i) is amended to read as follows:
"'PROMESS' means Programme de Medicaments Essentiels, a temporary 
mechanism 
established by PAHO (as hereinafter defined) in August 1992 to 
supply essential medicines to 
the general public, private and non-profit health 
providers, in the territory of the 
Borrower;"
Any subsequent occurrence of the corresponding definition is amended 
accordingly.
8.
Section 1.02 (q) is amended by deleting the word "and".
9.
Section 1.02 (r) is amended by replacing the period by a semicolon.
10.
A new Section 1.02 (s) is added to read as follows:
"'PAHO' means the Pan-American Health Organization; and".
Page  2
11.
A new Section 1.02 (t) is added to read as follows:
"'Special Account' means the account referred to in Section 2-02 (c) of 
this Agreement.".
12.
Section 2.02 is amended by adding the following paragraph:
“(c)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in the Borrower's central bank, 
on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement."
13.
Section 2.03 is amended by replacing the date "June 30, 1996" by the date “June 
30, 1998”.
14.
Section 3.01 (d) is amended by:
(a)
deleting the words “each of”, “and 3 (c)” and “any of” ; and
(b)
replacing the word “agreements” by the word “agreement”.
15.
Section 3.03 (a) is amended by replacing the date “April 30, 1991” by the date 
“June 30, 1997”.
16.
Section 3.03 (b) is amended by replacing the date "September 30, 1991" by the 
date "November 30, 1997".
17.
Section 3.03 (c) is deleted.
18.
Section 4.01 (b) (i) is amended by inserting the words “including those of the 
Special Account" after the words "have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section".
19.
Section 4.01 (c) (ii) is amended by inserting the words "or payment out of the 
Special Account" after the words “retain, until at least one year after the 
Association has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account”.
20.
Section 4.02 (a) is amended by replacing the words "1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 , 
1994 and” by the words "(i) 1996 and 1997; and (ii)" and the words "84.5/15.5, 81/19, 
77.5/22.5, 74/26, 70/30 and 70/30" by the words "(i) 75/25, and (ii) 70/30".
21.
Sections 4.02 (b) (i) and (ii) are amended to read as follows:  "(i) total 
operating expenses attributable to MSPP's central administration decrease so as to 
constitute no more than 15% of MSPP's total operating budget for Fiscal Year 1996, and 
(ii) total operating expenses attributable to MSPP's central administration do not 
increase as a share of the total MSPP's operating budget for subsequent Fiscal Years 
from the level achieved pursuant to (i) hereof."
22.
Section 4.02 (c) (iii) is amended to read as follows: " 'Total operating 
expenses attributable to MSPP's central administration' means salaries and other 
operating expenses directly linked to the operation of all the 
technical-administrative entities which constitute MSPP's central administration, 
including the office of the Minister.".
23.
Section 5.01 is amended by:
(a)
deleting the colon, replacing the word "events" by the word "event" and 
the word "are" by the word "is", and adding the words "namely, that” in the first 
sentence;
(b)
deleting the letter (a) and the words “any of”, and replacing the word 
"agreements" by the word "agreement", and
(c)
deleting paragraph (b).
Page  3
24.
Section 5.02 is amended by deleting the words “paragraph (a) of”.
Schedule 1
25.
Paragraph 2 is amended by-.
(a)
deleting the word "and" at the end of subparagraph (b) (iii);
(b)
replacing the period by a semicolon at the end of subparagraph (b) (iv) 
and adding the word "and";
(c)
adding the following subparagraph (b) (v) to read as follows:
“(v) rent for office space of the Project Management Unit.”.
26.
Paragraph 3 is amended by:
(a)
inserting the word "and" at the end of subparagraph (a);
(b)
replacing the semicolon by a period and deleting the word "and" at the 
end of subparagraph (b);
(c)
deleting subparagraph (c).
27.
A new paragraph 4 is added to Schedule I to read as follows-.
“4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to 
be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts 
for works, goods and 
consultants' services under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.".
Schedule 2
28.
Part A.4 is amended to read:
"Reinforcement of MSPP's institutional capacity to manage the Borrower's 
health 
sector, including: (a) developing and implementing policies for 
public health, public 
safety, health emergencies and health technology; (b) 
setting priorities for health spending 
and research, (c) determining standards for 
service delivery and ensuring compliance, (d)  maintaining a national health 
information system, and (e) setting norms for the training and 
licensing of health 
workers.".
29.
Part B.3 is amended by replacing the words "the third year of Project execution" 
by the year " 1996".
30.
Part B.6 is amended by:
(a)
replacing the figure "30" by the figure "100"; and
(b)
deleting the word "medical".
31.
The last sentence is amended by replacing the date "December 31, 1995" by the 
date “December 31, 1997".
32.
Annex 2 is deleted.
Section 1, Schedule 3
33.
Part A. 1 is amended by replacing the year "1985" by the year " 1995".
34.
Part C.2 is amended by replacing the words "acting as procurement agent" by the 
words "or other procurement agent satisfactory to the Association".
35.
Part C.3 is amended by
Page  4
(a)
replacing the figures "$250,000" and "$20,000" by the figures 
"$1,000,000" and "$100,000",
(b)
adding the words "estimated to cost more than $50,000" after the words 
"Contracts for civil works, and
(c)
deleting the words ", provided that the contracts for goods so awarded do 
not exceed, in the aggregate, the equivalent of $600,000".
36.
A new Part C.5 is inserted to read as follows-.
“Works estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to 
an aggregate  amount equivalent to $1,000,000, may be procured under lumpsum, fixed 
price contracts 
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three 
qualified domestic contractors in 
response to a written invitation.  The 
invitation shall include a detailed description of 
the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement 
acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work,  and who has the experience and resources to successfully complete the 
contract.".
37.
A new Part C.6 is added to read as follows:
"6. Vehicles (including motorcycles), up to an aggregate amount 
equivalent to 
$3,500,000, shall be procured under contracts awarded 
through limited international bidding 
procedures, in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines".
38.
Part D. 1 (a) is amended by replacing the words "estimated to cost the
equivalent of more than S200,000 and $100,000, respectively" by the words “procured 
under: (i) Part A and C.6 hereof; and (ii) contracts for civil works estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $500,000 or more".
39.
A new Part E is added to read as follows:
"Part E: Standard Bidding(z Documents
In the procurement of goods and works under Part C.3 hereof the Borrower shall 
use standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Association.".
Section 11, Schedule  3
40.
Section II is amended by-
(a)
inserting the number " 1." at the beginning;
(b)
deleting the words “ Parts A (5)-, B (2); B (3) and C (1) (c) of”;
(c)
adding the words "(the Consultant Guidelines)" after the words 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency";
(d)
adding the following sentence at the end of paragraph 1:
"For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such 
consultants 
under contracts using the standard form of contract for 
consultants' services issued by the 
Bank, with such modifications as shall have 
been agreed by the Association.  Where no 
relevant standard contract 
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use 
other standard forms 
agreed with the Association."; and
(e)
adding the following paragraph 2:
“2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the 
provisions 
of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or 
approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of 
Page  5
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and  contracts shall not apply to: (a) 
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the employment of 
individuals 
estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to 
prior Association review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such 
contracts; 
(b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a 
critical nature, as 
reasonably determined by the Association; (d) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$50,000 equivalent or above; or (e) 
amendments to contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants raising the contract 
value to $25,000 
equivalent or above.".
Section III, Schedule 3
41.
A new Section III is added to read as follows;
"Section III. Special Provisions
Without limitation or restriction upon any other provisions in this Agreement, 
the following special provisions shall govern all procurement of works and goods 
referred to in Parts A. 1 and C.3 of Section I hereof-.
(a)
foreign contractors and suppliers shall be allowed to bid on all 
contracts and shall not be required to be associated with local contractors or 
suppliers:
(b)
except for the use of unskilled labor, there shall not be any restriction 
on sources of labor,
(c)
there shall not be any restriction on sources of materials;
(d)
no reference, minimum or  maximum prices shall be used for purposes of 
evaluation of bids for the supply of goods;
(e)
bids shall be opened in public and  their  prices  shall  be  read aloud; 
and
(f)
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid was evaluated as the 
lowest and responsive, in accordance with criteria clearly set forth in the standard 
bidding documents.”.
New Schedule 4
42.
A new Schedule 4 is added to read as set forth in the Attachment I to this 
letter.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
this letter in the spaces provided below.  This amendment letter shall be executed in 
two counterparts, each of which shall be an original.  Upon your confirmation, please 
return one fully executed original to us.
The provisions of this amendment letter will become effective as of the date the 
Association receives one fully executed original of this amendment letter.
Because of his interest in the matter, a copy of this amendment letter is being 
sent to the Minister of Public Health and Population.
Sincerely,
By /s/ Edilberto Segura 
Director 
Country Department II 
Latin America & Caribbean Region
Page  6
Agreed: REPUBLIC OF HAITI
By 
    Authorized Representative
Date: ________________
cc: Minister of Public Health and Population
ATTACHMENT I 
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (7) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows-
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment  of  the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account 
and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to 
have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective Eligible Categories. and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
Page  7
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request, or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
