Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21406 TP
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED TRUST FUND GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$8.5 MILLION
TO EAST TIMOR
FOR A
SECOND COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT PROJECT
April 30, 2001
Environment and Social Development Unit
Papua New Guinea/Pacific Islands/ East Timor Country Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 15, 2001)
Currency Unit = US Dollars
LC = US$1
US$1 = LC
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB             Asian Development Bank
CFO             Chief Financial Officer
CIVPOL          Civilian Police
CNRT            National Council of Timorese Resistance
ETTA            East Timorese Transitional Administration
IMF             International Monetary Fund
JAM             Joint Assessment Misi6n
NC              National Council
NGO             Non-government Organization
PMU             Project Management Unit
TFET            Trust Fund for East Timor
UNESCO          United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organization
lJNTAET         United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor
USAID           United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din-Kassum
Country Manager/Director:    Klaus Rohland
Sector Manager/Director:    Zafer Ecevit
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Gillian Brown



EAST TIMOR
SECOND COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page
1. Project development objective                                                        2
2. Key performance indicators                                                           2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project       3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           5
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                   5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                   6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                        9
3. Benefits and target population                                                      10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       10
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                            12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          13
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                            17
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    18
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         18
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                            18
2. Financial                                                                           19
3. Technical                                                                           20
4. Institutional                                                                       21
5. Environmental                                                                       22
6. Social                                                                              23
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  27
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                      27
2. Critical risks                                                                      29
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      29



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           30
2. Other                                                                             30
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         34
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        35
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         36
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   40
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        51
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                  52
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              56
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      57
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    68
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  69
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 70
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           71
Annex 11: Financial Management Plan                                                     72
Annex 12: Guidelines for Resettlement and Land Acquisition                              74
Annex 13: Recommendations for Integrating Gender                                        77
Annex 14: "Exit Plan" and Future Options                                                82
Annex 15: Guidelines for Mitigating Environmental Impact of Sub-Projects                84
MAP(S)



EAST TIMOR
SECOND COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
EASES
Date: April 5, 2001                              Team Leader: Gillian M. Brown
Country Director: Klaus Rohland                   Sector Manager/Director: Zafer Ecevit
Project ID: P072356                              Sector(s): SY - Other Social Protection
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Poverty Reduction
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Program Financing Data
[] Loan     [ Credit    [X] Grant      [] Guarantee     [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m):
Financing Plan:    Source                                   Local         Foreign        Total
BORROWER                                                       0.00           0.00          0.00
SPECIAL FINANCING                                              8.50           0.00          8.50
Total:                                                         8.50           0.00          8.50
Borrower: EAST TIMOR
Responsible agency: UNITED NATIONS TRANSITIONAL ADMINISTRATION IN EAST TIMOR
Address: Dili, East Timor
Contact Person: Ms. Rosa Vong, Director of the CEP PMU, Department of Internal Administration
Tel: (670) 390 321 022               Fax: (670) 390 322 445              Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
FY         2001       2002       2003
Annual    1.60        5.90       1.00  _                   I
Cumulative    1.60       7.50       8.50
Project implementation period: March 2001- June 30, 2003
MXS PAD F- Fb M.d, Z10



Outlining a three-year plan for reconstruction, the JAM found that the post-ballot violence left East Timor
with (i) more than 75% of the population displaced, (ii) virtually the entire pre-independence governance
structure dismantled, with the departure of senior and middle level civil servants; (iii) all technical sectors
inoperable, with the departure of almost all technical experts; (iv) an estimated 75% of administrative
buildings and 80% of social infrastructure (schools and clinics) completely or partially destroyed,
especially in the cities of Dili, Manatuto, Suai, Oecusse, and Los Palos and much of their hinterlands; and
(v) all equipment and materials in administrative buildings destroyed, removed or looted. Core
infrastructure (roads, electricity, water) suffered less damage, however infrastructure facilities were already
inadequate and poorly maintained prior to the violence which followed the referendum on August 30th,
1999.
The IDA's Transitional Support Strategy of November 2000 has five objectives: two that identify the
activities for IDA support, and three that identify the way that IDA works in East Timor. CEP II is
designed to take account of all of these objectives:
i) In the short-term, focus on the basics:
The first objective of the TSS is supported by the provision of grants to communities for infrastructure
investment projects in villages, credits for income-generating, and social welfare activities. An additional
sub-component for widows and vulnerable groups will pilot different safety net approaches for the most
vulnerable.
ii) As transition approaches, help prepare for independence:
The development of local level capacity to plan and implement development projects prepares the country
for the transition to a governance structure in which there will be no civil servants below district level.
Village and sub-district development councils will present an option that the new post-independence
government can review. A heavy emphasis in CEP is on capacity building, both through formal training
and through given hands-on experience to large numbers of people - in the project team, the private sector,
and in the communities. Experience and training given in financial management, technical skills,
languages, and management skills will help to build the countries human resources.
iii) Build local ownership of the development process:
CEP is the first of the TFET-funded projects to be fully under Timorese management and leadership. The
active participation of Timorese leadership in the project design has continued, and the new management
team has increased the ownership of the project by the Timorese. CEP goes further by building ownership
of the development process from the village level up. A major challenge is presented by over twenty five
years of dependency on government hand-outs under Indonesian rule. Principlels such as accountability,
transparency, and inclusion are new to most communities and will take time to develop.
iv) Foster strong aid coordination:
Joint donor and Timorese participation in the supervision and development of CEP II has continued since
the initial JAM mission. A joint donor mission in September 2000 formed the basis of changes, and new
directions for CEP II. Coordination with other development projects is a critical aspect of CEP, technical
experience is often found in sectoral projects such water supply and sanitation projects. Technical capacity
is limited and in short supply, cooperation between projects essential to promote sustainable development.
By it's nature CEP can be instrumental in fostering aid coordination - from a demand perspective.
Councils should be able to make decisions based on full information of the different options available. The
challenge of coordinating aid at the district level and below, and not simply around the tables in Dili, has
prompted the inclusion of the district initiatives sub-component in CEP II.
- 4-



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Poverty Reduction. The key issue for all work in East Timor is poverty reduction. East Timor was already
the poorest part of Indonesia prior to Independence. Against a national poverty average of 11-13%, at least
30% of East Timor' s population fell below the nationally defined poverty line. Timor fell behind Indonesia
in most quality of poverty indicators: infant mortality and morbidity, illiteracy, malnutrition, intestinal
disease, malaria, maternal mortality, and so on.
Governance Structures. For the local levels of social organization with which the proposed project is
concerned, governance and social issues reflect both the problems of the previous administrative system,
compounded by the problems caused by the violence that surrounded independence. The prior
administrative system was a top-down, highly centralized administrative system. As a result, political
accountabilities were mostly upwards. The government extended down to the village level with a system of
government-paid village administrators who had greater loyalty to higher levels of government than to the
people they serve. Independent Timor will be unable to support the same high numbers of civil servants
that served in Indonesian times and future government administration will go no further than the district
level. It will be even more important to find a way that the voice of the communities can be brought to the
district level forums, and to build a capacity within the communities themselves to plan and implement
development activities
Community Ownership and Local-level Capacity Building. Development programs by and large
reflected the availability of centralized budgets rather than a response to locally perceived and expressed
needs. Thus, despite a relatively large expenditure on Timorese development, on-the-ground impacts were
relatively slight, ownership was low, and the long-term sustainability of most development programs has
been minimal. Alternative program designs that emphasize community ownership, high quality TA, and
more local adaptation show significantly superior results in terms of effective use of development funds and
responsiveness to expressed needs.
Rural Reconstruction. Another issue which effects community empowerment lies in the distorting nature
of the transition and reconstruction period. The presence of a significant number of high-paid international
humanitarian and development agencies in Dili will inevitably cause local economic inflation bubbles, and
will equally inevitably pull many people out of rural areas. This process of accelerated urbanization has
already started. Rapid investment in rural reconstruction and normalization of the micro-economy is critical
to balance the distortion caused by the presence of large numbers of international staff in Dili.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The JAM priorities for the transitional period recommended a "Community Empowerment and Local
Governance Program" which is essentially the same as the project being proposed here. Recommendations
focused on four main components: (i) establishing and building capacity through village, sub-district, and
district councils; (ii) provision of grants and micro-credits for the rehabilitation of infrastructure and the
recovery of economic activities; (iii) support to vulnerable groups, including victims of violence,
female-headed households, the elderly, and physically handicapped and/or traumatized people; and (iv) a
strong cultural heritage program that encourages reconciliation and nation-building. These four priorities
have guided the proposed project. Following the joint donor review in September 2000, communications
and media development was identified as a priority area and the program has been expanded to address that
need.
-5 -



The proposed project approach cuts across a variety of sectors, especially given (i) the overall lack of an
integrated administrative structure that can provide line agency service delivery; (ii) the need to develop a
reconstruction framework that can be sustained by subsequent administrations; and (iii) the fiscal
requirements to keep government service and administrative positions small in number and limited to levels
where specific expertise is required, with most localized development functions being carried out by
communities themselves, through elected committees and supported by the privatelNGO sectors. The
project is compatible with planned initiatives in the health, education, roads, and agricultural sectors since
it will provide these sectors with an administrative framework for bottom-up participation in their planning
and implementation.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
There are three components in CEP: Component A - Community Grants, Component B - Cultural
Heritage, and component C - Radio and Television. Component A has three sub-components: Grants to
sub-districts, Widows and Vulnerable Groups, District Planning and Initiatives. Component B has
sub-components for reconstruction of a National culture and Performance Center, and also a small grants
component. Component C is a component to develop radio and television services.
A. COMMUNITY GRANTS *Grants   Comonunity                   4.80       56.5       4.80       56.5
to Sub-districts:                    Action Program
i) selection of village and sub-district
councils and capacity building for
them;
ii) grants to sub-districts to support
activities for physical infrastructure,
economic activities, social welfare
through sub-grants and credits to
communities; and
iii) services delivery through
sub-district facilitators, district
monitors, district project accountants,
district technical facilitators, a training
and communication team, a
monitoring and evaluation team, and a
management team.
-6 -



* Highly Vulnerable Groups          Other Social         1.10       12.9       1.10      12.9
i) Grants to sub-districts earrnarked for  Protection
use by highly vulnerable groups or
commnunity-based groups wanting to
provide assistance to them;
ii) Grants to central networks working
with highly vulnerable groups; and
iii) Technical assistance and monitoring
team
* District Planning and Initiatives  Non-Sector          0.30        3.5       0.30       3.5
i) Support for training, communication   Specific
and coordination activities in each
district; and
ii) District initiatives grant for district
activities identified by forum including
council members
B. CULTURAL HERITAGE                Non-Sector           0.90       10.6       0.90       10.6
COMPONENT                           Specific
* National Performance and Culture
Center
i) Reconstruction of the building for the
National Performance and culture
Center; and
ii) Architects and consultants to design
and supervise.
* Small culture grants              Non-Sector           0.60        7.1       0.60       7.1
i) Sub-grants for artists and activities at Specific
the culture center;
ii) Collection and archiving of oral
history;
iii) Village grants for cultural activities;
and
iv) management team
C. RADIO AND TV                     Community            0.80        9.4       0.80       9.4
i) establishment of a community radio    Action Program
support center;
ii) training and equipment for district
reporters; and
iii) training and equipment for
establishment of comrnunity radio
stations
Total Project Costs                    8.50      100.0       8.50      100.0
Total Financing Required                      8.50      100.0       8.50      100.0
Component A Community Grants
The core of this component is the formation and support of democratically selected development councils at
village and sub-district level (Conselho do suco and conselho do posto). The purpose of the councils is to
- 7 -



represent the communities in the development planning process. The component includes three activities
that will support this objective: (i) provision of funds to establish and strengthen the councils; (ii) provision
of unallocated block grants to participating sub-districts; and (iii) facilitators and technical advisors to help
communities manage the planning process, implement their proposals, and take responsibility for long-term
operations and maintenance. Two sub-components of the community grants component are the special
allocation for highly vulnerable groups, and the district development initiatives fund to strengthen the
coordination on development planning at district level.
Sub-Component: Sub-Grants to Sub-Districts
Each Sub-district receives a grant allocation four times over a three year period. CEP 11 covers the third
grant allocation to the sub-districts. Sub-district facilitators and village facilitators disseminate information
and facilitate meetings of small groups throughout the village. Groups may submit suggestions to the
village councils for development activities. The village councils decide which activities will be funded and
the groups prepare proposals for submission to the sub-district councils. Technical assistance is provided to
village groups, and the proposals are verified for their technical, financial, social, and economic feasibility.
Sub-district councils review the proposals and decide how their grant will be allocated. Eligible activities
can be i) physical infrastructure activities; ii) economic activities; or iii) social welfare activities. Funding
for economic activities is given as a credit to the beneficiaries who repay the money with interest to the
financial management unit selected by the sub-district council to manage the funds. The money repaid will
be lent on to other groups in the same village.
Sub-Component: Highly Vulnerable Groups
The objective of this sub-component is to provide appropriate support to highly vulnerable groups
(including widows, the elderly and disabled) who might otherwise find difficulty in accessing funds, or the
specific support that they need. The support that can be funded may take several forms such as direct
physical works (rebuilding houses or constructing orphanages), provision of support services such as
counseling, childcare, or advisory services; or sub-grants or credits for economic activities. A secondary
objective will be to strengthen community-based safety nets for vulnerable groups, and pilot different
methods of providing assistance to do this.
One method of fund flow will be through an additional allocation to the sub-district grants that is allocated
for this purpose. Special training will be provided to the CEP facilitators to help identify eligible groups
and communications materials will be designed to reach intended beneficiaries with information. The
normal CEP procedures for proposal preparation, decision-making, fund flow, financial management,
transparency, reporting, procurement, as described above will apply. Some funds will also be available for
community base organizations, church groups, women's organizations, or NGOs who want to provide
special services to the vulnerable groups. The process by which these organizations can apply for
grant-funding will be identified early in the project through a consultative process. A key element of the
component will be the monitoring and evaluation which will focus not only on the inputs and outputs, but
on a comparison of different approaches and mechanisms.
Sub-Component: District Planning and Initiatives
The councils make decisions on the allocation of the CEP sub-district funds and need to have a better
understanding of development activities in the district to assist them in the decision-making processes. At
the same time, the councils have the knowledge and understanding of the specific needs in their area -
information that would be useful to agencies implementing development projects, and to the district
administration. There is a critical need to bring members of the sub-district councils together at the district
level to participate fully in the development process. The District Planning and Initiatives Support
Sub-Component of CEP is intended to facilitate and strengthen these linkages through a) the provision of
- 8 -



grants to each district for information, coordination and training activities involving council members.; and
b) a district initiatives grant to which district planning forums that involve council members can apply for
activities that involve more than one sub-district.
Component B Cultural Heritage
As part of the process of reconstruction and reconciliation, the Community Empowerment Project also has
a second component to support the development of Timor's culture and history. A Culture Board has been
formed as the executive body, with a management team that will implement the following sub-components:
Sub-component: National Performance and Culture Center
Special expertise in Portuguese colonial architecture, history and cultural heritage will advise on the design
of the building and draw up the detailed specifications. UNESCO will supervise this component during the
design and reconstruction phase. Contractors will be procured through competitive bidding to undertake
the reconstruction of the building.
Sub-component: Small Grants for Culture
The Advisory Board, assisted by a management team, will administer a program of small sub-grants.
Some of the total budget for this component will be allocated to fund small art and culture activities related
to the Uma Fukun Timor Loro'Sae, some will be allocated for groups wanting to collect, document, and
archive oral histories, but over half of the small grants budget will be allocated for village cultural
activities.
Component C Radio and Television
The radio and television component in line with the need to establish professional, sustainable television
and radio systems in East Timor. Support for expanding coverage of the current national radio station first,
and post-elections establishment of community radio stations in the districts, will help to strengthen social
capital at the local level.
Under this component, trainee reporters will be recruited and trained from each district. Small amounts of
equipment will be provided initially to for the trainees who will make local programs under the supervision
of Radio UNTAET. Once the reporters have gained experience, some will be recruited by Radio UNTAET
as district reporters and will run district reporter stations. Others will form a nucleus of expertise that can
be drawn on to start the community radio stations. Equipment for the community radio stations will be
procured and will be provided to communities that show keen interest in supporting a community radio
station, after the national elections. A community radio support center will be established to provide
continuing support to the community radios. There will also be a workshop to discuss future options for
television in East Timor. And limited number of follow-on activities.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
*   The project supports the development of district, sub-district, and village councils in accordance with
UNTAET regulation 13/2000;
* The project will promote gender equality and women's empowerment according to international
conventions adopted in East Timor, the policies of UNTAET (ETTA), and the Platform of Action for
the Advancement of Women of Timor Loro Sae; It will do this through the equal participation of
women on the councils, additional capacity building for women council members, special support for
widows, and an integrated approach to gender in all components,
-9-



*   By empowering communities to plan and implement development activities CEP will reduce the impact
of the much- reduced civil service; and
*   Workshops in component C will assist in the development of the new regulatory framework for radio
and television.
3. Benefits and target population:
The main benefits of CEP will be the empowerment of communities to plan and implement development
activities, and an increased understanding of accountability and good governance. Cultural heritage and
media activities will help to increase social capital and social reconciliation.
Physical benefits from CEP will be in the form of:
*   Social infrastructure such as water supply, roads, and irrigation systems.
*   Economic activities such as agriculture production, handicrafts, etc.
*   Social welfare activities such as orphanages, training.
Target populations include council members, and almost the entire population of East Timor. Experience
has shown that in community-driven projects some people in the communities will benefit more than others
and the most vulnerable are still likely to be left out. The special component for widows and vulnerable
groups will ensure that benefits reach these people as well.
A secondary target population will be the project staff themselves who will receive training and capacity
building through the project. It is anticipated that some of the team may be absorbed into the civil service
in the future, while others will join the private sector or NGOs - well trained staff will help to build the
capacity of all three sectors in the long run.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Overall coordination is with the Department of Internal Administration in the East Timorese Transitional
Administration (ETTA), with direct responsibility for implementation through the Project Management
Unit (PMU). The Director of the PMU reports directly to the Cabinet Member for Internal Administration.
A Governing Board of the national cultural heritage trust has been formed which oversees the cultural
heritage center, allocation of cultural grants, and social reconciliation activities. The Manager of the
Conmmunity Radio Center will report technically to the Head of Radio JANTAET, but on administrative
matters to the Project Director.
Project Management. :During the first phase of CEP, the PMU was significantly under-staffed, drawing
upon scarce UNTAET staff and physical resources and relying upon intensive inputs from Bank
consultants and staff. In addition, a series of technical assistance contracts and contract extensions were
approved and funded by the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank to provide the necessary project
management and financial oversight capacity from February 2000 onwards. By September 2000, the
resources available to the PMU had expanded, and the experience gained by the CEP Timorese staff
through working in close consultation with international consultant team had facilitated an extensive review
and re-design of the project management structure for CEP. In addition, the institutional environment in
which CEP is being implemented had clarified, with a new East Timor Transitional Administration (ETTA)
being established and CEP being assigned to one of the five new Timorese Ministers, the Minister for
Internal Administration.
- 10-



Management of all of the components will be integrated under the new structure with the ability to share
resources across the components, for example, one finance office will handle all the financial aspects, and
one personnel officer will handle all of the personnel issues across the components. All of the management
positions, other than that of the Chief Financial Officer, are filled with Timorese staff. The Timorese
management team have, themselves, identified the areas where they feel that additional assistance from
international advisers would be beneficial and have been active in helping to prepare the terms of reference
and evaluation criteria for these positions. They are also participating in the selection of the consultants to
fill these positions.
The newly-structured Project Management Unit will handle the day-to-day management of the project on
behalf of the Grantee, UNTAET. The PMU coordinates the inputs and activities of each of the three
components of the project and is responsible for consolidating information and reports from these different
units and submitting it to senior officials at UNTAET and to the World Bank. The PMU will be comprised
of three teams:
*   Financial management team: The financial management and oversight of the project is handled by the
Chief Financial Officer (CFO), who is supported by a Deputy CFO, two Budget Assistants, and
sixteen District Project Accountants (DPA) with responsibility for financial oversight in the field and
authority to inspect all project accounts and records. The CFO is also supported by internal audit
expertise from UNTAET's Central Fiscal Authority and external auditors paid for by the Grant funds;
*  Administration Team: A Chief Administration Officer (CAO) will oversee and office manager,
procurement/logistics officer, and a personnel officer. All recruiting, procurement, and support
services (translation, secretarial, drivers, etc. will be managed by this team; and
-   Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation: Data analysis, monitoring and evaluation, report production
and editing will be carried out by this team under the supervision of a Reporting, monitoring, and
Evaluation Officer (RME)
Component A Community Grants: Component A will be implemented by a team of nearly 200 staff in
the following teams:
*   Operations team: The operations team includes a team leader, district monitors in each of the 13
districts, and sub-district facilitators in each of the 60 sub-districts. All staff have been recruited and
have received initial training although training and capacity building for all staff will continue
throughout the project. Village facilitators will be recruited in each village from candidates suggested
by the village councils, and will be paid small honorariums to assist the sub-district facilitators at the
village level;
*   Training and Communications team: a core training team will work with colleagues from other teams
to develop the training and capacity building activities for the other project staff and for the council
members, village facilitators, council members, financial management units etc. A separate
communications team will prepare communications materials to disseminate and share information
between facilitators, council members, and the communities themselves. The training and
communications team has been identified as a key area for the promotion of the projects gender
strategies and a gender specialist will be attached to this team;
*   Technical Team: The technical team is comprised of a team leader, technical specialists, and 13 district
technical facilitators who will ensure that communities have access to appropriate technical assistance
for the design and implementation of the activities; and
- 11 -



Component B Cultural Heritage: Activities funded through the cultural heritage component include
documentation of oral history, development of the National Heritage and Performance Center (in the
building that formerly housed the Indonesian Provincial Military Command for East Timor), and a small
grants program to support village cultural activities. A Culture Board was formed in CEP I and has
artists, performers, and representatives of the church, women's organizations, and other relevant groups on
it. The Culture Board meets regularly and has recently appointed a management team and recruited a
fund-raiser. The fund-raisers role will be to raise the funds for the completion of the internal works on the
building not covered by the CEP grant, and to ensure sustainability of the small grants component. Special
expertise in Portuguese colonial architecture, history and cultural heritage will advise on the design of the
building and draw up the detailed specifications. UlNESCO will supervise the design and reconstruction of
the building. Contractors will be procured through competitive bidding to undertake the reconstruction of
the building.
Component C Radio and Television: A manager has been selected to manage the component and run the
radio support center. The manager will report to the Head of Radio UNTAET for technical matters and to
the Project Manager for administrative and financial matters. The trainees will report to Radio UNTAET
during training. The community radio stations will be managed by community boards.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Community Grants and Local Governance Component: At the time when this project was designed, the
scale and thoroughness of the destruction constrained options available to the project. Line agencies no
longer existed and those which have recently been established still have very few Timorese in leadership or
management positions. District administration offices are now in place, and have been run until very
recently by international advisors. Although there is a move to Timorese the administration, it is not when
all district offices will be lead by a Timorese district administrator. Beyond the district level no interim
capacity has been created, nor is expected to be established. Support through the already over-stretched
NGO network was similarly impossible due to their focus on emergency deliveries, however close
coordination with NGOs has been continuous during preparation and implementation.
An alternative approach was considered during project preparation on the first CEP tranche, which is a
hybrid between the community block grant model being proposed here, and a more classical social fund
that in theory could provide a higher quality of technical support. Trade-offs between the two approaches
are difficult to evaluate. The block grant approach will develop more local capacity and is more sustainable
over the long run. A second problem is that the small companies normally employed by social fimds were
virtually all non-Timorese and no longer operate in East Timor. A social fund proposal would also have a
significantly longer start-up period because internal communications are so poor. In addition, during
discussions, IJNTAET indicated that it wanted District Administrators to review each subproject proposal,
which would have posed an unmanageable strain on district administrations. Thus, this option was rejected.
A strong argument for the current approach is that a similar and successful version of the proposed project
was already in place before the conflict, funded by the World Bank through The Kecamatan Development
Project (Ln. 4330-IND). The Kecamatan Development Project was covering 42 of East Timor's 62
sub-districts, and had already completed a first year planning cycle when the conflict started. That project
had already demonstrated that (i) community and sub-district capacity was sufficient to implement the
- 12 -



block grant approach; (ii) a TA structure staffed by Timorese engineers and facilitators could deliver
effective facilitation and engineering services to communities, provided they had strong management and
received good training; (iii) use of direct grants, high community participation, and privatized TA bypassed
many of the negative incentives and opportunities for delays and leakage that had undermined the
effectiveness of most previous development programs in East Timor.
The CEP has capitalized on the pre-existing training and experience of the Kecamatan Development Project
technical and field staff. The sub-districts for the first phase of the new project were the same as those
already covered by The Kecamatan Development Project. The main differences between The Kecamatan
Development Project and the proposed project are (i) forming interim councils within villages and
sub-districts; (ii) greater focus on capacity development through training and closer involvement with
NGOs; and (iii) altemative financial transfer systems since the pre-existing banking system no longer
exists. Nevertheless, despite the differences, having communities and facilitators who were already familiar
with the main concepts and methods allowed for a much faster startup than would have otherwise been the
case.
Radio and Television Component:  The immediate establishment of community radio stations in the
districts was considered, but rejected because of (i) concerns about the security and neutrality of the radio
stations over the elections; and (ii) the lack of skilled radio journalists to run the stations well. The
emphasis in the first stage will be on training for potential managers, technicians and reporters. This will
set accreditation standards and create a pool of skilled media workers, prior to the full scale infrastructure
development in community radio.
Larger investments in television were considered, but rejected due to question of cost-effectiveness. Smaller
scale inputs (such as workshops on the future of television in East Timor) together with funding for training
and programming development, made more sense at this initial stage, prior to larger investments.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Given the cross-cutting nature of the Community Empowerment Project, all projects implemented at the
community level are related to it. One of the principles of CEP is open choice, and there is only a short
negative list of activities that can not be funded with the sub-district grants including illegal, dangerous, or
harmful activities, and the funding of government or religious buildings and staff salaries. This means that
communities have an open choice about the type of proposals they prepare, and the decisions the councils
make on the use of their funding. In some cases this may lead to competition between, for example, CEP
and sectoral projects. Competition can be healthy and gives the communities the chance to judge different
approaches and decide for themselves the one they prefer. The concept that communities have the right to
choose is a key element of the empowerment principles of CEP. However, from the beginning, the design
of CEP has included features that encourage communities to use their money effectively and efficiently.
For example:
*   Project rules: One of the project rules states that health and education facilities can only be funded if
the communities have received a commitment from the relevant authorities that staff and resources will
be provided in the future. Communities must therefore coordinate with the authorities first and present
their case - it may be that they would find that another project already had plans to build the facility
that they were proposing and that they could prepare a different proposal for CEP funding. Project
rules also state that there must be repayment to the councils of money used for economic or
income-generating activities, this, a requirements for markets rates of interest, lending to previously
- 13 -



existing groups only, and a maximum repayment period of eighteen months, will ensure that CEP does
not compete unfairly with micro-credit projects run by NGOs or the ADB's Micro-credit project.
*   Competition: Councils will receive far many more proposals than they can fund. The incentive would
therefore be for them to look for alternative sources of funding if they exist in order to narrow down the
number of proposals competing for the CEP funds. However, this depends on the councils having the
information about the other projects or opportunities in the first place.
*   Verification: All proposals are verified for technical, economic, and environmental feasibility before
they are submitted to the councils together with a report from the verification team.
*   Selection criteria: Sub-district councils must decide on the selection criteria that they will use to
evaluate the proposals and select the priority proposals for funding. The criteria are not dictated by the
project, but typically include for example "benefits the poorest" or "amount of contribution from the
community".
Other projects are limited in the resources that they can provide and it is hoped that by cooperating together
CEP could extend the capacity to achieve the objectives of, for example, the water supply sector.
However, the CEP does not have specific sectoral skills and the provision of adequate technical assistance
is a major challenge. The project team will explore all the opportunities for cooperating across projects to
maximize the development effectiveness of the combined funding.
One of the findings of the Joint donor supervision report was that there was insufficient coordination among
the projects at district level, and insufficient information disseminated to communities below district level.
Communities are unclear about the different projects and where they can get support for different activities
from. The councils need information on all of the projects relevant to them in the sub-district in order to
make the best decisions regarding the use of the grants allocated to them. The councils are also a source of
bottom-up information regarding the priorities of different villages and communities. This kind of
information can play a critical role in helping other projects become demand, rather than supply driven.
The role of the councils and CEP staff in coordinating village level development initiatives and maximizing
the use of skills and resources has yet to be fully realized. The grants under the district initiatives
component are one attempt to facilitate this, the CEP service delivery team will also be focusing much more
on this aspect in the coming cycles.
Given the number of projects related in some way to CEP, the tables below show i) the TFET funded sector
projects, ii) sector projects of other donors, and iii) other projects in the community development sector.
- 14 -



1    Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                  (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Poverty Reduction                  Small and medium Enterprise       S             S
Project
Dili Community Employment
Generation
Govemance Structures               Capacity building and
Development
Community Ownership and Local
Capacity Building
Rural Reconstruction               Health Sector Rehabilitation      S             S
and Development Project
Agriculture Rehabilitation        S             S
Project
Emergency School Readiness        S             S
Project
Other development agencies
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 15-



SECTOR MATRIX:   COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT                                  I
DONOR                 PROGRAM                                DURATION           IMPLEMENTING
BUDGET            PARTNER
USAID United States    Transitional Employment Project (TEP)    TEP-I completed    UNTAET District
Agency for International The project employed over 50,000 workers  Aug 2000 US$  Administrations, by local
Development           in short-term labor-intensive activities,  4,395,916      & international NGOs,
paying wages and materials costs for                     and by community groups.
projects to employ East Timorese
COMPLETED
New Zealand           Social and Community Development Fund  US$ 50,000         Various community groups
Small grants to local communities.                       and NGOs.
COMPLETED
UNTAET Trust Fund    Quick Impact Projects (QIPS) The project                   UNTAET District
provides small grants to groups seeking to  oneAdministrations, by local
undertake immediate reconstruction or      , ,           and international NGOs,
UNHCR                 development projects with immediate local                 and by community groups
impact. NGOs, community groups, and    90% of funds have
UNTAET District Administration offices   been committed to
OCHA                  and field staff all eligible to submit  approved projects;
proposals for funding.                83% disbursed thus
Now UNTAET QlPs are managed together far.
with OCHA & UNHCR QlPs by the Joint
QIP Coordination and Management Unit.
ONGOING
East Timor Community Assistance Scheme Budget Year 99-00: AusAID through NGOs
AusAID                (ETCAS)                                AUD$800,000
Australian Agency for   The project provides direct assistance to
Austemational Agencyf small development activities in East Timor  Budget year 00-01:
Internatlonal         in support of poverty reduction. More than  AUD$1,000,000
Development           45% of ETCAS projects are in Dili
ONGOING
Trust Fund for East   Community Empowerment and Local        2.5 years (until late  IJNTAET
Timor (TFET) -        Governance Project (CEP)               2002) US$22.7      Department of Internal
managed by the IDA and Project assists local communities in  million TFET grant Administration
the ADB               non-Dili sub-districts to create local  (in 3 tranches)
development councils to handle community  + $1.Om ADB TA
grants for reconstruction and development  grant
activities. ONGOING                   + $1.55m World
Bank Japan PCF
grant
.            .        ~~~~~~US$1.5 million  Direct Implementation by
[OM International     Community Assistance for Population                       IOM in five districts
Organization for      Stabilization (CAPS) Provides direct grants
Migration             and other assistance to communities in
border areas with special needs for
reintegration of returning displaced
persons. ONGOING
- 16-



USAID                 Transitional Employment Project 11   15 months (until Dec Various partners will
(TEPS-2)                             2001) US$ 3.5     implement, as with the
Unite StatesAgencyfoThe project will employ workers in  million            original TEP.
Unitedatiats          short-term labor-intensive activities, paying
Dtevetlopment         wages and materials costs for projects.
Development           ONGOING
CIDA                  Fund for Local Initiatives Project provides  2000-01    CIDA and local partners
direct grants to small development activities  ,       through EApp  and
Canada                throughout East Timor. A portion of the                 program support unit In
funds is managed by ETADep, a Timorese
NGO to enable the Fund to support very
small community initiatives. Ongoing
1999-2000 CDN$ 400,000
Japan                 East Timor Markets Rehabilitation Project  2 670 000   Adventist Development
Project finances physical rehabilitation and   ,       A
reconstruction of public market sites and              and Relief Agency
buildings in Dili Ainaro, Manatuto,
Baucau, Liquica, and Aileu PLANNED
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Several lessons have been leamed in the initial implementation of the Community Empowerment Project,
justifying the need for design changes of additional components during this second phase of CEP:
0      Role and Capacity of Councils: The role of the councils is unclear to the communities as well as
the council members themselves. The capacity of the councils, especially the women members to be
effective in decision-making meetings is weak. To address this, more emphasis will be placed on capacity
building for council members and for increasing the understanding of the councils roles within the
communities. A special program of capacity building for women council members has been proposed and
several other donor agencies and the local women's organizations are keen to assist.
0      Council member elections: The selection process in CEP I did not completely follow the principles
of democratic selection of the members and 30% of council members were elected by "acclamation" To
some degree this was anticipated and a second election was planned for roughly one year after the first.
Now that the facilitators have more experience, and there is a broader understanding of the process, the
second round of elections should be much improved on the first.
0      Information Availability and Communication Effectiveness. Another lesson-leamed during the
initial implementation of CEP was the major need for timely information across East Timor. Most
communities have been cut-off from their previous sources of information and to date mass communication
has been woefully inadequate. Development projects have been less than successful in getting messages to
communities, either in the way that these messages have been designed, or in the timeliness of the delivery.
Women are often especially excluded from sources of information and need specially designed materials or
media to reach them effectively. A much greater priority will be given to communication in CEP II. The
second phase includes a national and community radio and television component in response to these needs.
The commnunications team will be strengthened and will continue to explore news ways to reach
communities, and especially women, with information. The district initiatives component includes a grant
- 17-



to support district level initiatives to improve communication and coordination.
0     Donor Coordination and Sectoral Approach:. Although different projects have their own
objectives and sometimes different policies are justified, however, there is a need to bring project policies
and practices more inline with each other, through better project coordination. Donor coordination on
community development is needed to ensure that communities and decision-making bodies are provided
with information, processes, and procedures that give them the capacity to be more involved in development
planning and implementation. At a national level donor joint donor missions will continue periodically to
built on the achievements of the first mission. The second joint donor supervision mission of the community
development sector is planned for March 2001. To improve the cooperation and coordination at the district
level, the district initiatives component has been introduced.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
UNTAET sent a formal letter to the World Bank requesting the proposed project. CEP was the first donor
financed project for the new administration. Stakeholder support for the project concept has been very
high. Preliminary consultations were held during the Joint Assessment Mission with UTNTAET, CNRT, the
Church, local NGOs, and intemational NGOs. Project preparation and implementation has continued this
consultative process. The final project design includes mechanisms to disseminate information and
incorporate suggestions for improving the basic design through semi-annual reviews.
NC, CNRT, and now ETTA support for the project has been, and is, strong. East Timorese leaders
participated in two step socialization at district and sub district level, and have participated in supervision
missions. They also carried out an independent review of the project. The community radio component is
added at the direct request of Timorese leadership have also agreed to the additional $1.2 million dollars for
this purpose.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The value added of IDA support has been high. First, the WB has an incomparable body of worldwide
expertise in implementing community-driven investment funds. Second, the Bank's Kecamatan project
funded and supervised the training and facilitator management for the core team that have been
implementing the current project. The Bank thus has institutional knowledge for most of the proposed
arrangements that have been used to the advantage of project preparation and implementation. Third,
because of the urgent need to get activities started on the ground and because of the complex overarching
institutional arrangements still emerging from the UNTAET interim administration, the newly formed
ETTA, and IDA (and ADB) -- the agreement to cut through bureaucratic obstacles will continue to be key
to helping the project support the overall effort of community empowerment through the transition to an
independent East Timor. Fourth, the Bank is well placed to work with other donors in the community
development sector as lessons are learned and are transformed into an institutionalized approach to local
govermment in the future.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
- 18-



The situation in East Timor is still far from being a market economy; there are few sources of credit for
rural communities or small businesses outside of the TFET-funded Small Enterprises Project (SEP) and
CEP, although a $4 million ADB-managed microfinance project is planned. The interest rates for small
loans under the community grants component was fixed at the same rate that SEP loans are made, currently
10% per annum, to avoid imposing additional distortions as the market for financial services expands and
searches for a "market interest rate". As this happens, the interest rate will be reviewed and adjusted.
In August, UNTAET/East Timor Transitional Administration (UNTAET/ETTA) mandated that all
disbursements made with official government funds be issued in the transitional administration's official
currency, United States dollars. This decision was implemented in early September, 2000, and the last
several disbursements of the first cycle of CEP grants were made in dollars rather than in rupiah. The Joint
Donor Community Development Sector Review team, in its field visits in September 2000, found that there
was a preference shown by some communities to receive dollars because it was felt to be more stable than
the rupiah. However, there is widespread lack of understanding of exchange rates, and limited numbers of
moneychangers to change the money into the more commonly used rupiah. An additional concern is the
impact that this will have on transparency already a difficult concept to communicate when different
currencies are being used. The door is open to increased money-making opportunities unless care is taken.
The other economic issue which generated debate during the early months of CEP was the potential impact
on the market for labor of the wages paid to villagers using CEP community grant monies. The experience
thus far shows that communities have chosen from a wide range of practices. In some places the villages
paid no wages and instead mobilized volunteers collectively, in some places they paid good (familiar)
wages, and in some they paid wages for part of the project and then finished it up with volunteer labor
when their monies ran out. There has not been a systematic pattern of CEP grant monies paying wages
which dominate the local market for unskilled and semi-skilled labor. The upcoming 2nd, 3rd, and 4th
grant cycles will involve much larger sums of monies and more ambitious community projects, and thus
could conceivably have a more significant impact on local labor markets. The issue was included in the
consultations and field visits during the Joint Donor Community Development Sector Review team in
September 2000, also in relation to the USAID- TEPS project which had used the UNTAET standard
salary scales in their early emergency projects. The empirical impact of this intensive input of relatively
high wages has not yet been measured, but the anecdotal evidence indicates that it is possible that one
donor or project, operating in communities where the rural economy remains drastically deflated, can
indeed dominate and move the market for labor.
Donors and NGOs also continue to debate the perceived or real impact of project wage policies on
villagers' willingness to contribute labor to donor or NGO schemes. The Joint Donor Sector Review found
that commnunities were still able to successfully mobilize labor for communal improvements and
reconstruction schemes under certain circumstances. The willingness to donate labor and manage it
collectively remains robust for projects whose ownership is in the community, even if workers on
donor-funded projects which are seen as from the outside are demanding higher wages.
The CEP Project Management Unit, with assistance from the World Bank, will continue to monitor actual
developments on both the issue of disbursement currency and wage practices during formal supervision
missions and periodic field visits.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=USS million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Economic activities financed by the project will normally be repaid within 18 months through a flexible
- 19 -



repayment schedule keyed to reflect the agricultural calendar. Repayments will be to the financial
management unit established by the sub-district level development council. Money that is repaid should
revolve through the same process of competitive proposal selection to be used to fund future village
proposals. Repayment schedules and the status of repayment will be publicly posted. Villages that have
not repaid their obligations are barred from further participation in the project until their accounts are
settled.
Infrastructure will normally provide full cost recovery within five to seven years, making normal
assumptions about roads, irrigation, water supply and other infrastructure issues in East Timor. However,
the project manual includes regulations prohibiting the erection of community tariff facilities (common in
many areas), which effectively end local cost recovery for maintenance work and which have distorting
impacts on local trade. Instead, communities must agree to maintain facilities through labor-intensive,
self-assistance activities.
Most national level financial issues are irrelevant for this project. Project accounting and management meet
all IDA and UJN standards. Financial controls follow other Bank-financed community development
projects. Fund flow guidelines are in project manuals and technical assistance training has included
requirements in financial management. District Project Accountants have now been recruited and manage
the financial aspects of the project at district level under the direction of the Chief financial Officer.
However, it is expected that the most effective controls will come from the communities, through the
project's transparency mechanisms. Communities that do not comply with project guidelines will be given
a period to remedy deficits, after which they will be dropped by the project.
Both the cultural heritage, and the national radio and television components, will follow the projects
financial management procedures and will report to the Chief Financial Officer for all financial aspects.
Fiscal Impact:
No public cost recovery is needed since the project provides grants to communities. The fiscal impact of
assisting poor sub-districts and villages has been minimized because (i) high rates of transparency and
ownership minimize leakage; (ii) community contributions stretch the funds considerably further than
would otherwise be possible ; (iii) communities manage and maintain the infrastructure that they build.
Because all project costs are 100% financed from intemational grant funds, there are no fiscal or
deadweight costs from the project for the Government of East Timor.
3. Technical:
An initial core team of project staff were available from a previous project. The additional personnel
required to expand implementation to all districts and sub-districts were recruited in the initial months of
project implementation, drawing as much as possible on former field staff of other community-based
programs in East Timor. Notwithstanding this experience, skill levels on entry have been relatively low.
All have been receiving (and will continue to obtain) training under the project. There will be a continuing
program of training and skills upgrading throughout the life of the project for all the project staff.
Provision of adequate, and skilled, technical assistance in a timely manner to the communities, is a major
challenge for CEP. Project planning and implementation of activities takes place at the lowest level (the
village level) and services and facilities available at that level are extremely limited, the fundamental
challenge has been to ensure access to adequate technical resources at each stage of the process. There are
three stages of technical assistance provision to the communities: during preparation of the proposals, on
the team that verifies the proposals, and during implementation. A team of 16 District Technical
- 20 -



Facilitators (DTF) have now been recruited and trained. The role of the DTF is to coordinate the provision
of technical assistance during these three stages. During planning stage, the use of voluntary skilled
technicians from within the village is encouraged. In case the appropriate skills are not available the
community can apply to the DTF for paid assistance from outside. The DTF will keep an updated list of
all the skills available in the district and can suggest qualified people to the community. The DTF will also
assist in selecting sub-district teams to verify the proposals, ensuring that the appropriate skills are on each
team according to the range of the proposals. The work of the verification team is short tenn and offers of
assistance for this work have come from the District Administrators office, and other projects. Technical
assistants who helped in the proposal preparation are not allowed to assist in the verification. During
implementation the villages can use up to 5 % of their grant amount to contract technical assistance to help
them. Payment of the final 10% will only be made once the works have been certified as satisfactory by the
DTF.
Technical manuals have been produced for the project staff. Examples of topics covered include public
buildings (schools, clinics, meeting halls), piped water supply, access roads, culverts and small bridges, and
irrigation and drainage works. Field equipment held at the District level includes hand-held altimeters and
walking tape, so that planning and design of such works can be based on measured heights and distances
using basic tools. Procurement methods have been devised which will allow project implementers to
access necessary materials of reasonable quality.
The technical oversight for the reconstruction of the national performance center will be provided by
experts managed by UNESCO under a Memorandum of Understanding between them and UNTAET.
UNESCO in consultation with the cultural heritage board, will assist in the recruitment and supervision of
architects and consultants to design and monitor the reconstruction.
For the radio and television component, international experts will be recruited in technical, journalist, and
managerial skills, and will train Timorese counterparts at district level, in those districts which will be
participating. Training will focus on reporting and management skills. Technicians will also be trained as
an integral part of the equipment installation package.
4. Institutional:
Within ETTA there are ongoing discussions on the level of decentralization that will form the basis of the
future government. At the moment there is almost no fiscal decentralization and the sectoral allocations of
funds are heavily centralized. Time will be needed for the policies and approaches to be discussed and
developed. The existence of elected representative bodies up to sub-district level prepares the way of the
formation of bodies of elected representatives at district level should this be in accordance with future
directions. In the meantime, there is a strong demand for greater coordination with the sub-district
development councils at the district level because of the opportunity for them to bring information from the
villages up to the district, also as a means of sending information from the district to the councils. Until
decisions on decentralization are made, CEP will support flexible approaches to district coordination with
council members. Building the capacity of the councils and encouraging the development of accountable
and representative institutions at the lower level is one of the main aims of CEP.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The capacity of the implementing institution has strengthened considerably during CEP I although it is
generally still weak. The Director of the PMU now reports to the Cabinet Member for Internal
Administration in the East Timorese Transitional Administration (ETTA). The relationship between
UNTAET and ETTA is still in the process of being established and clarified.
- 21 -



4.2 Project management:
The PMU is now fully staffed and has been handed over to Timorese management as per the initial exit
strategy for CEP. The team works out of a specially renovated building and adequate office equipment
and transport has been purchased both for them, and for the district offices. The Timorese team have done
a remarkable job in the first stage of the project, but are a young and relatively inexperienced team. The
new mangers have themselves identified the international assistance they feel they need and are in the
process of recruiting the advisors to help them. A major focus of the CEP II will be to build the capacity
of the Timorese management team through language training, management training and special skills
training for example in technical skills. The main issues facing the team are firstly, difficulties caused by
the conditions, for example the lack of power supply for much of the day; second, several of the senior staff
have left either to take up high level civil service positions, or to return to university to complete interupted
educations.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Most of the procurement is community procurement, and the main challenges are to help the communities
throughout East Timor to understand and use the community procurement procedures outlined in Annex 6.
The capacity of the PMU for large procurement is weak and support will be provided for procuring ICB,
NCB or QCBS contracts from the Central Procurement Office. Special training in Bank procurement
procedures and use of standard bidding documents will be provided to PMU staff.
4.4 Financial management issues:
District Project Accountants and the Chief, and Deputy Financial Officers are in place. Capacity continues
to grow among them but it will not be until they have been right through the second cycle and evaluated the
process that they will really understand the systems in place and the pitfalls within the system. One of the
major challenges facing the new government will be to ensure that the previous corrupt practices in
governance do not emerge. The project staff, and especially the project accountants will be faced with the
challenge of ensuring that any cases of misuse of funds are identified and dealt with, and that the
communities are empowered and given the opportunity to hold their representatives accountable to them.
This will involve working closely with them and ensuring transparency at all stages.
An additional challenge has been introduced by the fact that the rupiah is still the most commonly used
currency outside of Dili, and communities will therefore be likely to exchange the dollars they receive for
rupiah. Tracking the use of the money will be difficult unless special procedures and rules are introduced.
Money making opportunities will be opened through currency exchanges and because of the potential for
confusion that this introduces.
5. Environmental:                  Enviromnental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
There are no major environmental risks associated with this project. Individual project activities are small
and do not involve environmentally damaging technologies. Minor environmental risks include those
normally associated with community-based infrastructure. Examples include tertiary road cut and fill,
small holder agricultural improvement, and discharges from village cottage industries developed through
the project. These will be mitigated through the project's negative list, and through normal environmental
engineering practices that will be built into the project manual. On-going training of technical and
sub-district facilitators will include environmental management.
- 22 -



Positive environmental benefits are also expected to be correspondingly slight, with one exception. Much of
the initial grant is expected to go to core building materials and tools. During initial CEP project appraisal
in January 2000, concerns were expressed that the lack of available building materials (cement, support
timbers, roofing and siding) in the district and local markets would force communities to turn to local
sources for materials to rebuild structures, thus placing a heavy burden on an already-deforested island.
However, by the time community councils received the initial monies from their first grant cycle
disbursements, local markets had recovered enough to provide adequate supplies of cement and other
imported building supplies; most CEP-funded reconstruction projects used these supplies, diverting
pressure on local wood resources.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
There is no formal EMP but the actions taken to mitigate negative environemental impacts include i) the
negative list of activities that includes items that are harmful to the enviromnent such as pesticides,
herbicides, explosives, chainsaws or large fishing boats; ii) training for the District Technical Facilitators
and other project staff; iii) simple checklists of potential impacts to be used by the sub-district facilitators
in project preparation, and more detailed guidelines for use in verification by the DTF; and iv) technical
manuals.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA.
report on the enviromnental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N/A
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
N/A
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Three social issues may have an affect on the project's outcome: (i) the extent to which democratically
elected councils could come into conflict with traditional leadership and/or the resistance movement
structures, which are still quite strong; (ii) the extent to which the one-man, one-woman voting
requirements may be reconciled with institutionalized and cultural issues of gender discrimination, present
in both the modem and traditional parts of Timorese society; and (iii) the extent to which local councils
can be integrated into the formal civil service structures, which until now have only existed at the district
level. A team of intemational and Timorese anthropologists have been in the field since September 2000
collecting information regarding each of these issues. The results of their work will provide the basis for
design modification to be integrated into the procedures prior to the third cycle of CEP.
The key issue regarding the democratically elected councils is how much these structures will contradict
with local organizational pattems which are already present. Traditional authority in many parts of East
Timor eroded under the Indonesian administration. Furthermore, many of today's villages are a product of
coerced settlement and may not hold together following independence. Some administrative boundary
adjustments have already taken place. Because the core groups in this dynamic are kin-based and operate
- 23 -



within more or less homogenous hamlets, the project design recommends that each hamlet receive equal
representation in the village council. Existing village leaders need to be treated with respect during the
election process while encouraged to refrain from intervening. Guarding the integrity of the electoral
process is a key role for the facilitators.
Gender issues are an issue of shared concern for the UNTAET as well as the Timorese leadership, both of
which have gender equity policies. In a context where reconstruction must begin with basic needs, women'
s lack of institutional access distorts both poverty efforts and the designs of many large projects, which will
misgauge priorities and targeting unless beneficiaries are directly involved. Adding equal numbers of
women to the representative councils will not solve the gender problem, but not having women on them will
ensure that there is no progress at all. Ensuring this balance is therefore a strict condition concerning the
validity of the village and sub district council elections. After one year, there is less controversy over the
50% rule than was anticipated initially. One of the reasons for this is that everyone selects two people: one
man and one woman, hence women compete against women, and men against men for positions on the
councils. Both Timorese men, and Timorese women, are both comfortable with a situation where women
do not have to compete against men.
Gender will be integrated in all aspects of the CEP - specific recommendations for gender inclusion are
detailed in Annex 13.
Much of the solution for the project's social issues will lie at the level of practical procedures, rather than
theory. The project's staff, especially the facilitators, must be well-trained in participatory techniques so
that community's natural organizations enter into the decision-making process and real needs get expressed.
Experience prior to independence highlights the critical role that the village and sub district facilitators will
play, particularly during the startup periods of the project. Planning methodologies for this project draw on
both field ethnographies and several current studies on social capital and development. Nevertheless, a
learning curve is expected here since the communities' historical experience is anything but one of
self-determination in development. Care must be given in the project's earliest stages that credibility gets
established and a full sense of ownership given to the communities. To ensure effective community
development, TORs and evaluation criteria for the project's technical assistance reflect the need for
top-quality experience in specialized training. The project design, by not linking planning or disbursements
to integrated timetables, gives participating communities the flexibility to reach decisions when they are
ready.
Achievement of the project's governance objectives will be through a range of strategies, however, special
emphasis will be given to the promotion of transparency. At the village level, transparency will begin with
the initial election processes which will require minimum times for preparation, public identification of
candidates and posting of results. In all financial transactions two members of the proponent group and the
paymaster of the supervising Council will be required to both sign for, and collect, grant funds. The
financial details of all projects approved will be displayed publicly as will the subsequent receipts and
payments related to that project. All Council meetings will encourage observation of non-elected members.
To ensure Councils can record and publish meaningful figures, the project will provide basic
bookkeeping-training to all Councils and will also provide each with a safe in view of the absence of
banking facilities.
- 24 -



To encourage public scrutiny and the reporting of any suspected anomalies, at the commencement of the
project facilitators will disseminate a Bill of Rights" which will explain the villagers' rights to information
and access to all project details. Limited funds will also be provided to support local NGOs. Their job will
be to scrutinize project operations and outputs and to publicize their observations. Comparable measures
will be used to ensure transparency at the sub-district level.
CEP will also explore the delivery of support and assistance to vulnerable groups. East Timorese leaders
have expressed strong support for encouraging community based safety net support for these groups. In
the last year many widows have formed their own groups facilitating the possibility of providing direct
support to these groups, in other instances the local women's groups, or church groups are providing
assistance. On the other hand there are several national NGOs, not necessarily based in the conumunity,
but that are ready to go into communities who are keen to work with widows, orphans or the disabled.
Under the widows and vulnerable groups component a number of models will be tried and monitored.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
This project draws strongly on participatory methodologies. Project principles of empowerment and
inclusiveness underscore the importance of participation by the primary beneficiaries. Facilitators are
trained to consult with all members of the community, especially those that normally do not participate. All
community members participate in the election of their representatives on the councils, and it is these
councils that make the decisions. During the planning stage of the first cycle participatory planning
approaches were developed and tested and the facilitators trained in them. A key element of participation is
communications, and the project includes a communications component, linked to the training component,
that focuses on getting information to all sectors of community in order to strengthen their participation,
and the quality of their participation in the community. The component for widows and vulnerable groups
was added to give special opportunities to participate to those groups that normal do not participate in, nor
receive project benefits.
Other project principles such as transparency and accountability rely on individuals taking responsibility
not just for participating, but for monitoring the activities, and holding their representatives accountable to
them. This is an unfamiliar concept to most people and will only develop over time.
All supervision missions undertaken look at the level of participation, the degree of inclusiveness of the
project and the strategies adopted to include people. As yet the level of beneficiary participation in
monitoring and evaluating has been slow but during CEP II. Methods will be developed to ensure that this
happens such as procedures for receiving complaints from communities, and participatory assessments.
A series of consultations held with women facilitators were of special relevance to the current design.
During these consultations better methodologies for involving poor women in project activities have been
discussed and have led to (i) improvements in the training modules for facilitators and technical specialists;
and (ii) the development of a separate track to give the necessary flexibility for the widows' work.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
At the macro-level, all key stakeholders were consulted during preparation and supervision of the project,
and most were originally involved in different aspects of the project's design. These include UN agencies,
international and national NGOs, the church, CNRT's national and regional commands, and the
UNTAET-NC transitional planning council, and now ETTA. The outcome of initial consultations with key
Timorese leaders was the current regulation establishing local governance structures. Project
- 25 -



methodologies call for additional consultations at each administrative level, beginning with the first
overview of the project and continuing on a regular basis throughout implementation. These consultations
are part of the project staff's formal terms-of-reference. Timorese leaders have been consulted throughout
and with the project now under Timorese management, the leadership are providing direct support and
advice to the team - this is especially essential for dealing with sensitive and potentially controversial
issues.
Other stakeholders for this project include most of the donor and NGO community. Consultations have
been held with donors in a broad range of fora. There is strong support for the single-window local
governance framework that this project provides. Developing within-village facilitation skills and a
bottom-up planning processes has been seen as an important pre-condition for many of the subsequent
programs that will be funded by bilateral and NGO agencies.
Several senior tinorese women and the Women's Network REDE (including most of the women's
organizations and NGOs in their membership) have been consulted throughout. They have participated in
activities to strengthen the women council members, and the design of the component for highly vulnerable
groups.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The primary institutional arrangement to ensure the project achieves it's social development outcomes is the
establishment of democratically selected village and sub-district councils that will be the main
decision-makers regarding the selection of activities and allocation of the grant resources. The election of
the councils was of necessity done in haste at the start of the project, and in an environment where there
was little understanding of the project or the role of the councils. Now that this has developed during CEP
1, a re-election process is planned before the 3rd cycle of grants to give the communities the chance to elect
the most appropriate council members based on their better understanding of what is required.
From the projects side, the sub-district facilitators will take the main responsibility for ensuring that the
principles of empowerment, inclusion, and accountability are understood by the communities and upheld in
the implementation of the project. The role of the communications team in developing the media to
transmit these key messages to communities will be critical, as will that of the training team who will both
train the facilitators, and train the facilitators to train the village facilitators. The special widows and
vulnerable groups team is in place to develop the procedures and strategies for involving the most
vulnerable and monitoring the different approaches. The involvement of Timorese leadership and artists in
the culture board, and the establishment of the community boards to manage the community radio stations
are other institutional arrangements that ensure social development outcomes will be achieved.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in tenns of social development outcomes?
The key performance indicators monitored through regular monthly reporting of the projects will include
information on the councils, participation of women, transparency processes, participation of widows and
vulnerable groups, cultural events and participation of villages in the documentation of oral histories.
Monitoring by journalists, NGOs and other independant groups will be included in the project, and
methods for beneficiary monitoring will be introduced. Workshops to bring together the key players such as
the councils to discuss their experiences and ways forward are planned.
- 26 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Polisy                                     Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            * Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       * Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              * Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Details of methods introduced to mitigate negative impacts on the environment, were given in paragraph
5.2.
The project is designed to ensure that minority ethnic groups will have the opportunity to participate fully
in it. A bigger issue will be the reintegration of individuals or families who have been in refugee camps, or
ex-combatants and militia, back into the communities. Discussions have been held with the UNTAET's
Human Rights Department to explore ways in which CEP and the CEP institutions and processes may be
adapted to assist in this process.
The guidelines for land and asset acquisition are detailed in Annex 13 of the PAD and included in the
training facilitators and project manual. These are based on previously approved guidelines developed in
the VIP and KDP projects in Indonesia.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Community Grant and Local Governance Structures: Project sustainability is an open question that
depends almost entirely on the future revenue stream of an independent East Timor. The project is
designed to make the main investment in local government training, equipment, and facilitation during the
UNTAET/ETTA government, thus leaving an enhanced local Timorese capacity at the end of the project
itself Program costs are expected to drop off significantly by the third year. By that time, development of
banking and economic activities will allow a reduction in the size of the overall grant, which should by then
be confined to public goods. Some of the engineering and technical assistance can also be internalized into
the grant. During CEP II a number of options for future financing will be considered including: i)
incorporating a revenue stream for village development in the national budget, ii) having sectoral
allocations for village development coordinated by the councils, of ii) establishing a separate fund for
village development supported by donors.
The future of the councils will depend on several factors that will evolve through the period of CEP II
implementation. There has been general acceptance of the councils as development planning bodies
although several questions remain unanswered. Council members have requested salaries which would
- 27 -



make them unsustainable in the long run and have found that they needed to devote a considerable amount
of time to carrying out their work, although this is likely to decrease as they become familiar with the
procedures. Workshop for council members and other stakeholders are planned for mid 2001 in which the
council members themselves will discuss their experiences and options for the future. The third aspect of
sustainability in this component is the sustainability of the activities themselves. Initial indications from the
first cycle were positive although much will depend upon the ability to provide adequate technical
assistance to the communities.
Cultural Heritage Component: Sustainability of the activities begun under the CEP Cultural Heritage
component depends upon two factors: commitment and longevity of the management entity, and
development of a robust financial base outside of the TFET grant for CEP. Both of these factors are
already well underway. From the outset, the motivating force behind the Cultural Center the Uma Fukun
Timor Loro'sae has been Timorese, and more than 80% of the Center's Governing Board are Timorese.
The local enthusiasm and commitment to the cultural heritage activities are such that in the first phase of
CEP, when only a small amount of TFET grant funds was available to support early cultural activities,
Timorese individuals and groups undertook a broad range of performances, exhibitions, and events at the
designated Cultural Center site without funding from CEP. The Culture Board has already hired a
professional fund-raiser to help build a proper endowment fund that will support the wide range of
activities envisioned after the CEP seed monies are spent.
Community Radio and Television Component: Sustainability of the Radio UNTAET and UN-run
district stations depends on next year's national elections and whether the UN-established radio stations
will become a state-run or an independent national radio station. Though these will have an impact on
community radio, they are not vital. For community radio, it is assumed that those involved will be
volunteers capable of raising donations or getting sponsorships to keep the radio on the air. In some places
this may be possible, even preferable, but the socioeconomic setting of present day East Timor is such that
this is simply not a viable option. Costs can be kept to a minimum, for example by using cheaper
equipment and by broadcasting only during peak listening hours, but there will always be operational costs
that needs to be addressed. One viable solution is to set a regulatory framework for community radio
which allows the ability to generate revenue through commercial advertising. Selling advertising space
between, or even during, programs should be considered as one possible means of raising revenues.
Second, the composition of the management boards and their ability to run the station and maintain the
level of interest and participation are key. Their decisions regarding the running of the station and its
programming must be democratic and transparent. Third, access to continuous training in management
reporting and technical skills are important and an incentive mechanism to avoid high staff turnover.
Fourth, government subsidies for community radio broadcasters might be appropriate as long as the state's
control of content is limited by law. Fifth, allow these community radios to become independent
commercial local stations in the future, if the community so desires.
In terms of the television sub-component, the purpose of holding an international workshop for television is
to fully assess options for sustainable development of this media tool.
- 28 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Community councils' structure and role     M         CNRT played key role in project design,
will not be fully accepted by                        socialization, and roll-out. Council members
UNTAET/ETTA, traditional leaders and                 and Timorese leadership will define the future of
commnunities                                         local governance.
Community development planning process     S         Continuing and increasing focus on
is taken over by elites or by political              transparency and participation throughout
actors                                               process; national info campaign to prevent
politicization of CEP during 2001 elections
Sufficient number and quality of technical  H        Coordination with other projects and agencies to
assistance and equipment is not available            maximise use of limited resources.
Low rates of repayments on credits         H         Facilitators to receive special training, special
information for conmmunities
Council representatives are not involved   M         Council members to participate in dialogue on
in district level planning forums                    future local governance and development
planning
Communities do not own, and manage         H         Communities will be involved from the start and
radio stations                                       will drive the process, equipment provided on
demand by communities.
From Components to Outputs
Financial transfers will not continue      M         Continued close liaison with UNTAET PKF and
securely and without delay                           District offices
Sufficient qualified staff will not be     N         The core team is in place, advisers will be
available to fill all management positions           recruited as needed to build capacity,
Overall Risk Rating                        s
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Project socialization among Timorese stakeholders has been extensive, and expectations are high. Risks
associated with the first phases of the project have to do with simmering social tensions. Local power
holders may well feel threatened by the formation of local councils, despite strong endorsement from
Timorese leaders. These risks have been discussed with the major stakeholders.
Cases of localized corruption are likely and must be dealt with immediately. A second possible source of
controversy would be delay in releasing funds or procuring goods once villages have made their decision
about how to spend the community grants. However well justified, delays caused by admninistrative
inefficiency will not be well received by Timorese communities who have invested a great deal of time in
the bottom-up planning process. Other sources of delay (and thus controversy) are likely to focus on
bottlenecks caused by procurement and distribution.
- 29 -



The countries first democratic elections will take place next year and there is already a splintering of the
CNRT into smaller political parties. As the elections draw closer there will be increasing danger of politics
entering into, and undermining, development projects. CEP is especially at risk given it's visible presence
at village level. Political influencing or the use of CEP resources for political purposes is unacceptable.
To mitigate the risk of this happening a campaign will be run in early 2001 with emphasizing that CEP is a
project "by the community for the community" Project staff will also participate in developing a code of
conduct to guide project staff in how to continue providing high quality service to communities during the
election period.
The forthcoming elections also posed a threat to the community radio component. Strong reservations
about how the radios would be used over the election period, resulted in the provision of community radio
stations being delayed until after the election period.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(a)   that the Director, the Chief Finance Officer, and at least two additional Chief Officers of the
Project Management Unit have been appointed.
(b)   that the Manager of the cultural heritage component sub-unit and the Manager of the Community
Radio Support Center sub-unit of the Project Management Unit have been appointed; and
(c)   that an independent auditor, acceptable to the Trustee, has been employed.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
I .    The Borrower shall maintain the Project Management Unit, headed by a qualified and experienced
Project Manager and with competent staff in adequate numbers, all with terms of reference, qualification
and experience acceptable to the Trustee, and who shall be employed, except for the Project Manager, in
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to the grant Agreement.
2.     The Recipient shall, for purposes of components A and B of the Project, select Project
Sub-districts from Sub-districts where at least fifty percent or more of the population living in such
Sub-district prior to August 1999, has remained in or has retumed to such Sub-district.
3 .    In carrying out component A of the Project, the Recipient shall:
(a) inform the District Administrator of each Project District of the appointment of Sub-district
facilitators, District technical facilitators, District monitors and District Project accountants
for purposes of the Project by not later than April 30 in each year, commencing April 30,
2001, and until completion of the Project; and
(b) issue to the Project Sub-districts and the Project Districts, by not later than April 30 in each
year, commencing April 30, 2001, public information aimed at disclosing to villagers and their
representatives as well as District Council members, all administrative, financial,
environmental, procedural and technical aspects pertaining to the selection, design, preparation
and implementation of Sub-projects; and make such information, including the Project Manual,
freely available for consultation at the Sub-district office and at the District office.
- 30 -



4.     In carrying out component A of the Project, the Recipient shall cause Sub-projects in Project
Sub-districts and Project Districts to be selected in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Trustee
including the following:
(a) each Sub-project proposed under sub component for grants to sub districts shall be a public
infrastructure investment project that is technically, financially and environmentally viable, and
economically justified by the number of people benefiting from it;
(b) each Sub-project proposed under sub component for grants to sub districts shall be an
income-generating investment project that is technically, financially and environmentally
viable, and economically justified;
(c) each Sub-project proposed under sub component for Highly Vulnerable Groups shall be (i) a
project or an activity that is technically and economically justified or (ii) an income-generating
investment project that is technically, financially and environmentally viable, and economically
justified;
(d) each Sub-project proposed under the sub component for District Initiatives shall be (i) a public
infrastructure investment project that is technically, financially and environmentally viable, and
economically justified by the number of people benefiting from it; or (ii) an activity that is
technically and economically justified;
(e) the estimated cost of the proposed Sub-project when added to the amount of Sub-Grants and
Credits approved in the relevant Sub-district does not exceed the aggregate of:
(i)   $25,000 for Sub-Districts whose population is 5,000 or less;
(ii)  $50,000 for Sub-Districts whose population is 15,000 or less but more than 5,000;
(iii)  $75,000 for Sub-Districts whose population is 25,000 or less but more than 15,000;
and
(iv)  $100,000 for Sub-Districts whose population is more than 25,000; and
(f) no Sub-project shall: (i) include expenditures intended for a military or paramilitary purpose;
(ii) relate to the manufacture or use of environmentally hazardous goods (including asbestos
and pesticides), arms or drugs, (iii) include the financing of government salaries, (iv) include
civil works for government administration or religious purposes, (v) include civil works on
buildings where ownership is disputed or unknown; (vi) include renting of buildings where
ownership is disputed or unknown, or (vii) include land acquisition.
5.    In carrying out component A of the Project the Recipient shall ensure that, prior to the carrying out
of works under a Sub-project, the District technical facilitator has made available to conmmunities or
Conselhos technical assistance to complete a technical review of such Sub-project and shall have confirmed
the following:
(a) the criteria described in paragraph 4 above have been complied with;
(b) necessary funding to fully finance the proposed Sub-project has been obtained, including a
Sub-Grant or Credit and any voluntary contributions to be made by villagers;
(c) appropriate engineering and environmental standards and practices that would minimize any
- 31 -



acquisition of land and avoid involuntary resettlement of Affected Persons have been
considered in the design of the Sub-project in accordance with the project manual;
(d) the Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement have been complied with, and, if applicable,
appropriate compensation arrangements have been completed and are satisfactory to the
Affected Persons as set forth under the Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement and
paragraph 9 of this Schedule;
(e) a Sub-project agreement has been entered into and an implementation plan for the Sub-project
has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the project manual; and
(f) a maintenance program for the works to be carried out under the Sub-project has been
prepared in accordance with terns acceptable to the Trustee and has been included in the
Sub-project agreement, which shall include assignment of maintenance responsibilities in the
respective village, the preparation of training programs to strengthen the maintenance
capabilities of the village, and the identification of available sources of financing to carry out
such programs.
6.     When credits are provided for income generations, the Recipient shall cause the Project
Management Unit to ensure that:
(a) Credits are made on terms and conditions agreed with the Trustee and set forth in the project
manual;
(b) a revolving fund is established and maintained by the Conselho do Suco in the Project
Sub-districts in accordance with procedures agreed with the Trustee and set forth in the project
manual; and
(c) Credits are repaid into the respective Conselho do Suco account established for such revolving
funds in the respective Conselho do Posto.
7.    In carrying out component A of the Project, the Recipient shall, through the Project Management
Unit:
(a) cause each Conselho do Suco, each District Council and Borrowers to carry out the
Sub-projects, selected in accordance with paragraph 4 in accordance with the project manual
and the respective Sub-project agreements;
(b) ensure that, until completion of the Project, the project manual is made available to the
Sub-district and District facilitators as well as District Technical Facilitators and applied in the
carrying out of Sub-projects; and
(c) periodically update the project manual, if needed, with the prior agreement of the Trustee.
8.    In carrying out component A of the Project, the Recipient shall cause the Project Management Unit
to ensure that:
(a) each Sub-project is reviewed by the Sub-district Facilitator, District Monitor, or District
Technical Facilitator upon completion and that a certificate of Sub-project completion shall be
- 32 -



issued by the District Technical Facilitator upon a finding of satisfactory Sub-project
completion in accordance with the project manual and approved designs; and
(b) if there is a finding of unsatisfactory completion of a Sub-project, except for cases of force
majeure under Credits, the Conselho do Posto shall recover the amounts disbursed under the
respective Sub-Grant or Credit.
9.    In carrying out the Project, the Recipient shall:
(a) take measures to avoid or minimize the acquisition of land or assets of villagers and to avoid
the displacement of said villagers;
(b) where the acquisition of land or assets or the displacement of villagers is unavoidable under a
proposed Sub-project, ensure that the village shall, before carrying out the works which
would result in such acquisition or displacement, make available to such villagers,
compensation in accordance with the Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement; and
(c) in the event that two hundred or more villagers are adversely affected by a Sub-project:
(i)  prepare a resettlement plan in accordance with the Guidelines for Compensation and
Resettlement and fumish such plan to the Trustee for approval; and
(ii) prior to the carrying out of the Sub-project, ensure that all Affected Persons shall have
been compensated in accordance with the provisions of said plan.
10.    The Recipient shall, for purposes of component C of the Project:
(a) establish and, thereafter, maintain until the completion of the Project, a Community Radio
Center, with competent staff in adequate numbers, including a Manager, all with terms of
reference, qualifications and experience acceptable to the Trustee, and who shall be employed
in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to the Grant Agreement; such
Center to be the Project Management Sub-unit for purposes of component C of the Project;
and
(b) not later than 30 April 2001 issue a Community Radio Support Manual, acceptable to the
Trustee.
11.   The Recipient shall:
(a) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing
basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the carrying
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b) prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Trustee, and furnish to the Trustee, on or
about June 30, 2002, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out
the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c) review with the Trustee, by September 30, 2002, or such later date as the Trustee shall
- 33 -



request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the
Trustee's views on the matter.
H. Readiness for Implementation
C 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
L 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
L 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Project Management: The most significant indication of the Grantee's readiness to move into the second
phase of CEP implementation is the participative development and elaboration of a revised plan for the
Project Management Unit, bringing all of the different operational units under one streamlined management
structure and revising the management focus by placing Timorese managers in all key project positions and
assigning the international short- and medium-term experts to advise the managers.
Community Grants Component: Project offices are operational in Dili and in all districts in the country.
All divisions of the Project Management Unit are functioning, and nearly 200 individuals have been hired,
trained as field staff (district monitors, posto facilitators, district project accountants, district technical
facilitators) and headquarters staff (administrative and financial management staff, monitoring and
evaluation staff, trainers and peer trainer/facilitators, procurement and logistics staff). More than eight
hundred village facilitators are now assisting in the project.
Four hundred and six of the 417 villages now have development councils, as do 56 of 60 sub-districts.
The councils have gained general acceptance by communities, district administrations, and other
stakeholders. For the community recovery grants, over US$1.5 million was disbursed to 400 villages by
September 30, 2000 during the first cycle of grants; training programs, market and price surveys, manuals
and forms, and field operations systems were all developed, tested, and refined.
The second, third, and fourth grant cycles require revised and more detailed field operations manuals; draft
manuals and forms were prepared based on experience during the first grant cycle (CEP- 1) and these were
reviewed during Bank supervision missions in May 2000 and September 2000. Revised manuals and
forms were field-tested and finalized in October 2000, and approved for translation and distribution by
UNTAET at that time. The information in the manuals has been prepared in forms suitable for village
facilitators, and for council members, and key messages are being translated into flyers and posters for use
in villages and on the Information Boards which are posted in each village.
- 34 -



Draft technical manuals are available and are being improved and made more locally relevant; as the
District Technical Facilitators and their short-term international advisors intensify their work in the field.
The consultant team tasked with preparing the plans and procedures for the special grants window for
widows and vulnerable groups have prepared a draft manual. Once the proposed plans and procedures are
reviewed by the PMU and UTNTAET and approved by the Bank, the start-up of this activity will be a top
priority for the CEP PMU, as these grants are urgently needed.
Cultural Heritage Component. The Culture Board for the Uma Fukun Timor Loro'sae (East Timor
Cultural Center) was officially formed in June 2000, with representatives from UNTAET/ETTA, CNRT,
the Church, NGOs, students, youth, and traditional leaders. The Board has met regularly since its
inception and has recruited a management team, and a professional fund-raiser to begin the work of
developing an endowment fund which will finance the wide range of proposed activities when the "seed
money" from CEP runs out. The Cultural Heritage Grants Manual is being completed for approval by the
Board, and the Bank; this approval will signal the beginning of the board's authorized review of proposals
and awarding of culture grants to both artists and communities. An MOU has been signed between
UNTAET and UNESCO for the supervision of the reconstruction of the National Performance and Culture
Center building, and architects have begun a series of regular design and supervision visits to Dili.
Community and Nlational Radio Component. Pre-appraisal activities for this new component of CEP
included extensive field work within Timor and consultation with all stakeholders and existing
organizations involved with or planning to work in the area of community communications, radio/TV, and
mass media. A detailed concept paper was written in July 2000 and used as the basis for further
consultations prior to fornal appraisal. A detailed implementation plan has been outlined, including an
illustrative training plan and schedule, and Terms of Reference for the necessary technical assistance and
training inputs have been drafted. Agreements reached with both Radio UNTAET and USAID need to be
formalized.
i. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
1 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
W - ' ~~~~-  - 2 S19
Gillian M. Brown                 Zafer Ecevit                      Klaus Rohland
Team Leader                      Sector Manager                    Country Director
- 35 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
EAST TIMOR: SECOND COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT PROJECT
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector) country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Alleviate poverty          % of absolute poor         Poverty assessment         Local market develop
Establish equitable and    Representative and         Independent monitoring by   Independent Timorese
accountable local govemance  accountable governance   civil society and journalists    Government support local
structures                 structures in place in 300                            governance, Regulation
villages                                              13/2000, and gender equality
policies
Project Development        Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Reduce poverty            Improved access for poor men Periodic studies and      Community planning capacity
and women to markets,      beneficiary assessments    sufficient, and communities
services, credit, or water                            will maintain infrastructure,
supply in 250 villages                                and repay credits and
80% of infrastructure projects
have O+M committees
established 60% credits repaid
Support inclusive patterns of  20 councils participating in   Joint donor supervision  Council members,
growth                     broader development activities mission reports        government, and donor
community agree on council
role.
Participation of male and  PMU monitoring reports     Capacity of women council
female members at                                     members is strengthened
meetings-in 20 sub-districts
Strengthened social capital    10% of projects funded by  PMU monitoring reports  "Culture of dependency" can
communities contribution                              be avoided
Community-based support for Monitoring reports from   Vulnerable are identified and
widows and vulnerable groups widows and vulnerable groups receive the assistance
in 20 posto                consultants
Local cultural activities  Cultural heritage management Information is widely
revitalized in 4 districts oral  teams reports        disseminated
histories recorded in 50                              Independent funding raised to
villages                                              sustain National culture and
Performance Center
Improved local media and    4 Community radio stations   Community radio support    Communities will own,
communications             operating                  center reports             operate and maintain the
stations
- 36 -



Key Performance
LHerarchy of Objectives          tndieator           Monitorin & Evaluation i Critice Assumptioks
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
A. COMMUNITY GRANTS
Democratic re-selection of    300 elections held and men   Routine PMU reports,
council members            and women council members  technical audit, supervision
elected                    reports, independent
monitoring and audits,
Grants to Sub-districts
Infrastructure (roads, bridges, 95% of all agreed work                           Sufficient number and quality
markets, water supply etc.)   completed:                                         of technical assistance is
built, Economic activities  300 notice boards maintained                         available to assist
supported, and Social welfare  10,000 male and 10,000                            communities
activities                 female beneficiaries of all                           Communities repay credits
activities                                            and access to credit from
other sources becomes
available
Widows and Vulnerable
Groups
Infrastructure, income     95% of agreed work         Periodic PMU reporting,
generating activities, training completed             supervision reports, reports
or counseling activities for                          from widows and vulnerable
widows and vulnerable groups 1000 beneficiaries       groups team
District Planning and
Initiatives
Communication and          Meetings held, training    District Monitor reports
coordination activities    activities, or information  District administration reports
dissemination activities in 10
districts
District development activities 2 development activities  District Monitor reports  Council members are formally
funded and implemented that District administration reports part of future district
were identified by district                           development decision-making
development                                           body
committees/boards
B. CULTURAL
HERITAGE
National Culture and
Performance Center         Reconstruction by contractor  Reports by UNESCO experts
Reconstruction of National   complete
Culture and Performance
Center
Small culture grants
Small grants for village   15 grants given, activities,    Report from the culture
culture activities, and events  and groups funded     board's management team
in NCPC
10 villages participating in
Oral history collection and    oral history collections
larchiving,  ,  _...
- 37 -



C: RADIO AND
TELEVISION
District reporters trained and  7 district reporter stations    Regular Radio UNTAET  Strong support from OPCI
equipped                  established               reporting                  and new Radio UNTAET
management.
Community radio stations    60 reporters and technical    Periodic report from radio and Community participation and
established               staff trained             television component       selection of trainers, and in
manager                   running community radio
One community Radio Center                           activities
established               Report from training team
6 community radio stations
established
Decide workplan for the   Television workshop held and
development of future     workplan drafted          Workshop report
television strategies
- 38 -



Key Pfoid.f    M
fle   ht Io f Objetv             Indl    Monitoring & Evakuatfon    Critical Assumptions
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
A. COMMUNITY GRANTS $6.2 million
Grants to sub-districts   $4.8 million               Quarterly financial reports,
for sub-grants and credits,    Monthly monitoring reports,
equipment, consultant     audits and supervision
management team, technical  reviews
consultants, and facilitators
Widows and vulnerable     $1.1 million
groups                    for sub-grants and consultant
team
District Planning and     $0.3 million
Initiatives               for sub-grants
B. CULTURAL               $1.5 million
HERITAGE
National Performance and    $0.9 million
Culture Center            for works and consultant
services
Small Grants              $0.6 million
for sub-grants, management
team, fund raiser,
C: RADIO AND              $0.8 million
TELEVISION
- 39 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
EAST TIMOR: SECOND COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT PROJECT
The objective of the CEP is to reduce poverty and support inclusive patterns of growth and development.
The name of the project, "community empowerment," is based on the principle that projects will be
produced by communitiesfor community activities. Through the creation of development councils and
support to other local groups, the CEP will:
(i) build and reconstruct their basic economic infrastructure (such as farm-to-market roads, small
bridges, irrigation and drainage systems, clean water, and so on -- as determined by the community,
itself);
(ii) support productive local economic activities and social infrastructure activities;
(iii) pilot a number of carefully designed mechanisms for providing assistance to disadvantaged groups
(widows, orphans, disabled people, etc.) at the community level;
(iv) provide assistance for the development of district level capacities, specifically in planning
development activities;
(v) support cultural heritage and social reconciliation; and
(vi) support the development of local communications, in particular popular district level radio, through
provision of training and equipment.
Underlying the design, implementation and management of the entire CEP program are the project
principles of empowerment, transparency, inclusiveness, open choice, accountability, and sustainability.
There are three components in CEP: Component A - Community Grants, Component B - Cultural
Heritage, and component C - Radio and Television. Component A has three sub-components: Grants to
sub-districts, Widows and Vulnerable Groups, District Planning and Initiatives. Component B has
sub-components for reconstruction of a National Performance and Culture Center, and also a small grants
component. Component C is new and replaces the original component C for Civil Society Strengthening,
which was dropped at the request of the Timorese leadership.
The project is managed by the Project Management Unit which reports to the Cabinet Member for Internal
Administration. Each member of the management team is recruited on an individual contract to UNTAET,.
Separate sub-PMU teams manage components B and C but share financial management and administrative
resources with component A. The Project organization is shown in Attachment A at the end of this annex.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$ million
Component A -Community Grants (US$6.2 million)
The core of this component is the provision of development funds through the auspices of democratically
selected development councils at village and sub-district level (Conselho de suco and conselho do posto).
The purpose of the councils is to represent the communities in the development planning process and while
their formation was supported under CEP I, their roles go beyond to encompass all development activities
at those levels as detailed in UNTAET regulation No. 13/2000. This component includes three activities
that will support this objective: (i) provision of funds to strengthen the councils and allow election of
- 40 -



council members as required; (ii) provision of unallocated block grants to participating sub-districts; and
(iii) facilitators and technical advisors to help communities manage the planning process, implement their
proposals, and take responsibility for long-term operations and maintenance. Two sub-components of the
community grants component are the special allocation for widows and highly vulnerable groups, and the
district development initiatives fund to strengthen the coordination on development planning at district
level.
Village and Sub-District Councils: Projects funded under the community grants component are chosen
through democratic procedures using development councils. At the end of 1999, the near total elimination
of the previous administrative apparatus provided a unique opportunity to rebuild local governance
structures that encourages democratic accountability from the bottom up. The regulation on the
establishment of the councils was formalized by UNTAET prior to effectiveness of CEP I. The first
activity of the community empowerment program was to work with villagers to elect an interim
development council made up of equal numbers of men and women at the village and sub-district levels.
Each sub-village group picked equal numbers of men and women to become members of the Village
Development Council, and then from the village council a man and a woman were chosen to participate in a
Sub-district Development Council that represents all of the villages within the sub-district. The sub-district
councils then appointed an independent group to manage sub-district financial affairs, and maintain records
concerning sub-district funds. To ensure greater independence and objectivity, these Financial Management
Units have remained outside of the council structure (council members were not eligible to become involved
in these units).
in the longer termn the development councils would have at least four key functions: (i) preparing and
executing village development plans that address local needs in agriculture, health care education,
communications, income generating projects, and other projects as determined by the community; (ii)
managing sub-district and village funds; (iii) relaying the priority development needs that cannot be met
through local efforts to sub-districts and districts; and (iv) strengthening participation and democratic
practices.
Given the newness of the concept of elected councils, a second round of elections will be held roughly one
year after the first, in mid 2001. This will allow for changes in the council membership after the
communities and the council members have gained a better understanding of the role and functioning of the
councils.
A program of capacity building for council members will be implemented throughout CEP II. In particular
a special program for strengthening the capacity of women council members will be implemented.
UNIFEM and the local women's networks will assist in the program to strengthen the capacity of women
council members.
Project consultants: A team of nearly 200 Timorese consultants have been recruited on individual
contracts to UNTAET as sub-district facilitators, district technical facilitators, district project accountants,
district monitors, a training and communications team, and a monitoring and evaluation team. A small
number of international advisers, as deemed necessary by the Timorese management team, will be recruited
to advise them in their work. Capacity building for the Timorese team will be an aim in itself in CEP II.
Language training, management training, and training in specialist skills such as facilitation, monitoring
and evaluation, and technical subjects, will be provided.
Monitoring and Evaluation: The PMU will include a monitoring and evaluation team that will collect and
compile the reporting information, implement additional monitoring and evaluation initiatives, and prepare
- 41 -



the project reports. Regular reports will be submitted by the sub-district facilitators and district staff.
Technical audits will also be undertaken periodically. A reporting system will be established to receive
complaints from members of the communities and a system set in place to investigate and follow up on
these actions. Several workshops will take place including the donor and NGO community, project staff,
and council members, to evaluate the progress and plan future strategies. Other monitoring initiatives to be
undertaken will include reporting by journalists, an independent audit by NGOs and participatory
assessments in the communities.
Sub-Component - Grants to sub-districts
First Community Grant: To issue the first community grant each village development council, assisted
by facilitators, identified priority needs of villagers, which were drawn up into a small proposal. Once the
facilitators confirmed that the village councils were properly formed and that basic rules about popular
participation in their selection were followed, the project released a set amount to each sub-district. These
funds were divided equally among each member village in a one-time grant to launch the village
reconstruction process.
Two percent of the initial grant was reserved to cover administrative start-up costs for the village
development councils and another three percent was put aside as an initial fund for the sub-district
development council. As with other project expenditures at community level, all grant funding used for
administrative costs must be publicly posted.
The use of this initial grant funding was open. Provided that the appropriate procedures were followed, the
fund was disbursed against items available in local markets, helping to revitalize local trade that had
otherwise suffered very badly from the destruction at the end of 1999 and had been undermined thereafter
by the distribution of aid from external sources. Some communities showed great initiative by buying items
that were otherwise unavailable through sources such as the local Church and traders in the capital city.
Money for this initial stage was disbursed through the PMU and the District Project Accountants, as per
the project's financial action plan and used according to the project's procurement rules . The first cycle
was completed by September 2000 in all villages except those in three sub-districts in Covalima district
where security problems have caused delays.
Subsequent Community Grants: For the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th grant cycles, there is no standard net
allocation per village; allocation within the sub district is through a competitive process. Three percent of
the grant can be used to support the village council's operating expenses, another two percent of the
sub-district grant can be retained by the sub-district to cover operating expenses and the Financial
Management Unit, and a further one percent can be used to support district level activities. All information
about how this money is used will be publicly posted.
Table 2: Posto Grant Allocation Categories
Population size of Posto         Grant Allocation
(1998 figures)           (2nd, 3rd, and 4th cycles)
<5,000                        $25,000
5,000-15,000                    $50,000
15,000-25,000                    $75,000
>25,000                       $100,000
Proposal preparation: Village facilitators will be trained by the sub-district facilitators to dissemninate
information about CEP and facilitate discussions amnong groups within the village. Suggestions for
activities from the groups will be taken to the village council who will decide which activities will be
- 42 -



prepared into proposal format for presentation to the sub-district council.
Eligible Activities: Three types of activities can be proposed: i) social infrastructure activities, ii)
productive economic activities, or iii) social welfare activities. Funding for economic activities will be
through credits to the beneficiaries who will have to repay the money with interest to the sub-district
council so that it can be on-lent to other groups in the same village. The interest rates during the second
cycle were fixed at 10% per annum in line with other activities offering loans and in the absence of a "
market level' for interest rates. A review will be carried out in March to determine appropriate interest
rates for the third cycle.
Negative List: No Sub-project shall: (i) include expenditures intended for a military or paramilitary
purpose; (ii) relate to the manufacture or use of environmentally hazardous goods (including asbestos and
pesticides), arms or drugs, (iii) include the financing of government salaries, (iv) include civil works for
government administration or religious purposes, (v) include civil works on buildings where ownership is
disputed or unknown; (vi) include renting of buildings where ownership is disputed or unknown, or (vii)
include land acquisition.
Grant Proposal Verification and Technical Review: Verification of the village proposals for a
community grant takes place in three stages: first, a sub-district review by a team appointed by the
sub-district development council; followed later by a technical review made by the technical assistance
approved by the district technical facilitator. Verification includes site visits by the verification teams. The
written report by the reviewers is read out in the public sub-district development council meeting which is
attended by all subproject proponents and other community members. The council discussion evaluates
competing proposals on criteria such as the basis of their ability to reach the poor, their reflection of local
contributions in cash or in kind, and the group opinion of their technical soundness and relative merits.
Once the council has decided on which proposals merit funding from the sub-district grant, a final meeting
is held to explain the results of the discussion, and to begin preparation of implementation.
Grant Sub-Projects:  Once community grant monies are awarded to fund a particular proposal, it
becomes a sub-project that is managed by its proponent group or sub-village (aideia), with support from
the sub-district facilitator and technical specialists. Sub-projects are prepared with details such as the
subproject's purpose, cost requirements, and technical needs. Up to four proposals may be submitted by a
village on behalf of sub-villages and community groups to the sub-district councils, at least half must come
from women's groups
All subproject proposals for the second and third phases must include cost estimates, schedules of fund
needs, operation and maintenance plans, estimated community contributions (including "in kind"
contributions), repayment schedules (for economic activities) and notes concerning compliance with
safeguard policies regarding aspects such as environmental impacts, and written assurance that no
compensation will be required from project funds. Standard formats for these requirements are provided in
the Project Manual.
Grant Procurement Procedures: The second cycle of community grants opens up the process to fully"
open menus" limited only by a small negative list of items prohibited by law and project conditions
(pesticides, arns, etc.). Goods worth $7,500 or less can be procured by communities themselves following
evaluation of at least three bids using standard simplified bid forms. Small works procurement can be
used for works up to a maximum value of $25,000, labor and local goods are procured under the
procedures for community participation in procurement. Purchases over $7,500 assistance must be made
with assistance from the project management unit. The procedures for procurement by communities are
given in Annex 6.
- 43 -



Technical Assistancefor Communities: A District Technical Facilitator in each district is responsible for
identifying local sources of technical assistance, coordinating with other agencies or projects that could
provide assistance or technical advice, approving all technical assistance used by communities, and
certifying projects. There are three stages of technical assistance: during preparation of proposals, at
verification, and during implementation. All TA must come from lists approved by the district technical
specialist. Facilitators can draw on a small preparation budget to request technical assistance for
preparing proposals for more complex projects, such as the expertise needed to assess project feasibility
and to estimate construction costs. Subprojects can use up to a maximum of 10% of their funds for
technical assistance during the implementation phase, through community contracting. TA involved in
design or implementation cannot be involved in verification and paid TA for these stages cannot come from
the home village (though technical skills can be contributed voluntarily).
Flow of Funds: Money for the community grants will be withdrawn from a Special Account maintained
by UNTAET. Once each sub-district has agreed on the subprojects to be supported with its grant, they are
endorsed by the facilitator and copies are sent to the District Project Accountant, who can release up to
50% of the total required amount against the certified proposals. Withdrawals require the joint signature of
male and female council representatives, and the facilitator. Project facilitators are not allowed to manage
the funds at any stage. At the lowest levels of the system, money is released by the council paymaster to
two members of the sub-project proponent. Signatures are checked by the District Project Accountants
(DPA) against formal project-documented specimen signatures. Timorese DPA appointed to the project,
and certified by the UNTAET Chief Financial Officer, have been deployed to each district. Grant releases
to UNTAET are made from a Special Account established in the Banco Nacional Ultramarino. Transfer of
funds from the Special Account to the DPA is the responsibility of UNTAET. The flow of finds from
subdistrict to village levels is monitored by the Financial Management Unit which is a working Unit of the
Subdistrict Development Council. This unit keeps the funds in a project safe at that level and allocates
them to Village Development Councils according to a preagreed schedule, as some activities require
different disbursement rates than others. This Unit helps the councils to prepare reports on the use of funds
and requests for disbursements from the district level.
Grant Funding Transparency: Transparency of community grants is a central feature of the project.
Information needs to be accessible and easily understood by villagers. All financial information must be
publicly posted, and facilitator teams are expected to use a variety of media to convey information about
the project and its progress. Community councils and facilitators are responsible for publicly posting
project information on large signboards. These signboards are updated monthly, and more regularly during
the sub-project implementation period. The national team will develop a computerized management
information system and a registry of project complaints and their resolution, which will also be public
domain information.
Community Grant Allocation:   Estimated use of community grant funding is as follows.
Approximately 60% of funds consist of the commnunity block grants. Out of these funds, six percent of the
grant goes to sub district and village councils (1%+2%+3%) to cover their local expenses. The Conselho de
Posto receives 1% for district level activities and 2% to pay for Posto expenses, including the financial
management unit. The final 3% is for the Conselho du Suco council expenses. Less than one quarter of the
project's funds go to service delivery contracts that cover facilitation, engineering, monitoring,
procurement, and management. Since an intemal transportation system no longer exists in East Timor, the
service delivery contracts must reflect the full costs of purchasing rather than renting transportation.
Additionally, cost estimates are highly dependent on the progress of the reconstruction effort, therefore
since shifts between these categories are likely, mechanisms to adjust budgets are included in the project's
design. No UNTAET overhead is included since UNTAET has its own trust fund for administration.
- 44 -



Sub-Component - Highly Vulnerable Groups
The objective of this sub-component is to provide appropriate support to widows and vulnerable groups
who might otherwise find difficulty in accessing funds, or the specific support that they need. The support
that can be fund may take several forms such as direct physical works (rebuilding houses or constructing
orphanages), provision of support services such as counseling, childcare, or advisory services; or
sub-grants or credits for economic activities. A secondary objective will be to strengthen community-based
safety nets for vulnerable groups, and pilot different methods of providing assistance to do this.
One method of fund flow will be through an additional allocation to the sub-district grants that is allocated
for this purpose. Special training will be provided to the CEP facilitators to help identify eligible groups
and communications materials will be designed to reach intended beneficiaries with information. The
nomnal CEP procedures for proposal preparation, decision-making, fund flow, financial management,
transparency, reporting, procurement, as described above will apply.
Some funds will also available for community base organizations, church groups, women's organizations,
or NGOs who want to provide special services to the vulnerable groups. The process by which these
organizations can apply for grant-funding will be identified early in the project through a consultative
process.
A key element of the component will be the monitoring and evaluation which will focus not only on the
inputs and outputs, but on a comparison of different approaches and mechanisms.
Sub-Component - District Planning and Initiatives Support Sub-Component
The councils make decisions on the allocation of the CEP sub-district funds and need to have a better
understanding of development activities in the district to assist them in the decision-making processes. At
the same time, the councils have the knowledge and understanding of the specific needs in their area -
information that would be useful to agencies implementing development projects, and to the district
administration. There is a critical need to bring members of the sub-district councils together at the district
level to participate fully in the development process. The District Planning and Initiatives Support
Sub-Component of CEP is intended to facilitate and strengthen these linkages.
The objectives of the District Planning and Initiatives Support Sub-Component of CEP are to encourage
and strengthen local participation in development planning at the district level, especially through a district
development board made up of sub-district council members, by:
*   Providing an enabling environment for sub-district council members to participate fully in development
planning decisions at the district level
*   Creating and strengthening linkages that can provide the resources needed to implement district level
plans, from govemment and non-govemment agencies.
*   Creating opportunities for information sharing, information dissemination, and discussion i) between
councils and district administration, ii) between council members from different sub-districts, iii)
between council members and key district representatives including the District Advisory Council, iv)
between all the aforesaid and the general public though local information distribution efforts including,
if needed, public campaigns.
- 45 -



*   Providing a small amount of funds as a "last resort" resource to fund initiatives emerging from district
development planning activities for which there are no other funding opportunities available.
Development Planning Support: Once a District Administrator can demonstrate that a forum exists at
district level in which sub-district council members participate, they are eligible for support under the
project for special activities aimed at bringing sub-district council members together, sharing information,
and strengthening two way flows of conmmunication. Types of activities can include, for example,
workshops at the district level to increase understanding of different projects and funding opportunities,
development planning training, preparation of newsletters on development activities in the district, etc.
District administration and CEP staff, and council-member representatives will prepare a list on proposed
activities to be approved by all three parties. Funds will be released by the DPA to the appointed
implementor of each activity with the approval of the other parties. Statement of expenditures will be
submitted to account for each activity. As mentioned previously, 1% of the allocations to sub-districts is
earmarked for expenses of the members to attend such meetings, thus it is expected that the Development
Planning Support Grant will pay for other costs (e.g. key speakers, materials) as well as supplement these
funds. Each district can propose activities up to a volume of $10,000.00
Development Initiatives Grants: Over the next few months there will be dialogue and discussion about the
type of structures or forums that will be adopted at district level in the future to ensure local participation
in development planning. In the event that future foruns formally include sub-district council members, the
development initiatives grant will be made available to the forum with the intention of providing incentives
to build strong and accountable institutions along the lines of those developed through CEP. The grant
will be used to fund specific needs and priorities will be identified during the meetings or be proposed by
civil society organizations, conmmunity groups or representatives. The activities will either be for public
goods for the whole district, directly or indirectly involve more than one sub-district, or for some reason
fall outside of the capacity of the village grants component of CEP (e.g. less than $5,000 or more than
$25,000; does not have direct impact on poverty alleviation; impacts on a specific group such as widows or
orphans). The committee can look for funding from all possible sources to fund these activities. As a last
resort, when all other opportunities are exhausted, they can make a proposal to the district initiatives fund.
If funded, the activities will be implemented by the groups that propose them and not by the DDC
themselves. Details of the process to be adopted will depend on the structures introduced, and a manual
will be prepared and agreed by all parties once this is known. These initiatives must be in line with the
UJNTAET regulation 13/2000 which empowers communities to elect development councils and take charge
of the planning and implementation of development activities at the community, village and sub-district
levels, with decision-making representation at the district level.
Component B - Cultural Heritage ComDonent (US$1.5 million)
As part of the process of reconstruction and reconciliation, the Community Empowerment and Local
Governance Project has a component to support the development of Timor's culture and history. Activities
funded through the cultural heritage component include documentation of oral history, development of the
National Heritage and Performance Center (in the building that formerly housed the Indonesian Provincial
Military Command for East Timor), and a small grants program to support village cultural activities. An
Advisory Board was formed in CEP I and meets regularly, they have recently appointed a management
team and recruited a fund-raiser who will raise the funds for the completion of the internal works on the
building not covered by the CEP grant, and to ensure sustainability of the small grants sub-component.
-46 -



Sub-Component - National Performance and Culture Center
The center will use culture and art as instruments of fusion, strengthening and safeguarding the Timorese
identity. The Culture Board has decided on an official name for the center, which is now called Uma Fukun
Timor Loro 'Sae.
Special expertise in Portuguese colonial architecture, history and cultural heritage will advise on the design
of the building and draw up the detailed specifications. UNESCO will supervise this sub-component
during the design and reconstruction phase. Contractors will be procured through competitive bidding to
undertake the reconstruction of the building.
Sub-Component - SmaU Grants Component
The Culture Board, assisted by a management team, will administer a program of small grants. Some of
the total budget for this sub-component will be allocated to fund small art and culture activities related to
the Uma Fukun Timor Loro'Sae, some will be allocated for groups wanting to collect, document, and
archive oral histories, but over half of the small grants budget will be allocated for village cultural
activities. The Advisory Board members include artists, students, representatives of the United Nations
Transitional Administration for East Timor (UNTAET), and representatives of women's groups.
Component C - Radio and Television ComPonent (US$0.8 million)
Origins of the Radio and Television Component.  The radio and television component is an entirely
new initiative, in line with the requests from the East Timorese leadership regarding the need to establish
professional, sustainable television and radio systems in East Timor. Support for expanding coverage of the
current national radio station first, and establishment of community radio stations in the districts after the
national elections, will address this request and help to strengthen social capital at the local level. Aside
from the obvious desire to bring information to the poorest sections of society, those who often cannot read
and write, there are other reasons to support such initiatives. Transparency, a comerstone of democracy,
can be greatly enhanced by an effective local news media, by locally made documentaries, by media
campaigns and by educational programs. It is also a channel to give voice to the people and let them tell
their stories. Better knowledge of projects promotes higher levels of participation and discourages
corruption. Higher levels of participation, in turn, will promote greater sustainability, empowerment and
stronger sense of ownership as the population begins to view the projects not as something given to them,
but as their own to sustain.
Under this component, trainee reporters from each district will be recruited and trained. Small amounts of
equipment will be provided initially to for the trainees who will make local programs under the supervision
of Radio UNTAET. Once the reporters have gained experience, some may be recruited by Radio
UNTAET as district reporters. Others will form a nucleus of expertise that can be drawn on to start the
community radio stations. Equipment for the community radio stations will be procured after the elections
and will be provided to communities that show keen interest in supporting a community radio station.
There will also be a workshop to discuss future options for television in East Timor and a limited number
of follow-on activities.
Engaging and Empowering East Timorese. These processes should engage East Timorese at all levels.
It is essential for the communities to understand and to "want" these services and take an active part in an
otherwise bottom up decision making process. The first step in the implementation of the component will
be the formation of consultative groups at the district level made up of potential stakeholders in a future
- 47 -



community radio station - such as women's groups, the church, youth groups, political parties. This
consultative group will select trainees, prepare the request for community radio, monitor programming and
use of the radio, and decide on future sustainability options.
Trainers and Reporters: Each district will require a minimum of two reporters/broadcasters for UNTAET
Radio (or its successor), and another two for community radio. Any surplus of skilled workers in this field
might be used by commercial radio, printed media or even television If they prove capable all trainees
would be given suitable accreditation. The best of these could be recruited as staff of the national radio
station. Trainees would receive a small honorarium of between US$3 and US$5 per day plus an "actual
expense" allowance of up to US$2 per day while engaged in the training program. All trainees would be
given the position of "apprentices" to more skilled staff already employed by Radio UNTAET. It is
recognized that number of skilled staff is extremely limited and that they must rely on the Public
Information Officers to give day-to-day guidance in the field. The trainees will report to the Public
Information Officers while training with Radio UNTAET's district reporter stations, and after the
establishment of the community radios, the trainees will become staff of these stations and run them.
Stipends might also be provided to the districts as lump sums and distributed according to the actual needs
of the trainees and their co-workers - since it is hoped that there will be large numbers of people interested
in supporting the stations not just a small number of trainees. This will help to avoid the confusion and
jealousies seen in similar recent initiatives, and keep the stations more sustainable.
Drop-outs are expected. To reduce the likelihood of this, from the beginning it will be emphasized
that the community radio will not receive assistance in terms of salaries and running costs so false
expectations are not raised.
Technical Assistance. The technical assistance for the component will be in two forms. First there will
be the management team who will be contracted as individuals to UNTAET in the same way as the
consultants working on other components are. The management team will carry out the following tasks:
  Manage the community radio support center in Dili, which will function as a hub for a number of
supportive services.
  Follow up on broadcast regulation law consultations and watch for possible impacts on community
radios
  Coordinate training efforts for and among community radio stations
  Hold national and district level workshops to build consensus and support for community radio
  Coordinate the establishment of community radio management boards at the national and district levels.
The second type of technical assistance required will be the trainers. A number of different experienced
and highly skilled specialists will be required on short inputs throughout the life of the project to train the
reporters and radio operators. An intemational consulting company is expected to provide the services
which will be packaged into one contract and bid competitively.
Training: Introductory training would be given by Radio UNTAET at the radio/television facilities in
Dili, This would consist of a theoretical immersion course in the principles of broadcasting and basic
techniques followed by more 'hands-on' training in the studios. Since there are limited facilities and skilled
staff, this training will have to be phased with no more than twenty trainees at any one time. Bearing this in
mind it is suggested that training be given to a maximum of five people per district, and a maximum of four
districts at any one time (see training schedule for phasing). Thereafter, most of the training would be
field-based, in the districts, creating and recording documentary and training materials for broadcasting at
the national level, these materials can also be beneficial to development programs.
- 48 -



The following stages will apply to the training of each individual radio reporter/manager:
Preliminary training in Dili I (basic theory and skills)
Preliminary training in Dili II (hands-on with Radio UNTAET)
Routine training sandwiched between fieldwork assignments
Routine follow-on training, general reporting and specific management skills as required
Equipment: The equipment procured under the project will include equipment for field reporters (tape
recorders microphones etc. radio receivers for selected community groups including the councils, and
equipment for the community radio stations.
Fund Flows. Expenses and timesheet are signed off by the Public Information Officer (PIO), or if PIO is
not available, the Social Development Officer/Focal PointDistrict Project Accountants will request cash
amount from Dili; if the request is in accordance with project guidelines then the Project Management Unit
sends this amount, paid by the 15th of each month by the District Project Accountant. The DPA would
send reports and timesheets to the PMU.
InstitutionalArrangements. Project management of the radio and television component will be a
Timorese consultant team contracted through the PMU. The consultant team will report directly to the
PMU, and will be in charge of running a community radio support center which will be work on building
consensus for the future establishment of community radio stations by holding national and district level
consultative workshops, following up on the broadcast regulation law, providing outreach support, and
overseeing the training and monitoring stipends of the national radio trainees, later-to-become community
radio staff.
CEP PMU Organigram
C M | | Soci~~al Affairs|
RadioUNTAF3         UNAdor,Cull- Board ....
I CFA Internal                                                                          i
Financial Auditor
internal  CPOuld|                   hitecit
Finance                          Administration  |
UNESCO
Com. Radio Cenld
l                           l    D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ep uty l
OpIra nl ,                   I
|   Techn9cal  - LS :;t1   |   Gender
-49-



M)D                                     m~~~1
~~~~~J                           bk         VW J             q   W N           ..~R                                    fW D              .F          pA A                   dW U
O.lt-0-*
Al      t dIN
Fb.*.tdd*dp.*d-U
FW.*t  ks
Twq.d                                         fflMm"'um,Q.,~~~-50 



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
EAST TIMOR: SECOND COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT PROJECT
Local       Foreign -       ta
Proiect Cost Bly Component               US umillion   US $millo    US   n
Component A. Community Grants                              6.20         0.00          6.20
Component B. Cultural Heritage                             1.50         0.00          1.50
Component C. Radio and Television                          0.80         0.00          0.80
Total Baseline Cost                                        8.50         0.00          8.50
Physical Contingencies                                    0.00         0.00          0.00
Price Contingencies                                       0.00         0.00          0.00
Total Project Costs              8.50          0.00          8.50
Total Financing Required               8.50          0.00         8.50
Local       Foreign  -T-     4
Project Cost By Categogy                US $millionL US $million   US flWS
Sub-grants and Credits                                      5.32           0.00         5.32
Goods (including transportation)                            0.86           0.00         0.86
Consulting Services                                          1.40          0.00          1.40
Works                                                        0.80          0.00         0.80
Incremental operating costs                                 0.12           0.00         0.12
Total Project Costs      8.50          0.00         8.50
Total Financing Required      8.50           0.00         8.50
Idenitifiable taxes anid duties are 0 (USSmi) and the total project cost, net oftaxes, is 8.5 (USSm). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 100% oftotal
prqiect cost niet of taxes.
- 51 -



Annex 4
EAST TIMOR: SECOND COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT PROJECT
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Economic Analysis
Macroeconomic Context
This project was prepared in close collaboration with the Joint Assessment Mission's
macroeconomic team, therefore no major distortions or subsidy issues are expected. Nevertheless, there are
several economic issues that will have an effect on project decisions:
  First, East Timor has selected the U.S. dollar as its currency, which eliminates the need for a Central
Bank and slashes nominal interest rates.
  Second, because there are no banks left, all interest rates are being determined through the informal
sector and a highly volatile local micro-economic environment. Repayment schedules for communities
using the grant for economic activities are thus difficult to establish. It is also not yet possible to
propose any linkages to a more institutionalized micro-credit scheme.
  Third, the speed with which the intemal distribution system recovers will affect local choices and
opportunities. Localized pricing distortions are highly likely over the next several years.
Anticipated Microeconomic Benefits
Because the guiding principle of the "open menu" will be driving village and sub-district decisions
about allocation of resources under CEP's community grants component, an a priori analysis of costs and
benefits or cost-effectiveness is not as practical as it would be under a typical grant- or loan-financed
development project where inputs and outputs are determined by the project design.
The analysis on the following page provides a detailed cost-effectiveness analysis of one typical
village-level development project that is expected to be popular among CEP participant communities as an
indication of the expected economic strength of CEP. (Note that these types of proxy analyses do not
account for any of the social or economic benefits that will accrue from the expanded trading networks
nurtured by CEP's community procurement.)
- 52 -



Cost-Effectiveness Analysis for Sample CEP Village Project
Village Water Supply Projects: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis
I.  Parameters (estimates from proxy villages in Indonesia since Timor data unreliable and unavailable)
Average Population covered per village                 1796       Avg. grant per village   $    15,0000
Morbidity Rate                                       0.9794       Avg. health grant village S  2,500.00
Case Fatality Rate                                 0.001198       Total Grant           S     17,500.00
Morbid Days Lost per Case                               3.4
Average total project cost per village               45500
Interest rate (social for project streams)             0.05
Discount rate (rural, private for life)                0.05
Reduction in Morbidity with Project                    0.28
Average age of Death                                    4.5
Life Expectancy (to age)                                 69
11. Intermediate Calculations
Annualized Cost per Village:          Total Project          Grant Only
Development                                           2275          875
Recurrent (maintenance of WSS and H)                   1625         1625
Total Costs                                            3900        2500
HYLL per death:
Life expect - Avg age death                            64.5
Discounted Years Lost per (.05)                 19.20488437
111. Annual Numbers per Village           Before                  Change
Cases                                                  1759         493
Deaths                                                 2.11         0.59
Years Lost to Morbidity                                  16            5
Years Lost to Mortality                                  40           11
Total Years Lost                                         57           16
IV. Cost per:                             Total Project *         Grant Only
Death Avoided                                         6610         4237
Avoided Healthy Year Lost                               245          157
*This using the entire cost of project
- 53 -



IRRIGATION
vol       unit          price      unit      costiprice
Dry fields
seed
labor
fertilizer
total cost
Output                 1.5 tons/ha/year      3000 kg
Irrigated fields
hybrid seed case
hybrid seed            30 kg/ha              3000 kg
urea                  150 kg/ha
potash                 90 kg/ha
KCI                    40 kg/ha
labor                  10 days prep          7500 day
70 days harvest       7500 day
pesticides
Total cost (Rp)
Total cost (US$)
Post Outputs            6 tons/ha/year       3000 kg
traditional seed case
seed            own
labor           own
Post Outputs              tons/ha/year       3000 kg
- 54 -



TRADING
unit     percent
Item                              cost per          mkt price          marain   return
seasoning, Ajinomoto Hijau       1,500 packet          3,000              1,500     100%
biscuits, Arrow Manis            3,900 packet          5,000              1,100      28%
biscuits, Rose Cream brand       2,900 packet          4,000              1,100      38%
biscuits, Kong Guan brand       33,800 kg              6,000 packet
noodles, Fuji brand               700 packet            1,500               800     114%
noodles, Sari Mie brand           900 packet           2,000              1,100     122%
salt, Cap Kuda brand              600 packet            2,000             1,400     233%
salt, Kapal brand                 500 packet           2,000              1,500     300%
sugar, bulk                      4,400 kg               6,000             1,600      36%
cooking oil, Bimoli 620 gr       4,600 bottle          5,000                400       9%
cooking oil, Bimoli 2 liter     14,900 bottle         20,000              5,100      34%
cooking oil, Bimoli 5 liter     34,800 gerry can      60,000             25,200      72%
backing powder, Royal            5,000 tin            50,000             45,000     900%
sardines, Kito brand             1,900 tin             2,000                100       5%
instant milk, Dancow brand        900 box             25,000 kaleng
wheat flour, Kompas brand        3,400 kg               5,000             1,600      47%
candles                          1,100 packet           3,500             2,400     218%
bar soap, Lux (Ig)               1,800 bar              2,500               700      39%
bar soap, Lux mild               1,500 bar              2,000               500      33%
toothpaste, Pepsodent 25 gr      1,300 tube             5,000             3,700     285%
toothpaste, Pepsodent 120 gr     5,100 tube            12,000             6,900     135%
washing powder, Rinso 1 kg      13,800 bag            25,000             11,200      81%
washing powder, Rinso 1/2 kg     7,000 bag             10,000             3,000      43%
washing powder, Rinso sachet      500 sachet            1,000               500     100%
Kitchen soap, Maxam brand        2,100 tub
average retum per item:    135%
- 55 -



Annex 5: Finanicial Summary
EAST TIMOR: SECOND COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT PROJECT
Years Ending June 30
Year 1       Year 2       Year 3        Year 4        Total
2000         2001         2002          2003
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs
Tranche 1(CEP I)                   0.9          7.7                                      8.6
Tranche II (CEP II)                             2.6           5.9                        8.5
Tranche III (CEP III - projected)                             2.4          5.4           7.8
Total                              0.9          10.3          8.3          5.4
Recurrent Costs
Total Project Costs                0.9          10.3          8.3          5.4          24.9
Financing
IDA
CEP I                              0.0          6.1
CEP II                                          2.6           5.9
CEP III (projected)                                           2.4          5.4
Government
Co-financiers **
CEPI                               0.9           1.6
CEP II                                          0.0
CEP III
Others
[Total Project Financing      |    0.9           10.2         8.3           5.3          24.9
Main assumptions:   ** Includes ADB TA grant of $990,000 and Japanese PHRD Grant of
$1,550,000 covering Year One and part of Year Two
- 56 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
EAST TIMOR: SECOND COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT PROJECT
Procurement
CEP II is the second grant for the Community Empowerment and Local Governance Project. The following
section details the procurement planned under this grant only, but for procurement capacity and procedures
and guidelines it refers to the lessons learned and experiences from CEP I.
Two thirds of the CEP II grant will be disbursed through sub-grants and credits to communities. Another
19% will be used to pay for consultants recruited on individual contracts to UNTAET. Only three
contracts in CEP II (total value $1.6million) will be competitively bid (for the reconstruction of the building
in sub-component B2, the radio equipment in Component C, and trainers in Component C). The emphasis
is therefore on putting in place guidelines, standards, and review mechanisms that adequately ensure that all
procurement, at whatever level, is carried out according to agreed procedures from the start.
The Transitional Administration in East Timor regulation UNTAET/REG/20 10 dated 6 March 2000
entitled" On Public Procurement for Civil Administration in East Timor" was prepared with the assistance
of World Bank funded consultants. To amplify the provisions Regulation 2000/10 relating to the
procurement of goods, services and works in East Timor, UNTAET has developed a "Public Procurement
Manual for Civil Administration in East Timor". Section 10 of the PPM entitled Procurement Methods
states that all procurement shall be conducted through the open tendering process. The PPM includes
procedures for all types of procurement methods including International and National Competitive Bidding,
national and international shopping, as well as direct and restricted contracting in exceptional cases.
Procurement of goods, works and services included in components B and C of the project will follow the
"Procurement under IBRD loans and IDA credits", dated January 1995, revised in January and August
1996, September 1997 and January 1999, and Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers dated January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999. The procurement of goods,
consultants and works will use the World Bank Standard Bidding Documents Procurement of Goods dated
January 1995, revised March 2000 and January 2001; Standard Request for Proposals- Selection of
Consultants dated July 1997, revised April 1998 and July 1999, Standard Bidding Documents
Procurement of Works (smaller contracts) dated January 1995, revised October 1996, respectively.
Procurement Capacitv
A. Procurement capacity of the PMU
A separate assessment report has been prepared on the procurement capacity of both the PMU and the
communities. In summary, the assessment found that a procurement regulation is in place that together with
the supplemental letter, is compatible with Bank guidelines. Staffmg is adequate and the PMU has been
reorganized to improve, among other things, the capacity to i) monitor and support the community
procurement, ii) recruit, contract, and manage individual consultants, and iii) carry out national and
international shopping. A post review of expenditure undertaken as part of regular supervision has
identified several areas were improvements are required to procedures currently being used. Auditors have
been selected, and support and control systems are in place. The PMU is equipped and records and filing
systems are well maintained.
- 57 -



However, the project staff is young and inexperienced, and the emphasis is on the transfer of knowledge
from the advisers during their short term contracts. Several of the senior staff have left to complete their
higher education which was interupted because of the previous unrest. Some have also left to take up civil
service positions. On-going training and support will be required. There is weak capacity for procurment
through ICB and NCB and additional assistance from a procurement agent and the Central Administrative
Services Central Procurement Unit will be sought for the procurement of the three large contracts that are
beyond the existing capacity of the PMU.
Additional procurement training will be given to the staff in World Bank procurement procedures.
B. Capacityfor Procurement by Communities
UNTAET regulation 13/2000 establishes the village and sub-district councils as legal entities capable of
carrying out procurement and handling funds. Over 400 village councils have now had experience in
procuring goods and services with CEP sub-grants, and the results have exceeded expectations at appraisal.
A great deal of assistance is required from facilitators and the capacity of the 90 facilitators is increasing.
District Project Accountants are now in place in each district to support the facilitators, train financial
management teams and councils, and carry out spot checks on the books kept in the villages. Regular
reports on the price of goods in Dili are distributed to provide communities with competitive price
comparisons with locally available goods, and the CFO has been involved in the development of the forms
for procurement and financial management. Project manuals include sections on community procurement,
and a handbook for communities and facilitators is currently being developed. The promotion of the
culture of accountability is at the core of the project, and transparency is ensured through regular updating
of notice boards located in public places in all participating sub-villages.
Risks associated with community contracting are higher than those associated with contracting by the
PMU. Risks include the fact that all parties lack experience in the concepts and procedures in CEP -
continuous capacity building is built into the project to minimize the risk. The greatest risk over the next
few months is associated with the political environment in the run-up to the elections, and the influence this
may potentially have on procurement and financial management at village level as political parties jostle for
power. The team is developing a strategy to protect the project from interference, and also a code of ethics
for project staff during the campaigns. Checks and balances to prevent corruption depend to a large extent
on the ability of communities to understand their role in monitoring, and the records posted on the notice
boards However, the project disburses in dollars, and communities use rupiah for local transactions. The
introduction of exchange rates will add confusion and lower the impact of transparent practices on ensuring
clean procurement. The project will insist that books are kept, and purchases made, in dollars, and an
information campaign, and regular infornation on exchange rates, will be circulated to communities to
increase their understanding.
C. Action Plan to Improve Capacity of Project Staff and Communities
Actions that will be introduced in CEP II to ensure honest and fair community procurement will include:
* Production of separate and more detailed guidelines for community procurement for the facilitators and
communities: Draft generic materials have been prepared for specific use in CEP II with inputs from
the CFO and the PMU team.
* Further training for the DPAs, who will then train sub-district and village facilitators, council
members, treasurers, and implementing teams will be undertaken by the training team in accordance
with materials from the CFO. A training plan and draft materials has been prepared by the CFO.
* Ongoing interaction and evaluation between the DPAs to discuss problems and develop their skills in
monitoring procurement. The CFO will prepare a draft schedule for meetings between the DPAs.
* The finance team and the communications team are working on communications materials for
- 58 -



communities explaining their role in monitoring community procurement.
*   Dissemination of regular information on market exchange rates to communities will be done through
the existing mechanisms used to disseminate information regarding market prices of materials,
including posting on project information boards - although the likelihood of fluctuations needs to be
emphasized.
*   Strategy for dealing with the elections and code of ethics for project staff during the campaigns is being
developed.
Procurement methods (Table A)
A. Procurement Under the Community Grants
A total of $5.32 million is allocated for sub-grant under components Al ($3.73 million), A2 ($0.95
million), A3 ($0.24 million), and B2 ($0.4 million) in CEP II. The sub-grants can be used by the
communities to procure services, technical assistance, goods, training, labor, and small works, as these are
needed to prepare and implement sub-projects. Provisions in the loan agreement also allow for sub-grants
under Al to be used to provide credits with repayments made to the councils. Proposals are prepared by
village councils and submitted to sub-district councils where the best proposals are selected for funding
according to criteria decided on, and notified to the village communities at the beginning of the process.
The use of the grants between the categories depends on the proposals submitted by villages: no targets can
be set by the PMU for minimum or maximum proportions of the grants used for different purposes (for
example loans versus sub-grants). No Sub-project shall: (i) include expenditures intended for a military or
paramilitary purpose; (ii) relate to the manufacture or use of environmentally hazardous goods (including
asbestos and pesticides), arms or drugs, (iii) include the financing of government salaries, (iv) include civil
works for government administration or religious purposes, (v) include civil works on buildings where
ownership is disputed or unknown; (vi) include renting of buildings where ownership is disputed or
unknown, or (vii) include land acquisition. Community procurement procedures are described in the
project manual, but a separate manual for facilitators and communities is being prepared and, after
approval by the World Bank, will be issued prior to the implementation of the 3rd cycle of sub-grants. This
manual will be finalized after receiving inputs from the CFO and the other members of PMU team. Except
for the initial emergency reconstruction grant, proposals will be attached to an Implementation Agreement
signed by the members of the sub-project proponent and the sub-district facilitator.
The following are the methods of procurement allowed under the sub-grants by the community:
Goods and Services
International shopping: No intemational shopping will be undertaken by commnunities. In exceptional
circumstances, where the goods requested are not available nationally, the community may request
assistance of the PMU to procure through intemational shopping on their behalf . In this case, procurement
will be carried out as described under International Shopping in section "B. Procurement of Goods and
Works by the PMIJ".
National shopping: Contracts for goods and services available locally valued at under $7,500, will be
awarded through national shopping procedures and in accordance with Articles 3.5 and 3.6 of the
Guidelines, after solicitation and evaluation of at least three written price quotations. Standard formats for
this process are included the Project Manual. For procurement of goods and services over $7,500, or
where the aggregate amount provided by a specific supplier to an individual sub-project will exceed
$7,500, the service delivery team will assist the communities with procurement and there will be prior
review by a representative approved by the CFO. The maximum value of any sub-project proposal is
- 59 -



$25,000, therefore no single purchase by communities will be greater than this in value.
Direct contracting: goods and services costing up to $2,500, to an aggregate of $5,000 for an individual
sub-project will only be procured through direct contracting when justified due to lack of alternative local
suppliers.
Works and Community Participation
Small works: A very small nurnber of works may need to be procured through small works, up to a
maximum value of $25,000 each. These can be contracted through lump sum contracts awarded on the
basis of quotations obtained locally from at least 3 local contractors (including NGOs) in response to a
written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic
specifications, start and completion dates, a basic agreement format acceptable to the Bank, and relevant
drawings. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation and is evaluated
to have the technical capacity for the required work. The district Technical Facilitator will review the
specifications, quotations, and contract.
Community Participation: Communities are encouraged to participate in, and contribute to, the
sub-project activities, however there are no upper or lower limits for the amount of their contribution, and
there is no requirement to contribute anything. Incentives to contribute are built in through the process of
proposal selection: Councils will select criteria to help them evaluate proposals and the amount of
contribution is usually one of the criteria they select. Contributions from communities will usually be in
the form of labor and materials, but may also include land (see Annex 13 for guidelines on Acquisition of
Land and Assets). In some cases the communities may choose to include full or partial labor costs in the
proposals and pay salaries for work done on the project. Transfer of funds to individuals while they work
to build a public good, is acceptable under the project rules. Where project funds are used to support
community participation the procurement will be consistent with Article 3.15 of the Guidelines. It is not
possible to predict in advance what the amount of community participation will be, the communities first
have to decide whether they want to contribute labor or be paid, and the councils have to decide whether
they will accept paid participation in the proposals they select. Community participation procedures and
guidelines for selecting and paying labor have been prepared and are in accordance with clause 3.14 of the
guidelines.
B. Procurement of Goods and Works by the Project Management Unit
International Competitive Bidding
In CEP II, only one contract, for the equipment for the community radio stations under Component C, will
be procured under ICB in accordance with the guidelines. The contract will include installation and
training for the technical operators. Total cost of the CEP II package will be approximately $400,000.
National Competitive Bidding
Local procedures for NCB are outlined in UNTAET Regulation 2000/10, the supplemental Public
Procurement Manual and the clarifications and assurances in the Procurement Supplemental Letter to the
Grant Agreement will be used for the procurement of reconstruction works to the National Culture and
Performnance Center under Component B. Since the contract is relatively small, ICB would be neither
justified nor practical, but foreign firms will not be precluded from bidding. The bid will be advertised
locally, via the radio, national gazette, nationally read widely circulated newspapers and through the
UNTAET. Invitations to bid will be available for interested bidders. All offers received will be opened
publicly using a one envelope system, evaluated, and awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder. The contract
is estimated to cost $800,000.
- 60 -



International Shopping
Goods and services required for the Component C costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract to an
aggregate value of up to $ 260,000, will be purchased according to the international shopping procedures
(clause 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines).
National Shopping
Small quantities of National Shopping for goods and services, for example for printing of communications
materials, may be required. A minimnum of three quotations will be sought from local suppliers and the
contract awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder. Individual contracts will not exceed $25,000 or
equivalent up to an aggregate of $100,000.
Direct contracting:
Goods and services where no alternative supply is available, costing up to $2,500, up to an aggregate of
$35,000 equivalent will be procured through direct contracting when justified in writing in accordance with
clause 3.7 of the guidelines.
C. Procurement of Consultants
Quality and Cost Based Selection:
One contract for consultants to assist in the establishment of the Community Radio Center and train the
reporters and technicians, will contracted through quality and cost based selection. The contract will be for
an initial $150,000.
Individual Consultants
Selection of each individual consultant will be in accordance with clauses 5.1 to 5.3 of the Guidelines.
The PMU staff have identified five areas in which they feel they needed the assistance of advisers to
provide technical assistance and capacity building: Administration; Training and Communications;
Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation; Field Operations; and Technical. The staff also assisted the project
manager in developing job description and selection criteria for each position. Job descriptions,
procurement plan, and criteria for selection were submitted to the Bank for approval, as was the shortlist of
selected candidates. Expressions of interest from individuals were requested through international
advertising and evaluation teams have been nominated. The process of selection will be complete by the
end of February 2001. All advisers will be contracted as individuals. The PMU is capable of providing the
consultant support normally associated with a firm and therefore the overhead costs related to hiring
through a firrn are not justified. The aggregate value of the individual contracts for these positions will be
approximately $200,000.
Managers and staff will also be recruited to sub-PMUs for Components B and C. Aggregate value of these
contracts will be $50,000.
Additional specialist skills - for example in micro-finance, language training/translation, water supply
engineering, or marketing, - may be needed to provide very small (less than one month) inputs during the
project implementation. Also in Component B, a fund raiser will be recruited directly to raise the funds for
the internal rehabilitation of the National Performance and Culture Center, and other cultural heritage
projects in the future. Terms of reference will be prepared and consultants will be selected based on their
qualifications. The aggregate value of these contracts is $100,000
-61 -



Least cost
Auditing firms will be contracted to perform annual audits on a least cost basis. Aggregate value for
auditing contracts will be under $ 20,000
Single source
Nearly 200 Timorese service delivery staff and consultants have been contracted as individuals under direct
contracts with UNTAET. No firms are involved. Some of the consultants are recruited into the project
management unit including a Financial Management Team, an Administration Team, and a Reporting,
Monitoring and Evaluation Team. Also based in Dili are a Training and Communications team, a Widows
and Vulnerable Groups team, and the team leaders of the service delivery teamns: the Field Operations team
and the Technical Team. The Field Operations Team includes the 13 District Monitors and 90 sub-district
facilitators, and the technical team includes 13 District Technical Facilitators. Thirteen district Project
Accountants are also based in the field but report to the Financial Management Team in the PMU. The
consultants and service delivery staff were recruited in CEP I from hundreds of applicants that applied for
each position which was advertised locally on the regular UNTAET recruitment boards. The evaluation of
the candidates took into account of the qualifications and experience of each, and the overall composition of
the team in terms of gender balance, regional diversity, range of languages covered etc. The staff selected
were evaluated after an initial trial period and the contracts of only those staff who had performed well
were extended in November for a further six month period. Before any further extensions of the contracts
at the end of this period, there will be a performance evaluation process in which the team will participate.
Further extensions of contracts for each individual will depend on their results in the performance
evaluation. If additional consultants are required they will be recruited as individual consultants in
accordance with clauses 5.1 to 5.3 of the Guidelines. The salaries for the positions in the service delivery
teams were fixed at the start of the project according to UNTAET salary scales for local staff. Because of
the potential long term impact, and the difference existing between local and intemational salaries at the
current time, guidance on salary levels for all of the Timorese staff is sought from the Cabinet Minister for
Intemal Administration. The aggregate value of these consultant and service delivery contracts is
$750,000 for CEP II.
A Memorandum of understanding between UNTAET and UNESCO also describes the services that
UNESCO's cultural heritage expert and specialists in Portuguese colonial architecture and history- who are
managed by UNESCO - will provide in monitoring the reconstruction of the National Performance and
Culture Center. The specialists were recruited on direct contracts due to the specialist nature of the skills
provided. The aggregate value of these contracts is $100,000.
- 62 -



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procuremfient Method
Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB            Other         N.B.F.    TotW Cot
1. Works                                                 0.80            0.10                        0.90
()             (0.80)          (0.10)           0          (0.90)
2. Goods                                0.40                             0.30                        0.70
(0.40)              0            (0.30)           0          (0.70)
3. Services                                                              0.06                        0.06
o)               ()            (0.06)          ()          (0.06)
4. Sub grants and credits                                                5.32                        5.32
o)               ()            (5.32)           0          (5.32)
5. Recurrent Costs                                                       0.12                        0.12
_____________________ __  ()  _   ()    (0.12)           0          (0.12)
Total                                0.40             0.80            5.90           0.00         7.10
(0.40)           (0.80)          (5.90)         (0.00)       (7.10)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant. All costs include
contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, international shopping,
community procured goods including community participation, and incremental operating costs related
to managing the project.
-63 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
A. Firms               0.15    0.00    0.00    0.05  10.00    0.00    0.00         0.20
(0. 15)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.05)   (0.00)   (0.00) ___0.00)   (0.20)
B. Individuals         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00     1.20    0.00     1.20
(0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)   (1.20)  (0.00)    (1.20)
Total  0.15    0.00    0.00    0.05      0.00     1.20    0.00      1.40
_  (0.15)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.05)   (0.00)   (1.20)  (0.00)    (1.40)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant.
- 64 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Given the aggregate value of the contracts that would fall under nonnal prior review thresholds, and the
still developing capacity of the PMU and East Timor is currently operating in an inherited business culture
which may not be conducive to fair and transparent procurement processes, the thresholds adopted for CEP
II will be lower than normal. Prior review of all goods and works or goods in excess of USD $ 100,000
and consultant requirements in excess of USD $ 50,000 for firms and USD $ 25,000 for individuals will be
required. Prior reviews for community procurement will be carried out be representatives approved by the
CFO, and ex post review and audits will be carried out on a sample basis.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                                Contracts Sub
Threshold              Procurement              Prio Review
Expenditure Category      (US$ thousands}             Method                (US$ millions)
1. Works                         100                     NCB                      0.80
2. Goods                         100                     ICB                      0.40
First 3                   IS                      0.25
First 3                  NS                       0.08
3. Services
Firms                           50                     QCBS                     0.15
Comp. C (Radio)              all                      SS                     0.10
Comp. B                      all                     LC                       0.02
(UNESCO)
Auditors                     25                       IC                      0.22
Individuals
TAIAdvisers                 25                       SS                      0.25
Serv. Delivery staff
4. Small Grants and     10 (first in each district)       NS                      0.20
credits
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  $2.3 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 4 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 65 -



Disbursement
Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
Allocation of grant proceeds are given in Table C.
Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$million          Fi70inancin4 Percentage'
Category I Sub-grants and Credits                                        100
l(a) Part Aland A2 Grants to             3.73                          100
sub-districts
I(b) Part A3 Grants to highly            0.95                         100
vulnerable groups
l(c) Part A6 Grants to districts        0.24                           100
1(d) Part B2 Small culture grants        0.40                         100
Category 2 Goods (including                 0.86                      100/100/90
transportation) under Parts A5, B I and
C.
Category 3 Civil Works (Part B I and       0.80                          100
C )_ _                                                        _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _ _  _  _
'Category 4 Incremental operating Costs                                   100
(a) Auditing                              0.02                          100
(b) Other                                 0.10
Category 5 Consultant Services and          1.40
training
Category 6 Unallocated                      0.00
Total Project Costs                         8.50
Total                                       8.50
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds:
No withdrawals shall be made under the Grant in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement; (b) payments made for expenditures under Category (1) (b) unless and until the
Highly Vulnerable Groups Support Manual, acceptable to the Trustee, has been adopted; (c) payments
made for expenditures under Category (1) (c) unless and until the action plan for the establishment of
District planning boards and committees that includes representatives from each Conselho do Posto has
been adopted, and the District Planning and Initiatives Manual, acceptable to the Trustee, has been
adopted, and (d) payments made for expendiAues under Category (1) (d) unless and until the Cultural
Heritage Support Manual, acceptable to the Trustee, has been adopted.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursement from the Grant Account can be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for: (a)
Sub-Grants and Credits; (b) goods and works costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (c)
incremental operating costs; (d) training; and (e) contracts for the employment of consulting firms valued at
less than $50,000 equivalent each and contracts for the employment of individuals valued at less than
$25,000 equivalent. Supporting documentation is retained by the PMU and subject to post review during
supervision missions.
- 66 -



Special account:
The financial management arrangements, experience from CEP I and action plan for improvement are
given in Annex 12. A Special Account has been established at the Banco Nacional Ultramarino (BNU)
denominated in US$, with an authorized ceiling of $, 1,000,000. This amount, higher than the standard
10% of the grant/loan, was approved taking into account that about forty percent of the total grant will be
disbursed over approximately two months at the height of the third cycle and a higher ceiling will reduce
the number of replenishment requests required to be processed over this period and risk of delays. The
account will be managed by the PMU and replenishment requests will be made monthly, or when 20%/o of
the authorized ceiling has been disbursed, whichever occurs. The proceeds of the grant will be disbursed in
accordance with the guidelines in the "Disbursement Handbook".
Attachment A Procurement Plan
Descripbon        Type          Proc.           No.       Est Cost      Invitabon        Bid docs       Bid/RFP         Contract      Contract
Method        Package    Smillion       GPNISPN          RFP            Opening         Signing       Complete
Local Advertise  1. prep        Evaluation
2. issue docs   Rec. award
Works
Renovation of     CW            NCB              1            0.8          SPN 4/01          3101            6101           8/01          8102
Cultural Center                                                                                              7/01
7/01
Goods
Radio Equip.      G              ICB             1            0.4       GPN 3/O1 SPN         4/01            8/01           9/01           2/02
3101           5/01            9/01
9/01
Radio Equip.      G               iS        Many under       0.26                            4/01            3/01           9/01          10/01
$25K                                                         3101
__________   ________  ________                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3/01
Misc.             G              NS         Many under        0.1
$20K
Consulting
services
Unesco            CS             DC              1            0.1                           10/00                          01K01
10/00
TA for Radio      CS            QCBS             1            0.15           5.01            5/01            8/01           9/01           3)02
6/01           8/01
_________                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9/01
TA and Train      CS              IC           Many           0.3                                         As needed
Delivery Staff    CS             SS            Many           0.3                                                           5/01
Audit             CS             LC              2            0.50           9/01            10/01          11.01          01/02          04102
10/01          11/01
______________  _______  ___________  __________                                 ~~ ~~~~~12/01
-67 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
EAST TIMOR: SECOND COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT PROJECT
ProectSedule  fif  .cii io,==,bi*W@   ;    i         Planned                       Actuq77777.
Time taken to prepare the project (months)        5                              5
First Bank mission (identification)               09/19/2000                     09/19/2000
Appraisal mission departure                        11/13/2000                    11/13/2000
Negotiations                                      02/22/2001                     02/22/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                     03/15/2001
Prepared by:
Gillian Brown, Steven Burgess, Loty Salazar, Laura Bailey,
Preparation assistance:
Cabinet Member for Internal Administration
Roland Laval, Roger Briottet, - UNTAET
Rosa Vong, Reinaldo Borges, and other CEP staff
Milena Pires - CIIR
CNRT representatives
Ludmilla Kwitco - AusAID
Neil O'Sullivan - ADB
John Doyle, Edith Bowles - USAID
Mari Maia dos Reis
Cipriana da Costa Pereira
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Speciality
Gillian Brown                      Task Team Leader
Scott Guggenheim                   Lead Social Development Specialist
Loty Salazar                       Communications Specialist
Abdul Haji                          Financial Management Specialist
Ronald Isaacson                     Procurement Specialist
Karin Nordlander                    Senior Counsel
Hung Kim Phung                     Loan Officer
Hugh Paul                           Radio Consultant
Paul McCarthy                      NGO Specialist
Chris Smith                        Procurement specialist
Bernadine D'Souza                  Team Assistant
Lisa Campeau                        Operations assistant
- 68 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
EAST TIMOR: SECOND COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Community Empowerment Project: Facilitator Manual, October 2000
Village Facilitators Handbook, October 2000 (in Bahasa Indonesia)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
CEP I Aide memoire and field visit reports 5/00
CEP I Aide Memoire 10/00
Television and Radio in East Timor: A Comparative Prospective, Concept Paper - September 2000
C. Other
Community Empowerment Project: Report on Technical Audit: September 2000,
CEP: Monthly Reports from consultant team starting August 2000
CEP: CAA/Oxfam Progress Report 2, August 2000
CEP: CAA/Oxfam Progress Report 3, November 2000
CEP: CAA/Oxfam Completion Report, December 2000
CEP: Monitoring and Evaluation Framework and Progress Report, September 2000
CEP: Communications - Summary of Activities and Revised Strategy
CEP: Anthropology Research Team - Progress Report I, January 2001
Joint Donor Supervision of the Community Development Sector, Final Report, October 2000
*Including electronic files
- 69 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
EAST TIMOR: SECOND COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT PROJECT
Jan-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                             disbursements'
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                      IBRD         IDA        SF               Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev d
P070533       2000 AGRICULTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT                0.00      0.0o       6.80                 0.00      5.92       0.00      0.00
P070517       2000 TP-DILI COMMUNITY EMPLOYMENT GENERATION           0.00      0.00       0.50                 0.00      0.06       0.50      0.00
P070294       2000 TP-Health Sector Rehab. & Dea. Project            0.00      0.00      12.70                 0.00     11.38      2.30       0.00
P070283       2000 TP- Small Enterprises Project                     0.00      0.00       4.85                 0.00      3.67      4.25       0.00
P070268       2000 TP-Emergency School Readiness Project             0.00      0.00      13.90                 0.00     11.71       0.00      0.00
P069762       2000 TP-COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT                          0.00      0.00       7.00                 0.00      4.70       0.00      0.00
Total:       0.00       0.00      45.75                0.00       37.45      7.05       0.00
EAST TIMOR
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                                  Disbursed
IFC                                        IFC
FY Approval              Company                                 Loan    Equity        Quasi    Partic       Loan    Equity        Quasi    Partic
Total Portfolio:                 0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval              Company                                     Loan       Equity        Quasi        Partic
Total Pending Commitment:                   0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
- 70 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
EAST TIMOR: SECOND COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT PROJECT
,                        -
- 71                 .



Additional
Annex 11
Financial Management Plan
Key Financial Staff. The two key actions which constituted the backbone of financial arrangements for
CEP I were (i) the recruitment of a Chief Financial Officer (CFO) of the project and (ii) recruitment of 13
East Timorese District Project Accountants (DPAs) to assist the CFO in ensuring that the Grant funds
were properly utilized by the district and communities and that simple but adequate records were
maintained by the recipients of the grant funds. Both of these were conditions of effectiveness under CEP I
Project Chief Financial Officer (CFO): There were severe delays, and UNTAET encountered several
problems, in the recruitment of CFO. In order to satisfy the condition, IJNTAET first designated one of its
existing staff as the CFO for the project but, because of other work responsibilities, the CFO designated
was unable to devote any time to the financial affairs of CEP. UNTAET's subsequent attempts to recruit
CFO from outside were also impeded since the candidates identified declined the remuneration and benefit
package that UNTAET could offer under UN procedures.
As an interim measure, the Financial Officer of the sub-PMU consultant team continued to handle some of
the critical financial management functions. These included the maintenance of adequate accounting
records of all withdrawals under CEP I Grant, transactions of the Special Account and establishment of
internal procedures for transfer of funds to the Districts and Villages.
The same Finance Officer of the consultant company was also recently recruited by UNTAET directly as
the CFO for the project. He will be able to provide the necessary continuity for overall financial
management of CEP II. It has been agreed that as CFO of the project, his additional responsibilities will
include:
(i) establishing adequate accounting and internal control procedures at the district and village
levels; (ii) providing leadership and systematic supervision to the 13 District Project Accountants
(DPAs); and (iii) designing and implementing a suitable program of training of DPAs, ensuring
regular feedback of the experiences of the DPAs, resolving problems encountered, and reinforcing
and modifying as necessary the financial and control procedures under the CEP II.
UNTAET has also recruited an East Timorese Deputy CFO, to work closely with the CFO with the
objective of eventually taking over the functions of the CFO.
District Project Accountants (DPAs). All the 13 DPAs were also recruited under CEP I. Following a brief
training and orientation, they were assigned to each district participating under CEP I. Most of the DPAs
have demonstrated a good understanding of their responsibilities and have been instrumental in providing
the necessary assistance to the districts and villages in handling and accounting for the Grant funds
received. However, because of the delays in the recruitment of Project CFO, they had so far lacked
systematic guidance and supervision in the execution of their functions. With the appointment of the CFO
and the Deputy CFO, this is being corrected now and should become fully functional and operational under
CEP II. The CFO will design adequate systems and procedure, and provide the required training to the
DPAs. The proposal of recruiting an external firm of accountants to do this has been dropped.
- 72 -



Project Monitoring Reports (PMRs). It was expected that periodic submission of financial reports would
take place during the initial implementation of CEP, however, delays in the recruitment of Project CFO,
also has delayed periodic financial reports. Reporting requirements have been discussed with the new CFO
and he has prepared draft submissions of the two key quarterly reports (Sources and Uses of Funds and
Uses of Funds by Project Activity) using the models in the Bank's Project Financial Management Manual
of February 1999. The Bank will provide further guidance to enhance and augment these with other
reports as appropriate under CEP II. The requirement for submission of PMR on a quarterly basis will be
further clarified during negotiations and incorporated in legal documents.
Annual External Audits. The TF Grant Agreement contained the usual requirement of an annul audit of
the financial statements and SOEs, by and independent auditors acceptable to IDA. UNTAET has recently
completed the process of recruitment of auditors for the first audit of CEP I which will cover the period
from effectiveness to December 31, 2000. The first audit should be available by June 30, 2001.
Recruitment of auditors is a condition of effectiveness for CEP II.
Transparency: Transparency is a core principle of CEP. The most effective control of finances when so
many people are handling money is to make all transactions transparent, and enable the communities to
become the monitors of the funds. In CEP I the process started by the placement of notice boards in all
villages. The notice boards should be updated every two weeks with information on all of the financial
transactions that have taken place. This is the first step in a long process - communities are not
accustomed to either having access to this kind of information, nor to the concept that officials or leaders
can be held accountable for the use of the funds. The DPAs and facilitators have a long task ahead to
educate communities about the power that this information can bring, and how they can best use it.
Corruption: A few cases of petty corruption came to light after the first cycle of CEP I and were reported.
CEP exerts a zero tolerance approach to corruption. Project staff rules dictate that staff suspected of
corruption will be immediately suspended on full pay while the case is investigated. If found guilty their
contracts will be terminated. All cases of corruption reported or found at the sub-district or village will be
investigated by the DPAs and sanctions imposed on the sub-district or village responsible if the money is
not returned. Procedures for dealing with cases of corruption by council members will be prepared in
before CEP II becomes effective.
Security: Safes have been installed in all of the postos and Civpol have provided assistance to ensure
security. In some cases the Peace Keeping Forces have also been involved. However, security is still an
issue and on-going discussions are being held to see how this can be improved using the UNTAET systems
of money transfer that exist.
Exchange rates: An additional complication was introduced during CEP I when UNTAET mandated that
US dollars be used for all disbursements from project funds. During a joint donor review of community
development projects in September, this issue was included. It was found that communities generally
preferred to receive dollars instead of rupiah as it is more stable. However, $ will still be exchanged for
rupiah by communities, introducing opportunities for money-making. There are few money changers, and
communities have little access to exchange rate information. Transparency and sound financial
management will be ensured by keeping all books in dollars, but guidelines will need to be produced for
keeping money-making opportunities to a minimum beyond this.
- 73 -



Additional
Annex 12
Guidelines for Resettlement and Land Acquisition
Objectives
1.    Land acquisition will be kept to a minimum and no person will be physically displaced under
subprojects financed under the Project. Subproject proposals that would require demolishing houses or
acquiring productive land should be carefully reviewed to reduce their impacts through alternative
alignments. Proposals that require more than minor expansion along rights of way should be reviewed
carefully.
2.     Land or other assets may be acquired through:
(a)    Voluntary contributions. In accordance with traditional practices, villagers may elect to
voluntarily contribute land or assets and/or relocate temporarily or permanently from their land without
compensation;
(b)    Contributions against compensation. A contributor considered "affected" will be eligible for
compensation from the village.
3.     These guidelines irovide principles and instructions to compensate affected persons under 2(b)
above, to ensure that all such persons negatively affected, regardless of their land tenure status, will be
assisted to improve, or at least to restore, their living standards, income earning or production capacity to
pre-project levels. However, if acquired assets are less than 20%, the Posto Facilitator may dispense with
the procedural requirements delineated in paragraph 5 below.
Compensation Principles
4.   The Conselho de Suco shall ensure that any of the following means of compensation are provided to
affected persons (the village grant cannot be used to pay compensation) in a tirnely fashion:
a) replacement land with an equally productive plot or other equivalent productive assets;
b) materials and assistance to replace fully solid structures that will be demolished;
c) replacement of damaged or lost crops, at market value;
d) other acceptable in-kind compensation.
Consultation Process
5.     The Conselho de Suco will ensure that all occupants of land and owners of assets located in a
proposed subproject area are consulted. There will be a village meeting to inform villagers about their
rights to compensation and the options that are available to them in accordance with these Guidelines. The
Minutes of the village meeting shall reflect the discussions held, agreements reached, and include the
following:
a) for any voluntary contributions, name of contributor and details about the contribution;
- 74 -



b) for land/asset acquisition against compensation, names of affected persons and details about the nature
and level of compensation.
Summarv Azreement                          Amount Compensation           Aureement reached
(i)    agric. land (m2)
(ii)    plots - area affected (m2)
or houses/structures
to be demolished (units/m2)
(iii)   trees or crops affected
(iv)   signatures of villagers,
chefe de suco
(v)    record of any complaints
raised by affected persons
(vi)    map attached
showing affected areas and
replacement areas
6 . The Posto and Suco facilitators shall provide a copy of the Minutes to affected persons and confirm
in discussions with each of them their requests and preferences for compensation, agreements reached, and
any eventual complaint. Copies will be recorded in the Posto project documentation and be available for
supervision.
Subproject Approval
7.  In the event that a subproject involves acquisition against compensation, the Posto Facilitator shall:
(a) not approve the subproject unless a satisfactory compensation has been agreed between the affected
person and the Conselho de Suco, as mentioned above;
(b) not allow works to start until the compensation has been completed satisfactorily to the affected
persons;
(c) in the highly unlikely event that more than 200 persons were affected and required compensation in a
village, a compensation plan has to be prepared, and approved by the national District Administration
Office, before the subproject can be approved.
- 75 -



Complaints and Grievances
8.   All complaints should first be negotiated to reach an agreement at the village level. If this falls,
complaints and grievances about these Guidelines, implementation of the agreements recorded in the
Village Minutes or any alleged irregularity, in carrying out the project can also be addressed by the affected
persons or their representative at the sub district level. If this also fails, the complaint may be submitted to
these for a decision.
Verification
9.   The Village Minutes and evidence of compensation -having been made shall be provided to the Posto
facilitator assisting the village, to supervising engineers, auditors and socioeconomic monitors when
undertaking reviews under the Project.
- 76-



Additional
Annex 13
Recommendations for Integrating Gender
Issue                   Recommendation                               TResponsibility
1. Project staff gender balance
Gender balance needed in  50% of the new facilitators should be women, and   PMU
the project team        30% of new recruits into other positions
Women applicants actively encouraged to fill any    PMU
new or short term positions.
Team leader and other staff need specific advice on  Team leader/trainer/TOT
gender aspects of the project.
2. Project staff working procedures
Responsibility for the  Each member of the team has a responsibility for   Team leader
gender aspects of the   ensuring the gender sensitivity of the project. This
project will lie too heavily  should be made clear in all terms of reference, and
on the female facilitators  the TORs of individuals need to detail the
responsibilities specific to their position
Equality of wages, and  The salaries of male and female staff in each
opportunity for promotion  position (facilitator, trainer or district technical staff
will be given to male and   and with similar education and experience  Team leader, (facilitator team
female facilitators,    backgrounds should be the same.               coordinators)
trainers, and district
technical staff.        Regular evaluations of performance and results  Team leader,
should be undertaken pay increases based on these.
The average salaries of the male and female staff
will be regularly monitored and the causes of
gender gaps should be identified and discussed
PMU/ Team Leader
When facilitators work in  Both male and female facilitators should have
mixed pairs the women    sufficient confidence and understanding of gender
may take secondary role   to be able to explain to others             Trainer, Facilitator team
coordinators
Mixed teams should be encouraged, and training
provided to male and female facilitators about
forming equal working relationships. However,
there should be an option for women to work
together in pairs if they feel strongly that they
would prefer to. Facilitators should be encouraged
to discuss this between themselves
There may be security   Security and the gender aspects of security should   Team leader, facilitator team
risks for both male and  be discussed openly and all efforts made to ensure   coordinators
female staff, in some   the safety of both the male and female project staff
places it is possible men
would, in fact, be more at
risk than women
- 77 -



Provisions for maternity    Maternity leave will be according to the laws in
leave are not clear        force at the current time.
PMU
Additional costs of providing maternity benefits
should be included in the social costs of the
contractor and contracts with consultants should
clarify the provisions
Team leader/ trainer
Additional staff need to be trained so that there are
reserves to stand in as required
3. Gender training
Gender training needs to    Recommendations for inclusions in the training    TOT, Training specialist,
be included in training    program are provided separately                    Trainers
courses for trainers,
facilitators, village
facilitators, electoral
committees, village and
sub-district councils, and
district technical staff
4. Information dissemination
Men and women receive    The communications strategist is responsible for
information through        determining the best ways for ensuring that women
different media or forums   at all levels receive the same information as the  Communications strategist
men using whatever media and language is          (training team)
appropriate, for example, posters, plays, radio,
leaflets
Regular rapid evaluations by facilitators should  Team leader, Facilitators,
identify the effectiveness of the materials used, and
also identify those that are not receiving
information in the villages so that new initiatives
can be introduced
5. Village and sub-district councils
The effectiveness of the   A special workshop for women sub-district council
women on the councils      members should be organized to discuss their       Team leader
may be limited for various  concerns and make recommendations.
reasons including their
limited education, gender   Gender should be included in the training for the    Training specialist
roles, and cultural norms.  councils
Team leader, facilitators
As the councils become active, facilitators need to
identify those in which women are most active and
bring women council members from other areas to
attend these council meetings
- 78 -



Literacy will not be one of  Discussions will continue with those preparing  World Bank
the criteria for eligibility to education projects regarding special literacy
the councils, however,   education packets for women in the villages. This
literate council members   will aim to i) increase the literacy of those already
are likely to take more  voted to councils, and ii) increase the literacy of
prominent and active     more village women so that there is a larger cadre
positions than those that   of village women from which to select village
are not literate. It is likely  council members who are able to be effective
that women council
members will be less
literate than the men and
therefore the men will be
more prominent.
6. Grant Cycle
Women's priorities should  Village facilitator training needs to include  Training specialist, facilitators
be given equal weight in   procedures to ensure that women views are actively
decision making          sought and effectively presented at the village
council meetings
Women need the           Women must know that they have the opportunity   Communications strategist
opportunity to earn wages  to participate if they want to
Team leader
Alternative working arrangements should be     Trainers facilitator team
included in the procedures and the manuals. These  coordinators/ facilitators to
should allow more flexibility to ensure women have  implement
equal opportunity to participate while still being
able to carry out their household and caring   Team leader t
responsibilities for example, using groups of women Facilitators to monitor
laborers instead of individuals, and paying piece
rate instead of daily rates
Wages must be paid only to the people that do the
work i.e. head of household cannot sign on behalf
of other members of the family
7. Proposal preparation and Selection
Both men and women       Communications strategy and materials must     s
must know their rights,    convey these messages.                       Communications strategist
and the importance of
women's participation    Facilitator and village facilitators must be trained   Training specialists, trainer
in the strategy and procedure
Participatory methods    Include in training                            Training specialist
needed to ensure that men
and women's different
needs are identified and
recognized
- 79 -



Women's groups may have Village facilitators must be trained to ensure that
less capacity to prepare    women's groups have sufficient assistance to  Training team, facilitators
and present proposals than prepare proposals.
men's                                                               Team leader to include in
Women's groups can choose someone to present the procedures
proposal on their behalf and this could be a man
8. Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation
Men and women must both Councils and communities should be encouraged to  Team leader/ communications
be included in the     include women among the activity managers for    strategist
management of           both infrastructure and economic activities
implementation
Women should be included Strategies for ensuring transparency must ensure
in the monitoring and   that women have easy access to the information and Communications strategist
evaluation of the project  that they understand their responsibilities for
monitoring the use of the funds
Training specialist
Participatory methods for monitoring at village
level
The positive impacts of   Monitoring procedures need to be developed to  Team leader
encouraging women's     monitor the impact of having more women in local
participation in local  govemance
govemance are merely
hypothetical at this stage
9. Cultural Heritage and Assets
Both women and men have Oral histories will be collected from both men and
suffered in the fight for    women. The suffering of women and children, as   NGO team
independence            well as that of men, need to be documented and
memorialized
Female role models are    Stories of past and present prominent East
needed to reassure both    Timorese women need to be researched and  NGO team
men and women that     recorded in stories, plays, or songs
women can be visible in
society, and be leaders,    Opportunities need to be created for today's
without destroying culture  prominent women to assist in increasing the
and traditions          capacity and effectiveness of the women in the local
councils
Many men have paid a    Further discussions to be held               World Bank
high price for
independence either
through years in the forest
in Fretilin, imprisonment,
torture, and recent loss of
homes and property. They
may feel they have earned
the right to control
- 80 -



The arts and crafts of both  Textiles will be a prominent part of the displays,
women and men should   there is also a proposal to open a restaurant
feature in the cultural  specializing in local food. The culture center is
center                  therefore a good opportunity for women's crafts to
receive attention
Men and women should be represented on the
board and there should be a gender balance among
the recipients of the grants
10. Widows and Vulnerable groups
There are many widows    The facilitators will start to collect information on
and other vulnerable    the vulnerable groups including widows once they
groups in communities   are in the field.                             Team Leader/ training specialist
that may not have access to
the main grant program.   Local NGO women will design the component once WB to prepare TOR for group
Some of these may be de   more information is available.
facto widows who are
wives of the militia and
great sensitivity will be
needed in the design of the
special program given the
social tensions that exist
- 81 -



Additional
Annex 14
"Exit Plan" and Future Options
The goal of the Community Empowerment and Local Governance project is to help Timorese
commnunities develop the organizational capacities to make bottom-up decisions about development
planning and management. Over time, the institutional and planning structures developed through the
project are expected to become sustainable through their incorporation into the regular budget and
administrative structures of post-transition Timor Loro Sae. However, there is no mandated link between
the project's completion and the full normalization of the CEP approach throughout the country's
administration. It is expected that many of the project management skills developed by people working
with CEP will be needed beyond the life of the project. The purpose of this note is to summarize the
strategic plan for handing over the project's management functions to the future independent government of
East Timor and the status of actions taken and progress achieved in this area during the first phase of the
project, from February to November 2000.
The primary focus of hand-over planning has been in the management and staffing arrangements
for CEP Component A, the Community Grants and Councils component. The terms of reference for service
delivery during the first phase of implementation of the Community Grants component, which was a
sole-source contract given to Community Aid Abroad/Oxfam as a follow-on to their sole-source technical
assistance contract from the Asian Development Bank to start-up project preparation, included the training
and development of two Timorese understudies for each international position. The initial six-month
contract (financed by the ADB) required a joint review (ADB, WB, CNRT, UNTAET) to assess their staff
development strategy before the contract is renewed, to determine how many of the international functions
could be turned over to their Timorese counterparts and on what date. Contract provisions reflected the
possibility that international services may be terminated ahead of schedule if Timorese counterparts were
adequately prepared, so that there would be no disincentives against handover.
As CEP was aeclared effective and the first phase of field implementation began in spring 2000, it
became clear that the lack of capacity and resources in UNTAET would severely constrain the ability of
the Grantee to fulfill its responsibilities to manage the project and staff the Project Management Unit with
adequate and appropriately skilled staff. As early as March 2000 the Bank and IJNTAET agreed that a
supplementary contract would be negotiated with CAA/Oxfam to undertake the duties of project
management, financial management, and disbursements until such time as UNTAET was able to assume its
role as PMU. These responsibilities as "interim PMU", in addition to the normal challenges of establishing
field operations and creating systems for the phase one grant activities, resulted in contract performance
that was more focused on operational achievements than on staff development and handover. However, the
operational results that CAA/Oxfam was able to deliver in the field were clearly supported by the effective
performance of many of the senior Timorese staff, and as the first phase of CEP continued, the increased
capacity of the Timorese staff being trained by CAA/Oxfam became more evident.
At the same time, the increased commitment after the June TFET donor's meeting in Lisbon on the
part of UNTAET to true Timorization of the transition and reconstruction process resulted in the
establishment of a new governmental structure, the East Timor Transitional Administration, or ETTA,
which included four Timorese ministers including one whose portfolio of Internal Administration includes
local government and CEP. This shift, and a correspondingly increased level of access to people and
resources from within UNTAET, allowed the full integration of the management and operations functions
- 82 -



of CEP into an overall PMU structure led by Timorese and supported by individual international
consultants as technical advisors. Arrangements for this new management structure were finalized in
November 2000, in preparation for the appraisal and negotiation of CEP2.
Project disbursements are under the supervision of a Project Chief Financial Officer, paired with a
Timorese deputy financial officer for training and eventual hand-over. Within the overall Project
Management Unit situated in UNTAET/ETTA, and under the supervision of the Project Chief Financial
Officer, the original project financial management action plan included a proposal to train 13 Timorese
financial officers. Their job will be to manage project disbursements and accounting in each of the
participating districts. The costs of training these staff will be absorbed by the project. It is expected that
other projects will also use these specialists. Gaining financial management experience across a range of
projects is a key step in readying district administrations for subsequent handover. By the end of the
project, all thirteen districts should have a fully functioning Timorese-run financial management system.
Although initial stages of the project allowed for procurement through an international agent
because of the massive disruptions in local marketing and distribution systems, procurement switched to
primarily local shopping as soon as goods began to appear on the market. International and national staff
hired as part of the Phase One service delivery contract with CAA provided constant monitoring of supplies
and prices for goods in Dili and in district markets, and of the availability and price of transport, and made
recommendations for solutions to bottlenecks and potential shortages. Over time, it was expected that
communities would increasingly manage their own procurement. Special forms and procedures to make
procurement understandable to villagers and easy to manage were built into the project's design, and those
forms have been revised and modified as the project progressed.
Other key components of the project were "handed over" from its very beginning. All of the
cultural heritage grants will be managed through an independent governance board made up predominantly
of Timorese and co-chaired by Nobel Laureates Belo and Horta. Similarly, the work to support the gender
program, which includes the special program for widows and other vulnerable groups, support to women
council members, and the oral history/social reconciliation program for victims of violence, is being
designed and managed entirely by Timorese from the outset.
Finally, it should be noted that the overall financial structure of the project reflects assumptions
about the amount of public funding that will be available to support the program after independence. Most
costs are front loaded" - that is, the startup costs are billed to the international trust fund. The recurrent
costs that will be picked up by the future Timorese goverrment are much less; initial estimates from the
CEP 1 appraisal mission were that these costs should not exceed $7 million annually to cover the entire
country with community grants on a sustainable basis, and during the first two months of CEP2 a revised
and updated estimate of costs and sustainability analysis will be undertaken.
There are several other areas where strategies are needed to accelerate handover. The most
important of these concerns the still undefined structure of district administration. From within the project,
representatives from the posto councils will participate in the reconmmended district development
committees; the new CEP2 sub-component providing district initiatives support grants to fund district-level
activities and planning efforts is meant to help strengthen the recent movement towards more concrete"
Timorization" at the district level, and the conditions of effectiveness built into that part of the Grant
Agreement ensure that those monies will not be made available until the necessary actions are taken at the
district level.
- 83 -



Additional
Annex 15
Guidelines for Mitigating Environmental Impacts of Sub-Projects
While no major environmental impacts are expected from CEP and minor environmental risks are
associated with most activities at the community level, the "open menu" structure of CEP does provide for
a wide range of potential projects to be selected by village councils, and thus the process of project
identification, verification, and proposal submission must include systems to screen out environmentally
damaging and inappropriate projects at the earliest possible point. The system of safeguards begins with
the negative list in the Grant Agreement, but many additional steps are built into CEP.
The first phase of CEP began with the disbursement of the first grant cycle, which was destined for
emergency reconstruction and thus was focused on rehabilitation of structures along with some minor
works such as repair to water systems. During CEP project appraisal in January 2000, concerns had been
expressed that the lack of available building materials (cement, support timbers, roofing and siding) in the
district and local markets would force communities to turn to local sources for materials to rebuild
structures, thus placing a heavy burden on an already-deforested island. However, by the time community
councils received the initial monies from their first grant cycle disbursements, local markets had recovered
enough to provide adequate supplies of cement and other imported building supplies; most CEP-funded
reconstruction projects used these supplies, thus providing substantial benefit for the remaining tree cover
by diverting pressure on local wood resources.
As the second phase of CEP drew near, the Project Management Unit began to put in place the resources
and systems necessary to adequately identify the potential environmental impacts of proposed sub-projects
and screen out those sub-projects with the potential for damage. A corps of specialist District Technical
Facilitators, trained by international consultants and equipped with manuals, checklists, and decision flow
charts, work with the Posto Facilitators to develop their skills in reviewing sub-project ideas and teaching
when to ask for more technically skilled advice. The Posto Facilitators, in turn assist villagers in assessing
their sub-project proposals - and the Posto Facilitators notify the Technical Facilitators when specialist
expertise is needed to review a proposal for environmental impact.
The checklists and manuals which assist Facilitators in reviewing the environmental impacts of
sub-projects are based on several rounds of specialist technical inputs from intemational engineers, drawing
upon the experience (and improving upon the systems) in similar community projects in the region
(including the Kecamatan Development Project in Indonesia). Aspects of interest in this process include
not only negative impacts on the physical and biological environment - deforestation; erosion; disturbed
habitat; health and safety hazards; contamination of land, water or air with hazardous substances - but also
impacts on the social environment, such as noise, disruption of historical or traditional land use practices,
and changes in land tenure. Less frequently found, but of equal importance, are the potential positive
impacts of sub-projects - community latrines and wells which improve public health and decrease the
spread of disease; support for purchase of non-wood building materials to relieve pressure on local forests;
building of fencing and erosion control planting; promotion of improved cookstoves to increase efficient use
of firewood.
- 84 -



MAP SECTION






IBRD 30626
2&                                                            I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A~~~~               L 27t
Hwotno       - -      Wehtr Island                Ln..
Banid a  S e a                                                                                                                            *
QLecf                                                                                    Polo, Ki-,6-Kin-
I N  D OMN E S  JI A                                                                                             zX    _n                                      ' ?Bique Strait to f Wetor                                 Wdk                                               AIdd
' _ ;    _  --   /      '/       ~ O F              ,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IN_ ,O _ 
~~~~~~~~ <-5            :- I                                                      ,r ^san    ,                                                                                                                                                 Q(       LGpoA() o h V K $ t l  ,
9   >   Lojoe                    '              ,9    y Parlr       ( Jaka                                                                                                                                                              'N F,fr >  :     ,'>JorJ,oar i        4     9 .f   aNe  ,
Island    island      o                                                                                         MPlrn -" eManatuto :~                                 *                                   Losp Nlos-
:                                                                                                                                                                    ohor .,g M4,or A_i                 *_
Liqvka        Cornoro '~ ,z   LokIod'                    to, e,o \,,YtSc  Vni  ooi,   ,    rukFi
L'                    oCo                                  / iCoi R,i  A                        T   S aR
X   I Ny DM   aoor                                                                                             O  S   oA$zf t     -         -DtttAAECNE
00  HoBIoIik\oM~~~~~o  CQ VA 0/AlA  ~~~~~-'9       CoTr-ooo
.. .Av                                              '\-m  ,rhgrrnn  tS       n           AI'E' '    .                      1
0  o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r                                                                                                                                  EAST  TIMOR.6.  V)
Sgng   a          D, y   u          ;    :         ii:::  5 <                                                        5 -Ei   |  \ \ r       o  rS                a                                                                               IlA E
.. ,J <_> bird : ,j: : j E '., :.2i i::, i i 2:- 2fg r ~~~~~~~~~~~~126                                                                                                                                   027t
9                                           2                                                                                                                                 ,,A-L20



