Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TRUST FUND FOR EAST TIMOR 
GRANT NUMBER TF 028376
Trust Fund for East Timor
Grant Agreement
(Second Community Empowerment and Local Governance Project)
between
 EAST TIMOR
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
acting as Trustee of the Trust Fund for East Timor
Dated  May 21, 2001
TRUST FUND FOR EAST TIMOR
GRANT NUMBER TF028376
TRUST FUND FOR EAST TIMOR GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 21, 2001, between EAST TIMOR, as administered by the UNITED 
NATIONS TRANSITIONAL ADMINISTRATION IN EAST TIMOR (the Recipient) and the 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Trustee) acting as trustee of the Trust 
Fund for East Timor.
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to Resolution No. 99-8 of the Executive Directors of the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and Resolution No. 
IDA99-5 of the Executive Directors of the Association, the Executive Directors 
established the Trust Fund for East Timor (TFET) to assist in the emergency 
reconstruction and recovery program in East Timor and appointed the Association as 
trustee of the TFET;
(B)
the United Nations Security Council, acting under Chapter VII of the 
Charter of the United Nations, adopted on October 25, 1999, Resolution 1272 (1999) 
establishing a United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor (UNTAET) for 
an initial period until January 31, 2001, whereas UNTAET has the objectives and a 
structure as set out in part IV of the Report of the Secretary-General dated October 
4, 1999, and whereas the mandate period for UNTAET was, pursuant to the United Nations 
Security Council Resolution 1338 (2001) of January 31, 2001, extended until January 
31, 2002; and
(C)
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
assistance from the resources of the TFET for funding the Project; and
WHEREAS the Trustee has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Page  2
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01 The "General Conditions Applicable to the Trust Fund for East Timor 
Grant Agreements" of the International Development Association, dated May 15, 2000 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Affected Person" means a person who, on account of the execution of 
Parts A.1,  A.2,  A.3,  A.6,  B  and  C  of  the  Project,  has  or  would  have  his  
or  her: (i) standard of living adversely affected; (ii) right, title or interest in 
any house, land (including premises, agricultural land and grazing land) or any other 
fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) 
business, occupation, work, or place of residence or habitat adversely affected;
(b)
"Borrower" and "Borrowers" means an individual or individuals, 
respectively, responsible for the carrying out of a Sub-project under Part A.2 and A.3 
of the Project;
(c)
"Community Radio Support Center" means the center to be established to 
provide technical services to community radio stations in East Timor and to provide 
training to staff of the District Reporter Stations;
(d)
"Conselho do Posto" means a development council at the sub-district level 
as established in accordance with Regulation 13/2000;
(e)
"Conselho do Suco" means a development council at the village level as 
established in accordance with Regulation 13/2000;
(f)
"Credit" means a credit made by the Conselho do Suco to a Borrower or 
Borrowers for a Sub-project under Part A.2 and A.3 of the Project out of funds made 
available by the Recipient out of the proceeds of the Grant;
(g)
"Community Radio Support Manual" means the annex to the Project Manual to 
assist in the implementation of Part C of the Project through the description of, 
inter alia, procurement procedures and standard documentation, reporting requirements, 
and criteria for training of District Reporter Stations staff, as such Manual may be 
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Trustee;
(h)
"Cultural Heritage Support Manual" means the annex to the Project Manual 
to assist in the implementation of Sub-projects under Part B.2 of the Project through 
the description of, inter alia, procurement procedures and standard documentation, 
reporting requirements, and criteria for the selection of Sub-projects, as such Manual 
may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Trustee;
(i)
"District Planning and Initiatives Manual" means the annex to the Project 
Manual, to assist District administration staff, Project staff and facilitators in the 
implementation of Sub-projects under Part A.6 of the Project through the description 
of, inter alia, procurement procedures and standard documentation, reporting 
requirements, and criteria for the selection of Sub-projects, as such Manual may be 
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Trustee;
(j)
"District Reporter Station" means a station established to produce local 
news to be broadcasted through Radio UNTAET’s national radio programs and to be 
broadcasted locally once the station has the appropriate capacity;
(k)
"Fiscal Year" means the Recipient’s fiscal year commencing July 1 and 
ending June 30;
(l)
"Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement" means the guidelines 
prepared by the Recipient, in agreement with the Trustee, for the provision of 
compensation to Affected Persons as set forth in paragraph 9 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement and in the Project Manual, and as such Guidelines may be amended from time 
Page  3
to time in agreement with the Trustee;
(m)
"Highly Vulnerable Groups" means groups, identified through on-site 
participatory rural appraisals, having special needs, and including widows, the 
elderly and the disabled;
(n)
"Highly Vulnerable Groups Support Manual" means the annex to the Project 
Manual to assist Project staff, the Conselho do Suco, and the Conselho do Posto in the 
implementation of Sub-projects under Part A.3 of the Project through the description, 
inter alia, of eligibility criteria, proposal preparation, decision-making and 
implementation procedures, as such Manual may be amended from time to time with the 
agreement of the Trustee; 
(o)
"National Performance and Culture Center" means the Uma Fukun Timor 
Loro’Sae in Dili;
(p)
"Project District" means a District selected by the Recipient for 
participation in the Project in accordance with the criteria set forth in paragraph 2 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(q)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(r)
"Project Management Unit" means the unit within the Department of 
Internal Administration responsible for the coordination of Project activities and for 
the implementation of the financial management action plan; 
(s)
"Project Manual" means the Project Manual dated October 2000, to assist 
the Project staff, the Conselho do Suco, the Conselho do Posto and Borrowers in the 
implementation of Sub-projects under Part A.1, A.2, A.3 and A.6 of the Project through 
the description of, inter alia, procurement procedures and standard documentation, 
reporting requirements, the Project Performance Indicators, Guidelines for 
Compensation and Resettlement, environmental criteria applicable to Sub-project 
design, maintenance provisions for works to be carried out under the Sub-project and 
criteria for the selection of Sub-projects; and includes as annexes the Community 
Radio Support Manual, the Cultural Heritage Support Manual, the District Planning and 
Initiatives Manual, and the Highly Vulnerable Groups Support Manual, as such Project 
Manual and its annexes may be amended from time to time in agreement with the Trustee;
(t)
"Project Performance Indicators" means those indicators designed to 
measure the Recipient’s performance in achieving Project objectives as set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(u)
"Project Sub-district" means a Sub-district selected by the Recipient for 
participation in the Project in accordance with the criteria set forth in paragraph 2 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(v)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(w)
"Sub-Grant" means a grant made available by the Recipient out of the 
proceeds of the Grant for a Sub-project under Parts A.1, A.3, A.6 and B.2 of the 
Project; and
(x)
"Sub-project" means a specific investment project carried out under Parts 
A.1, A.2, A.3, A.6 and B.2 of the Project and utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-Grant or 
a Credit. 
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. (a) The Trustee agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the Grant in an 
amount equal to eight million five hundred thousand Dollars ($8,500,000).
(b)
The Trustee shall not be obligated to make any payment under this 
Agreement except to the extent it shall have received funds for the purpose pursuant 
to the Resolutions referred to in Whereas (B) of this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement: (i) for 
Page  4
amounts paid (or, if the Trustee shall so agree, to be paid) by the Recipient on 
account of a Sub-Grant or a Credit made under Parts A.1, A.2, A.3, A.6 and B.2 of the 
Project to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services required for a Sub-project 
and in respect of which the withdrawal from the Grant Account is requested; and (ii) 
for expenditures made (or, if the Trustee shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for Parts A.4, A.5, B.1 and 
C of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
(b) 
The Recipient may, for purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank, acceptable to the Trustee, on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Trustee, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003, or such later date as 
the Trustee shall establish. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project through the Recipient’s Department of Internal Administration with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
agricultural, engineering, environmental, financial and social practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Trustee shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and for Sub-projects 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 8.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Trustee, and 
furnish to the Trustee not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Trustee, a plan 
to ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Trustee a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Conditions
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b) 
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Trustee;
(ii)
furnish to the Trustee as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
Page  5
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Trustee shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Trustee such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Trustee shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Trustee has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Trustee’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Trustee for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Recipient, not later than 
October 1, 2002, or such later date as the Trustee shall agree, to prepare quarterly 
Project management reports, acceptable to the Trustee, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant during the period covered by said report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant during the six-month period following the period covered 
by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii) sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Recipient shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Trustee, and furnish to the Trustee not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness, Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement:
(a)
that the Director, the Chief Finance Officer, and at least two additional 
Chief Officers of the Project Management Unit have been appointed;
Page  6
(b)
that the Manager of the cultural heritage component sub-unit and the 
Manager of the Community Radio Support Center sub-unit of the Project Management Unit 
have been appointed; and
(c)
that an independent auditor, acceptable to the Trustee, has been 
employed.
Section 5.02. If the Grant Agreement shall not have entered into effect ninety 
(90) days after the date of this Agreement, the Grant Agreement and all obligations of 
the parties thereunder shall terminate, unless the Trustee, after consideration of the 
reasons for the delay, shall establish a later date for the purposes of this Section. 
The Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Special Representative of the Secretary General, United 
Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor, is designated as representative of 
the Recipient for the purposes of Section 10.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor
Dili, East Timor
c/o Cabinet Officer for the Department of Internal Administration
P.O. Box 2436
Darwin, NT 0801, Australia
Facsimile:
61-889422198
61-889815157
1212-9632180
For the Trustee:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Dili, as of the day and year first above written.
UNITED NATIONS TRANSITIONAL ADMINISTRATION
   IN EAST TIMOR
By /s/ Sergio Vieira de Mello
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
   as Trustee for the Trust Fund in East Timor
Page  7
By /s/ Klaus Rohland
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
  Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Sub-Grants and Credits:
100% of Sub-
Grant amount and
(a) Part A.1 and A.2 of   3,730,000
100% of Credit
of the Project
amount disbursed
(b) Part A.3 of the 
    950,000
Project
(c) Part A.6 of the 
    240,000
Project
(d) Part B.2 of the 
    400,000
Project
(2)
Goods (including
    860,000
100% of foreign 
transportation) under 
expenditures, 100% of 
Parts A.5, B.1 and 
local expenditures
C of the Project
(ex-factory cost), and
90% of local expendi-
tures for other items
procured locally
(3)
Civil works under 
    800,000
100%
Parts B.1 and C of 
the Project
(4)
Incremental operating costs:
(a)
Auditing costs
     20,000
100%
(b)
Other
    100,000
100%
(5)
Consultants’
  1,400,000
100%
services and training
TOTAL
  8,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Recipient is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; 
and
(c)
the term "Other incremental operating costs" means expenditures for bank 
costs relating to the Special Account, operation and maintenance of Project vehicles, 
and expenditures for supplies, transportation and communication of Project staff, but 
excluding salaries.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made under the Grant in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement; (b) payments made for expenditures under Category (1) (b) 
Page  8
unless and until the Highly Vulnerable Groups Support Manual, acceptable to the 
Trustee, has been adopted; (c) payments made for expenditures under Category (1) (c) 
unless and until the action plan for the establishment of District planning boards and 
committees that includes representatives from each Conselho do Posto has been adopted, 
and the District Planning and Initiatives Manual, acceptable to the Trustee, has been 
adopted, and (d) payments made for expenditures under Category (1) (d) unless and 
until the Cultural Heritage Support Manual, acceptable to the Trustee, has been 
adopted.
4.
The Trustee may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) Sub-Grants and Credits; 
(b) goods and works costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (c) 
incremental operating costs; (d) training; and (e) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms valued at less than $50,000 equivalent each and contracts for the 
employment of individuals valued at less than $25,000 equivalent each all under such 
terms and conditions as the Trustee shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
5.
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the 
Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, refund to the 
Trustee for deposit into the Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so used or 
the portion thereof as specified by the Trustee.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Recipient in reducing poverty 
and supporting inclusive patterns of growth and development.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Trustee may agree upon from time to time to achieve 
such objectives.
Part A: Community Sub-Grants and Credits
1.
Carrying out of infrastructure investment projects in villages through the 
provision of Sub-grants to the relevant Conselho do Suco.
2.
Carrying out of income-generating investment projects in villages through the 
provision of Credits to Borrowers.
3.
Carrying out of income-generating investment projects and social welfare 
programs in villages through the provision of Sub-Grants and Credits to Highly 
Vulnerable Groups in such villages and the provision of technical assistance.
4.
Strengthening the capacity of villages, Conselho do Suco and Conselho do Posto 
in the planning and implementation of Sub-projects through the provision of technical 
assistance, training and information dissemination activities. 
5.
Strengthening District administration planning offices through the provision of 
training and information sharing activities that include Conselho do Posto members, 
and the provision of related equipment, materials and technical assistance.
6.
Carrying out of infrastructure investment projects and capacity building 
programs benefiting groups in more than one Sub-district through the provision of 
Sub-grants to District councils and District forums.
Part B: Cultural Heritage and Social Reconciliation
1.
Reconstruction of a national culture and performance center in Dili.
2.
Carrying out of cultural and social reconciliation Sub-projects in towns and 
villages through the provision of Sub-Grants to such towns and villages, to individual 
artists and artist groups, and the provision of technical assistance to village 
councils.
Part C: Community Reporter and Radio Stations and National Radio and Television
1.
Strengthening community communication and information through: (i) the provision 
of equipment for the establishment of District reporter stations, through a national 
broadcasting system, (ii) the provision of training in programming and ethics to 
Page  9
reporters, radio managers and technicians, (iii) the provision of equipment to 
communities for the establishment of community radio stations; and (iv) the provision 
of technical assistance to the Community Radio Support Center.
2.
Development of a strategy for television broadcasting through the carrying out 
of workshops and public consultation forums on national television.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Trustee in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:  International Competitive Bidding
Radio equipment under Part C of the Project shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:  Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Part, works shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $260,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Direct Contracting
Goods estimated to cost less than $2,500 equivalent per contract and which must 
be procured from a particular supplier due to the lack of alternative local suppliers, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
5.
Procurement of Small Works
Except as provided in paragraph 6 of this Section, works estimated to cost less 
than $25,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include 
a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Trustee, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
Page  10
6.
Community Participation
Works required for Parts A.1, A.2, A.3, A.6 and B.2 of the Project may be 
procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Trustee.
Part D:
Review by the Trustee of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project (other than Part A.1, A.2 and 
A.3 of the Project) shall be furnished to the Trustee for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Trustee, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, and the first contract in each District estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $10,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost less than the equivalent 
of $100,000, but more than the equivalent of $50,000, the following procedures shall 
apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier/execution of any contract 
under shopping procedures, the Recipient shall provide to the 
Trustee a report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations 
received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Recipient shall provide to the Trustee a copy of 
the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for auditing shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Page  11
Services under Parts A and B of the Project, which are estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Trustee's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services which are estimated to cost less than $75,000 equivalent per contract, 
may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Trustee of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Trustee for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services 
shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved 
by the Trustee, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Trustee for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Recipient shall maintain until the completion of the Project, the Project 
Management Unit responsible for the day-to-day management of the Project, headed by a 
qualified and experienced Director and with competent staff in adequate numbers, all 
with terms of reference, qualification and experience acceptable to the Trustee, and 
who shall be employed, except for the Director, in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.
The Recipient shall, for purposes of Parts A and B of the Project, select 
Project Sub-districts from Sub-districts where at least fifty percent or more of the 
population living in such Sub-district prior to August 1999, has remained in or has 
returned to such Sub-district.
3.
In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Recipient shall:
(a)
inform the District Administrator of each Project District of the 
appointment of  Sub-district facilitators, District technical facilitators, District 
monitors and District Project accountants for purposes of the Project by not later 
than April 30 in each year, commencing April 30, 2001, and until completion of the 
Project; and
(b)
issue to the Project Sub-districts and the Project Districts, by not 
later than April 30 in each year, commencing April 30, 2001, public information aimed 
at disclosing to villagers and their representatives as well as District Council 
members, all administrative, financial, environmental, procedural and technical 
aspects pertaining to the selection, design, preparation and implementation of 
Sub-projects; and make such information, including the Project Manual, freely 
Page  12
available for consultation at the Sub-district office and at the District office.
4.
In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Recipient shall cause Sub-projects in 
Project Sub-districts and Project Districts to be selected in accordance with criteria 
acceptable to the Trustee including the following:
(a)
each Sub-project proposed under Part A.1 of the Project shall be a public 
infrastructure investment project that is technically, financially and environmentally 
viable, and economically justified by the number of people benefiting from it;
(b)
each Sub-project proposed under Part A.2 of the Project shall be an 
income-generating investment project that is technically, financially and 
environmentally viable, and economically justified;
(c)
each Sub-project proposed under Part A.3 of the Project for Highly 
Vulnerable Groups shall be: (i) a project or an activity that is technically and 
economically justified; or (ii) an income-generating investment project that is 
technically, financially and environmentally viable, and economically justified;
(d)
each Sub-project proposed under Part A.6 of the Project shall be (i) a 
public infrastructure investment project that is technically, financially and 
environmentally viable, and economically justified by the number of people benefiting 
from it; or (ii) an activity that is technically and economically justified;
(e)
the estimated cost of the proposed Sub-project when added to the amount 
of Sub-Grants and Credits approved in the relevant Project Sub-district or Project 
District does not exceed the aggregate of:
(i)
$25,000 for Project Sub-Districts or Project District whose 
population is 5,000 or less;
(ii)
$50,000 for Project Sub-Districts or Project District whose 
population is 15,000 or less but more than 5,000;
(iii)
$75,000 for Project Sub-Districts or Project District whose 
population is 25,000 or less but more than 15,000; and
(iv)
$100,000 for Project Sub-Districts or Project District whose 
population is more than 25,000; and
(f)
no Sub-project shall: (i) include expenditures intended for a military or 
paramilitary purpose; (ii) relate to the manufacture or use of environmentally 
hazardous goods (including asbestos and pesticides), arms or drugs, (iii) include the 
financing of government salaries, (iv) include civil works for government 
administration or religious purposes, (v) include civil works on buildings where 
ownership is disputed or unknown; (vi) include renting of buildings where ownership is 
disputed or unknown, or (vii) include land acquisition.
5.
In carrying out Part A of the Project the Recipient shall ensure that, prior to 
the carrying out of works under a Sub-project, the District technical facilitator has 
made available to communities or Conselhos technical assistance to complete a 
technical review of such Sub-project and shall have confirmed the following:
(a)
the criteria described in paragraph 4 of this Schedule have been complied 
with;
(b)
necessary funding to fully finance the proposed Sub-project has been 
obtained, including a Sub-Grant or Credit and any voluntary contributions to be made 
by villagers;
(c)
appropriate engineering and environmental standards and practices that 
would minimize any acquisition of land and avoid involuntary resettlement of Affected 
Persons have been considered in the design of the Sub-project in accordance with the 
Project Manual;
(d)
the Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement have been complied with, 
and, if applicable, appropriate compensation arrangements have been completed and are 
satisfactory to the Affected Persons as set forth under the Guidelines for 
Compensation and Resettlement and paragraph 9 of this Schedule;
(e)
a Sub-project agreement has been entered into and an implementation plan 
for the Sub-project has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Page  13
Manual; and
(f)
a maintenance program for the works to be carried out under the 
Sub-project has been prepared in accordance with terms acceptable to the Trustee and 
has been included in the Sub-project agreement, which shall include assignment of 
maintenance responsibilities in the respective village, the preparation of training 
programs to strengthen the maintenance capabilities of the village, and the 
identification of available sources of financing to carry out such programs.
6.
In carrying out Part A.2 and A.3 of the Project, the Recipient shall cause the 
Project Management Unit to ensure that:
(a)
Credits are made on terms and conditions agreed with the Trustee and set 
forth in the Project Manual; 
(b)
a revolving fund is established and maintained by the Conselho do Suco in 
the Project Sub-districts in accordance with procedures agreed with the Trustee and 
set forth in the Project Manual; and 
(c)
Credits are repaid into the respective Conselho do Suco account 
established for such revolving funds in the respective Conselho do Posto.
7.
In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Recipient shall, through the Project 
Management Unit:
(a)
cause each Conselho do Suco, each District Council and Borrowers to carry 
out the Sub-projects, selected in accordance with paragraph 4 of this Schedule, in 
accordance with the Project Manual and the respective Sub-project agreements;
(b)
ensure that, until completion of the Project, the Project Manual is made 
available to the Sub-district and District facilitators as well as District Technical 
Facilitators and applied in the carrying out of Sub-projects; and
(c)
periodically update the Project Manual, if needed, with the prior 
agreement of the Trustee.
8.
In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Recipient shall cause the Project 
Management Unit to ensure that:
(a)
each Sub-project is reviewed by the Sub-district Facilitator, District 
Monitor, or District Technical Facilitator upon completion and that a certificate of 
Sub-project completion shall be issued by the District Technical Facilitator upon a 
finding of satisfactory Sub-project completion in accordance with the Project Manual 
and approved designs; and
(b)
if there is a finding of unsatisfactory completion of a Sub-project, 
except for cases of force majeure under Credits, the Conselho do Posto shall recover 
the amounts disbursed under the respective Sub-Grant or Credit.
9.
In carrying out the Project, the Recipient shall:
(a)
take measures to avoid or minimize the acquisition of land or assets of 
villagers and to avoid the displacement of said villagers;
(b)
where the acquisition of land or assets or the displacement of villagers 
is unavoidable under a proposed Sub-project, ensure that the village shall, before 
carrying out the works which would result in such acquisition or displacement, make 
available to such villagers, compensation in accordance with the Guidelines for 
Compensation and Resettlement; and
(c)
in the event that two hundred or more villagers are adversely affected by 
a Sub-project:
(i)
prepare a resettlement plan in accordance with the Guidelines for 
Compensation and Resettlement and furnish such plan to the Trustee 
for approval; and
(ii)
prior to the carrying out of the Sub-project, ensure that all 
Affected Persons shall have been compensated in accordance with 
the provisions of said plan.
Page  14
10.
The Recipient shall, for purposes of Part C of the Project:
(a)
establish and, thereafter, maintain until the completion of the Project, 
a Community Radio Support Center, with competent staff in adequate numbers, including 
a Manager, all with terms of reference, qualifications and experience acceptable to 
the Trustee, and who shall be employed in accordance with the provisions of Section II 
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; such Center to be the Project Management Sub-unit for 
purposes of Part C of the Project; and
(b)
not later than April 30, 2001, issue a Community Radio Support Manual, 
acceptable to the Trustee. 
11.
The Recipient shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
5 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Trustee, and 
furnish to the Trustee, on or about June 30, 2002, a report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Trustee, by September 30, 2002, or such later date as the 
Trustee shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Trustee’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Project Performance Indicators 
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Trustee has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Trustee a request or requests for deposit into the  Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Trustee shall, on behalf of 
the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee requests for deposits into the Special 
Page  15
Account at such intervals as the Trustee shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Trustee 
from the Grant Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Trustee shall reasonably request, furnish to the Trustee 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Trustee 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Trustee, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Trustee pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Trustee pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Trustee shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Trustee shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Trustee, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee: 
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Trustee may request; or (B) deposit into 
the  Special Account (or, if the Trustee shall so request, refund to the Trustee) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Trustee shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Trustee 
into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence 
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, 
refund to the Trustee such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Trustee, refund to the Trustee all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
Page  16
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
