Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15112-RU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
ENTERPRISE HOUSING DIVESTITURE PROJECT
APRIL 17, 1996
Country Operations Division II
Country Department III
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =  Ruble
I ruble   =  100 kopecks
MARKET EXCHANGE RATES
Ruble per US$1
Period Average End of Period
1993                      1,018           1,247
1994                      2,212           3,550
1995                      4,566           4,640
1996 (as of 31 March)     4,764           4,856
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
Metric System                               US System
I meter (m)                                  3.2808 feet
I kilometer (km)            =               0.6214 mile
I square meter (m2)         =                1.196 square yards
I metric ton (ton)          =                1,102 short tons
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS    -   Country Assistance Strategy                                 LS      - Local Shopping
CPIU    -   Central Project Implementation Unit                        MEPNR  - Ministry of Environmental
CPPR   -   Country Portfolio Performance Review                                   Protection and Natural Resources
CRP    -   Community Related Procurement                               NCB    - National Competitive Bidding
DC      -   Direct Contracting                                         NGO    - Non-Governmental Organization
DSCR   -   Debt Service Coverage Ratio                                 NPV     - Net Present Value
EFF     -   Extended Fund Facility                                     NS      - National Shopping
EG      -   Engineering Group                                          OECD   - Organization for European
EHDP   -   Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project                                 Cooperation and Development
EIA     -   Environmental Impact Assessment                            O&M    - Operation and Maintenance
EMP    -   Environmental Mitigation Plan                               PEG     - Procurement and Engineering Group
ERR     -   Economic Rate of Return                                    PIP     - Project Implementation Plan
ESMAP  -   Energy Sector Management Assistance Program                 PPF     - Project Preparation Facility
FEDS   -   Facility Energy Decision System                             RESF   - Russian Energy Savings Fund
FRR     -   Financial Rate of Return                                   RLMS   - Russian Longitudinal Monitoring
FSU     -   Former Soviet Union                                                   Household Survey
GC      -   General Contractor                                         SA      - Special Account
GDP    -   Gross Domestic Product                                      SOE     - Statement of Expenditures
GKI    -   State Committee for the Management of State Property        SWIFT  - System of Worldwide International
GOR    -   Government of Russia                                                   Fund Transfer
HDD    -   Heating Degree Days                                         TA       - Technical Assistance
IBRD    -   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development      TAG    - Technology Advisory Group
ICB     -   International Competitive Bidding                          TETs   - Combined heat and electricity
IDA     -   International Development Agency                                      plants
IEN     -   Industry and Energy Department, World Bank                 TOR    - Terms of Reference
IEPS    -   Initial Executive Project Summary                          USAID -   US Agency for International
ILO     -   Internatioal Labor Organization                                       Development
IRR     -   Internal Rate of Return                                    VAT    - Value Added Tax
IS      -   International Shopping                                     WHO    - World Health Organization
LIG     -   Local Implementation Group                                 ZHEO   - Housing maintenance organization
LRMC   -   Long Run Marginal Cost
RUSSIA - FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
ENTERPRI   HOUSING DVESInTURE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY   . .......................................... i
CHAPTER I.   INTRODUCTION   . .......................................... I
A.      Economic and Sectoral Background ............................... 1
B.      Government's Reform Strategy ................................. 2
C.      Bank's Assistance Strategy .................................... 3
D.      Lessons from Experience ..................................... 4
CHAPTER II.   PROJECT OBJECTrVES .......................................  7
CHAPTER III. PROJECT DESCRIPTION.                                                                      9
A. Project Concept Summary.                                                                    9
B.      Link Between Divestiture, Policy Reforns and Investments.                              9
C. Project Components .10
D. Building Selection .13
E.  Onlending and Repayment of Bank Funds .14
F. Project Cost .15
G.  Project Financing . ................................. 17
CHAPTER IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  . ..................................  19
A.      Project Organization  .......................................  19
B.      Implementation Process and Schedule  ............................ 22
C.   Procurement ............................................. 24
D.  Disbursement ........................................ 29
E.      Project Monitoring and Supervision  .........           .................... 32
The report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission (October 1995) conducted by a core team consisting of Dennis
Whittle (ask Manager), Mari Kurishi .(Dputy Tas  Manaer), and Lev Freinkman (EC3C2), along with Irina
Starodubrovskays (EC3MO).  Eric Mmnnot an Prank Kenefilk (conutan) worked closely wit the core team. The
report builds on Inputs from the Russian Oovernmnt team, l¢d iwby.vl  Nsaullina, with contibutons from Oleg Komarov,
Alexander Bim, Valeri Bondarenko, Gulina Ghlkhova and1Jfna Nikoleva. Project preparation work was partly financed
by grants from the US Trade and Development Agency, USAID, the PHRD find of the Government of Japan, and the
Governments of Switzerland and Finland. Consultas wo worked on project preparation included Ray Struyk (head of
the Urban Institute Moscow office), Steve Butler, Andrei To iatko, Alla Guzanova, Nasha Kalnina, Sarai Brachman,
Bob Richardson, and Suzy Yoon. Marc Blanc and Coitgs:Micalpulo (EC3DR), and Marcelo Selowaky, Claude BIanchi,
and Yvonne Jones (ECAVP) provided policy -n operatonl gudance. Substantial additional ipUtS were made by Herman
van der Tak (consultant), Charles Blitzer and Richard Podolak (BCMO), Gay Stuggins, Peggy Wishon Adrienne Nassau,
Nil Sarkar, and Pentti Aro (EC31V), Anke Meyer and Doug Barnes (IENPD), Eugen Finkel (EMTEN), and Ruben Laindany.
Peer reviewers were Kevin Young (CFSPS), Harold Wackma (EMTX), ad Bertrand Renaud (PSD). Michelle Mancesidor
(EC3C2) was in charge of desktop publishing the report, and sbe and Natasha Veligura (EC3MO) provided critical
operational support during all phases ofpreparation and a1otlu. AJlia Kokorina and Marina Podkina provided support from
the project implemenation unit in Moscow. Pradeep Min is die Division Chief, and the Deparument Director is Yukon
Huana.



CHAPTER V.   BENEFITS AND RISKS ....................................... 37
A.     Project Benefits .       ......................................... 37
B.     Stakeholder Analysis, Sensitivity Analysis, and Risk Mitigation ....       ........ 44
C.     Sustainability ............................................ 50
D.     Poverty Impact  .        ......................................... 50
E.     Environmental Benefits  ..................................... 51
CHAPTER VI.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ........................... 53
ANNEXES
A.  Detailed Project Cost Estimates
B.  Project Implementation Schedule
C.  Estimated Disbursement Schedule
D.  Technical Analysis, Design, Assumptions and Inputs for Retrofit Measures
E.  Potential Retrofits to be Financed
F.  Financial, Economic, and Sensitivity Analyses of Building Retrofit Investments
G.  Financial Impact on Cities and Creditworthiness
H.  Cost Recovery and Housing Allowances
I.   Stakeholder Analysis
J.   Policy Implementation Support
K.  Environmental Risk Mitigation Plan
M.  Supervision Plan
N.  Procurement Information
0.  Project Organization
P.  City Selection Procedure
Q.  Energy Regulation and Policy in Russia
R.  Affordability and Cost Recovery for Households
S.  Net Benefits and Costs to Enterprises, Cities, and Households
T.  Policy and Institutional Reform Targets: Year 1
U.  Selected Documents Available in the Project File
MAP            IBRD No. 27-409 (following annexes)
TABLES
Table 3-1. Estimated Project Costs
Table 3-2. Financing Source by Component
Table 3-3. Tentative Loan Allocation per City
Table 4-1. Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
Table 4-2. Estimated Loan Disbursement Schedule
Table 4-3. Estimated Disbursements
Table 4-4. Policy Level Indicators
Table 4-5. Performance Indicators
Table 5-1. Overview of Project Benefits and Costs
Table 5-2. Annual Benefits/Costs per Apartment in Year 6
Table 5-3. Classification of Stakeholders According to Relative Influence and Importance to the
Project



FIGURES
Figure 3-1. EHDP Project Overview
Figure 3-2. Flow of Donor Funds Under the Project
Figure 3-3. Repayment of Bank Funds
Figure 4-1. Central Project Implementation Unit, TAG and PEG
Figure 5-1. Risk Analysis and Mitigation
BOXES
2-1. Some Project Objectives Already Achieved
3-1. Experimental Design Work in Ryazan
5-1. EHDP Demonstration Effects
5-2. Household Survey Results in Vladimir and Volkhov
5-3. Project Alternatives Examined






RUSSIAN FEDERATION
ENTERPRISE HOUSING DIVESTITURE PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              Russian Federation
Beneficiaries:         Enterprises, cities, and households of Ryazan, Vladimir, Petrozavodsk,
Volkhov, Novocherkassk, Orenburg.
Poverty Category:      Program of targeted interventions.
Amount:                US$300 million
Terms:                 Payable in fifteen years, including six years of grace at the standard
interest rate for LIBOR-based U.S. dollar single currency loan.
Commitment Fee:        0.75 % on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after signing,
less any waiver.
Onlending Terms:        Funds will be onlent by Ministry of Finance to cities with fourteen years'
maturity and six years' grace. Funds onlent would carry an interest rate
equal to the Bank's lending rate plus premium of no more than 250 basis
points.
Financing Plan:        See para. 3.26
Economic Rate of Return: 40 percent with respect to the direct savings from the energy efficiency
retrofits alone, which account for about 70 percent of project costs. These
retrofits are leveraging substantial policy and institutional reforms that
have extremely high-though not precisely quantifiable-returns.
Staff Appraisal Report:   15112-RU
Map:                   IBRD 27-409
Project ID Number:     RU-PA-36973
i






RUSSIAN FEDERATION
ENTERPRISE HOUSING DIVESTITURE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
A. ECONOMIC AND SECTORAL BACKGROUND
1.1           As of 1992, the enterprise sector was responsible for operating 40 percent of the urban
housing stock in Russia, with a slightly smaller proportion operated by city governments and about 20
percent operated by private owners and cooperatives. Most families live in multi-story apartment
buildings. A key feature of the Soviet era was very low rents and utility charges resulting in low cost
recovery in the housing sector, which fell even further during the inflation of the early 1990s. Following
the initiation of reforms, enterprises were expected to become self-financing entities while at the same
time shouldering the financial and administrative burdens of their housing stock. Most enterprises
operated special housing maintenance (and sometimes utility) units to service their housing. During the
mass privatization program of 1992-94, ownership of the enterprise housing stock was assigned to
municipal governments as enterprises themselves were privatized.' Despite the transfer of ownership,
many enterprises remain responsible for financing and managing their former housing stock pending
divestiture of these responsibilities to local authorities. (Families have the option of privatizing their
individual units at a nominal fee, but unit privatization does not change the role of the enterprise in
financing and managing the apartment building or in providing maintenance and utilities.) Although a
presidential decree stipulates that local authorities must take over the enterprise housing stock, the process
itself must be negotiated between individual enterprises and cities, leading to considerable delays and
regional variation in the divestiture process.
1.2           As privatized enterprises begin to adapt to the demands of a market economy, they must
be able to shed their financial and managerial responsibility for housing so that they can focus on their
core business activities. Enterprises also have little incentive to spend money and other resources on their
housing stock since they do not own it, nor do their employees occupy on average more than half (and
sometimes 20 percent or less) of the apartments. This lack of incentive is reflected in the deteriorating
condition of the housing stock due to deferred maintenance and lack of capital repair. Although in the
short term, divestiture will yield only modest net financial gains to the enterprise sector as a whole
(because of an offsetting loss of tax credits and deductions), enterprises with large housing stocks will
benefit substantially. In addition, as housing costs rise over the medium term due to reforms in utility
pricing,2 and as enterprise taxation is rationalized, the costs of continuing to provide housing will be a
heavy financial burden for all enterprises unless divestiture proceeds expeditiously. Divestiture will also
yield important gains on the management side. Enterprises often have up to ten percent of their labor
force (sometimes hundreds of employees) involved in maintaining their housing stock, and according to
1/     Many non-privatized enterprises are also attempting to divest their housing, although local governments are not required
by law to accept it.
2/     Utility costs constitute over two-thirds of housing costs.



2                                             Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
a recent survey, senior managers devote up to a fifth of their time to housing matters, including
responding to tenants' complaints and negotiating a maze of political, financial, fiscal and legal issues in
search of adequate resources for maintaining the housing stock.
1.3            Local governments are reluctant to take over the enterprise housing stock. Cities already
spend an average of one-quarter of their budgets on maintaining the municipal housing stock, and they
fear this would go higher. Because of current enterprise taxation rules, the net financial cost of
divestiture to city budgets for operating costs will be relatively modest in the short term (an average of
3-5 percent of current expenditures3), but with reforms to energy pricing and taxation over the medium
term, the financial burden for cities could grow  substantially.   As with enterprises, the housing
management burden will also prove extremely difficult for cities to shoulder. Municipal housing
maintenance units are in general poorly managed and fail to make efficient use of even the limited
resources available for maintaining the municipal housing stock, and local authorities are reluctant to
further overburden a poorly functioning system.4 In addition, much of the housing stock-both municipal
and enterprise-is in need of serious capital repair, and local authorities fear that responsibility for this
repair may fall on them in the absence of a private market for financing housing rehabilitation.
B. GOVERNmENT'S REFORM STRATEGY
1.4            Divestiture is a second-generation issue for the enterprise and housing reform programs
in Russia. At the beginning of the transition, the Government focused largely on clarification of
ownership rights in both areas. In the enterprise sector, this was done through the mass privatization
program, which transferred 80,000 medium and large firms to private hands. The emphasis has now
shifted to promoting post-privatization restructuring, by ensuring appropriate corporate governance and
financial discipline, developing the banking and securities markets, and upgrading managerial and
financial skills. For firms that operate many social assets, divestiture is considered critical to becoming
competitive in a world market economy. Russian firms increasingly are looking to alliances with foreign
firms as part of the restructuring process, but foreign firms are reluctant to invest in Russian enterprises
with substantial financial and/or managerial liabilities for providing housing and social services.
1.5            In the housing sector, the Government's initial focus was on unit privatization, with
tenants obtaining title to about a third of the housing stock previously owned by the government or
enterprises.5   Privatization remains a priority, but the Government recognizes that the privatization
process cannot be simply mandated but must instead be accompanied by broader reforms and institutional
change. Full privatization is impeded by the extremely poor shape of the housing stock and by the long
process required to develop joint tenant management of large buildings though condominium associations.
Deeper sectoral reforms are also required since the housing sector is a major macroeconomic issue
affecting labor mobility, employment generation, capital formation, and financial and fiscal stability. The
federal Government has now put in place a comprehensive framework of reform, but implementing the
3/     However, the burden will be much higher in some situations, especially in single-enterprise towns where the enterprises
operates virtually all of the housing stock.
4/      More detailed background on housing divestiture can be found in the Initial Executive Project Summary (IEPS) and
Concept Paper.
S/      Note that when combined with the 20 percent of housing in private hands before 1992, this means that about half of
the housing stock in Russia is now privately owned.



Chapter 1. Introduction                                                                          3
necessary measures is a local government responsibility. Among the key initiatives required at the local
level are: increased cost recovery, combined with targeted assistance for vulnerable households; further
unit privatization and clarification of property rights (including of condominium associations); developing
competitive housing maintenance markets; and decreasing energy consumption of the housing stock.
1.6           With respect to housing divestiture,6 the Government has attempted to mandate this
process-without much success-since the 1950s. In many cases in the past, local authorities accepted
responsibility for enterprise housing only to find that they could not manage it and therefore had to return
it to enterprise management. Most recently, Presidential Decree number 235 (1994) reiterated that
housing previously assigned to enterprises must be divested to local authorities upon privatization of the
enterprise. At the end of 1993, the Ministry of Finance agreed to take the costs of accepting divested
social assets into account when determining federal-regional transfers, but an accurate method of
calculating such costs was never determined, and fiscal pressures prevented the federal Government from
meeting the requests submitted by local authorities.7 Local governments have thus generally impeded the
divestiture process, often demanding that the enterprise housing be completely upgraded, at tremendous
cost, prior to divestiture. Consequently, some 20 percent of the nation's housing stock continues to be
financed, maintained, and operated by enterprises.
1.7            The Government is now realizing that decrees mandating divestiture, with or without
temporary fiscal compensation to local governments, will not result in a successful or sustainable
divestiture of the housing stock. Divestiture will not be feasible unless it is accompanied by fundamental
reforms in the way the divested housing is managed and financed. In particular, this means shifting
responsibility for ownership, management, and financing to the private sector and breaking the mentality
that housing is a public good to be provided almost free of charge. This shift cannot occur overnight,
and the public sector will retain an important role during the transition, but it is vital not only to the
divestiture process but also to improving the quality of housing in Russia over the longer term. As
energy prices are liberalized, the affordability of housing services will also depend on the adoption of
widespread but relatively low-cost measures to decrease the energy consumption of the housing stock.
The strategy of the federal Government is to work with progressive city authorities to support the policy
and institutional changes, as well as investrnents, required at the local level. Divestiture of housing from
enterprises to local governments is thus only a transitional step toward the eventual goal of a private
housing sector.
C. BANK'S AsSISANcE STRATEGY
1.8            The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) was discussed by the Board on June 6, 1995; a
CAS Progress Report was discussed with the Board on March 28, 1996. Since the last CAS, the Bank
has continued to operate under an Intermnediate Case scenario, which remains broadly appropriate in the
current environment. This scenario assumes that there will be continued progress in macroeconomic
stabilization, as evidenced by the recent agreement with the IMF on an Extended Fund Facility (EFF)
program. In this situation, the Bank would aim to provide around $1.2-1.5 billion annually in investment
6/     IThe term 'divestiture' simply refers to the shedding by enterprises of responsibility for maintenance and operation.
7/     In any event, the allocation of compensation for divestiture seems largely to be driven by political rather than objective
criteria, and the funds are actually provided to oblast governments, which are not under any obligation to pass them down to
the municipal level.



4                                        Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
lending, including a "core" program of relatively straightforward projects in infrastructure and the social
sectors. In addition, the Bank would be willing to provide up to $1.5 billion annually in relatively fast-
disbursing assistance if substantial progress was achieved on key structural reforms in specific areas of
the economy, such as agriculture and the social sectors, that are critical to the long-term sustainability
of the stabilization process. Over the past year, the Bank has been working with the Government, both
within the framework of the EFF negotiations and in separate discussions, to develop a consensus on
specific programs of structural reforms that would allow these latter operations to move forward. In the
meantime, the Bank has continued to prepare 6-7 priority investment projects as the basis for a sustained
program of Bank support for the Russian economy over the medium term.
1.9           The proposed Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project is fully consistent with the CAS
described above and has been developed in close collaboration with the Government. In particular, the
operation will contribute directly to meeting the Bank's key objective of supporting the development of
a market-oriented economy based on private-sector initiatives. It will do this by helping to demonstrate
the viability of the Government's strategy to help enterprises divest their social assets, which will in turn
facilitate enterprise restructuring. The Project will also contribute to a number of other CAS objectives,
by helping to push the ownership, financing, and management of the housing stock increasingly into
private hands. At the same time, the Project will support the implementation of a housing allowance
system to protect vulnerable households as housing costs rise. The policy framework agreed with the
Government under this Project will help maintain social services and infrastructure while improving the
efficiency of local budget expenditures. Finally, the Project will support the CAS objective of improving
energy efficiency, especially in district heating.
D. LESSONS FROM EXPERiENCE
1.10          Lessons can be gleaned from experience in Russia as well as experience with related
projects in other countries.  Lessons identified early in the Bank's work with Russian include the
importance of identifying and coordinating counterparts; defining appropriate responsibilities for different
levels of government; avoiding complexity in design; and including local consultants and institutes in
project work. The Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR) held in Moscow in February 1996
concluded that a number of areas needed special emphasis to ensure satisfactory project implementation.
Onlending arrangements need to be discussed early in the project cycle and formally reviewed during
appraisal on the basis of detailed cash flow analysis. Project preparation units need to be established as
soon as the Government and Bank have agreed to include a project in the lending program. Budgeting
for taxes by non-revenue-earning entities is needed, to avoid delays in payments to contractors and
suppliers. Procurement monitoring and documentation systems need to be implemented early, and special
attention needs to be given to facilitating participation by local firms. Solid accounting and auditing
capacity is also critical.
1.11         The main lessons from reviews of Bank housing projects world-wide are that more
emphasis should be placed on policy and institutional reforms, and that the direct role of the government
in housing production should be limited. Experience with housing projects in other economies in
transition indicates the necessity to avoid overly optimistic implementation schedules, the importance of
building strong local project units to mobilize new reform constituencies, and the need of the Bank to take
a strong role in project preparation in countries unaccustomed to market mechanisms and Bank
procedures. A project involving housing divestiture in China shows that in the overall approach,
divestiture must be crafted taking into careful account the pace of supporting reforms in other sectors.



Chapter 1. introducdon                                                                       5
Projects involving energy-saving building retrofits in Poland, East Germany, and Estonia have shown the
importance of careful design to ensure that building-level savings are translated into financial savings at
the city level.
1.12          The project team has incorporated these lessons in a number of ways. The project's
design has evolved from intensive interaction with government officials from the Ministries of Economy
and Construction, and with the Government's Working Group on Social Asset Divestiture. In addition,
the team has consulted closely with the Ministry of Finance and GKI. The number of project components
has been strictly limited to make implementation and supervision less problematic. Project preparation
is relying heavily on local expertise, both individual consultants and NGOs such as the Russian Center
for Energy Efficiency. With respect to the lessons learned from the CPPR process, extensive cash flow
analysis was undertaken in connection with discussions with the Ministry of Finance and participating
cities concerning the onlending agreements, and these agreements should be ready for signature shortly
following Board presentation. Oblast authorities have also indicated their willingness to guarantee the
sub-loans. An informal project preparation unit, financed through bilateral grants and a PPF, has been
in place for over a year, and over half of the staff is already now in place and has received training in
their respective areas of responsibility, including procurement, disbursement, and accounting. The
remainder of the staff will be hired at loan effectiveness. The preparation team has calculated the
required budgetary allocations by the participating cities for taxes and duties, and the cities have agreed
to allocate the required amounts. A wide range of implementation issues have been discussed with
officials of the participating cities in a series of seminars (including during negotiations) and site visits
held over the past several months. Procurement issues were explored in detail at two trade association
meetings held in Moscow, and additional seminars have been held to assist local suppliers to understand
Bank procurement procedures.
1.13          With respect to lessons learned from other housing and energy efficiency projects world
wide, the project has been carefully designed to accelerate the policy and institutional reforms required
to move direct provision of housing services away from the public sector and into the private sector.
Tenant surveys and meetings have been held to ensure that residents' concerns are properly addressed,
and extensive stakeholder analysis was undertaken to understand the incentives and interests of various
other agents, such as utilities and city housing departments. The project design includes publicity and
outreach efforts designed to mobilize the support of various stakeholders for project reforms and
investments. Much attention has been paid to analyzing the pace of supporting reforms, especially in the
areas of property rights, taxation, and energy policy and utility regulation. PPF and grant funding from
bilateral sources has been used for extensive design work to ensure that energy efficiency retrofits to be
supported are evaluated in the context of the overall district heating and other utility systems.






II. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.1          The primary objective of the project is to accelerate and make sustainable the divestiture
of enterprise housing. This will help enterprises focus their limited financial and managerial resources
on restructuring core business activities to meet the challenges of an open-market economy. To ensure
that divestiture is feasible for cities in the short term and sustainable over time, the project will support
reforms that push the ownership, financing, and management of the housing stock into the private sector,
which is an integral aspect of the economic transition occurring in Russia. Secondary objectives of the
project include a wider range of reforms as follows:
*     Housing privatization, including condominium creation-so that enterprise housing divestiture
does not lead to massive increases in the volume of public housing
*     Cost recovery of housing maintenance and utility fees from tenants-to make the process of
divestiture more affordable for cities and rationalize the flow of funds in the housing sector
*      Targeted housing allowances-to protect vulnerable groups in the context of increased cost
recovery
*     Competitive bidding maintenance of housing-to rationalize and increase private sector
participation in the provision of services in the housing sector
*     Improved energy efficiency in divested housing-to reduce the costs of maintaining housing, and
make the divestiture process affordable for both cities and households
2.2           All of these policy objectives under the Project are essential to accelerate the divestiture
process and make it sustainable; in addition, these objectives can be measured, in some cases
quantitatively. The indicators by which the achievement of both policy and project objectives will be
measured are detailed in Chapter IV. Some of these objectives have already been met in the course of
project preparation (Box 2-1).
2.3           Finally, the project is conceived as a demonstration project. An explicit objective of the
project is to demonstrate that a mix of policy measures and investments can accelerate and make
sustainable the process of divesting housing from enterprises. The demonstration effect of this project
will be achieved if: (a) divestiture in the project cities is completed rapidly; (b) the rate of other policy
reforms in the project cities outpaces the rate of reforms nationwide; and (c) housing affordability in
project cities is increased.



Xt                  Xi'i
§fltX|W0000000il:tiX:X  l:~~~~~~~~0
g ,     r  a a    it    g,  
;Er0ii   t0ii:t:  .  .:$:rl:  ;           ;fI:.
:   9W.ii                                                   N
::  aiII:i:ffi:   I j::::;^A    EE:|
i    7   ~~~ ~ ~~. : .,   .    ... .     ....:  e       :    iTS  
:   .7E   .. .   .g ] " l | E Q .....A : S E : t: t # .      : : :
..    .. ... :.      .... . .  ....iE::a T:;::7:
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  . .   . : r : . E . . : . .  . .   ::'.'. . . . .i i   . .[:: :::: : 
L:  +T  :.  :::::::f:s:E::lEEF.... ff    a .:  .h    .....:   :::
:B::f:~~~~~~~~~~ .-:i . ... .. ... :'i:. ':;t.::::::;  F.:¢:|::r:77| 
- 70 i . e . E * t   ^  e    .R   i E .:|5 !T« FiS.|. ........ 
. t t. iS iv.RirE . Th.# .\|^   ~~.. ..E ... .. i; 
550 :N: t::  3501::t Xig:::ih     : 
a  rI t-      9siE         I'l                              N r.r......... eX  
: '§0'';00F;^  ;a e'  ' a. :t,s''''.d#.,; ; 70;V ;E' 
.     7 7      :  :::   :  i::         : ::7
:ji  . G ::  7  7:.    ::.:...: :  .:: 



III. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A. PROJECT CONCEPT SUMMARY
3.1          Although the issue of housing divestiture is complex, the project concept is
straightforward. In return for implementing a range of policy and institutional reforms needed to make
housing divestiture feasible in the short run and sustainable over the longer run, EHDP will finance
investments that will both reduce operating costs and increase comfort levels in the housing stock.
During project implementation, as each city implements competitive contracting for maintenance and
other reforms, buildings will become eligible for investments. Although condominiums and divested
enterprise housing will have priority, municipal apartment buildings will also be eligible for investments
if they are placed under a competitive management regime and meet other conditions consistent with an
increased private sector role. The Ministry of Finance will onlend Bank funds to participating cities to
cover the costs of most TA as well as the energy efficiency retrofits. Cities will repay the loans by a
combination of generalized increases in cost recovery and depreciation charges for those households that
benefit from the retrofits. The project includes a strong package of TA to support the implementation
of the required policy and institutional changes, and to design and carry out the investments.
B. LINK BETWEEN DrVEsTffuRE, POLICY REFORMS, AND INVESTMENTS
Competitive City Selection
3.2          Thirteen cities were initially chosen by the Government and Bank in late 1994 to compete
for access to the proposed energy efficiency investments. The criteria for final city selection addressed
four basic issues: (a) ability of the city administrations to conclude divestiture arrangements with
enterprises; (b) increases in cost recovery; (c) pace of housing privatization and the adoption of an
enabling framework for condominium formation; and (d) establishment of a competitive market for
housing maintenance. During June and July 1995, the project team evaluated the progress made by the
cities and tentatively selected six cities (Novocherkassk, Orenburg, Petrozavodsk, Ryazan, Vladimir, and
Volkhov) for final inclusion in the project. At appraisal, this list was confirmed based on a final
evaluation of progress with implementing reforms. A seventh city, Cherepovets, was included as a
"reserve" city. It may become eligible for investments under the project at a future date if: (a) it meets
all the policy criteria in effect at that date; and (b) another city drops out of the project. Although not
anticipated at this stage, flexibility will be retained so that other cities may become eligible for similar
reserve status during the life of the project (see Annex P).
Annual and Mid-Term Reviews
3.3          The project will continue to link progress on divestiture and housing sector reforms to
the investments via a system of annual reviews. In addition to channeling bilateral TA for policy
implementation to the cities, the Central Project Implementation Unit will annually review city
performance in each of these areas against pre-defined annual policy and institutional reform targets (see
Annex T). Both the annual review process and the building eligibility criteria (see paragraph 3.17) will
maintain the link between investments and policy reform. In Year 3 of the project, a mnid-term review
will be held in lieu of an annual policy review; in addition to reviewing progress on policy reform, the



10                                         Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
mid-term review will address issues of implementation capacity, rates of disbursement, decentralization
of management, and possible reallocations of funds among cities (see Chapter 4 for more details on the
mid-term review).
C. PROJECT COMPONENTS
3.4           The project has four components: (a) housing divestiture from enterprises, associated
general housing reforms, and housing allowances for vulnerable households; (b) building retrofits,
including metering, energy efficiency investments, and limited capital repair; (c) upstream investments
in the divested utility networks. These first three components will be implemented by a combination of
TA and investments in metering and energy efficiency retrofits (see Figure 3-1). The fourth component
(d) is project management. Substantial progress on divestiture and housing reforms has been made as a
result of the competitive process for city selection (see Annex P). Based on their performance to date,
all participating cities will be eligible for Phase I investments (metering-see below). Further progress
on divestiture and housing reforms will be required each year as a pre-condition for remaining eligible
for additional project investments (see Annex T).
Figure 3-1. EHDP Project Overview
Annual and Mid-term reviews
with reform and implementation targets
Competitive Selection Process
Based on Divestiture/Housing Reforms                               |
Divestiture and Housina Reforms
Supported by TA: Years 0-   l
Febnuary 1995                                                  Buildina Retrofits:
Phase l: Metering (Years 1-3)
13 candidate cties        6 cities selcted              Phase Il: Efficiency Retrotfts (Years 2-6)
on 'Long Uist"            for project                       Capital Repair (Years 2-6)
Upstream Investments I
Years 2-6       l
Housing Divestiture, Housing Allowances, and Associated Reforms
3.5           As discussed above, reaching formal agreements covering divestiture of 80 percent of the
eligible housing stock was a condition of city selection. In most cases, cities have shown they can
implement these agreements by themselves, but the project will provide TA to cities as necessary on
technical, institutional, and financial issues. The actual pace of divestiture in each city will influence the
funding available for the energy efficiency retrofits.
3.6           The Project will also support the implementation of policy reforms at the city level in the
following areas: (a) cost recovery; (b) implementation of housing allowances to protect vulnerable



Chapter 3. Project Description                                                              11
households; (c) formation of condominium associations, including the legal and regulatory framework;
and (d) competitive bidding for housing maintenance. TA will be provided under the project to support
cities' implementation of reforms in all of the areas, although cities themselves will be required to finance
the system of housing allowances, including both direct benefits and administration costs. The Project
will also provide TA to commercial banks expressing an interest in lending to condominium associations
for capital repairs and general rehabilitation not financed by the Project under the energy efficiency
component.
3.7           The cities will be responsible for establishing the institutional mechanism and screening
capacity to implement a housing allowance scheme in accordance with the Government Resolution No.
935 of September 22, 1993 (See Annex H). This institutional setting should have sufficient capacity to
accommodate all eligible applicants and will be adequately publicized (See Annex T for more details).
The project supervision plan (Chapter 4) specifies that the progress in this area will be closely monitored
by the CPIU through periodic on-site easements.
Building Retrofits
3.8           There will be two phases of loan-financed investments, plus limited capital repair of the
divested housing stock by local governments and tenants.
3.9           Phase I: Metering. In phase I, which will begin in Year 1 and continue at least through
Year 3, the project will finance metering in the participating cities, concentrating on the buildings to be
retrofitted under Phase II. Since the design and tendering process for meters is much simpler than for
the retrofits, it should be possible to begin implementing this phase in Year I in all participating cities.
Whether this is possible, however, will depend largely on the ability of the cities to provide information
and logistical cooperation, and thus not all cities may actually receive investments the first year.
Metering may continue in later years of the project if appropriate.
3.10          The emphasis will be on metering heat production, distribution, and consumption points
(buildings or building sections), since heat represents by far the highest energy cost in the cities.
Metering will: (i) give baseline information to evaluate the cost savings of the retrofits; (ii) provide the
data needed to implement a system of billing by consumption; and (iii) provide the information on
production and distribution efficiency necessary to better regulate local heat companies and other utilities.
3.11          Phase ll: Building Retrofits.  Tender design will start in early 1996, but general
contractors will not be selected until October or later. This approach will allow contractors to audit the
buildings and order equipment over the 1996-97 heating season and begin physical work in Spring 1997.
A general contractor approach will be taken. Experience to date in Russia and elsewhere in the former
Soviet Union (FSU)/Eastern Europe indicates that foreign general contractors will be highly competitive
in the initial stages due to their management expertise and familiarity with the technologies involved.
However, much of the work will be done by Russian firms through sub-contracts, and much of the
equipment is likely to come from local suppliers. Over time, it is likely that qualified Russian general
contractors will emerge, but it is important not to select general contractors that do not have the
management capacity or financial resources to fulfill the contract terms since this has driven several
technically qualified Russian firms into bankruptcy under some other projects in Russia.
3.12          An estimated 350,000 apartments in 3,500 buildings across the six participating cities will
be retrofitted with various efficiency measures. Since over two-thirds of the operating cost of the housing



12                                          Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
stock is accounted for by utility costs, it is expected that most investments will be designed to reduce
energy consumption, especially from district heat and hot water (which together account for 80-85 percent
of total residential energy use). One of the earliest preparation activities was a comprehensive energy
use measurement exercise in one of the candidate cities. Further intensive technical preparation work has
now been completed, and a number of technical, institutional, and procurement issues are being addressed
under PPF-financed experimental design phase retrofits in four buildings in Ryazan. Results of the design
work will allow project implementation to begin rapidly once the project is effective.
3.13           Based on maximum payback period of five years, it is estimated that investments per
apartment will be in the range of US$600-US$1,000. A model for developing investment packages for
each building based on climate, building characteristics, fuel prices, and other factors has been developed.
Based on this, a list of forty different candidate measures has been compiled and includes, e.g., insulation
in the ceiling and basement and around pipes; caulking around doors and windows; building-level and
heat-point controls and heat meters; thermostatic controls and possibly gas meters at the apartment level;
lighting retrofits; and water conservation measures (see Annex E). The exact design of the retrofit
packages will change over the life of the project as experience is gained and new technologies are
identified. Experimental design work is already underway in one project city (see Box 3-1).
Box 3-1. Experimental Design Work in Ryazan
PPF-financed experimental design work is being conducted in Ryazn to develop experience upon which to
design the specifics of Phase II project implementation. The goals of the demonstration are: (1) to test and
demonstrate the effectiveness of individual energy and water efficiency retrofit technologies in Soviet-style
buildings, (2) to pilot contracting, metering, and retrofit installation approaches, and (3) to develop strategies
to maximize public acceptance of the retrofit technologies and implementation approaches.
Six buildings (a set of three identical 9-story buildings, and a set of three identical 5-story buildings) are being
extensively metered for energy and water consumption. Two general contractors were selected for this work
through an international tender. One building of each set is being retrofit with the best suite of energy-
efficiency and water-efficiency retrofits that meets a 5-year payback investment criterion. A second building
in each set is being used to test alternative retrofits to determiine which proves most cost-effective. (In the
9-story buildings, alternative ventilation control strategies are being examined; in the 5-story buildings, an
alternative heating control system is being examined.) The final building of each suite will serve as a control
building.
The project is phased so that pre-retrofit information will be collected in all six buildings during the Winter
of 1995-96, thus providing a baseline against which to measure the impact of energy-efficiency and water-
efficiency retrofits. The buildings will be retrofit during the late Winter and Spring of 1996. At the least,
metering will continue through the 1996-97 heating season to measure retrofit results.
As part of the work, detailed social surveys of building occupants are being undertaken, before, during, and
after the retrofit activity, as a way of understanding what retrofits are acceptable, and to help design tenant
interaction approaches in the later EHDP implementation effort.
3.14           To make possible and/or enhance the gains from the energy efficiency measures, the cities
and tenants will undertake capital repair of the divested housing stock. This will include repair of roofs,
doors, walls, windows, etc. In cases where direct financial savings can be attributed to such
improvements, they will be financed as part of the energy efficiency measures in Phase II.



Chapter 3. Project Description                                                                13
Upstream Rehabilitation
3.15          As housing is divested, cities will be making substantial investments for urgent repairs
and rehabilitation of the associated engineering networks. Many cost-effective investment opportunities
exist in the district heating distribution networks themselves. Potential investments include upgraded or
replaced pipe insulation, equipment for automatic control and regulation, renovation of pumps and motors
with variable-speed drives, and measures for better pipe corrosion protection. The costs for these repairs
and investments will come from city budgets, with some cities getting additional in-kind or cash
contributions from enterprises and households and/or possibly future donor assistance. Though Bank
financing under the Project will be primarily for building-level investments, limited Bank financing will
be provided for investments slightly further up the distribution chain (e.g., substation) when they are (a)
relatively simple; and (b) have high returns or are needed to ensure the building-level measures translate
into real energy and financial savings. The measures financed will, to the greatest extent possible, be
robust with respect to future decisions about the overall design of the district heating system-e.g.,
whether cities continue to use district heat or switch to boilers at the building or neighborhood level.
Project Management
3.16          The project will be carried out through the CPIU in Moscow and Local Implementation
Groups (LIGs) in the participating cities. Responsibility for procurement and disbursement will initially
be concentrated in the CPIU for logistical and other reasons, but may be devolved to the LIGs over time
depending on the experience to date. For more details on project management and implementation, see
Chapter 4.
D. BUILDING SELECTION
3.17          For technical and logistical reasons, the actual buildings to be selected cannot be fully
specified in advance. However, the following principles will apply: (i) regardless of other characteristics,
condominiums will always receive the highest priority for retrofits; (ii) with respect to the rest of the
housing stock, Phase I and Phase II investments will be concentrated in the largest buildings in each city
because of the significantly higher economic and financial returns to retrofitting these buildings; (iii)
priority for the building-level retrofits within the largest buildings would then be accorded to buildings
that are divested and under competitive maintenance regimes. Though these criteria may mean that some
municipal housing gets retrofitted, in no case will buildings that are still maintained by enterprises be
eligible for Phase II investments until they are divested.



14                                               Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
E. ONLENDING AND REPAYMENT OF BANK FUNDS
3.18            The flow of Bank loan funds is shown in Figure 3-2. For metering and retrofits, along
with associated costs of engineering and procurement services, Bank funds will be onlent through the
Ministry of Finance to the cities, which will sign contracts for the work. Bank funds will be onlent at
no more than 2.5 percent over the rate charged by the Bank to the Ministry of Finance. The cities will
have a grace period of 6 years, with final maturity of fourteen years and will bear all commitment fees
and foreign exchange risk. Although not directly involved in implementation, the relevant oblast
authorities will guarantee repayment of the sub-loans and agree to support project implementation.
3.19             Figure 3-3 shows how the sub-loans to cities will be repaid. The metering and retrofits
are designed to generate enough financial savings (in utility costs) to repay the Bank loan. The cities will
collect depreciation charges on the retrofits using the "passbook" that households currently use to pay
housing maintenance and utility charges each month. The percentage of actual depreciation charged to
households will be in proportion to overall cost recovery for housing services.8 If 100 percent cost
recovery levels are achieved as mandated by the time most retrofits are installed, city revenues from the
Figure 3-2. Flow of Donor Funds Under the Project
(US $ m equivalent)
70            yazan
(loan for metenng                  Vdimi
300         Russian Govemment            and retrofits)ll
World Bank                    (Mnsr of Fiane                             so   4
l            ~~~(loan)      (nstyo   nac)270                                 4           [
1 0 (grant;/        .20 (loan)"                        1 13      
Engineering                                          ho
Central PIU    and Procurement                        32        Novocherkass
I~~~-------- -I L<70=
US AID           ~~~~~2 (grant for policy implementabon support)A
Engirieering and procuremerit groups will report to CPIU but loan repayment
obligation will be proportbonally allocated to crdes.
8/      For example. if the city reaches 80 percent cost recovery levels in 1997, households would pay 80 percent of the
depreciation charge for the retrofits. Depreciation will be calculated using standard Government rules for these types of fixed
investments. However, the implementation of depreciation charges may vary by city, depending on the ability of households
in each city to afford the general increases in cost recovery for utility services.



Chapter 3. Project Description                                                              15
depreciation charges will be sufficient to repay approximately 70 percent of the annual repayments on the
sub-loans9. The rest of the revenue needed by the cities for repayment will come from the reduction in
subsidy payments needed to utility companies as general cost recovery for utility services increases. The
net cash flow to cities and households from the project will be highly positive (see Chapter 5 and Annex
S.)
Figure 3-3. Repayment of Bank Funds
Depreciation payments for
retrofits
Households  /1  City               Ministry of               World
Households                 >   Budgets              Finance                  Bank
/_\__ Reduction in subsidy requirements due to lower
General increase in cost                volumes sold and higher cost recovery from tenants
recovery for utilities
Ublity Companies
F. PROJECT COST
3.20          The total project cost is estimated at about US$551 million equivalent, including
contingencies amounting to US$23 million, which represents about 5 percent of base costs. Standard
Bank forecasts were used to project foreign price inflation, and estimates from the 1995 Country
Economic Memorandum for Russia (Toward Medium-Term Viability) were used to project domestic
inflation and exchange rate movements. Since the loan allocation for metering and retrofits is similar to
a line of credit, no contingencies were assumed on those investment components, though 10 percent
physical contingencies were assumed on operation and maintenance (O&M) costs for those investments.
Given the difficulties of predicting exact requirements, ten percent physical contingencies were also
assumed for TA and project management costs. Foreign exchange costs are estimated to be US$290
million (52 percent of the total). Incremental recurrent costs (primarily O&M  of the metering and
retrofits) are estimated at US$49 million. Local taxes and duties are estimated at US$69 million. Table
3-1 summarizes the total project costs for each component. Annex A provides further details.
3.21          Project costs including taxes and duties (figures rounded but excluding contingencies)
are as follows:
9/     This is because the depreciation period for the investments is longer than the maturity period of the Bank loans. On
an NPV basis, the city would recover from tenants the full costs of repaying the loan.



16                                         Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
Building Retrofits (US$383 million)
3.22          This component includes US$288 million in energy efficiency retrofits (75 percent foreign
costs)'°, an estimated US$33 million in metering (75 percent foreign costs); capital repair of divested
housing (US$12 million-23 percent foreign costs); and O&M  of the metering and retrofits (US$29
million-20 percent foreign costs). It also includes the costs of engineering and procurement/contract
management services (US$21 million-95 percent foreign costs).
Table 3-1. Estimated Project Costs
(US$ Equivalent)
Foreign as % of
o/w        Total Excluding
Local     Foreign     Total       Taxes      Taxes
Building Retrofits               134        249         383        52         75
Upstream Rehabilitation          16         27          43         7          75
Housing Allowances               85         -           85         -          0
Project Management               13         4           17         4          30
Base Costs                       248        280         528        63         60
Physical Contingencies           14         5           19         5          36
Price Contingencies              -1         5           4          1           100
TOTAL PROJECT COST               261        290         551        69         60
Upstream Rehabilitation (US$43 mfllion)
3.23          This includes US$40 million for rehabilitation investments in the divested engineering
networks (80 percent foreign costs) and US$3 million of O&M (20 percent foreign costs).
Housing Allowances (US$85 million)
3.24          This is an estimate of the cost to the participating cities of benefits and administration for
the housing allowance program for poor households to be implemented under the loan. It is all local
costs. The estimate derives from the statistical analysis of both full housing costs and household income
distribution provided in Annex R.
Project Management (US$17 million)
3.25          This includes US$8 million in CPIU consultants, equipment, and operating costs (31
percent foreign costs); US$7 million for the LIGs (25 percent foreign costs); and US$2 million for the
Policy Implementation Support Group (81 percent foreign costs) that will provide direct assistance to
cities in implementing housing reforms.
10/    All foreign exchange percentages are expressed net of taxes and duties.



Chapter 3. Project Description                                                                17
G. PROJECT FINANCING
3.26          The proposed Bank single-currency loan of US$300 million, provided with 15 years'
maturity and six years' grace at the applicable variable interest rate, would finance 54 percent of total
project costs including taxes or 62 percent of project costs excluding taxes (see Table 3-2). The Russian
Federation requested a single-currency loan in US Dollars, with the rationale that the energy savings
deriving from the efficiency retrofits are valued primarily in US Dollars. The proposed loan falls within
the Russian Federation's volume access for single currency loans for FY96. The loan would cover all
of the foreign exchange costs plus approximately US$11 million of local costs, which is justified by the
severe fiscal adjustment that the federal and local governments are undergoing, and the fact that the
Project will accelerate this adjustment in participating cities. Local governments (partly using greatly
increased cost recovery from households) would finance all taxes, as well as capital repair of retrofitted
buildings, all O&M, upstream retrofits, housing allowances, and LIG costs (totalling US$239 million).
The federal Goverrnment would cover taxes on the CPIU as well as on the engineering and procurement
advisory services (US$8 million). (The Federal government will also assume responsibility to repay $10
million of CPIU costs financed by the Bank loan.) USAID would provide parallel grant financing of the
US$2 million Policy Implementation Support sub-component. If this funding is unexpectedly curtailed
or proves to be insufficient in the outer years of the Project, unallocated Bank funds under the loan will
be made available for this sub-component.
Table 3-2. Financing Source by Component
(US$ Including contingencies)
IBRD         Government*    USAID      Total       IBRD as a
% of Total
Building retrorits              285          57              -          342             83
Upstream retrorits              5            44              -          49              10
Housing Allowances              -            71              -          71              0
Project Management              10           8               2          20              50
Total excluding taxes           300          180             2          482             62
Taxes                           -            69              -          69
Total including taxes           300          249             2          551
* Refers to participating local governments, exceptfor US$8 uillion in taxes and contributons made by the federal Goverment
toward CPIU costs for Project Management category;



18                                         Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
3.27           Financing allocation per city. The indicative loan amount per city has been determined
based on a number of parameters, including city size, fiscal situation, technical characteristics of building
stock, and implementation schedule (see Annex B). The indicative allocation, shown in Table 3-3 below,
was reviewed at appraisal and finalized at negotiations. Depending on the progress of implementation
in participating cities (including pace of divestiture, reforms and investments) as well as the evolving
fiscal situation, the allocations among cities may be revised during project implementation.
Table 3-3. Tentative Loan Allocation per City (USS million)
Petrozavodsk  Volkhov   Ryazan   Orenburg  Novocherkassk  Vladimir
Meters                   3.9       1.2      6.7        6.7            2.9       6.0
Retrofits'              34.3      10.4     58.5       58.5           26.4      54.5
Engineering              2.8      0.9       4.8        4.8            2.2       4.5
and procurement
Total                   41.0     12.5      70.0       70.0           31.5      65.0
Refers to both building-level and upstream retrofits



IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. PROJECr ORGANIZATION
4.1          Implementation of both the investment and TA components will be shared between the
central project implementation unit (CPIU) at the federal level and local implementation groups (LIGs)
at the city level. Over time the ratio of responsibilities assigned to the CPIU and LIGs will shift, but
during the initial stages of project implementation, much of the responsibility will remain at the federal
level. What follows describes: (i) the allocation of responsibilities between the CPIU and LIGs at the
beginning of the project; (ii) the responsibilities over time that may shift to the LIGs; and (iii) the
conditions under which these responsibilities might be shifted to LIGs.
4.2           The CPIU, which is already functioning and well staffed, will be formally established as
a non-commercial foundation with Govermment and non-Government participation, with Government
entities constituting a majority of the Board. The foundation will receive guidance from a Board of
Directors, on which the Ministries of Economy, Finance, Construction, and possibly other Government
agencies will be represented. The CPIU will be invested with the authority to enter into contracts to
carry out the project on behalf of the Government.
4.3           The structure of the CPIU is outlined in Figure 4-1. At the outset, the CPIU will be
responsible for:
(i)    Policy Formulation and Oversight. Bilateral cofinancing of policy-oriented TA will
continue to support the development of competitive housing maintenance and
condominium associations. The CPIU will undertake to coordinate the dissemination of
this TA to the cities, including the organization of seminars and training sessions as
necessary. The CPIU will also monitor policy issues at the federal and local levels,
oversee participation issues, develop annual policy targets, and assess cities' performance
(para. 4.43).
(ii)    Communications. Cormnunications will be handled by staff reporting directly to the
Project Director who will be responsible for pulling together project information from
the policy issues group and the deputy directors for implementation and finance of
interest to cities (including non-participating cities), bidders, the Government and any
other interested parties. The CPIU cormmunications function will also generate press
releases and informational brochures designed to provide information for residents in the
project cities, and will work closely with the policy formulation and engineering groups
on participation issues. In addition, the CPIU will,4isseminate information about, and
experience gained under the project-to the Goyvrnment, other cities, potential other
donors and the public.
(iii)   Technology Adice. Oversight and supervision of the Technology Advisory Group
(TAG) (see para. 4.4).
(iv)   Procurement and Engineering. Oversight and supervision of the Procurement and
Engineering Group (PEG) (see para. 4.5).



20                                              Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
(v)     Financial Operations and Disbursements.  The finance unit will be responsible for
establishing project financial operations, and project accounting procedures.
Disbursement specialists will handle the processing of all direct disbursement requests,
and disbursements and reimbursements from the Special Account (SA). They will be
responsible for responding to city requests for disbursement against local procurement
actions, and for reporting to the Bank on all disbursement and accounting matters. The
investment component as well as the costs of the technology and procurement groups of
the loan will be fully repaid by cities to the Government. A loan officer within the CPIU
will help the cities develop the required documentation and will be responsible for
intermediating between the cities and the Ministry of Finance on repayment of their sub-
loans.
Figure 4-1. Central Project Implementation Unit, TAG and PEG
|Project Diretorl
Cor>nns icaiodns Cordir,o
Policy issues          Deputy Director                     Depuity Director        Office Mantager
Coordination       lbr Implementation                       for Finfince
................. .    ..............
9
7         8           Fi~~~~~~narr-il Aralyt_
Technology Advisoay   Procuremrent and
Group-       Engirieerlrn Group'      
10               11
Dlsbursements    Loan Management
' The Technology Advisory and Procurement and Engineering Groups will be under contracts to the CPIU.
4.4              The Technology Advisory Group (TAG), under contract to and reporting to the CPIU,
will be responsible for identifying cost-effective energy and water efficient technology packages for
application in the participating cities. They will work intensively with the LIGs in each city to: (a)
identify and sequence appropriate investment packages based on experience under the project and on
evaluation of new technologies as they become available; (b) working closely with the engineering
supervision and procurement group of the CPIU (see below), help cities develop retrofit materials and
installation tender packages; and (c) provide assistance as necessary to LIGs in overseeing technological
aspects of work implemented by contractors.
4.5             The Procurement and Engineering Group (PEG), under contract and reporting to the
CPIU, will handle engineering implementation, contract management, and all international procurement
of goods and services. This group will work closely with the technology advisory group to design tender
packages, coordinate pre-bid conferences, stage bid openings, and will generally oversee project
procurement to ensure it is carried out in accordance with Bank guidelines. This group will also be



Chapter 4. Project Implementation                                                           21
responsible for assisting LIGs with local procurement of goods and services, ensuring that cities follow
Bank procedures, and assisting cities with metering and retrofit contract management.
4.6           LIGs will:
(i)    work with city housing and utility officials and the TAG to identify retrofit packages;
(ii)   be supported by the PEG in the development and evaluation (jointly with the CPIU) of
tender packages for internationally procured goods and services;
(iii)   carry out related local procurement actions;
(iv)   interact with the CPIU Disbursement Group for project accounting and audit activities,
and disbursements related to locally procured goods and services;
(v)    oversee the work of contractors with TAG and PEG assistance;
(vi)   coordinate city participation in seminars and training for competitive maintenance,
condominium formation; and
(vii)  report to CPIU on performance against policy targets and implementation of retrofit
installation and operations activities.
4.7           Responsibilities that may shift to LIGs over time include a part of the engineering design
responsibilities, international procurement, and local disbursement.  Shifts in engineering design
responsibilities are assumed to take place over time as the cities' engineering expertise in retrofit design
grows over the life of the project-no other preconditions are foreseen. Responsibility for international
procurement can only be shifted to the cities after cities undergo training in procurement issues from the
CPIU procurement group, gain experience by participating in CPIU-led tender activities, and when
international communications to the city have improved sufficiently to allow for reliable communication
with international bidders. Responsibility for local disbursement can only be transferred to LIGs when
branch accounts of the SAs for each city can be set up in a local commercial bank acceptable to the Bank,
and a local project accounting system is installed so they are capable of documenting and reporting fully
on the activity of the SAs. Reporting on SAs would be carried out through the CPIU. When such
responsibilities are decentralized, the LIGs' local procurement, contract administration and disbursement
activities will reflect Bank guidelines for Community-Related Procurement."
4.8           A project organization chart and summary terms of reference (TOR) of each group in the
CPIU can be found in Annex 0. Operating procedures for the CPIU and LIGs will be detailed in an
Operations Manual to be agreed upon with the Bank.
11/    See Bank-Financed Projects with Community Participation: A Manual for Designing Procurement and Disbursement
Mechanisms, AFTCB World Bank.



22                                         Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
B. IMPLEMENTATION PROCESS AND SCHEDULE
4.9           Both the TA and retrofit investment components will be implemented over six calendar
years, following anticipated loan effectiveness in mid-1996. Implementation of engineering design,
metering, and retrofit activities will be shaped by the direct experience with experimental design retrofits
now underway in one of the cities. It is expected that metering and retrofit interventions will approach
a "basic package" per building type as experience is gained from installations in different regions.
Implementation of the investment component will begin in mid-1996 following loan effectiveness.
Project Management
4.10            The CPIU will be responsible for overall project direction and management. The CPIU
will set up administration, procurement and disbursement systems, and support the procurement and
oversight of installation of retrofits by participating cities. Initial technology advisory assistance will be
provided to the CPIU by a consultant for a period of approximately six months (until April 1996) under
a contract financed by PPF and bilateral funding sources. This consultant is helping the CPIU conduct
an experimental design retrofit effort in Ryazan, and will outline a technology assessment system to
identify the most cost-effective intervention packages for subsequent metering and retrofit installations
beginning in the second half of CY1996. The CPIU, the TAG, and PEG will subsequently provide
technology advice, management and engineering assistance or training for the cities so they will begin
to develop the capacity to identify, package, and administer local metering, retrofit installation and
operations components.
4.11          The investment program will be implemented in two phases for each city.'2  The first
phase will cover metering only; the second phase will cover energy-saving retrofits of buildings, and a
limited amount of upstream retrofits. In each phase, separate tender documents will be prepared for
International Competitive Bidding (ICB), and up to two contractors per city may be selected. ICB,
general contractor (GC) or single-responsibility-type contracts, signed and administered by the cities, will
be the preferred method for implementing the metering (Phase I) and retrofit installation (Phase II)
contracts. Depending upon implementation experience, however, and if warranted by supply or
standardization conditions and approved by the Bank, some meters or retrofit materials and equipment
might be centrally procured and delivered to the cities for installation. The total number of contracts
active at a time will be kept at a level that will both minimize contract management burdens for the cities
and CPIU, and create sufficient competition among potential contractors. Cities will receive assistance
from CPIU consultants to develop technical and contract management capacities. Development and
installation of procurement, project accounting and disbursement systems, and training by CPIU
consultants, will ensure that procedural controls and accountability are built into the LIGs.
Phase I
4.12          Activities under Phase I will begin upon loan effectiveness for all cities that have fulfilled
loan disbursement conditions, including signed sub-loan agreements and full staffing of the LIGs. At that
time, the CPIU and cities will tender for and select one or more general contractors per city to deliver
and install energy and service metering in buildings and facilities on a single-responsibility contracting
basis in as many cities that are ready to proceed with Phase I activities. The buildings to be retrofitted
12/    'Phase' in this context is used to define a fixed form of activity, which can occur during different calendar periods
for each city, depending upon each city's capacities and other factors.



Chapter 4. Project Implementation                                                             23
will be selected according to the criteria outlined in Chapter 3, Section D, and building-level meters will
be installed in this subset of buildings. The first tenders will be bid upon in spring 1996, and the first
group of meters installed in advance of the 1996-1997 heating season. For most cities, the remaining
meters should be installed during 1997. Metering contracts will be smaller in the beginning to give the
CPIU and cities time to become familiar with the procurement and contract administration processes, and
to establish their disbursement and accounting systems. As experience is gained at the CPIU and LIG
levels, metering contracts will be expanded to volumes consistent with cities' cashflow and debt
management capacities, and conmpletion of metering in target structures over a two or three year period.
Phase II
4.13             This phase will comprise the installation of energy-saving retrofits in residential
buildings and related heating system structures. Its implementation will incorporate CPIU and LIG
experiences with procurement and contracting under Phase I (metering). Procurement documents for
initial Phase II activities will be prepared during 1996. This activity will be strongly influenced by the
experience gained under the experimental design retrofit activity currently being carried out with PPF
financing in Ryazan'. The procurement and contracting carried out for this activity has already given the
Government and its engineering consultants a good sense of the relative capacity of city administrations
as well as of general contractors and their subcontractors, and has led to the more prescriptive approach
to contracting described above. Administrative, logistical, and contractual problems resolved in the
course of this activity have also alerted the Govermnent as to how such difficulties might be avoided or
mitigated in future contracting. As city and CPIU capacity allows, some cities will proceed with Phase
II before others. For some cities, Phase II bidding may occur as early as late 1996, and initial retrofits
will occur in advance of the 1997-1998 heating season. In other cities, bidding will not occur until later
in 1997, and retrofits will be installed during or after the 1997-1998 heating season. ICB contracting is
envisioned for most of the retrofit works; the exceptions might be some small value or isolated activities
whereby the cities would use other procurement methods (paras. 4.21 and 4.22) as provided for in the
Bank's Guidelines.
4.14           Initial (Phase I) metering proposals and tender packages are expected to be completed
and issued shortly after the projected loan signing. Under this scenario, general contracts for meter
installation would be ready for implementation in the cities that fulfill disbursement conditions during the
sunmmer of 1996. The initial metering contracts are expected to cover twelve to eighteen months worth
of installations, so experience can be gained with purchasing, deliveries and installation supervision before
larger contracts are tendered. These initial contracts will allow the cities to engage general contractors
through at least one heating season and a summer to ensure that everything is working properly. Similar
approaches will be used for the Phase II retrofit contracts, which are expected to be initially tendered
toward the latter part of 1996. Retrofit contracts may initially be smaller in size because they will be
somewhat more involved regarding installation inspections and acceptance for payment. Tenders will be
structured as design-purchase-and-install contracts. The appraisal mission has determined that insufficient
baseline energy consumption data exists to allow performance-based contracting, due to the current lack
of meters and the difficulties of measuring indoor temperatures in all buildings after heat meters are
installed during Phase I. Without indoor temperature readings, it would be difficult to provide concrete
and unambiguous estimates of before-and-after performnance of retrofits because of variables like heating
supply temperatures, tenant behavior, and climate.



24                                      Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
4.15          For both the metering and retrofits, along with associated costs of engineering and
procurement services, Bank funds will be onlent through the Ministry of Finance to the cities, which will
sign contracts with general contractors for the work. For further details on onlending, see paragraphs
3.18-3.19 in Chapter 3. The proposed implementation schedule is shown as Annex B.
C. PROCUREMENT
4.16          Procurement activities under the project will fall under one of two areas: (i) the central
purchase of technical and consulting assistance needed for designing and administering project activities;
and (ii) the procurement of city-level metering and retrofit goods and installation services. Procurement
and contracting for engineering, procurement and other professional services, which will be done in
accordance with the Bank Guidelines, will be carried out by the CPIU. Procurement of most metering
and retrofit installation services for cities will be on an ICB basis, and carried out with city participation
by the CPIU, with assistance from a procurement services firm. Contracts for metering and retrofit
installation will be signed by cities. With increased familiarity of competitive procurement, and as city
staff demonstrate a capacity for procurement administration, procurement functions will increasingly be
shifted to the LIGs.
4.17          A General Procurement Notice will be issued in the first quarter of 1996. Metering
installations (Phase I) will begin in the middle of 1996, before the building energy retrofits (Phase II)
because metering will be simpler to contract for and supervise. This will give the cities experience with
single responsibility contract administration before they contract for and begin administering the more
complex energy retrofit works activities. The Procurement and Engineering Group (PEG), which will be
hired through short-listing of procurement services firms, will support the CPIU in overall project
procurement administration. The PEG will also provide training and operational support for bid
preparations, evaluations and contracting activities. Contract administration consultants of the PEG will
train and guide the cities' LIG staffs with installation supervision, works acceptance and payment
administration responsibilities.
4.18          All Bank-financed works, goods and consulting services will be procured in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995), and
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981)
respectively. The Bank's standard bidding and contracting documentation will be used for ICB for
metering and energy retrofit installations, for (minor) metering installations and (minor) retrofit works,
and engaging consultant services. International Shopping (IS) and National Shopping (NS) procurement
will use commercial documentation acceptable to the Bank that will be adequate for later review and audit
purposes. The CPIU will be responsible for tracking procurement actions and approvals as well as
periodic reporting to the Bank on procurement progress. Additional details on expected procurement
actions are provided in Annex N. A summary of procurement categories and procurement methods is
shown in the following Table 4-1
Procurement of Works
4.19           Procurement of (Phase I) energy metering and (Phase II) building-systems retrofit
installations will be carried out primarily using the Bank's ICB procedures. While the preference will
be to contract for the works on a single-responsibility (equipment provision and installation) basis, there



Chapter 4. Project Implementation                                                            25
may be smaller, isolated activities, or situations such as equipment standardization when metering or
retrofit equipment might more appropriately be centrally purchased and subsequently installed by the
cities under separate tenders.
Table 4-1. Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
Procurement Method
(US$ Thousands Equivalent)
Project Element               ICB        NCB    Other         NBF           Total Cost
Civil Works                241,268     34,461    745k         57,489        333,963
(205,754)   (27,569)   (647)       -------       (233,970)
Housing Allowance          -------     -------   -------      71,125        71,125
Equipment
Building Equipment      32,008      3,285      5,217b       -------      45,010
(27,833)    (2,760)    (4,699)                  (35,292)
Other Equipment         -------     123        490b         2,981         3,594
(101)     (405)                      (506)
Consulting Services
Engineering/procurement/  -------   -------    22,021c      -------      22,021
other ad hoc tech. services
(18,017)                  (18,017)
Training                -------     -------    -------      2,109        2,109
Project Management      -------     -------    10,496'      7,071         17,567
(7,903)     -------       (7,903)
Office Lease            -------     -------    1,588        507           2,095
(1,312)                   (1,312)
Incremental Recurrent      -------     -------    -------     54,305        54,305
Costs
PPF (Experimental Designs)  -------    -------   3,525'                     3,525
and start up costs
(3,000)                   (3,000)
Total                      273,276     37,869    44,082       195,587       550,814
(233,587)   (30,430)   (35,983)    -------       (300,000)
Notes: Figures in parentheses are respective amounts financed by the Bank loan. NBF: Not Bank-Financed.
*' Small value, simple renovation works (US$745,000) purchased using NS as provided for in the Bank's
Guidelines, Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995).
b/ Includes DC (proprietary) equipment purchases (US$935,000), IS for off the shelf metering and retrofit
equipment (US$1,915,000), and NS (US$2,357,000), purchased in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines
for the procurement of goods.
C/ Consulting and training services (US$ 27.9 million in loan funds) shall be procured in accordance with
the Bank's Guidelines: Use of Consultants, (August 1981).



26                                      Staff Appraisal Report. Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
4.20          (Major) Retrofit Works. Cities, with support from the CPIU, will procure building and
heatpoint metering installations and the installation of energy-saving retrofits in larger blocs of multi-
family dwellings using ICB procedures. These procurement actions will be in excess of US$1,000,000
per contract and will probably involve both foreign and domestic contractors. Joint ventures or other
forms of association will be encouraged to provide opportunities for participation of less experienced
firms. The PEG will work closely with the cities to ensure adherence to requirements of Bank
Guidelines. ICB metering and retrofit activities are expected to involve US$241 million and 22
contracting actions, averaging about US$11 million per contract.
4.21          (Minor)Retrofi Works. Because they would not be attractive to foreign suppliers, some
(minor) metering, facilities improvements and upstream retrofit installations that will be less than US$1
million per contract might be carried out using National Competitive Bidding (NCB).  Minor works
procurement procedures will be established by the CPIU's PEG. These procedures and included
documentation will be submitted by the CPIU (as part of its operations manual) to the Bank for review
and approval prior to their implementation. The Bank's standard documentation for smaller contracts (or
standard regional documentation) will be used for these procurements. The 39 expected NCB actions are
projected to total about US$34.5 million and average about US$885,000 per contract.'3
4.22          There are expected to be seven small-value, refurbishment and facilities improvement
contracts that would be undertaken using NS procedures. These transactions would be under US$150,000
each, average about US$106,000 each, and total US$745,000. Documentation will be based on the
Region's Standard Bidding Documents for Smaller Works Contracts (for contracts under US$250,000)
dated September 1995. These minor works contracts would be based on competition among interested
firms, obtaining sealed bids, public bid openings and structured evaluations. As the Bank's Country
Procurement Assessment Report has not yet been completed for Russia, these procurement actions and
resulting contracts will be subject to ex-post Bank review during supervision missions to ensure such
purchases were carried out in a manner consistent with Bank Guidelines.
Procurement of Goods
4.23           Procurement of goods and materials will involve: computers and communications links,
printing, document reproduction and other necessary office equipment, and some minor facilities upgrades
to accommodate CPIU and LIG operations. Metering and energy retrofit equipment and materials may
also fall into this category when smaller, isolated activities are involved, or the need for equipment
standardization emerges. Such procurement will be divided into the following categories:
4.24          ICB Procurement. As noted, preference will be to contract for the works on a single
responsibility (equipment provision and installation) basis. However, if it is determined that metering
or retrofit equipment is to be procured centrally, rather than as a part of city single-responsibility
installation contracts, ICB will cover the bulk of such procurement. ICB will be used for all purchases
of goods which are expected to exceed US$300,000 per contract. Of the total of approximately US$43
million allocated for the purchase of retrofit equipment (e.g., meters, valves, insulation materials, heat
controllers, office equipment), US$32 million or about 75 percent will be procured using ICB procedures.
The project is expected to have 8 ICB equipment purchases, averaging approximately US$4.0 million per
contract. In the comparison of bids for equipment purchased under ICB, Russian manufacturers would
be allowed a preferential margin of fifteen percent or the existing customs duty that a nonexempt importer
13/    Most upstream retrofits will not require loan participation.



Chapter 4. Project Implementation                                                    27
would have to pay, whichever is lower, over the competing price of imports. The Bank will perform
prior review of ICB procedures, bidding documents, evaluations and resulting contracts; and provide
comments or "No-Objection", as provided for in the Guidelines. The CPIU and its PEG will work with
the cities to ensure the efficient procurement and delivery of the centrally purchased items.
4.25         NCB.   Some metering and retrofit equipment purchases that will be less than
US$300,000 per contract might be carried out using NCB. These goods would be procured using NCB
procedures acceptable to the Bank. NCB purchases involving Bank funding are expected to be about
eighteen in number and average about US$190,000 each.
4.26         IS.  IS may be authorized for readily available, off-the-shelf retrofit and metering
equipment purchases under US$300,000 per contract. IS will be based on quotations from at least three
suppliers from at least two different Bank-member countries. IS is expected to total about US$1.9 million
and involve 12 purchases averaging about US$160,000 each. Bank reviews of IS actions will be
conducted on an ex-post basis during supervision missions or procurement reviews.
4.27         NS.   The CPIU will need to initiate a few small equipment purchases using NS
techniques. NS purchases are expected to cover contracts or purchase orders under US$50,000 each.
These purchases will also be used for small value transactions for facilities equipment, utility and systems
purchases, and readily available, off-the-shelf items. NS will also be used for minor purchases of
metering and retrofit materials, office supplies, equipment services and consumables. NS will be carried
out by obtaining at least three price quotations from different eligible suppliers. Such purchases will be
spread over the six-year duration of the project; and are expected to number about 60 transactions,
average about US$40,000 per contract and aggregate to approximately US$2.4 million. Small value NS
purchases will be subject ex-post documentation reviews, with payments probably being made through
the SA and Statements of Expenditure (SOEs).
4.28         Direct Contracting (DC). DC may be used in the procurement of proprietary metering
and retrofit devices, standardized equipment and/or spare parts. Examples noted to date are certain types
of flow controls and data loggers. Proprietary procurement is expected to involve 3 contracts and about
US$935,000. DC will be justified and all documentation, awards and contracting actions will be subject
to prior Bank review and clearance.
Procurement of Services
4.29         A total of about US$42.0 million is allocated for the procurement of professional and
technical services and will be provided by both individual experts and firms, Russian and foreign.
Contract periods will range from several months' duration to possibly over the life of the project for
engineering supervision. All consultants will be selected and employed following Bank Guidelines and
Standard Form of Contract for Consultants' Services-lump sum or time rate, as appropriate (July 1995).
Solicitation methods and TORs for all consulting assignments, as well as all procurement documentation,
shortlists and contracts with consulting firms valued at greater than US$100,000, will be subject to prior
Bank review and approval. Prior Bank review and approval will also be required for short lists and
contracts with individuals that are expected to exceed US$50,000 each. Individual consultants will be
selected from an evaluation of the CVs of at least three candidates.
4.30         There will be about 12 TA and consulting contracts with firms totaling approximately
US$26.8 million (about US$2.3 million each on average) at least over US$100,000 each and subject to



28                                      Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
prior Bank review and approval. There are expected to be seven contracts with individuals not directly
employed to work in the CPIU above US$50,000 each (averaging about US$80,000) and totaling about
US$560,000. The other expected consulting contracts with firms of less than US$100,000 each, and
contracts with individuals of less than US$50,000 each will together total about US$565,000 and will be
subject to ex-post reviews on a selective basis during supervision missions and/or as part of periodic
procurement implementation reviews. Wherever possible, TA-such as for engineering design and
supervision services-will be sought in consolidated packages to improve accountability and reduce costs
and administrative burdens.
4.31          Consulting Firrns' Services. Consultants will support the CPIU and cities with the
planning, development and administration of the energy-savings retrofit program. Two major consulting
assignments to support the CPIU and cities are expected for: (i) engineering design and technical services;
and (ii) procurement and construction contract supervision support (including quality control and works
acceptance activities). There will also be a need for some technical and engineering consulting assistance
at the cities' implementation offices. A technology advisory consultant is currently providing technology
management assistance under a contract partially financed by PPF. A new technology advisory contract
will be competitively bid upon within the next six months to ensure that an engineering consulting firm
is in place upon the termination of the existing contract. CPIU-procured consulting services will also
cover project accounting, audit, and short-term assistance, e.g., legal, financial services.
4.32          As noted in Chapter 3, Section G and Annex J, approximately US$2 million of TA for
policy implementation training will be financed by USAID. This is expected to cover three years of TA.
If grant financing should be terminated, or if the Government wishes to use some of the unallocated funds
under the loan to extend financing of TA for policy implementation beyond the 3 years, the contract will
be competitively bid out according to the procedures outlined above. Loan funds will not be used for
a sole-source extension of the bilaterally financed assignment of the contractors.
4.33          Individual Consultants. Individual consultants to be financed under the project include
the Director and staff of the CPIU. The CPIU will be responsible for personnel policy and for
supervision of the consultant selection process. For key project management positions, namely the
director and deputy directors of the CPIU, Bank "no objections" will be required. Prior Bank review
will not, however, be required for the appointment of support technical and office staff. A list of
individual positions requiring the Bank's prior review is given in Annex 0. A project staff contract will
be drawn up and agreed with the Bank prior to loan effectiveness to be used as a basis for all individuals
working as CPIU staff under the project. Individual contracts will usually be of up to one year in
duration but may be extended by mutual agreement. To facilitate the Bank's replenishment of the SA,
the CPIU will set up a payroll accounting system acceptable to the Bank.  Rather than require
documentation to support payment to each individual, the Bank will accept the documentation certified
by the CPIU covering payroll accounts.
Bank Procurement Supervision
4.34          ICB procurements of metering and retrofit services, ICB and DC purchases of retrofit
hardware and materials, and the first contracts for IS and NCB procurements will be subject to prior Bank
reviews and "no objections" as provided for in the Guidelines. Subsequent procurements of IS and NCB
equipment and single responsibility works contracts under US$1 million will be subject to post-review
during supervision missions. Procurement of consulting services will be subject to prior Bank review
for all consultancy TORs, procedures, documentation and contracting with firms over US$100,000 and



Chapter 4. Project Implementation                                                     29
with individuals over US$50,000. Procurements of goods and services will use the Bank's standard
bidding and contracting documents, modified or supplemented as necessary, with Bank prior approval.
This procurement plan will result in the Bank's prior reviews of approximately 83 percent of installation
contracts, 81 percent of equipment purchases, and 76 percent of total services procurement. In addition,
Bank staff will monitor procurement activities, contract administration, local purchases and project record
keeping during periodic supervision missions.
4.35         Documentation Processingand Reporting. The procurement services consultant will help
the CPIU with formulation of procurement administration plans and with the development of typical
documentation packages. The consultant will also help establish procurement procedures for the CPIU
and LIGs. These specialists will guide the preparation of standard documentation and, via consultations
and site visits, help program participants with detailed procurement planning, preparation of bid packages,
solicitations and evaluations, contracting and periodic procurement reporting requirements. These
procurement specialists will also help coordinate documentation flows needed to secure the World Bank's
clearances and "no objections" on consultants' TORs and services and equipment procurement
documentation needing prior Bank review. With assistance from their procurement services consultants,
the CPIU and LIGs will set up a procurement activities control and record keeping system, and report
periodically to the Bank regarding procurement actions, results and issues.
4.36         Procurement Reporting. Procurement information will be collected and recorded as
follows:
(i)   Information on procurement activities at the city level, including contract solicitations,
awards, supervision and amendments, will be aggregated by the CPIU and forwarded to
the Bank.
(ii)    Comprehensive quarterly reports will be prepared by the CPIU and forwarded to the
Bank on: overall procurement progress and project costing; revisions of cost estimates,
procurement schedules, disbursement progress and completion dates; and compliance with
prior reviews and aggregate limits on specified methods of Bank-financed procurement.
Additional details on project procurement can be found in Annex N.
D. DISBURSMENT
4.37         The proceeds of the loan are expected to be disbursed over a six-year period, with most
of the disbursement occurring between the 7th and 10th semesters of the disbursement period. The
estimated disbursement schedule is shown below in Table 4-2. Disbursements by category of expenditure
are shown in Table 4-3.
4.38         Requests for direct disbursement against contracts signed with cities will be made by the
CPIU to the Bank upon receipt of a signed request for disbursement from the city administration against
approved invoices submitted by contractors, suppliers, and consultants. The cities will be assisted by the
CPIU's technology and procurement/engineering advisors in approving or commissioning work completed
by contractors, suppliers, or consultants.



30                                      Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
4.39          All such disbursements would be fully documented, except that SOEs will be used for:
expenditures under contracts of goods valued at less than US$100,000; expenditures under contracts of
individual consultants hired as CPIU personnel or valued at less than US$50,000 expenditures under
contracts of consultants' firms valued at less than US$100,000; and expenditures under contracts for civil
works valued at less than US$100,000. All pertinent documentation and records with regard to
disbursement would be retained by the CPIU and cities for at least one year after project completion.
In addition, documentation should be kept until project completion to allow for recovery of the special
account. Documentation would be made available for review by project auditors and by Bank staff on
request.
Table 4-2. Estimated Loan Disbursement Schedule
Disbursements Over 72 Months (USSMillions)t
Bank Fiscal Year        97       98      99     00       01      02
Per Year(%)                     2       7       14      20      35      22
Per Year                        6       21      42      60     105      66
Cumulative (%)                  2       9       23      43      78      100
Cumulative                      6       27      69     129     234      300
t Figures may not total due to rounding.
Special Account (SA)
4.40          To facilitate payments of small amounts and payment in local currency, the CPIU will
establish a SA denominated in US dollars in a commercial bank acceptable to the IBRD. The selection
process and qualifications of the chosen bank would be governed by the specific processes and criteria
described below. The maximum authorized allocation would be US$1 million. The initial deposit into
the account at project start will be US$300,000; this amount will be increased after the first year of
disbursement or when the Loan has reached US$1 million. All requests for replenishment would be
supported by documentation as described in para 6.31 of the Disbursement Handbook. The CPIU would
be responsible for reconciliation of project accounts with disbursements and replenishment requests, and
would forward these as supporting documents with each application for replenishment.
4.41          The commercial bank holding the SA would be chosen on the basis of open competitive
bidding, and would, as a pre-condition, be required to meet the following eligibility criteria:
(i)   it should be financially sound as demonstrated by their latest accounts which
would be audited by an internationally recognized audit firm;
(ii)   have significant foreign correspondence banking in all major currencies;
(iii)   have some experience, or at least the capacity to acquire experience, in issuing
letters of credit, transacting direct foreign payments;



Chapter 4. Project Implementation                                                             31
Table 4-3. EstInated Disbursements
(USS million equivalent)
Disbursements by Categories of Expenditure
Category                   Amounts           Percentage of Expenditures to be financed
Aflocated
1.  TAI                     26.0        100 percent of expenditures
Consultant Services
2.  Building Retrofits      245.7
and Metering
- Works                            100 percent of foreign expenditures; 80 percent of local
expenditures.
- Goods                            100 percent of foreign expenditures; 100 percent of local
expenditures (ex-factory costs); 80 percent of local
expenditures for other goods.
- Engineering                       100 percent of expenditures
Services
3.  Upstream Retrofits       5.0
- Works                             100 percent of foreign expenditures; 80 percent of local
expenditures.
- Goods                             100 percent of foreign expenditures; 100 percent of local
expenditures (ex-factory costs); 80 percent of local
expenditures for other goods.
- Engineering                      100 percent of expenditures
Services
4.  CPIU Operating           2.5
Costs
- Equipment/                        100 percent of foreign expenditures; 100 percent of local
Supplies                          expenditures (ex-factory costs); 80 percent of local
expenditures for other goods.
- Technical Services                100 percent of expenditures
5.  PPFs                     3.0        Amounts due
6.  Unallocated              17.8
Total Loan Proceeds          300
(iv)   provide a wide range of local banking services, including cash payments,
domestic transfers, issuance of debit notes, and capacity to maintain several
accounts for the SA;
(v)    be a member of SWIFT, or plan to use the facility to expedite payments;



32                                      Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
(vi)   be willing and able to issue a Comfort Letter to assure that amounts deposited in
the SA would not be set off, seized or otherwise attached to satisfy amounts due
to the commercial bank by the Borrower;
(vii)  be willing and able to adequately maintain accounts as required by IBRD,
including regular statements, and any other information that may be considered
necessary;
(viii)  charge competitive rates for services and other transactions fees.
Project Accounts and Audits
4.42          The CPIU will establish and maintain a single set of project accounts, including the SA.
These records would be audited in accordance with the "Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing
of Projects Financed by the World Bank" (March 1982). During negotiations, the Borrower would be
requested to provide, within six months of the end of each Government fiscal year, an audit report of
such scope and detail as the IBRD may reasonably request, including a separate opinion by an
independent auditor acceptable to the IBRD, on disbursements against SOEs. The separate opinion should
mention whether SOEs submitted during the fiscal year, together with the procedures and controls
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawal applications. The
cities will establish budget items for duties and taxes payable under the project and also for their local
contributions relating to housing allowances and upstream retrofits. Detailed budget execution data will
be reviewed each year during the normal supervision process.
E. PROJECT MONITORING AND SUPERVISION
4.43          To ensure that project objectives are achieved, the CPIU will have to successfully
integrate monitoring of both the policy and investment components of the project. Monitoring of progress
in achieving policy objectives will be done in two ways. First, cities will be expected to meet, and will
be measured against, policy and institutional reform targets every year (see Annex T for Year 1 targets).
Second, cities will also be evaluated on their progress on policy reforms using the policy monitoring
indicators (see Table 4-4). Monitoring of the investment component will similarly be carried out along
two parallel tracks. Aggregate disbursement will be measured against the disbursement schedule set out
in Table 4-2, but investments will also be evaluated using the performance indicators (see Table 4-5).
Finally, the effectiveness of TA being channeled to cities under the project will be evaluated against
program output targets as well as beneficiary assessments. These evaluations will be integrated to form
a basis for the CPIU's annual operating plans and schedules for procurement and disbursement. All of
these elements will be included in the CPIU's assessment and reporting of annual progress for submission
to the Government and the Bank.
4.44          Annual reporting will be carried out in a three-stage process. On September 15 of every
year the CPIU will submit to the Bank an agreed upon work plan for each city for the next calendar year.
This will include a description of the size, nature, timing, and handling of procurement actions for each
city, and confirmation that both the LIGs and the CPIU have adequate resources to handle the aggregate
workload. Subsequently in November, the CPIU will carry out preliminary assessments of each city's
performance against the annual policy and institutional reform targets for that year, and propose new
targets for the next calendar year. These targets, upon confirmation by the Bank, will be communicated



Chapter 4. Project Implementation                                                           33
to the cities by the CPIU. By March 1 the CPIU will carry out final assessments of city performance
against annual policy and institutional targets and submit to the Bank for its no-objection recommendations
whether each city should continue to be eligible to participate in that year's investment cycle. Included
in this report will be a detailed executed budget from each city for the last calendar year detailing both
local contributions and tax payments related to project expenditures.
4.45          The CPIU will also be responsible for monthly and quarterly reporting of project data,
including: overall procurement progress and project costing (including local contributions); revisions of
cost estimates; procurement schedules; disbursement progress and completion dates; and compliance with
prior reviews and aggregate limits on specified methods of bank-financed procurement. This includes
gathering data, if any, from LIGs and other project participants, including bilateral donors. Details on
what data will be reported monthly and what data on a quarterly basis will be specified in Operating
Guidelines to be agreed with the Bank. As necessary, the CPIU will work with the LIGs to establish
project budgeting and accounting systems to track both Bank and non-Bank project funding.
4.46          In the period prior to the mid-term review scheduled for this project, the CPIU will
prepare, on the basis of the most recent annual report described above, a strategy paper justifying either
continuation of project implementation as described in the original project and loan documents, or a
revised plan of action. This will be submitted to the Bank six weeks before the scheduled supervision
mnission.
Monitoring Indicators
4.47          Two types of indicators are proposed to monitor this project. The first are policy-level
indicators related to the project's development impact. These pertain to the policy and institutional
reforms required of project cities and range from enterprise divestiture to housing sector reform.
Specifically, the primary objective of this project ir to accelerate and make sustainable the divestiture of
housing from enterprises. Quantitative targets for divestiture for all project cities are detailed below. In
order to meet this primary objective, the project is also designed to encourage a wider range of reforms,
ranging from housing sector reforms to energy efficiency to fiscal restructuring of housing sector
expenditures at the municipal level. These reforms can be measured, in some cases quantitatively. Such
indicators, ranging from rates of cost recovery to the proportion of the housing stock placed under
competitive maintenance or management, are outlined below. The demonstration effect of this project
will be achieved if: (a) divestiture is completed by 1997; (b) the rate of other policy reforms in the
project cities outpace the rate of reforms nationwide; and (c) housing affordability in project cities is
increased.
4.48          Second are performance indicator targets, to monitor delivery of project inputs and
achievement of project outputs, referring specifically to the investment and TA components of the project.
Savings in energy consumption in the retrofitted buildings, and the corresponding reduction of outlays
by both the city and the tenants will be monitored on an annual basis in every project city. These will
be measured against the without-project scenario projected from baseline data collected during the first
year of the project. Separately, the effectiveness of TA and training will be measured indirectly by the
measurement of reforms achieved in each of the areas of TA, but also through annual interviews and
surveys of the recipients of TA.



34                                        Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
Table 44. Policy-Levd Indicators
PROJECT OBJECTIVES         POLICY LEVEL INDICATORS                   ASSESSMENT
METHOD/TARGETS
Facilitate divestiture   Percentage of housing divested from  90% at end of 1996
enterprises                            100% at end of 1997
Promote housing     Percentage of cost recovery from       Compared to national averages
sector reform        households for maintenance and utility
services
Percenta e of privatized housing stock    Compared to national averages
Percentage of housing stock organized    Compared to national averages
as condominium associations
Percentage of housing stock maintained   Compared to national averages
or managed under competitively bid
contracts
Increase housing    Average per sq. m cost of maintaining  Compared to without project
affordability       and providing utility services for housing  scenario, derived from baseline
data in Year 1
Targeted housing allowances made      On-site assessments
available according to federal norm
Table 4-5. Performance Indicators
PROJECT OUTPUTS            PERFORMANCE INDICATORS             METHOD OF ASSESSMENT
Investments in energy    Quantity of energy saved in the city,   Compared to without project
efficiency               correlated to the financial savings  scenario, derived from baseline
generated for city budget and for   data in Year 1
households
Payback period for investment       Compared to project projections
packages
TA in:                   Levels of recipient satisfaction at  Interviews and surveys of TA
- Housing sector       quality of TA rendered              recipients
reforms
- Municipal financial
management
-_O&M of retrofits



Chapter 4. Project Implementation                                                       35
Supervision
4.49          Higher than average Bank supervision, with timely field visits, will be essential to achieve
project goals. Because this is a new program for the CPIU and cities, and because the technology and
application concepts are evolving, more intense Bank supervision will be needed in the early stages of
implementation. A supervision schedule is contained in Annex M. A mid-term review will be held in
lieu of the third annual review.
4.50          Bank supervision will begin with a project launch mission at loan effectiveness and a
supervision mission no more than three months thereafter to ensure implementation systems are in place
and that participants understand the Bank's procurement, disbursement and project accounting processes.
Following this, at least two supervision missions a year will be scheduled, to discuss or participate in the
annual assessments carried out by the CPIU every year. These initial missions will cover all policy,
physical, and financial aspects of the project. The supervision missions are expected to involve the Task
Manager, financial and economic specialists from Headquarters, and procurement and technical
specialists, including possibly sociologists and environmental experts. Missions will review the CPIU's
assessment of implementation issues and progress toward targets, and CPIU plans for work and remedial
action. Bank supervision missions will also include field visits to project cities, and city officials and
tenants will be interviewed. The project's technology and procurement/engineering consultants will also
be interviewed to ensure progress is being made in contracting and installation of building retrofits. In
addition, the CPIU's annual reports will provide the basis for supervision missions in the last quarter of
each project year to assess progress during the previous period, achievement of project milestones and
discuss work plans for the next year.
4.51          Based on the mid-term project strategy prepared by the CPIU, the Bank will conduct a
detailed mid-term review approximately 30 months after loan effectiveness to review a range of project
issues. It will be held in lieu of the third annual policy reform review for the cities, and be expanded
in scope to include not only progress against annual reform targets, but issues related to implementation
capacity, rates of disbursement, decentralization of management, municipal creditworthiness, and possible
reallocations of funds among cities. At this timne each city's progress in implementing the investment
component of the project will be carefully reviewed to determine whether LIGs could be tasked with
increasing responsibility for procurement and disbursement. Implementation capacity as evidenced by
disbursement rates will also be used to determine whether undisbursed sub-loan anounts might be
reallocated among cities.
4.52          A Project Completion Report and wrap-up audit will be prepared by the CPIU at the end
of the program, as required by Bank guidelines.






V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
5.1           This chapter discusses the benefits, costs, and risks of the project. Section A contains
an extensive analysis of the project benefits and costs by project component. Section B reviews how the
interests of different stakeholders are being accounted for to ensure that the project benefits are achieved.
Section B also looks at project risks and how these risks can be mitigated. Section C discusses
sustainability issues and is followed by sections on the project's poverty and environmental impacts.
A. PROJECT BENEFITS
5.2           The project's main objective and intended benefit is to facilitate enterprise restructuring
by allowing them to divest their responsibility for housing services. Making the divestiture process
affordable and sustainable will in tum require a range of reforms and investments. These reforms and
investments will themselves yield a wide range of subsidiary benefits to many different beneficiaries. The
greatest benefits will probably derive from the policy and institutional reforms, even though many of
these gains are non-quantifiable. Though the quantifiable net benefits from the project are substantial,
they will be enhanced further in combination with policy reforms. The synergy created between
investments and reforms will increase overall project benefits. In addition, the project is expected to have
demonstration effects for the country as a whole (see Box 5-1).
Box 5-1. ElUP Demomstmon Effects
Examples of EHDP nationwide demonstration effects include:
*   Sustainable approaches to housing divestiture
*   Financially viable schemes for reducing costs and increasing confort in housing stock in ways that
create local service industries and labor demand;
* Benefits of competitive bidding for services currently provided by public sector monopolies;
*   Ways to protect vulnerable households through housing allowances;
*   Means to improve regulation and governance of utRiites
5.3           In some instances net costs will emerge for various stakeholders in spite of mitigation
measures included in the project. In addition, even when the benefits of policy reform can be quantified
(e.g., fiscal gains from increased cost recovery), comparing the EHDP project outcome to a "without-
project" scenario is problematic, since the pace of reform in non-project cities is difficult to forecast.
The most easily quantifiable benefits are those arising from the energy efficiency retrofits. For these
investments, the without-project scenario (i.e., such investments will not be made) is more
straightforward, and an Economic Rate of Return/Financial Rate of Return (ERR/FRR) analysis is
possible, along with a calculation of environmental gains through reduced pollution.



38                                        Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
5.4           Table 5-1 summarizes the benefits and costs attributable to each of the following project
outcomes:
*      Housing Divestiture
*      Housing Reforms
*      Utility Metering
*      Energy Efficiency Retrofits
5.5           The following paragraphs then discuss the benefits in more detail. FRRs and ERRs are
calculated for the energy efficiency retrofits, and the net quantifiable benefits and costs from the full
package of reforms and investments is described for key stakeholders-enterprises, cities, and households.
Section B provides the general approach to stakeholder analysis, and Annex I provides further
information on the each of the stakeholders affected by the project.
Housing Divestiture
5.6             By the end of the project, it is expected that 95-100 percent of the eligible housing in
each project city will be divested from enterprises. This will allow enterprises to focus on their core
business activities, making it easier to restructure their operations to be competitive in a market
environment. It is difficult to quantify the impact of divestiture on enterprises. Because of the complex
tax deductibility rules for the costs of housing provision, the net financial benefits to most enterprises
will be modest; however (again because of taxation rules), the benefit will be significant for enterprises
that currently maintain a lot of housing. Nonetheless, even this modest financial gain to the enterprise
will facilitate wage adjustment, which is critical to achieving and sustaining high degrees of cost recovery
in the housing sector even as energy prices increase. Another non-quantifiable benefit of divestiture will
derive from relieving enterprise managers of the organizations and management burden of providing
housing and in some cases, utility and maintenance services. In addition, since maintaining the housing
may require up to ten percent of the enterprise's workers, divestiture will allow the firm to streamline
its labor force.
5.7           Divestiture will impose short-term financial and managerial costs on city administrations.
Unless these costs are mitigated, divestiture will simply shift the burden of housing provision from the
enterprises to the cities, which is not a desirable or sustainable outcome. Under the project, divestiture
will therefore be accompanied by housing reforms and investments to reduce the costs of operating the
housing stock (see below). Workers from former enterprise housing maintenance units will continue to
maintain the housing stock, but as employees of newly corporatized or privatized maintenance companies
that will participate in the competitive bidding process required of cities which are included in the project.
Housing Reforms
5.8           Participating cities will implement broad agenda of reforms to increase the private sector's
role in housing finance, ownership, and management. Participating cities are required to reach 100
percent cost recovery for housing maintenance and utilities by 1998. This is critical, since housing
subsidies have increasingly been crowding out sorely needed public investment in basic infrastructure,
which is crumbling in mnany cities. However, to protect vulnerable households, targeted housing
allowances will be implemented. The housing allowance scheme being supported in project cities is the
best means-tested social safety net measure currently under implementation in Russia, and it can serve
as a model or intermediary step for the establishment of a wider social safety net nationwide.



Chapter S. Benefits and Risks                                                                    39
Table 5-1. Overview of Project Benefits and Costs
Outcome/Impact                                Benefits and Costs
Housing Divestiture        Facilitates enterprise restructuring and wage adjustment by freeing up
financial and managerial resources; imposes short-term financial and
managerial costs on cities.
Housing Reforms            Create efficient private housing markets and stimulate labor mobility;
relieve cities of financial and managerial burden; require households to
increase own financing and management responsibilities.
*     Cost recovery       Reduces local budget subsidies; provides incentives for residents to
minimize costs; increases costs to households.
*     Housing allowances  Protect vulnerable households; impose budgetary cost on cities.
*     Privatization/      Improves stewardship and control by residents, resulting in improved
condominiums       maintenance; requires residents to organize themselves well.
*     Competitive         Reduces costs/improves quality for all stakeholders; stimulates private
maintenance        sector development and demonopolization; threatens the revenue base of
city-owned maintenance companies.
Utility Metering           Creates incentives for efficiency by permitting billing by consumption;
generates information on system efficiency and losses to enable city to
improve regulation of utility providers; should reduce bills of some
residents who are currently paying for system losses; will lead to
differentiation in utility costs based on building characteristics and other
factors not under immediate control of residents; may lead to short-term
reduction in revenues to utility companies.
Ener2v Efficiency Retrofits   Reduce net costs to households and cities even after loan repayment;
increase comfort levels; create new local industries/increase demand for
local labor; decrease air pollution; free up gas and other fuels for other
valuable domestic uses or export; avoid or substantially defer
investments in new heat generation capacity; will reduce demand for
utility services and thus reduce revenues for local utility providers.
5.9            Participating cities will also take measures to stimulate housing privatization, and in
particular condominium development. The benefits from this include better stewardship of the housing
stock as residents themselves gain control over its management. This will in tum reduce the city's
managerial burden. In addition, housing privatization and the emergence of housing markets will lead
to improved labor mobility. These benefits, while unquantifiable, are undoubtedly substantial. However,



40                                         Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
privatization will impose organizational and administrative costs on households, since they will have to
form condominium associations and begin to manage maintenance and other contracts through these
associations.
5.10          Finally, participating cities will be required to institute competitive bidding for
maintenance. This will break the monopoly of the existing city-owned maintenance companies and
encourage the emergence of new private firms. The resulting competition among providers is expected
over the longer term to lower costs and increase quality. (The existing quality of housing maintenance
is particularly poor in most Russian cities.) Competitive bidding has already been done with USAID
support in several cities and the initial results are generally positive, with residents' satisfaction up and
costs lower than or equal to those of city-owned companies. Successful implementation of competitive
bidding in project cities is expected to have a rapid demonstration effect, because elected city officials
are increasingly looking for ways to improve residents' satisfaction with housing services. As with any
nascent market, there are instances where inexperienced new firms fail to deliver their promised level of
service, causing short-term problems. The biggest cost will be imposed on former city-owned housing
maintenance companies that will lose their monopoly position.
Utility Metering
5.11            Phase I of the project will finance the installation of meters, primarily for heat and hot
water, which are relatively low cost and have substantial benefits. The exact returns to meters are
difficult to quantify because of the large number of technical and behavioral parameters in the project.
However, a range of magnitude can be provided by reference to the Gas Distribution and Energy
Efficiency Project, which estimated that the economic rate of return to the installation of gas meters will
range from 55 percent at the apartment level to several hundred percent at the industrial user level. Under
that project, improved meters will be installed for commercial customers, since the old meters were found
to significantly under-record actual consumption. At the residential level, there was no metering prior
to the project. The rates of return are based on the projection that metering, in conjunction with
liberalized gas prices, will lead to a 25 percent reduction in gas usage by commercial and residential
consumers.
5.12          Experience worldwide-including recently in Russia-demonstrates that appropriate
metering can provide major incentives for efficiency. Discussions with officials of EHDP cities revealed
a strong commitment to investments in metering for this reason. The first effect of metering will be to
isolate losses within the distribution system and the ability to detect over-reporting of deliveries by heat
companies, a capacity entirely lacking in most Russian cities. Isolating losses within the distribution
system will not save money for cities immediately since they own and finance the heating distribution
companies. However, this information will enable them to create incentives for the management of these
distribution companies to reduce losses, which can often be done through relatively inexpensive changes
in operations. As losses are reduced in a cost-effective manner, cities (and households, as cost recovery
is phased in) will begin to reap financial savings. In the case where the city is buying heating from a
regional cogeneration plant (TETs), installing meters to measure actual purchases may result in actual
savings to the city if the TETs has been over-reporting heat deliveries, as is often alleged. Depending
on the importance to the TETs of the resultant lost revenue, it may try to recover its losses through
higher tariffs charged to the city. However, tariffs charged by the TETs are regulated by the regional
authorities (see Annex Q), which have an interest in avoiding over-charging because they are guaranteeing
the sub-loans to the cities under EHDP.



Chapter 5. Benefits and Risks                                                                 41
5.13          The second benefit from metering will derive from behavioral changes by consumers as
cities phase in billing by actual consumption. There are technical difficulties with metering heat use at
the apartment level, but in many instances sections of buildings can be metered, which reduces free-rider
problems as compared with metering full buildings. For behavioral changes to occur, residents must also
have a way of controlling their consumption, requiring the use of thermostatic or manual valves or other
such measures, though even closing windows can have a substantial effect on energy use under certain
circumstances. Despite these c.;veats, participating city officials overwhelmingly agree that metering at
the building or subsection level will have adequate incentive effects to justify the investment if metering
is not possible at a more disaggregated level. While acknowledging that billing by consumption will have
some equity effects because of different characteristics in the housing stock within the city, they believe
that these problems can be overcome. In the social survey undertaken during project preparation, a
majority of residents expressed interest in being billed by consumption. One effect of such billing will
be to reveal the true asset value of different buildings and apartment locations within buildings-sending
price signals that will improve allocative efficiency within the housing sector.
Energy Efriciency Retrofits
5.14          The main quantifiable benefits from the project will derive from the energy efficiency
investments to be implemented under Phase II of the project. In addition, experience in OECD countries
shows that housing energy efficiency programs can generate a large demand for local labor and lead to
the emergence of local energy service industries-an effect that is hard to quantify in advance. Increased
energy efficiency will translate into savings for the economy primarily through reduced consumption of
natural gas and other fossil fuels that can be exported or diverted to other valuable uses. Energy
efficiency will translate into financial savings for the local budgets and households as well. Reduced
energy consumption within buildings will translate into reduced fuel and operating costs for utility
providers. These savings will be passed on to local budgets and households through reduced charges
from the utility companies based on metered deliveries. At the beginning of the project, when household
utility tariffs are still set at low levels, the city budgets will get most of the financial savings from reduced
utility consumption since cities will be able to reduce the subsidies they pay. Over the longer term, as
households begin to pay a higher percentage of actual utility costs, they will begin to accrue more of the
financial savings. The following paragraphs discuss the FRR and ERR to the retrofits in more detail.
5.15          FRR. The financial analysis examines the combined financial returns to city budgets and
households. As noted above, the sharing of savings between city budgets and households will depend
on the cost recovery ratio for utility services. However, even when tariffs are set at full cost recovery
levels, cities will still accrue benefits from reduced energy charges because of budget-financed housing
allowances for the poorest households. Energy efficiency investments generally involve a package of
measures. In general, the marginal rate of return to a package declines as additional measures are added.
The packages to be financed under EHDP will be designed to have an average payback of less than five
years in financial terms at the city level. The primary parameters for this analysis are the cost of heat
(currently US$22.8/Gcal'4, based on a gas price of US$60 per thousand rn3) and the cost of efficiency
measures, including taxes and duties. Under the scenarios outlined in Annex F, this implies an average
financial rate of return (FRR) of approximately 50 percent"5. The investment packages will vary across
building types and climatic zones, and will be adjusted over the course of the project as energy and other
14/    A number of price and taxation changes currently pending could raise this price substantially, raising the FRR.
15/    This is based on the assumption that the Project will finance retrofits mainly in large and medium size buildings.



42                                           Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
prices change. Technical considerations, especially related to building size and characteristics, mean that
payback periods for different buildings will vary from 2 to 3 years, implying a corresponding variation
in FRRs from 40 to 55 percent.
5.16           ERR. The economic analysis examines returns to Russian Federation as a whole. The
primary adjustments financial prices are a netting out of taxes and duties on project-financed investments
(approximately 15 percent) and use of opportunity costs for energy, primarily natural gas for generation
and district heating. Although Russia is a net gas exporter, there are physical and other constraints to
export capacity that will endure for the next decade. Consequently, following the analysis under the Gas
Distribution and Energy Efficiency Project, gas is valued at its LRMC of production, which is currently
estimated at US$45 per thousand m3. This translates into a heat cost of US$16.50/Gcal. Following these
adjustments, the average economic rate of return (ERR) to the retrofit packages is estimated at 40 percent,
with the returns to individual packages varying between 32 and 45 percent.
5.17           In cases where the energy savings from the retrofits enable cities to avoid or defer new
capital investments in utility generation capacity, the FRR and ERR rise by an estimated ten percent.
Some EHDP cities currently face a shortage of heating capacity in certain parts of the city, and without
the project, they would be forced to invest in construction of new boilers. These avoided savings are
valued using the following assumptions: (i) a current heat shortage amounts to half of the annual energy
savings derived from the building retrofit, and (ii) the total investment costs for a typical natural gas
fired boiler plant are about $30,000 per Gcal/Hour of generation capacity. Since it is not yet clear how
much investment in new capacity will be deferred due to the retrofits, these higher rates of return have
not been factored in the averages cited in the previous two paragraphs.
Net Financial Benefits to Enterprise, Cities, and Households
5.18           This section estimates the net financial benefits to enterprises, cities, and households from
the project on a per apartment basis. See Annex S for more details, including a discussion of the impacts
expressed as a percentage of existing households spending or local budgets, and mechanisms for financial
returns to cities from retrofits. In summary, divestiture will result in modest gains for enterprises as their
tax burden will increase following divestiture.  Cities would correspondingly bear only modest
incremental costs in the short term. However, in the medium term as heat prices rise, the full cost to
city budgets of maintaining the housing stock (both municipal and divested) will rise dramatically unless
cost recovery from households is raised.'6 If cost recovery is increased, the cities will accrue very large
net benefits even with divestiture. Increased cost recovery will in tum impose a burden on households,
however.   The project is designed  to  mitigate  these  costs to  households  through  several
measures-housing allowances for poor households and energy efficiency retrofits to reduce housing costs
for all households and general housing refomis, which will reduce costs for both households and cities.
Average household income are expected to rise by 3-4 percent from savings in utility expenditures.
Annex R provides an analysis of the affordability of cost recovery increases for households over the
medium term. In addition, households will benefit from the increased demand for local labor generated
by the project. Local firms and workers will likely carry out many of the subcontracts for the civil works
in the project which is expected to result in about 0.75 percent increase in local employment.
16/    In 1994, city budgets spent the equivalent of 4 percent of GDP on housing subsidies. This could rise to 7 percent
without aggressive implementation of cost recovery and other reforms and investments promoted under the project. See 1995
CEM (Russian Federation: Towards Medium-Term Viability, World Bank Report No. 14472-RU).



Chapter 5. Benefits and Risks                                                                          43
5.19            Table 5-2 shows the costs and benefits from the project to different stakeholders on aper
apartment basis in year 6, when policy and institutional reforms are in place and the energy efficiency
retrofits are generating cost savings. Under this scenario, the city has reached 100 percent cost recovery
and instituted a housing allowance for households spending more than 20 percent of their incomes on
housing. This is compared to a "without-project" scenario in which cost recovery reaches only 50 percent
and divestiture does not take place. For simplicity, the analysis assumes that the city repays the entire
Bank loan, but this assumption can easily be modified to show the effects of loan repayments by
households through depreciation charges. For reference, the cost of operating an apartment in Year 6
without the project would be US$700, of which US$500 would be for utility costs. With the project,
costs are expected to fall to US$530, of which US$330 would be for utilities.
5.20            Because enterprises lose the ability to deduct housing costs after divestiture, they pay
higher taxes as a result, and thus the net financial gain for enterprises is modest. Although the effect
varies according to the characteristics of the enterprise and how much housing it previously maintained,
the savings would on average be US$38 per apartment.
5.21            The household sector will bear a gross financial cost (US$350/apartment) under the
project because of the increase in cost recovery. Increased cost recovery is seen as a necessary and
desirable objective in creating a private housing sector and freeing up government revenues for basic
infrastructure and social services. However, this increased burden on the household sector will be
mitigated under the project in several ways. The retrofits will reduce costs by US$170/apartment,
housing allowances will provide an average US$45/apartment, and metering and general housing reforms
are expected to reduce housing costs by US$70/apartment. The net cost to the household sector would
thus be only US$65/apartment. For individual households eligible for housing allowances, the net cost
would be lower-in many cases zero.
Table 5-2. Annual Benefits/Costs per Apartment in Year 6
(US$)
Households                Cities                    Entermises
effect of:
Divestiture               -                         -38                        38
Cost Recovery             -350                      350
Energy Retrofits          170                       -114
Housing Allowances        45                        -45
Housing                   70                        35
Reforms/Metering
TOTAL                     -65                       188                        38
Note: Without the project, the average costs of operating an apartment (maintenance and utilities) would be US$700/year in Year 6, of which
US$500 is utility costs. With the project, the costs will be US$530, of which US$330 isfor utility costs. Assumed apartment size is 50 m2 with
three occupants. Average annual household incomefor a family of this size is projected at US$4,500 in Year 6. All figures are in early 1995
ternts.



44                                            Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
5.22           The city is the main financial
beneficiary of the project. This gain derives     Box 5-2.
primarily  from  increased  cost recovery,        Household Survey Results In Vladimir and Volkhov
which will raise fiscal revenues by
US$350/apartment.  Even if the city repaid        Heat. Many respondents reported that their apartments
all of the sub-loan costs for the retrofits, this  were too cold in the winter without the use of
all of the sub  n osta  co st   of   only         supplementary sources of heat, such as electric heaters
would   impose   a   cosing                only   or gas stoves. An overwhelming majority would like
US$11 4/apartment. The housing allowance          heat regulators installed in their apartments.
program will cost another US$45/apartment,
but general housing reforms and metering are      Water. Almost all families report water shortages and
expected   to  reduce   costs  by   about         frequent interruptions of water supply, particularly of
US$35/apartment. The net effect is that cities    hot water in the summer months (from 90 to 150 days).
gain US$188/apartment.
Metering. Respondents would prefer to pay for the
5.23           The exact costs and benefits       amount of heat and water consumed rather than a flat
for households and cities will depend on the      rate.
degree to which households pay for the
retrofits.   If cities charge households a        Conservation Habits. Respondents' answers show that
depreciation  charge  through  the  housing       they would make efforts to conserve water and heat if
"passbook" system, the costs to households        they paid according to consumption.
would rise by US$84 per apartment,"~ and the      Willingness to Pay. Few households are willing to pay
benefits to citieswould  rise by  an equal        for meter installation. Greatest interest was expressed
amount.  City officials have indicated that    in heat regulators. More are willing to pay for low-cost
they believe that households that benefit from    items like water-saving showerheads and faucet caps.
the retrofits should have to pay for them,        Those who consider a retrofit necessary are willing to
since the financial gains to households from      have it installed free of charge.
the retrofits themselves (i.e., not including
the effects of a generalized increase in cost     Loans. Many indicated abstract interest in taking out
recovery) will be highly positive.                loans, but few had little previous experience in taking
out household loans.
Project Design Alternatives                    I__
5.24           During project preparation, a number of alternative designs were considered by the
project team. These are described in Box 5-3.
B. STAKEHOLDER ANALYSIS, SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS, AND RISK MITIGATION
Stakeholder Analysis
5.25            To achieve the benefits discussed above, it is critical to take into account the interests
of many different stakeholders.  The stakeholder analysis focused primarily on two groups of
stakeholders: 1) primary or key stakeholders with relatively little influence over the project, and 2)
secondary stakeholders with potentially high influence over the implementation of the project. The first
group was identified so that a participatory approach to incorporate their views and concerns in project
17/    This is less than the US$114 annual loan repayments by the cities because Russian depreciation rules allow for a longer
amortization period than the sub-loan amortization period faced by the cities under the Project.



Chapter 5. Benefits and Risks                                                                  45
implementation design could be devised. The second group was identified to ensure that they were either
brought into the project to facilitate its implementation, or prevented from affecting the project negatively.
(See Table 5.3 for classification of stakeholders.)
Stakeholders of high importance but with low influence over the project:
5.26          Enterprises are primary beneficiaries of the divestiture process, but they have surprisingly
little direct influence on the pace or nature of the divestiture process. Project preparation incorporated
Box 5-3. Project Alternatives Examined
The following alternatives to the current project were examined.
1. Strengthening budget suvpPrt for enterprise housing divestiture based on the transfers from the federal
budget without either additional investments in energy savings or additional effors fostering reforms in
municipal housing. While such an approach would accelerate housing divestiture in the medium-term, it
is not a sustainable strategy in long run.  Considering the Russian fiscal environment, municipal
governments must pursue fundamental reforms to reduce deman for budget subsidies in housing. This
can be achieved only by reforming the housing sector and developing bousing markets.
2. Reforming existing housing institutions, which might include tightening budget constrainus and
improving corporate governance for housing maintenance organizations and local utilities in order to reduce
the total costs of operating housing costs. The potential gains of such a strategy would be relatively small
until housing privatization was completed (including the widespread establishment of condominium
associations) and competition in the housing sector emerged. Although the project as designed does not
rely fully on this strategy, it has incorporated some policy conditions intended to increase the initutional
capacity of municipal administrations to monitor and regulate natural monopolies in the sector.
3. Energy saving investments in utility aeneration and distribution networks instead of investing in
residential buildings. While investing in utility corapanits might have high financial retums in Russia,
investing in the existing housing stock has two advantages: first, it is more closely linked to the housing
reforms supported under the project, and second, it has the added benefits of directly increasing the quality
of life of households through improved comfort. While local utility companies either have or shortly will
have access to commercial lending for upgrading their facilities, by contrast, there are currently many
institutional and informational barriers to commercial financing of housing retrofits in Russia. Building-
level retrofits are much more labor intensive than upstream retrofits, and the project is expected to create
related local service industries in each participating city. Energy efficiency retrofits also increases thm asset
value of the housing, which over the longer term can be captuted by residents who privatize their
apartment units.
this finding by carrying out interviews of enterprises managers in every city which competed for final
inclusion in the project, as well as through a survey which was carried out in nine geographically
dispersed cities (of which one has been included in the project) in Russia. The interviews and surveys
sought to clarify the net impact of divestiture for enterprises, the type of restructuring that was precluded
by enterprises which were held responsible for the maintenance of social assets, and to investigate the
perceived obstacles to divestiture.



46                                         Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
5.27           Tenants are primary beneficiaries of the energy efficiency investments to be financed
under the project. They too, however, have little voice in the process, since decisions on-as well as the
financial means for-capital investment in housing are still largely controlled by enterprises or municipal
administrations. Several ways of including them in the decision-making process were considered. Some,
including the idea of forming and giving a voice to tenant associations in each building, were discarded
because of the history of forced participation under socialism; others, such as the idea of holding general
meetings with tenants, were opposed by other stakeholders. Two approaches were ultimately agreed upon
as the most appropriate way to incorporate the views and concerns of tenants into the project design and
implementation process. First, surveys of tenant preferences have been conducted to provide input into
the design of both retrofit packages. The information from such surveys will also be used to design
public information campaigns during project implementation. Second, the establishment of condominium
associations under the project has been promoted as the most voluntary way to encourage active resident
participation in the decision making process.
Stakeholders of low importance to project objectives but high influence over implementation:
5.28          To ensure implementation of the project, stakeholders with the capacity to strongly
influence the implementation of the project-but of relatively low importance to meeting the objectives
of the project-have also been identified. Once identified, the project has tried to ensure that such
stakeholders can be prevented from affecting the project negatively. Each of these stakeholders have been
approached at early stages of project preparation to: (i) assess whether they faced any incentives to oppose
the project; and (ii) determnine how the risk of their opposition to the project might be mitigated.
Table 5-3. Classification of Stakeholders According to Relative Influence
and Importance to the Project
High Imporance                      High Inportance
Low Influence:                      High Influence:
Enterprises divesting housing       Top city administration
Tenants                             Federal Government
Low Inportance                      Low Importance
Low Influence:                      High Influence:
City maintenance organizations
Oblast administration
City utility enterprises
TETs
5.29          For two such stakeholders-the city maintenance organizations and the city utility
enterprises (primarily heat and hot water)-the project is likely to have significant and immediate impact
on the way they conduct their work, as well as possibly their survival over the long term. Fortunately,
these entities are both juridically, and in most cases, managerially controlled by the city administration
as they are directly subsidized via the city budget. In addition, city maintenance organizations may



Chapter 5. Benefits and Risks                                                               47
benefit from the project by subcontracting with metering and retrofit installation contractors. These
organizations are also subject to formal municipal regulation. However, the risk that municipal utilities
might try to oppose the shutdown of boilers (caused by end-use energy efficiency) by increasing costs in
their surviving operations exists, and can only be countered by building up municipal regulatory capacity.
Some of this risk is mitigated by the metering financed under the loan, which will increase cities'
capabilities to regulate their utility enterprises.
5.30          For the combined heat and electricity enterprises (TETs), the impact of the project relative
to their overall interests is small-purchased heat from the TETs will only be reduced after demand
reductions are met by supply reductions from higher cost city-owned boilers. In addition, consultations
with both the city administrations and the appropriate regional energy commissions about the risk that
the TETs might increase the price of heat sold to cities to compensate for reduced sales suggest that such
risks are relatively small. Moreover, federal policy on natural monopoly regulation has increased its
emphasis on improving the capacity of regional energy commissions.
5.31          Participation of the oblast administration is important to the project insofar as onlending
agreements from the Ministry of Finance to city administrations can only be concluded with an oblast
guarantee. The risk that the oblast administrations might refuse to give this guarantee has been mitigated
by approaching them early in project preparation and making it clear to cities that oblast guarantees for
onlending agreements were a non-negotiable prerequisite for final inclusion in the project. In the process
it has become clear that most oblast administrations believe that the project will benefit not only the cities
but the regions as well, and actively support the project.
Sensitivity Analysis
5.32          The key variables that could affect the viability of investments under the project are: i)
the unit cost and volume of energy saved, and ii) the cost of the retrofit measures. Implications of
changes in these factors are outlined below and discussed in more detail in Annex F.
5.33          The unit cost of energy saved under the project is a primarily a function of the cost of
natural gas, which is not expected to decline substantially during the life of the project in either financial
or economic terms. (The LRMC of production provides a floor for economic costs and a likely floor for
financial costs). The confidence interval around the estimated volume of energy saved is wider, however.
The unit cost or volume (or combination thereof) of heat saved would have to decline by more than 60
percent in financial and economic terms to reduce the FRR and ERR to 10 percent for medium size
buildings.
5.34          The total installed cost of the retrofit measures is a function of a number of variables,
including equipment, materials, and labor, as discussed below. The overall retrofit costs could increase
by 175 percent and 100 percent in financial and economic terms, respectively, before the FRR and ERR
would fall to 10 percent for medium-size buildings. This increase is much higher for large buildings.
The financial returns to cities and households from the retrofits will also depend on tax and duty rates,
which could fluctuate substantially over the life of the project. However, the average tax rate for total
installed costs would have to rise over ten-fold before the FRR would decline to 10 percent.
5.35          The estimated cost of equipment and materials is based on an extensive market survey,
with most of the equipment produced outside Russia. Price movements for this equipment are hard to
predict, but there is no reason to expect Russia border prices for them to rise substantially except for a



48                                           Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
devaluation of the ruble. In fact, declines have been noted in the price of many relatively high-
technology efficiency devices as demand rises. In addition, there are good prospects that certain types
of equipment and materials can be efficiently produced locally, which would bring down investment costs
for the project. Equipment costs could rise by more than 350 percent and 300 percent in financial and
economic terms, respectively, before the FRR and ERR declined to 10 percent.
5.36           The cost of labor is a much greater uncertainty and depends in turn on two factors: (i)
the mix between foreign and local workers used, and (ii) changes in Russian wages. The baseline
assumption is that because these measures have not been installed widely in Russia to date, approximately
20 percent of the labor will be foreign. This figure would be higher in the early years of the project and
decline toward the end as local laborers were trained. The cost or amount of foreign labor could rise by
over 800 and over 700 percent in financial and economic terms, respectively, before the rate of return
to the project declined to 10 percent. Wage dynamics in the Russian economy are very difficult to predict
as well. Since local labor costs are currently such a small percentage of overall investment costs,
however, local wages could rise more than twenty-fold before the FRR and ERR declined to 10 percent.
Risk Mitigation
5.37           Figure 5-1 presents an overview of the risk mitigation strategy. A major risk under the
project is that the cities selected will not complete the divestiture process or not sustain the reform
momentum necessary to make divestiture sustainable. For example, the pace at which cost recovery and
competitive maintenance can be introduced is uncertain and involves a number of complex (and often
unresolved) legal and institutional issues. This risk has already been mitigated in two ways: (i) by
undertaking the Stakeholder Analysis in the section above, and (ii) by selecting cities which have
implemented reforms as a condition for selection in the project, thereby demonstrating a commitment to
divestiture and reform. With regard to cost recovery, participating cities have also agreed to invest in
a new computerized rent collection system as part of their local contribution to the project. During
implementation, the cities will have to meet annual reform targets as a condition of remaining for the
project. The project will provide TA to help cities meet these targets."8 The federal Government has
adopted regulations and introduced laws that would provide most of the legal basis for the reforms sought
at the local level. The reform packages are also designed so that many of the individual elements will
be at least partly sustainable and beneficial even if not all reforms objectives are met.
5.38           Another set of risks relates to the cost, performance, and price factors that could
compromise the financial and economic savings projected from the energy efficiency retrofits. Although
the project will use technologies that are proven in the West, they have not been implemented on a wide
scale in Russia. In addition, the pace of implementation could be constrained by a number of factors,
including delays in procurement and contracting.   To mitigate these risks, intensive technical,
institutional, and legal/regulatory background work have been carried out-with heavy use of local
expertise-during preparation, with a careful review of experience with similar measures in other FSU
countries. An experimental design phase is underway with PPF financing to test various technologies and
to evaluate potentially cost-effective local suppliers. This activity has been particularly useful in flagging
possible procurement and contracting issues which would be encountered in project implementation. An
aggressive effort will be mounted by the engineering advisory consultants during implementation to
18/    Although much of this TA will be provided by consultants, the project will also facilitate-through meetings, electronic
mail, and other forms-discussions among officials from different cities on how to implement the reforms. This cross-city
fertilization of ideas and strategies has proven to be very effective during project preparation.



Chapter 5. Benefits and Risks                                                                             49
develop potential local supply sources, and training of local labor in participating cities will be done to
reduce installation and maintenance costs over time. One clear lesson from all of this preparatory work
has been to focus retrofits on large buildings, where the financial and economic returns are highest.
5.39            Tenant reaction to the retrofits is an additional concern. If tenants dislike, or fail to use
various retrofit measures properly, the returns to the project could be reduced. This risk is being
addressed in various ways. A social survey has been carried out to examine the demand for-and
knowledge about-different types of measures, issues related to perceptions of benefits (in both financial
terms and in terms of increased comfort), and likely usage habits. Tenant reactions to the PPF-financed
experimental design retrofits will be closely monitored via ex-ante and ex-post surveys, as well as other
social monitoring mechanisms. A general design mitigation strategy is to focus initially on "passive"
Figure 5-1. Risk Analysis and Mitigation
Risk                                              Mitigation Measure
- Stakeholders Analysis
* City selection procedures
Reform Implementation poor for              _         * Investments linked to reform progress
political or other reasons                          * TA support
* Annual performance reviews
* Results from PPF experimental design retrofits
Price/Volume of Energy Saved                   _       * Adjust design of retrofit packages to maximize savings
is lower than expected                              - * FEDS model
-Results from PPF experimental design retrofits
Investment Costs higher than expected                  - . Design taking into account availability of local supplies
* Intensive work with local contractors and suppliers
* Training programs for local labor
Tenant dislike retrofit                            * Social survey to gauge tenant knowledge/reactions
measures or do not use correcdy                        * Intensive social monitoring of PPF experimental retrofits
* Initial emphasis on "passive" conservation measures
* Mechanism for tenant feedback throughout project
-Major publicity/communicatons component of project
measures such as insulation and weather-stripping which require no interaction by tenants and "active"
measures outside the apartment such as building-level controls. Billing based on metering will be
introduced gradually, and only in conjunction with appropriate subsidiary measures (e.g., thermostatic
controls) that allow  tenants to control their usage.   A  top priority will be to ensure adequate
communications with tenants through various media, including newspapers, radio, meetings, and flyers.
5.40            To ensure that maximum possible benefits accrue under the project, procedures will be
put in place so that the design of the retrofit packages will be refined over time as technical and social
feedback is obtained, relative prices and regulations change, and new technologies are identified. The
project will also coordinate closely with the ESMAP initiative being directed by the World Bank's
Industry and Energy Department to determine longer-run strategies for optimizing investment decisions
related to district heating systems. While this rolling design process will continue throughout the life of



50                                       Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
the project, a formal mid-term review will be held to assess the experience to date. This review will also
permit loan proceeds to be reallocated between cities based on implementation performance and evolving
creditworthiness indicators.
C. SUSTAINABILry
5.41          Russia's size and enormous needs during the transition mean that Bank financing should
generally be used to demonstrate the benefits of reforms and investments that can be duplicated around
the country without the Bank's assistance. The proposed project is designed to show that the policy and
institutional changes required as a condition of receiving Bank financing will make the housing divestiture
process more affordable and sustainable for all stakeholders, and will help lay the groundwork for a
private housing market. By selecting cities based on a demonstrated conmmitment to reform, the federal
Government has substantially increased the likelihood that the results will be sustainable. Although
desirable, in the future the required reforms and investments will not need to proceed at exactly the same
time, improving the prospects for sustainability if progress is not consistent across all areas. With respect
to the investments being supported under the project, experience around the world shows that once the
financial and economic gains from energy efficiency measures are demonstrated, financing can be
effectively arranged from a number of different public and private sources. Extensive analysis has been
carried out to ensure that the financial returns to cities and households will make such investments viable
for commercial financing in the medium term when the financial system is adequately developed.
5.42          In addition to demonstrating economic and financial gains from energy efficiency and
other investments, the project contributes to a sustainable process of utility cost reductions for other cities
in Russia by demonstrating institutionally how such investments can be made. In Russia, many
transaction barriers limit energy efficiency investments, and many of these barriers are related to the lack
of proper information, institutions, mechanisms, and policies, not simply the lack of capital. The
problem of energy efficiency for residential buildings is especially difficult institutionally. The project
provides an example of how to overcome many of these barriers, and the impacts of different types of
institutional changes. For examp!e, the project will illustrate institutional changes required for: (i)
consumption-based billing and payments for heat and hot water; (ii) contracting, tendering, and project
management and supervision of retrofits at a local level; (iii) heating company responsibility for
distribution losses; (iv) heat and hot water purchase contracts and agreements; (v) retrofit installation; and
(vi) technical performance monitoring and analysis.
5.43          The project will place special emphasis on the use of local expertise and equipment under
the project. This will also promote sustainability. While it is inevitable that the project will require
substantial foreign expertise and equipment, efforts are being made during preparation to work with local
suppliers to prepare them to bid and/or to encourage them to enter into joint ventures with foreign firms.
D. POVERTY IMPACT
5.44          The project supports a specific mechanism-a system of housing allowances-that
mitigates the impact on vulnerable households of higher energy and housing costs. Annex H presents
the broad guidelines for the housing allowance program. As shown in Annex R, 20 - 30 percent of
households might be eligible for housing allowances in the first years after achieving full cost recovery.
As a condition of selection for the project, participating cities were required to make such a means-tested



Chapter 5. Benefits and Risks                                                            51
allowance system operational by hiring appropriate staff, establishing transparent eligibility criteria, and
publicizing the program through the local media. During project implementation, the project will monitor
and assist the capacity of local governments to run these programs as overall cost recovery levels increase
and the demand for housing allowances grows. The allowances will be financed from the budgetary
savings that accrue as a result of increased cost recovery from better-off households. The project will
thus accelerate the pace of fiscal reform and adjustment by requiring cities to replace largely regressive
general housing subsidies with well-targeted subsidies to the poor.
E. ENVIRONmENTAL BENEFITS
5.45          The project is expected to have a positive effect on the environment by reducing energy
use in the participating cities. Much of the heat and hot water produced on the margin during the winter
in several project cities is generated by burning mazut (heavy fuel oil) in extremely inefficient and
polluting heat-only boilers. In many cases, the efficiencies gained under the project will enable these
boilers to be shut down. The beneficial impacts of the project include reduced atmospheric emissions of
nitrogen-oxides (NOJ), sulfur-dioxide (SO2), and carbon-dioxide (CO2) from reduced consumption of
natural gas and mazut in district heating plants or combined heat-and-power plants. A preliminary
estimate for total annual emissions reductions of the full project when implemented is: 7,600 tons S02,
1600 tons NO1, and 950,000 tons CO2. Guidelines are being developed to ensure proper handling of any
hazardous substances while the buildings are under renovation (see Annex K). The project is classified
as category B.






VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.1          The following summarizes the agreements to be reached and the recommended actions
to be taken on the project.
6.2           During appraisal, the following agreements and clarifications were achieved with the
federal Government and cities.
(i)    Onlending terms and conditions to municipalities were clarified with the Ministry
of Finance, and a draft onlending agreement was prepared. (See paragraphs
3.18-3.19.)
(ii)    The reform status of the six selected cities was reviewed, and a final list of
participating cities was determined. An additional "reserve" city was included
in case one of the six cities drops out of the project and the reserve city can meet
the policy criteria. (See paragraph 3.2, and Annex P.)
(iii)   Details of USAID co-financing for parts of the TA component, with contingency
plans in the Bank loan if USAID were to face budgetary cuts during the project
implementation period were reviewed. (See paragraph 3.26, and Annex J.)
(iv)   Implementation details, including CPIU and LIG relationships, procurement
arrangements for the retrofits, and possible decentralization of functions over
time, were agreed upon. (See paragraphs 4.1-4.41, and Annex 0.)
(v)    The method of allocating funds and debt repayment obligations (including costs
of CPIU overhead and engineering services) between cities, as well as an initial
allocation of funds and procedures for possible future reallocations, was agreed.
Based on this, an initial phasing plan for roll out of the investments was
determined. (See paragraphs 3.8-3.16, 3.18-3.19.)
(vi)   The areas and scope of city commitments during project implementation with
respect to policy and institutional reform were elaborated, along with a
mechanism for reviewing progress annually during project implementation. It
was agreed that targets for policy and institutional reforms would be established
by the CPIU in agreement with the Bank on an annual basis. The relevant areas
will include, inter alia, progress with divestiture, cost recovery, competitive
bidding of maintenance, regulatory and fiscal treatment of condominium
associations. (See paragraphs 3.3, 4.43-4.46, Annex 7)
(vii)  Technical, policy, and institutional factors that drive the selection of buildings for
retrofits under the project were agreed. (See paragraph 3.17.)



54                                      Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
6.3          During negotiations, the following agreements and clarifications were reached:
(i)    Draft onlending agreement was reviewed. (See paragraphs 3.18-3.19.)
(ii)   Participating cities signed letters of commitment.
(iii)   Received commitments from oblast authorities to guarantee sub-loans and support
project implementation.
(iv)   Adoption of an Operations Manual acceptable to the Bank by September 15,
1996. No provision of this Manual will be amended, abrogated, or waived
without prior approval of the Bank. (See paragraph 4.8.)
(v)    The annual schedule for assessment and reporting on project implementation in
each of the Participating cities. (See paragraphs 3.3, 4.43-4.46.)
(vi)   Eligibility criteria for buildings and type of investments. (See paragraphs 3.13,
3.17, Annex D.)
(vii)   City commitments to provide detailed budget implementation information
annually to monitor creditworthiness. (See paragraphs 4.43-4.46)
(viii)  The CPIU will be set up as a separate legal entity (See paragraph 4.2)
6.4          The following are conditions of loan effectiveness:
(i)    Receipt of a legal opinion from the Government.
(ii)   Signing of two onlending agreements with participating cities.
6.5          The following will be conditions of loan disbursement:
(i)    For each city:
(a)   the execution of an onlending agreement with the Ministry of Finance
and authorization of the agent by the Government; and
(b)   the creation of suitably staffed LIGs



Russia
Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
Project Ceot Sazy
(US '000)
(Rubles)                                                                        I     I Total
I Foreign     I Total Base                                  Foreign    Base
Local           foreign           Total          blchng             Costs      Ljegl   8roign   Total   Exchang   Costs
A. Housing Alluenwe                    469,327,500,000                 - 469,327,500,000                  -               16   85,000         -   85,000          -       16
3.  ettit  ed         t
Building Retrofits                  591,397,769,223    1.12767e+012    1.71906-+012                  66                59  107,108  204,232  311,340         66        59
metering                             73,185,350,573 135,891,268,407 209,076,618,980                  65                 7   13,255   24,611   37,866         65         7
Capital Repairs                      55,767,150,000  11,043,000,000  66,810,150,000                  17                 2   10,100    2,000   12,100         17         2
Tchnology Advisory Group             10,327,965,750  48,037,050,000  58,365,015,750                  82                 2    1,871    6,700   10,571         82         2
Procura_Ant and Engineering Group   9,789.843.121  45,534,154,050  55,323,997,171                    82                 2    1,773    8,247   10,020         82         2
Sutotal Setrzfits ad Stai              740,468,078,667    1.36817e+012    2.10864e+012                  65                72  134,106  247,790  381,896         65        72
C. Upetrea Retrofits                    90,603,136,357 149,114,387,654 239,717,524,011                   62                8   16,409   27,006   43,415         62         8
D  Pme3et _um_memt
Central 1lU                          38,731,007,197   7,429,932,755  46,160,939,952                  16                 2    7,015    1,346    8,360         16         2
Local IUplmmntatiori Group           32,334,280,651   5,424,864,603  37,759,145,254                  14                 1    5,856       982    6,839        14         1
Policy Implementation Support         2,639,002.269   6.157,671,961   8.796,674.230                  70                 -      478    1,115    1,593         70         -
meteesI *X%deet    _aat                 73,70&,290,117  19,012,669,319  92.716,759,136                   21                3   13.349    3.443   16.792         21         3
Intel 38.   COSTS                            1.3741e+012      1.5363e*012      2.9104*+012                53              100  248,864  278,239  527,103         53       100
Physical Cntgncies                     78,671,897,037  28,969,095.261 107.640,992,298                  27                 4   14,248    5,247   19,495         27         4
Price Catingencies                    467.146,217,924 555.460.185,600    1.02261*4O12                 S                 35   -1,215    5,431    4.216        129         1
.tail MDi        am                         1.91992e4012    2.12073*+012    4.04065.4012                  52              139  261,698  286,916  550,814         52       104
Russia
Enterprise Houing Divestiture Project
Compnate by nflails
(US$ '000)
Local  Duties
The Government  The World Bask        USAID           Total        for.   (gcl.    6
Amount     I    mount       I    Amount   I    Mount         I     Each.  Tams)l  Taxes
.L Souing AllwUa                        71,125   100.0         -       -       -      -  71,125    12.9         -  71,125       -
3. ettits and Steile
Suilding Retrofits                   75,316    24.1 237,269    75.9        -       - 312,565    56.7 205,156  66,655 40,772
Metering                             12,901    32.0  27,413    68.0        -       -  40,314      7.3  24,798  10,258  5,258
Capital Repairs                      18,156   100.0        -        -      -       -  19,158      3.3   2,205  12,801  3,151
Technology Advisory Group             2,206    17.7  10,268    62.3        -       -  12,476      2.3  10,268        -  2,208
Procurement end  ngineering Group   2,096    17.7   9.749    62.3          -   _      11.845      2.2   9,749        _  2,096
ltatal Rotrafta ad  )etag              110,679    28.0 284,699    72.0        -       - 395,378    71.8 252,178  89,715 53,485
C. Upstrem Retrofits                    53,092    91.0   5,256       9.0      -       -  58,341    10.6  32,668  15,804  9,877
D. Prejt I_g_t
Central P1U                           3,024    23.1  10,046    76.9        -       -  13,070      2.4   1,591   8,455  3,024
Local Iplemntation Group             10,764   100.0        -        -      -       -  10,734      2.0   1,161   7,191  2,431
Policy Implintation Support               -        -       -        -  2,109  100.0   2.109       0.4   1,318      791       -
fbstaL  rejet _MA_t                     13,808    53.2  10,046    36.7  2,109    8.1  25,963         4.7   4,071  16,437  5.455
fetal Diuomaet                          248,704    45.2 300,000    54.5  2,109    0.4 550,814   100.0 286,916 193,080 68,318



fty.
. cat                                           totals laciudia. Com         s                 Cat. FO. * U
.       1997    1990    1M                                  is 2 e 01  S1   1997    Igoe    1999   2S0o    20O1       BbU    B   , Rte
S.  3 _~t beta
A. 3t.davta  D&WASS
im ig Services                                 sn         -        -                                                                                           $-  .  575  S75  -  -  -  -  -  175   6.0  69.6  13.0
ZnstZatia                                       29        -        -                _       _       29                                                          29   0.0  69.6  13.6
_m11  clii lbrko                             1,3                                                 1035   1,035                 -        -        -       -   1,035   0.0  6t.6  13.0
Uquilt                                          o7- _                               _    _          36       6        -                                         I f _  -  6   0.0  69.6  13.0
tata1-  oveitna   Dbest                          1,725       -        -        _       _            1,725   1,725        -        -       _        _        _   1,725
W,UM _atvts
1. fema
civil "mks                                    -   2.930   8,791  11,722  20,513  14,652  53,606           -   2,823   8,351  11,105  19,422  13,873  15,174   0.0  69.6  13.0
gqWipt                                        -      34S   1,034   1.379   2,413   1.724   6,891          -      332     962   1.306   2,215   1,632   6,138   0.0  69.6  13.0
Lnineering                               _172                517      690   1.207       62   3,448        - 166          491      653   1,142      616   3,269   0.0  69.6  13.0
utotal g.am                                       -   3,446  10,343  13,790  24,133  17.230  66,911           -   3,321   9.625  13,065  22.649  16,321  65,361
Civil  orks                                   -   1,322   3,967   1.290   9,257   6,612  26,449            -   1,274   3,769   S.011   6,765   6,261  25,079   0.0  69.6  13.0
quiint                                        -      216     467      622   1,069      776   3,112         -     IS0     443      190   1,031      737   2,951   0.0  69.6  13.0
Kaginring                                     -       78     233      311      5t      389   1.556                75     222      295      516     368   1,475   0.0  69.6  13.0
Subtotal  _u,sdezkask                             -   1,516   4,667   6,223  10,691   7,779  31,116           -   1,499   4,434   5,896  10,311   7,365  29,505
3.  q-bL
Civil work                                    -   2,930   B,791  11,722  20,513  14,652  51,608            -   2,823   8,3151  11,10  19,422  13,873  55,574   0.0  69.6  13.0
tquip-nt                                      -      341   1,034   1,379   2,413   1,724   6,695           -     332     962   1,306   2,265   1,632   6,536   0.0  69.6  13.0
Snginaering                                    -     172     517      690   1.207      862   3,448         -        1     91      653   1,142      *16   3,269   0.0  69.6  13.0
~.abtal  ein                                     -   3.446  10.343  13.790  24.133  17,236  66,951            -   3,321   9,625  13,065  22.649  16,321  65.381
4. Vladir
Civil works                                   -   2,730   5,190  10,920  19,110  13,650  54,601            -   2,630   7,780  10,346  18,094  12,924  51,774   0.0  69.6  13.0
Equip-at                                      -      321     96    1,285   2,248   1,606   6,424           -     309     915   1,217   2,129  1.20   6,091   0.0  69.6  13.0
lngin-ering                                   -      161    je2       642   1.124      803   3,212         -     ISS     416      609   l.OU      7so   3.046   0.0  69.6  13.0
>d*eta3. Y3.1zl                                  -   3.212   9.631  12.647 22,413  16,019  64,236             -   3,094   9,113  12,171  21,267 15.201  60,910
S. 1.taasawo"k
Civil works                                   -   1,713   5,155   6,173  12,027   6,591  34,363            -   1,655   4,96   6,511  11,386   0,134  32,514   0.0  69.6  13.0
Squipmnt                                      -      202     606      609   1,415   1,011   4,043          -     191     576      766   1,340      957   3,833   0.0  69.6  13.0
bginring                                      -      101     303      404      707     S0   2,021         -      97     288      33       670     476   1,917   0.0  69.6  13.0
*totel Ut,oine.dk                                 -   2,021   6,OU6   3,065  14,1S0  10,207  60,427           -   1,947   5,761   7,660  13,397   9,569  38,334
6. Vl3kbw
Civil works                                   -      521   1,563   2,064   3,647   2,605  10,419           -     502   1,435   1,974   3,453   2,466   9,00   0.0  69.6  13.0
6qui -t                                       -       £1     164      245      429     306   1,226         -      19      175     232      406     290   1,162   0.0  69.6  13.0
Engineeing                                            31      92      123      215     153      613        -      30       67     116      203     1 S       61   0.0  69.6  13.0
Stetal  11k_                                      -     613   1.839   2,452   4.290   3.064  12,258           -     590   1,747   2.323   4,062   2,902  11,623
*d"atl   Lld4a  Malne' its                           -  14,297  42,891  17,133 100,079  71,435 261,939            -  13,771  40,744  54,160  94,7156  67,663 271,134
C. Enteimg
1. fmxm
Civil works                                 660   2,149   1.290         -        -       -   4,299       660   2,086   1,238        -        -        -   4,134   0.0  73.0  13.0
3quipLp t                                   64S   1,612      967        -        -       -   3,224       645   1,565      928       -        -        -   :,131   0.0  73.0  13.0
Eginering                                    72      179      107       -        ^     -        316       72     174      103    _           -        -     349   0.0  73.0  13.0
totae   %Mmn                                  1,176   3.940   2.364         -       -        -   7,661   1,576   3,625   2,270          -       -        -   7,670
2. EnwogkaA
Civil works                                 381      912      571        -       -        -   1,904      361     924      141        -       -        -   1,54   0.0  73.0  13.0
gq%_ip t                                    2U6      714      426        -       -        -   1.425      266     693      411        -       -        -   1,390   0.0  73.0  13.0
Ingineeriag                                  32       79       40      5-        -        -     19        32      77      46           -          -         14   0.0  73.0  13.0
Stal 3ovbask                                    698   1,746   1,047         -        -       -   3,491      698   1,694   1,00S         -        -       -   3,398
3. fteobu"
Civil works                                  0 6    2,149   1,290.       -       -        -   4,;99      060   2,066   1,230         -       -        -   4,164   0.0  73.0  13.0
quipmnt                                     641   1,612       967        -       -        -   3,Z24      641   1,565      920        -       _        -   3,136   0.0  73.0  13.0
E _gi9ee_ing                                 72      179      107        -       -    _         316       72      174     103        -       -    _         349   0.0  73.0  13.0
taut""    _m.hm                               1,176   3,.40   2.364         -        -       -   7,861   1,176   3,625   2,270          -        -       -   7,670
4. Y3.diaim



Civil works                                  773   1,932   1,159          -        _        -   3,864       773   1,875   1,113          -                -   3,761   0.0  73.0  13.0
Equip_nt                                     580   1,449       869        -        -        -   2,898      580   1,406       835         -       _        -   2,821   0.0  73.0  13.0
tngineering                                   64      16        97        _                 -     322        64     156       93         -       _    1          313   0.0  73.0  13.0
Stotal VlAdhr                                  1,417   3,542   2,125          -       -        -   7,084    1,417   3,438   2,040           -        -        -   6,895
. pet _gavodk
Civil works                                  509   1,273       764        _        _        -   2,546      509   1,236       733        -        -        -   2,478   0.0  73.0  13.0
Equipment                                    382      955      573        -        -        -   1,910      382      927      550        -        -        -   1,859   0.0  73.0  13.0
Znginoe.ing                                   42      106       64        -        -        -     212       42      103       61        -        -        -      207   0.0  73.0  13.0
Abtotal ketzosseo_k                              934   2,334   1,400          -       -        -   4,668       934   2,265   1,344          -        -        -   4,543
6. Velkh.t
Civil mocks                                  151      378      227        -        -        -      756      151     367      218         -       -        -      735   0.0  73.0  13.0
Iquip_nt                                     113      283      170        -        -        -      567      113     275      163         -       -        -      552   0.0  73.0  13.0
Engino ring                                   13       31       19        -             I   -       63       13      31       18    _            -    _           61   0.0  73.0  13.0
2total V olkh                                    277      693     416         -    _           -   1,385       277      612      399        -        -    I       1,348
sbtotal. lte1g                                    6,478  16,195   9,717                _ _         -  32,390   6,478  15,719   9,328           -        -        -  31,525
D. Capital repair of retrofitted buildings    1              605   1,815   2,420   4,235   3,025  12,100            -      797   2,552   3,574   6,t57   4,770  18,158   0.0  16.5  17.4
Total   vetent Costs                                  8,203  31,097  54,423  S9,608 104,314  74,510 332,154   8,203  30,287  52,624  57,753 101,214  72.461 322,542
IX. VAoUrInt Costs
A. Oparatim    m     e inta e
o a H for Retrofits                                -      429   1,716   3,431   6,434   9,865  21,874            -      714   3,052   6,410  12,409  11,140  39,726  10.0  17.4  13.0
O S H for Metering                               194      680      972      972     972   1,117   4,907        297   1,133   1,729   1,815   1,874   1,942   8,789  10.0  17.4  13.0
Total aeormt CoE.                                        194   1,109   2,687   4,403   7,405  10,982  26,781           297   1,047   4,780   8,225  14,283  19,082  48,515
Total                                                  8.397  32,206  57,110  64,011 111,719  35,492 358,936   8,500  32,134  57,404  65,979 115,497  91,543 371,058
Mm, Feb 05 13:03:13 1996
Russia
Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
Table 2. Upstream Retrofit Measures
Detailed Costa
(US '000)
Parameters (in t)
Phy.         Gross
Base Cost                                  Totals Including Contingencies              Cont. For.   Tax
1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001  Total   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001  Total  Rate  Exch. Rate                        Disb. Acct.
X. Invstment Coets
A. Upstream Retrofit Measures                1,198  4,392  5.191  6,788  8,38s 13,976 39,930  1,398  5,346  6,552  8,842 11,Zl4 19,208 52,559  10.0  66.1  17.4                         CWUPR DA
Total Iavet_nt Costa                             1,198  4,392  5,191  6,7868  8,385 13,976 39,930  1,398  5,346  6,552  8,842 11,214 19,208 52,559
IT. Racurnt Comt
Operation and Maintenanco of Retrofits          36    168    323    527    779  1.378  3,210          SS    279    575    985  1.502  2,394  5,790  10.0  17.4  13.0                    CWUPRJD3
Total RWUect Costs                                  36    168    323    527    779  1,378  3,210           55    279    575    985  1,502  2,394  5,790
Total                                             1,234  4,560  S,514  7,315  9,164 15,353 43,140  1,453  5,625  7,127  9,827 12,715 21,601 58,348



Russia
Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
Teble 3. Project Implementation Units
Detailed Coats
(US$ '000)
Paremeters (in I)
Phy.          Gross
Bese Cost                                     Totals Including Contingencies                 Cont. For.   Tax  ______________
1996    1997    1999    1999   2000   2001  Total   1996   1997    1999    1999   2000   2001  Total  Rate  Exch. Rate                                  Disb. Acct.
I. Inweetimat Coost
A. Poject Management
1. CP1U  Staff
Project Director                                84      84      64       84      84      84     504     116      126     138     i45      iso     156    834  10.0   0.0  26.6                    PMSTAFFCPIU-DA
Communications Coordinator                      36      36      36       38      38      36     227       52      56      62       65      66      70     375  10.0   0.0  28.6                   PMSTAFFCPOIU DR
Policy Issues CoordinLation Group /a            90      90      90      90       90      90     536     124      137     147     155      160     167    890  10.0   0.0  26.6                    PKSTAFFCPIU-DA
Deputy Director Implementation                  70      70      70      70       70      70     420       97     107     115     121      125     130    695  10.0   0.0  28.6                    PMSTAFFCPIU DA
Deputy Director finance                         70      70      70      70       70     170     4 20      97     107     115     121      125     130    695  10.0   0.0  28.6                    P94STAPFCPIU DR
Office, Manager                                 39      39       39      39      39      39     235       54      60      64       68      70      71     369  10.0   0.0  26.6                   PK4STAPPCPIU-DA
Financial Analyst                               42      42      42       42      42      42     252       56      64      69       73      75      78    417  10.0   0.0  26.6                    PKSTAPFCPOU-DA
Disbursement Group lb                           64      64       84      64      64      64      504     116     126     138      145     150     156    834  10.0   0.0  28.6                    PKSTAPFCPIU-DA
Loan Officer                                    42      42       42      42      42      42      252      58      64      69       73      75      79     417  10.0   0.0  28.6                   PKSTAPFCPIU-DA
kAdinistrative Services /c                     134     134      134     134     134     134      806    186      205     221      233        241 7250   1,335  10.0   0.0  28.6                   PKSTAPFCPIUDRk
Subtotal CIUI  Staff                              63        93693          693    693       693  4158    958  1,057  1,138  1,2001,4 128 682
2. Eq.uipmmt /d
Data Propcessing Equipment                      34      34       34      36      34      34      203      42      45      48       50      51      53    266   10.0  41.3  17.4                    OTHIEREORE_DA
Copiers.  Printers, Scanners                    17      17       17      17      17      17      102      21      23       24      25      26      26    144  10.0  41.3  17.4                     OTH4EREORELDA
Cinmunications  Equipment                        8       6        6       a       8        6      51      11      11       12      12      13      13      72  10.0  41.3  17.4                    oTHERSQRELDR
Security                                        13      13       13      13      13      13       76      16      17       16      19      19      20     106  10.0  41.3  17.4                    OTHEREQRILDA
subtotal Equigmest                                 72       72      72      72      72       72     432      90       96     101     105      106    112    613
3. Technologu advisory group                    1,623  1,623  1,623  1,823  1,640  1,640 10,571  2,029  2,077  2,127  2,178  2,008  2,056 12,476  10.0  62.3  17.7                                    PMSTAFFCPIU -DA
4. Procurement and engineeoring group           1,670  1,670  1,670  1,670  1,670  1,670 10,020  1,859  1, 904  1,949  1,996  2, 04 4  2,093 11,845  10.0  62. 3  17.7                                PMSTAFFCPIU -DA
5. Other consulting services /*                   425     425      425    425      425     425  2,546       530     566      596     622     640    661  3,615  10.0  41.3  17.4                      PMSTAPFCPIU DR
6. CPIU Start Up ankd Refurbishment                44       44      44      44      44       44     263      55       58      61      64      66       66     373  10.0  43.5  13.0                      OPCPIU .DA
7. office Lease for CPIU If                       160      160     160     160     160      160     959    221      24 4     263     277        286    297  1.566   10.0   0.0  17.4                     OPCPIU-DR
subtotal Project Management                        4,666  4, 666  4 ,6868    ,8       ,0      ,0    8,5       ,4       ,0,6           i 6443  6393  6,575 37, 390
3. Local MWlantation group
1. Project Nonagsennt Staff
Project Mlanagement Services                   498     496     496     4 98     498     4 96  2,991    669       760     618      663     692    926  4,.950  10.0   0.0  27.5                     PKSTAFFLIG_DR
Staff Engineer                                 214     214     214      214     214     2 14  1,262      295     326     351      370     362    397  2.121  10.0   0.0  27. 5                      PI4STAFFLIG_DR
Subtotal. Project Maaginnt Staff                  712      712     7 12    712     712      712  4 ,272    9684  1,086  1,169  1,233  1,275  1, 323  7,071
2. Zquipmmot /g
Data Processing Equipment                      206     206     206    206       206     206  1, 23 6    257      275     289      302    311    321  1,7S4   10.0  43.5  13.0                         OPLIGODA
Copier. Printer. Scanner                       103     10 3     103     103     103     10 3     616     129     137    1uS       151     155     160    677  10.0  4 3. 5  13.0                      OPLIGODA
Comunications Equipment                         21      21       21      21      21      21      124      26      27       29      30      31      32     175  10.0  4 3 .5  13.0                     OPLIGODA
Security                                        21      21       21      21      21      21      124      26      27       29      30      31      32     175  10.0  43.5  13.0                       OPLIGODA
subtotal Equipment                                3 50     3 50    350     350     35 0     35 0  2, 102    4 37     4 67    492     513    529       54 5  2, 981
3. LIG Start Up and Refurbishment                  26       26      26      26      26       26     1 58      33      35      37      39       40      41    224  10.0  43.5  13.0                       OPLIG-DA
4. Office Lease for LIG                            51       51      51      51       51      51     3 07   _   1      78      84      68 B     91      95    507  10.0   0. 0  13.0                      OPLIG-DR
Subttal   ocalImpemenatio   ~cte       1140  1L.1±0  1,140  1,140  1,140  1,140  6, 83 9  1,525jJ                 1  7 82 JA    1,934  2,0045 1 0,2
Total.                                                    6,026  6,026  6,026  6,026  5, 84 3  5, 8 43 3 5, 789  7, 266  7,669  8, 0198  B, 3 1S   6,327  8,579 48,174
\a Consisted of 2 economists with an annual salary of 035,000 each-
\b Consisted of 2 staff accountants with an annual salary of $35,000 each.
\c Consisted of 8 support staff with the annual salary of 912,000 each.
\d Includes cost of supplies and operations end maintenance.
\s Includes banking, audit, legal. etc services for CPIU..
\f 200 sq a P 5800 pax sq a per year
\g Includes cost of supplies and operations and maintenance.



Enterprise lusing Divestiture Project
Table 5. Policy Impl_eatation Supwrt
Detaled CD
MUSS I 000
Paramters (in 1)
Phiy-       Gross
0e" Coet                         Totals Includine Contingescs           Cont. For.   TS                                            Other Accounts
1955  1997  1990  1999  2000  2001  Total 1996  1997  199U  1999  2000  2001  Total Rete  Each. Pate               Diab. Acet.             Fin. Rule              Proc. Acet.
X.   om t   Cewt
A. t.Aa1ag
1       _tahi.t df Asecietirm             Is    05    05    05    05    *5   50s   101   106   111   11S   ll   121   672  10.0  70.0   0.0              TRAININtGDA          USAID 1 1001 I              TUG PA
Mi1t    _aO   M    _ _eOet Ser iCW        61    01    *1    61    e1    e1   406    97   102   106   110   113   117   646  10.0  70.0   0.0              TRA1ITN DA           USAID 11001 )               To-1PA
Smif All_mene Orattis  rgrpm             37    37    37    37    37    37   220    44    46    46    SO    51    53   292  10.0  70.0   0.0              TRALING_DA           USAID 1 100t I              TR-PA
idLim           Fia ciag                  63    63    63    63    63    63   317    75    79    *2    05    66    90   500  10.0  70.0   0.0              TRANIiGCDA           UMAID   100 I               TAUMPA
S""                                              26    2"   26    266   2"    266 1,5S93   317   333   346   360   370   381 2.109
Fab 6S 13:66:26 196
Russia
Enterprise Houing Divestiture Project
Table 6. Housing Allance
Detailed Coat.
(US$ '°000
Parameters (in 1)
Phy.        GCross
base Cost                                 Totals Including Contingencies             Cont. For.   Tea                                       Other Accounts
1996   1997   1996   1999   2000   2001  Total   1996   1997   1999   1999   2000   2001  Total  Rate  Each. Rate               Disb. Aect.            Fin. Rule             Proc. Acct.
X. 1oea      t costs
Nassing Allowance  6.250  0.500 231 00 21.250 17.000 10,200 *5,000  4,67S  7,632 19,627 17,227 13,728  0,237 71,125  10.0   0.0   0.0                   IIA_DA                 GOVT          HOUSINGIALIA      3PA
Teta.                     64,254  6,500 23,00 21,250 17,000 10,200 65,000  4,675  7,632 19,627 17,227 13,726  6,237 71,125



Russia
Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
i tendture  oa ts by Comets - Sam  Costs
(USS '000)
Retrofits end Metering
Procurement                          Project Management
Technology       and                                    Local           Policy                 Physical
Housing   Building                   Capital    Advisory   Engineering Upstream                     Implementation Implementation            Contingencies
Allc.ence  Retrofits   Metering       Repairs       Group        Group    Retrofits  Central PIU          Group          Support       Total    I    Amount
I.  Iowetaient Costs
A. Civil Works                                 -      257,345       19,140       12,100            -            -    39,930               -                -               - 328,515    1.2  3,993
B. Engineering a procurement groups            -            -            -            -       10,571      10,020          -               -                -               -  20,590   10.0  2,059
C. Housing Allowance                      85, 000           -            -            -            -            -         -               -                -               -  85,000   10.0  8,500
D. 3quipmet
Building Equipment                                  28,594       13,251            -            -           -          -               -               -               -  41,844       -       -
Other Equipeant                                          -            -            -            -           -          -             432           2,102               -   2,533   10.0    253
Subtotal ZzUiimnt                              _       28,594       13,251            -            -            _         _             432           2,102                -  44,378    0.6    253
E. Training                                           -            -                  -            -            -         -               -               -           1,593   1,593   10.0    159
r. Project  Ynemt Staff
P14 Staff for CPIU                          -            -            -            -            -           -          -           6,706               -               -   6,706   10.0    671
PM Staff for LIG                            -            -            -            -            -           -          -               -           4,272               -   4,272   10.0    427
Subtotal lProjet   _mmnt Staff                 -            -            -            -            -            -         -           6,706           4,272                -  10,979   10.0  1,098
C. PlU Operations
CPIU Operations                             -            -            -            -            -           -          -           1,222               -               -   1,222   10.0    122
LIG Operations                              -            -            -            -            -           -          -               -             465               -     465   10.0       46
Subtotal FIU   pratim                          -            -            -            -            -            -          -          1,222             465                -   1,687   10.0    169
H. Experimental Design                         -        1,725-                        -            -            -         -               -                -               -   1,725       -      -
Total Inveat t Coats                          85,000      287,664       32,390       12,100       10,571       10,020    39,930            8,360           6,839           1,593 494,467    3. 3 16,231
I. laorat Costs
Operation A Maintenance                        -       23,676        5,476  -         -            -            -     3,185                -               -               -  32,637   10.0  3,264
Total koirrent Costs                                -      23,676        5,476             -            -           -      3,485               -               -               -  32,637   10.0  3,264
Total  ASL    COSTS                             85,000     311,340       37,866       12,100       10,571       10,020    43,415            8,360           6,839           1,593 527,103    3.7 19,495
Physical Contingencies                        8,500        2,368          548            -        1,057        1,002     4,342              836             684             159  19,495       -      -
Price Contlagmi e
lIflatia
Local                                         -       25,271        5,114       11,294          150          146    14,032           6,943           5,875             491  69,316       -       -
Foreign                                       -          S15           91          205          698          678     2,961             111              81              92   5,31         -      -
Sbttotal Tnflatiom                               -      25,786        5,205       11,499          848          823    16,993           7,054           5,955              582  74,746       -      -
Devaluation                                22,375      -26,908       -3,304       -5,441            -            -    -6,402          -3,180          -2,694             -226 -70,530       -
Subtotal Price Contingencies                 -22,375      -1,122        1,901        6,058          848          823    10,592            3,874           3,261             357   4,216   29.8  1,257
Total P3CT COSTS                                71,125      312,585       40,314      18,158        12,476      11,845    58,348           13,070          10,784           2,109 550,814    3 .8 20,752
Taxes                                              -      40,772        5,258        3,151        2,208        2,096      9,877           3,024           2,431               -  68,818    3 .4  2,360
Foreign Exchange                                   -     205,158       24,798        2,205       10,268        9,749    32,668            1,591           1,161           1,318 288,916    2.0  5,722



PLU33ia
Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
Allocation of Loan Ptoceede
The World Bank
(US$ '000)
Suggested Allocation of
Loan Proceeds                                                                                    Loan Amounts
Disbursement   Total ProJect Cost    Average Disbursement I                      Unallocated                Allocated
Loan Aount          I        Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foraign
A. Civil .orks                              215,253             70 333,963 106,609 227,354         70       33       87 233,910  18,718   2,.46  15,872 215,253  32,730 182,522
S. Equipmet
Building EQ                               32,009             97  40,010  10,440  29,570         e7      S0      100  34,791   2,783       418   2.366  32,008   4.803  27,204
Other EQ                                      466            14   3,594   2,303   1,291         14       13      16      506       40      24       17      466      272     194
Subtotal    uir  nt                           32,474             -  43,604  12,743  30,961          -        -        -  3s,298   2,824      441   2,382  32,474   5,075  27,399
C. Housing Allowance                               -             -  71,125  71,125         -        -        -        -       -        _        _                _        _       _
D. Consulting Sexvioer
Inginesering 6 procureent groups          18,416             92  24,321   4,304  20,017         82       _      100  20,017   1,601         -   1,601  18,416         -  18,416
Training                                        -             -   2,109      791   1,318                 -             -       -        -            -        -       -        -
P1l Staff (cFIU/LIG)                       7.271             45  17,567  16,322   1,245         45      41      100   7,903      632      533      100   7,271   6,126   1,145
Subtotal Consultiag Uezvices                  25,686             -  43,997  21,417  22,580          -        -       -  27,920   2,234       533   1,701  25,686   6,126  19,561
S. CPIUILIG operations                         1,207            63   2,095   2.095          -      63       63        -   1,312      105      105        -   1,207   1,207         -
F. Experimental Designs                        I,S00            87   1,725       525   1,200       87       57     100   1,500         -        -        -   1,500      300   1,200
G. Recurrent Costs                                 -              -  54,305  47,384   6,921         -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -       -        -
Unallocated                                    23,880              -       -        -        -       -        -        -        -    _
Tetal                                         300,00054 550,814 261,898 288.916                      -        -        - 300,000  23,880   3,925  19,955 276,120  05,439 230,682
Loan amounts financed by The World Bank






-    1
sceJAOJ1~ TAR4ip AND UftE1AT)Obd
CY ISm   CfIM               CY low                                                  200M C0IM  c 02   cYa2M
ACTIVAY-  -OOWW O ;W6O lOOO -W O -                                                                                  WO   4O   i-       -W   Oe
1  OA1I cpIu  mumsT    2                            -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -
.CEUATE CPiuBEGI TOA   wG MSu S3
on   OFFa  FACM   -                        Z_=                                                                                        = 
2,          ACM T 90   E S     AD S5 _  _ 
FS TO TEST nM T__Ea_____
*.  PLETE ACTIONS TO OrAN IuTIAL           1.5
AND sinsom  SNVPOE
TcOMPLt FOR iflNS        AND W7S           3.2
io o   ~au         wIt   al                  S.5     *rns  _. AND  4_2
9. OTVAU.4  DOCU CN. ANDTATONDRF             4.3
PMS AN   TMAL PIJACT AOKSYSTEMS
FOR UNTIAL PHIMI U iMoTAr *TALLAIUON
4. COMPLETE ANDEEC  CON_                     34_ D-              Z    1A1  MAiii  ---E_-  _- _-- _ _ __
SW. DOESBWN EVMALL aS I T FPPOE tTU
- MAINTO1C w42_                                                          - eUE UII1        EI                            EE                HEE_
cosc  oCAST  EVALUATEIA A  S CO 1U2
.TEXE= AN EXCT _W _DIN OF _HF    4.4                                                                        ________     
IlEv I nUR.OPK4. - _VS   REROI  _IOPA
POEFEFORMiLrAuAiNCE AM  _EII  _N   MM      ,.,_         
la ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ bww IE   ~  :     .                                                                              






ANNEX C
EsTimATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Esdmated Disbursment Schedules
Bank Fical Year                 FY97           FY98          FY99          FY00         FYOI            FY02
YR1            YR2           YR4           YRS          YR6            YR7
Semester (6 months) --6W96  7/96       61 7 97R     69    m      679   77Y"  6700  7/0 75T  7/01             6/02
Per Semester (%)        0  .5        1.5  2.5       4.5  6          8  10       10  15        20  12           10
Per Semester            0  1.5       4.5  7.5       13.5  18       24  30       30  45        60  36           30
(USS mlllions)
Cumulatlve (%)          0  .5         2  4.5          9  15        23  33       43 58         78  90          100
Cumulatve               0  1.5         6  13.S       27  45        69  99      129  174    234  270           300
(USS millions)                           I              I                           I            I
Disbursement Schedule
100
90
|     80 ---+  Urban
70                                                                                  Development
60                                                                                  (Bankwide)
1;    50                                                                       1   EHDP (Russia)
40
I  30
20
E
*10  
1       2        3        4        5       6        7        8
Years



2                                                                            Sf Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiure Project
Annual and Accumulated Dlsbursement
100 -
80 
t                70-                                                                                                                 __ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _
o . :...........                                                                                                       -4.-Accumulated
11    ~~                                                    .                                                                               Disbursement, %
40                                                                                                                    - - .-Aa......................................    ............. .................  Annual
F30  ...................................................................Disbursement, %
20  -_''''''''''''''''''''':_ .....................................................
1               2                3                4                5                6
Years



ANNEX D
TEcHmNcAL ANALYsIS, DESIGN, AssumPTIoNs, AND INPUrS FOR RErRoFri
Overview
1.            Performance estimates of 40 retrofits and their associated installed unit costs were
combined with prototypical building types, representative climate types, and representative energy and
water costs to estimate an array of economic and financial parameters.
2.            Descriptions of the installed unit costs are available in the Project Files. An example of
the building stock database being used is shown in Table D-1. There are 15 basic building types which
break down into 29 building subtypes when differentiated based on the presence of an attic. These are
the building types being used with the implementation of the FEDS model. But in order to facilitate
spreadsheet analysis, these 29 building types were reduced to 10.
Prototype Buildings
3.            The 10 building types used in this analysis' are shown in Table D-2. These types comnprise
the full range of building stock, with one omission, in the EHDP cities. The typology differentiates
buildings according to the following parameters:
*             building height
*             building footprint
*             attic/no attic
*             bypass/no-bypass radiators
*             closed/open hot water
*             natural gas available
*             panel, brick, wood construction
4.            The "1-2 family' house category was excluded from evaluation as it represents less than
one percent of the total floor space and hence little opportunity for savings. In addition, this house type
cannot be analyzed in the same manner as the multi-family buildings as its thermal behavior is quite
different.
5.            The 10 prototypes shown in Table D-2 (excluding the 1-2 family houses) were used to
calculate the material and equipment requirements as shown in Tables D-3 and D-4. For example, the
building height and footprint determine the number of sections and aparutments, and thus, the number of
windows, radiators, doors, etc. Since the perimeter of the windows is known, so is the amount of
weather stripping required. Such logic is used to estimate the total material and equipment requrements
for every technical measure being considered, and these requirements are shown in Table D-3. The table
assumes a 100 percent penetration of each technical measure.
6.            Ideally, a table such as D3 would facilitate astimation of the total material and equipment
requirements of any city's building stock if one could assume  th  100 percent of the municipal and
enterprise-owned multi-family housing were retrofitted with each technical measure. In reaity, however,
I/    There will actually be 48 building typW used in the elaborated financialltechnical model used for design of retrofi
during inplementation. For simplicity's sake, these have been aggregated into 10 basic building types.



2                                           Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
not all of the buildings will be retrofitted, and even those that were would not be retrofitted with all of
the retrofits being considered since some are mutuaily exclusive while others would not be cost-effective.
7.             But by assuming the total number of buildings retrofitted in a given city, the spreadsheet
can be to estimate aggregate installed cost, savings, and payback for a host of corollary assumptions and
to conduct sensitivity analyses.
8.             For this exercise, all buildings are categorized as one of three types: small, medium, and
large. The 2 to 4-story buildings are considered "small" buildings, the 5 to 8-story buildings are
"medium" buildings, and the 9 to 14-story buildings "large" buildings. This grouping is important as
physical characteristics are associated with different behavioral ones, which in turn yield different
financial returns for identical investment bundles. For examnple, natural draft ventilation controls is very
cost-effective in the "large" buildings but are not so in the "small" buildings.
Climate Types
9.             Results are reported for two different climate types: 4,750 versus 5,940 heating degree
days (HDD)2 (see Table D-5). These two climate types broadly cover the range of the 6 cities currently
active in the EHDP.
Value of Energy and Water Saved
10.            Heat Production Cost. All EHDP candidate cities subsidize district heat and hot water
services to their respective populations. In all cities, a district heating utility, which is considered a for-
profit city-owned company, plays a key role in producing and/or distributing the heat. The city
subsidizes this company to cover the agreed upon production and distribution costs.
11.            The stated heat production costs for those cities under consideration range from
approximately $10 per Gcal to $35 per Gcal. These costs change quarterly. Companies at the lower half
of this range primarily use natural gas and many purchase or produce co-generated heat. Companies at
the top of the range use residual fuel oil (mazut) in heat-only boilers.
12.            The ownership structure of heat energy producers and "resellers" is in flux. Examples
exist in which heat is resold up to 4 times in moving from producer to household. The companies that
produce and distribute the heat are structured, or are being structured, to operate as profit-oriented firms
with regulatory oversight from regional and city commissions. Reported production costs between
companies with seemingly similar physical production and distribution infrastructures - companies that
face near identical factor prices - may vary by as much as a factor. These significant inconsistencies are
actually similar to those observed in the U.S. electric power industry during the 1970's and early 1980's.
Inefficient management, especially in the number of employees, and "creative" accounting practices are
two likely reasons for such disparate reported heat production costs among various companies.
13.            Natural gas is currently being sold to the cities for $60 per 1000 nO3. Regional energy
commissions have been granted authority to regulate some gas prices but the commissions interviewed
by the technical team said that the gas price to energos and city heat companies is a nationally set price
and that is not expected to be lowered in the near future. Estimates of transportation costs of gas have
21     The heating degree days (HDD) for a Russian city is defined as (the target inside temperature minus the average
outside temperature during the heating season) x the number of days in the heating season.



Annex D. Technical Analysis, Design, Assumptions, and Inputs for Retrofits                            3
been reviewed and range from $0.50 to $1.50 per 100 km per 1000 ni3. The technical team's estimate
is roughly $0.90 per 100 km per 1000 m3.3
14.            The price of natural gas used for the financial analysis will be $60 per 1000 m3. For the
economic analysis, costs based on border prices were not used because of existing physical constraints
on incremental exports.  Instead, economic costs were estimated using the long-run marginal cost
approach developed under the Gas Distribution Rehabilitation Project (IBRD Report No. 13046), which
would suggest an economic cost of gas for EHDP cities of $45 per 1000 m3. City heat companies have
been surveyed to determine the share of production costs attributable to natural gas. The share varies
from below 40 percent to over 70 percent with the majority of heat companies reporting close to 50
percent which is assumed for this analysis. Coupled with the assumption of a 70 percent operating
efficiency, the base values of delivered heat are $16.50/Gcal for the economic analysis and $19/Gcal for
the financial analysis.' This will understate the reported production costs for some cities, thus, this is
a conservative estimate.
15.            Electricity.  Traditionally, industry has subsidized residential consumers by paying
significantly higher rates; up to 6 times higher than residential rates. City companies do not generate
electricity. In about one-third of the EHDP cities, a city-owned company purchases electricity from a
regional energo and resells the electricity to either the ZHEO (which resells to the occupants) or directly
to the occupants. In these situations, the city needs to generate sufficient revenues through reselling to
cover the costs of electricity purchase and distribution. This is very similar to the construct of heat
companies purchasing and reselling hot water. The major difference is that cities do not need to subsidize
the city electric company as the company is able to collect enough revenues through industrial users to
cover all "production" costs. In these situations, the city would have a financial incentive to invest in
residential end-use efficiency measures only if the city electric company fell short in revenues and
required a city subsidy.
16.            Most cities have no involvement with the delivery of electricity to its occupants. The
relationship is strictly between the occupants and the regional energos. Nevertheless, the cities have an
incentive to promote investments in residential end-use efficiency measures, since local budget-financed
housing allowance programs will have to compensate poor households as overall utility costs rise.
17.            Recent changes in the electricity rate structure are likely to create more financial
incentives for some cities to invest in residential end-use efficiency. Industrial and residential rates are
being equalized, bringing rates closer to the "cost of service" by customer class. For purposes of this
analysis, a value of 4.5 cents/kWh is used.
18.            Cold Water. In contrast to that of heat and electricity, good data on the value of cold
water conservation is not available. Two reasons for this are 1) cities have not provided such data on a
timely basis and 2) the technical team has treated this issue as a lower priority. The data provided by
one city indicates that the production cost of cold water is about $0. 10/m3, though this figure does not
3/     Reported heat production costs have been analyzed for EHDP cities siuated near natural gas producing regions to
determine the change in heat production costs if credit were given in the gas pricing structure to the price of gas for a reduction
in transportation cost from the current $60 per 1000 m3 natural gas price. Assuming 1500 km transport at $0.90 per 100 km
per 1000 mi, tde gas price would be $46.50 per 1000 mn. Assuming an operating efficiency of 0.7, and 110 m3 of gas equal
to I Gcal at the burner tip, the value of gas saved at the building level would be $7.31 IGcal. Using the current price of gas,
$60 per 1000 m3, the value of gas saved at the building level would be $9.43/Gcal. If one were primarily interested in the value
to a city of gas saved, it is recommended that $9.43/Gcal be used.
4/     In fact for fmnancial analysis the value amounts to $22.801Gcal assuming 20 percent VAT.



4                                          Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
include sewer services. Modem sewage treatment facilities typically contribute 80 to 100 percent of cold
water expenses. Though the combined water and sewer costs in Moscow are reported to be $0.54/m3,
this has not been confirmed. For purposes of this analysis, $0.20/r3 is the assumed basic value of saved
cold water and sewer services5, which is as low as a fifth of the cost of that in the U.S. when accounting
for all fixed costs. This value will be reviewed further.
Building and Apartment Level Inputs and Assumptions
19.           A summary of all inputs and key assumptions is presented below.
*      Value of heat energy and hot water saved
-      economic analysis - $16.50/Gcal
-      financial analysis - $19/Gcal
*      Value of electricity saved - $0.045/kWh
*      Value of cold water saved - $0.20/M3
*      Real escalation rate is 2.5 percent for
-      district heat
-      district hot water
-      electricity
-      cold water
*      Real escalation rate is 2.0 percent for natural gas
*      Heating degree days - 5,940 and 4,750
*      Technical measure life - 15 years
*      Ratio of Russian labor to Western labor is 5:1
*      Discount rate - 10.0 percent real
A/     For financial analysis, this amounts to $0.24/m3 assuming 20% VAT.



EHDP"8#EWep,
HEATING SYSTEM                        Direct District Heatingj System                 Indirect District Heatin  System             Non-DOtarwtc     Total
HOT WATER                      Diatrict          District           Gas           Distilt         Odaictw           Gas        (GaeAlOtw.      Building
SYSTEM                        Open             Closad          Hot Water         Open           Closed       Hot Wafr         HsatIDHW        Stock
12Fmily Houss, WoodlBrok                                                  219163411
2-4 Story Wood with Attic           1681                               838                          2025           10994   30
2-4 Story Wood, No Altti
2-4StoryfStickwAth Attc              8123j                             551  _____1166                               249                75          3358
2-4 Story tfick, No Attic                             3251               6#5                                         2                               0
5-Story Brick with Attic          1 59j               2931           362                            147__________    ____
5-Story Brick, no Attic          1261                 321             72                           229______
S-Story Panai witt Attic                                                                            571j  I  J 
S-Story Panal, No Attic          2201                4331            276                           712                           1__    __          41_
6-8 Story Brick with Attic                                                                            2341___   ___ 2_
6-Story Brick,no Attic                               131
6-8 Story Panel with Attic                                                                   _ _ _ _ _______                                _ _ _ _ _
6-8 Story Panel, No Attic                                                                                                                                -
S-Stor Brick with Attic             iaj                  3                                          352                                           37_____ _____
9-Story Brick, no Attic                              189                               83
9-Story Panel with Attic            531                                                             5 _____                 _____    ____
9*Story Panel, no Attic          1571                207                             3               3                                            1
10-13 Story Brick with Attic            3                                                               248__    ______
10-13 Story Brick, No Attic9
10-13 Story PanelwvthtiAttic            18                                                                7
10-1 3 Story Panel, No AtticI
14 StoryfBrickwth Altic             1                   1                                             4_ _____           ______   ____
14 Storyfldck, No Attic              3                   6                              I1 2221
14 Story Panel with Attic   ______I
14 Story Panel, No Attic3
Total Number at ____d__                 15241               27381          273               100          7475           1648              41E         166
of Bidngs             Floor Area      Total Area        CITY
5.314                 1.492        7.928.451           Oranburg
2.112                                                       ds                                                                      24
4,215                 2.270        9,9"01,00            Itymazn'P     "    "'-
3,33?           ~~~~~1,892   5t*4&204             Vaii          ,    
In                    unaaua                            olho
10-IS story5  1



Tabl D-2. Protoyp  Building D.flnufltlns and Configumatkon
P 'kfpe mNe                                                        Dso=V- o eP ub4ype
I    ~ ~ ~ 1           j2.ebulF. ~~~~noc. amn* PIE'  rs. asd ho alw M    Idn.  ond w  vdkAli  eo   u
2                4~kO             4eiY,aft c.m.q Ida  daed hot~ WOW            I        Od gm    d. brick uoh
3                4mk2k%           4     My.    Immloe blEscoed hot wIar evndn.  wd gm  daran.b bdr  ulk   a
4                5R%M             5.y. SfMa,t  pip9 hedaig.qm hoIwdr eWEmm         gmrn  mrn. pui mbu
5   ~~~~~5 -1                 5.j. ur ~al, ft e l0u. darne hot wdere  em  n        - elWkebl  pednual
6   ~~~~~51  4   -I           Ed,. no Mc,~ blo.e luai. od hot lmW  Inm            gmE wilb. bric Wwwkualon
7                G~Pftphf         54lmy.unodlc.,  PIP.~ haag qu  hei vm'm Iu   niwd gm sdas. bd ofhk~
9                14wmwti          144mt. unomNk:~     hedaig dared hot uW  I,n  bdkk cowlucumn
10                14moidr4*       11-MrY.nomlic. bo.pel Io. dared hitudo"onu   p     sfdai
Nbdr   Ssadam    Aplo pe    EUNdf    buldag    Bwqf  OGrWV    Average    Whedow    Avereg                    Puue      Apt EnS,.  Apt Oak-.  Secwlty    Fmto &     fvu       Duct gym
ofd        pw.   Oft    SocW    Foa~  a Peihadar   Hdist           Edlo    hgrAme  Poeuhe    Paud Aim  Pegkade  Dd$ecUff  J  iSecWS, Drel r  Oomefal preSsct   per Sea
U          _ _   _    _ _   _          2          U       EnU_ _                                     _     _  _  _
12.0             1.0        4.0      200         67.0        4.7       0.20       2.6        6.6        nlo        ni         4.0        4.0       00   .0              110 M       0.
2            4.0        2.0        4-0      56000       96.0       11.5      0.20        2.6,       6.6 ___n_                        4.0       4.0        0.0        1.0       11.0        I
3            4A0        2.0        4.0      560.        96.        11.        0.20       2.6        6.6       nVa         nfa        4.0       4.0        0.0        1.0       11.0       1.
4            5.0        6.0        3.0     12.5        215.0       13.7      0.31        3.1        7.1        9.        122         3.0       3.0        00         1.0       10.0        5.
5            5.0        6.0        3.0     122.        215.0       13.        0.31       3.1        7.1        9.2       12.2        3.0       3.0        0.0        1.0       100         5
6            5.0        6.0        3.0     122.5       215.0       13.7       031        3.1        7.1        uVa        nfI        3.0        3.0       0.0        1.0       10.0        5.
7            9.0        3.0        4.0      847.0      164.2       26.6       027        2.7        6.6        wa          f         4.0        4.0       00         1.0       150         4.
59.0             3.0        4.0       47.0      164.2       26.6       0.27        2.7.       6.6       9.2       12.2        40         4.0        0A         1.0      15.0        4.
S           14.0        2.0        3.5      574.5       96.7       36.        0.21        2.6       6.          M35                             350510302
10          14.0         2.0        3.       q74.5      S6.7       365        0226                   65         92       1.2.5                  3505.030



Table D-3. Equipment and Materials Required for Each Prototype
(Assumes Full P           _ekaffon)
4                              41 11_                                                                 TV 57 __  1           @     t 10    13          I-                                            is4,o  IKP 1   S1     _  
hiPe           PeRd Mm WEcA            W         Flee      Rad W       En WO      g             Door       hiuor       Sa EelW      "  Cath  i 3d  CnfE  Balance V  Red, no W    Red BP    NWGeun    opt -    I Shmm   TOl" T8S
-                                                                                +_                                                                                                               _ __                     ._ X   .,--.nrdrmb _ _    ,
Proldype        nw 1m     V MW       q. mean   sq. Ma-  go., Ndos    each    sq. BMWsee  aW o ma m,nw,neb  hlw m&ai, kIn, Wme,    eh                          eaCh       each        tam         each      sySfWn      Sysbm       Ndl         each
1             236          150           0        260         260          22        31           240         14          320            0        0.OS          1          11         22                       1          1           8 
2              335         ISO         560        5sa         5w           se       1.1           963         51         1,160           0        0             1          22        68    8                   1        _32                    3
3              335         10          560         560        560          as       1.1           863         5          1,150           0        0            1          22          8t         as           1     1               32          3
4              753         150       1.229       1.2_ 9      1,229        300       2.          3,137        1           4.,13        1,961      0o1                       60         300        30 0                                90          90
5              753         150       1,229       1229       1m2 39                  2.          3,137        1,          4.183        1,951       0.     O     S 1                    300                      1          1          90
e              753         10        129         1.9         1.229                  2,ue        3.137   -,               4.183           0        0.OS           1         00O    00.t                         1          1          90
7              575         150         647         647        647         406       4.          4,324        1,t4        5.7t5           0        0.OS           1         45         406                      1          1         106         1
_              575          15D        647         847        547         404                                1.9         5,766        2.9         0 -1                     45         405        40f                       1        106 
9              336         10          5751        575        575         364       3,664       20.92        2.010       3,8es           0        0.             1         26         364        364           1          198
10             335          150        67          575         575        364       3Sl          2.902       2.01,       3,869        2.44C       0.             1          26        364                      1           1         96
a    .                      *                                          -      .    a-RekAawt  YVSM * 
_ _ -   s  I    25                                                     30 |31 3n                           33          34          3s                     37                            -
-e        * Re  C_-31  m                                             M P   Ef   RPAOd    Pc  Red   CFLmip | w Reg  Rd Rapr  Bldg4 |ed   B NW    aft CW    ReiM|              AO4HW |W         CE
mit          aec      eq m          eAdo    I d cke        Ed~        eqo nfbip- q                              ecLet   eac         eah ez                   i         mt         mi         AOCh
r______  |  l      w2           24         zoo          26a0                            6                 a1                     1          1         22           6
2                             usl          2U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3   6~~~~~7     67         6.00         560                      32          32a                                                      8           3232
go = = _  _ _         2e31         7           87         6.ool s0                              32         32                       1           1          1          ea         32
4           =          = =0 101       1a           270      1             723a        295         295        30.00         s29                      O0         90l 3       3                        1          1        300          go
73         2                      30.00        122911                    90          901                                             1 
6               90j        190-j                   27                     736         295         295        3000        1.229        11            go          go         c       t        -                           3001 .
7    I        10           2161       21.          3241         12    1,02            437         437        27.00         647         847         106         106        11 _11                                        405   1oel              11
6a             101         2161                  _ 324          1      ,              437         437        27.00         647         847         106        106         I             1           4          1        405         10 
9          =        =       i            :         2 4                    901Jm       296         29l        2900          5751                                                                                11 54                 i
r   10                                                                                                       29.00L2_ L   2941  c211  201  2ge  2SO0  575  o96  9e                       1          11                   3e4         9e         _



Table 1D-4. Method for Calculating Retrofit Cost
I Interior pipe isulation      Interior pipe insultion requirement = 3.5 x (building perimeter)      1.5 for dhw and 2 for heating pipes
2 Exterior pipe inuation       Exterior pipe inultion requirement = 150 m per building
3 Roof islation                Roof insulation equab the footprint of the building
4 Attic insulation             Attic insulation equals the footprint of the building
5 Floor insulation             Floor insulation equals the footprint of the building -   note that for this first cut, assume pipe and basement ceiling insulation, and not insulation of basement perimeter
6 Radiator reflector           One per radiator: (number of sections) x (number of floors) x (number of risen per section) - assume radiators on up or down legs, not both
7External wall insulation      Equals total waUl area of building, including window area: (building perimeter) x (building height) -   cost estimates will account for effect of windows on materials and labor requirements
8 Window weatherstripping      Equals window perimeter x 1.5 = (bidg beight)x(bidg perimeter)x(glass-to-otal-wall ratio)x(average window perimeter)x(I.5)/(average window area)
9 Door weatherstripping        I8'/door:  (4 apartments/section/floor) x (number of sections) x (number of floors) + (number of common area doors/section/floor) x (number of floors) x (number of sections)l x (18 feet/door)
10 Interior caulking            Assume equal to two times the window perimeter: (building perimeter) x (building height) x (glass-total-wall ratio) x (average window perimeter) x 2/(average window area)
II Exterior wall caulking       Assume equal to one-half total panel perimeter: (building perimeter) x (building height) x (average panel perimeter) x (average panel size) x 2
12 Substation-4evel beat controlle  Assume one per 20 buildings
13 Buildig-level beat controller  Assume one per building -    if more than one per building, use penetration rate >1
14 Balancing valves             Assume one per riser: (number of sections) x (number of risers per section)
15 Radiator controls, no bypass   One per radiator: (number of sections) x (number of floors) x (number of risers per section) -    assume radiators on up or down legs, not both, and no bypass pipe needed
16 Radiator control bypass req' One per radiator: (number of sections) x (number of floors) x (number of risers per section) -    assume radiators on up or down legs, not both, and bypass meeds to be plumbed in
/' Bldg-level DHW generator     Assume one per building -    if more than one generator per building, use penetration rate >1
18 Optimize DHW system          Assume one per building -    if more than one system per building, use penetration rate >1
19 Shower heads                 One per apartment: (number of sections) x (number of apartments per sction per floor) x (number of floors)
20 Toilet tusk volume reduction   One per apartment: (number of sections) x (number of apartments per section per floor) x (number of floors)
21 Rebuild leaky toilet         One per apartment: (number of sections)x (number of apartments per section per floor) x(number of floors)
22 Repace ekaky fauceh          Two per apartment: (number of sections) x (number of apartments per section per floor) x (number of floors) x 2
23 Repair faucets, add aerators   Two per apartment: (number of sections) x (number of apartments per section per floor) x (number of floors) x 2
24 Apt-levd vent registers      Three per apartment: (number of sections) x (number of apartments per section per floor) x (number of floors) x 3
25 Roof-level ventilation controls One per duct assembly: (number of duct assmblies per section) x (number of sections)
26 Scaffolding                  Assume equal one-fourth of externl building gross wai area
27 Window replacement           Assume equah total windows: (bldg height) x (bidg perimeter) x (glass-to-wai ratio)(average window area)
28 Add third window pane        Assume equals total windows: (bidg height) s (bldg perimeter) x (glass-to-wail ratioy(average window area)
29 Exterior door replacement    Assume equals total exterior doors: (number of common area external doors per section per floor) x (sections per building) x (number of floors)
30 Fat roof replacement         Asaume eqush footprint of building
31 Pitched roof replacement     Assume equal footprint of buiding -    pitched roof costs are stated on flat-roof-equivalent basis
32 Compact fluorescencts        Assume one per apartment (number of floors) x (number of apartments per section per floor) x (number of sections per building) -    if more than one, use penetration ratio >1
33 Replcement refrigerator      One per apartment: (number of floors) x (number of apartments per section per floor) x (number of sctions per building)
34 Refrigertor repair           One per apartmt: (number of floors) x (number of apartments per section per floor) x (number of sections per building)
35 Building-levd heat meter     Assume one per building -    if more than one per building, use penetntion rate >1
36 Buildinglevel DHW mektr      Assume one per building -    if more than one per building, use penetration rate >1
37 Building-level cold water mete Assume one per building -    if more than one per building, use penetration rate >1
38 Radiator heat meter          One per radiator: (number of sections) x (number of floors) x (number of risers per section) - assume radiators on up or down kle, not both
39 Apartment4eve DHW meter  One per radiator: (number of floors) x (number of apartments per section per floor) x (number of sections per building)
40 Apartment-levd CW meter    One per apartment: (number of floors) x (number of apartments per section per floor) x (number of seCtiens per building)



Table D-5. Utility Savings in Different Climates
Heat w/o Controls    Heat wl Controls    Electricity    Cold     Hot Water
l                                    ~~~~~     ~     ~    ~~~~~~ ~~(Gcal)  (Gcal)  (kWh)    Water (m3)   (Gcal)
Heating Degree Days (HDD)  4750   5940                            4750  5940  4750 5940  4750 5940
Small Building     Avavge/ApWtn=t           10.31       12.88     11.05      13.81       109.55       89.09       2.37
lAvgegDufid&ng          247.36     309.20    265.23      331.54      2629.28     2138.10      56.94
Medium Buildig   Avoag/APwtrnat              7.46        9.33      8.26      10.33       109.55       89.09       2.37
Aversg/Eiading          671.81     839.77    743.83      929.78      9859.80     8017.89     213.53
Lage Building      AvwageiApatmaat           9.07       11.34      9.89      12.37       109.55       89.09       2.37
AvangwEablding          934.37     1167.96    1019.06   1273.82     11283.99     9176.03     244.37






ANNEX E
POTENTIAL RETROFfTS TO BE FINANCED
Introduction
1.             The majority of the retrofits being considered for implementation under the project are
intended to reduce energy expenditures by saving energy.' Thirty-three out of the 40 retrofits are energy-
saving investments which fall into eight categories: insulation, weatherstripping, caulking, heating
controls, improvements in the water system, ventilation, envelope replacements, or improvements in the
electrical systems. This annex will summarize the characteristics of these retrofits.2
2.              Complications in Determining the Optimal Mix. Although there is sufficient information
on the cost-effectiveness of a given energy-saving retrofit by itself, measuring a retrofit's relative
performance in combination with other retrofits is extremely complex given that this data does not yet
exists for Russian multi-family buildings. Each retrofit is cost-effective under the appropriate conditions
depending on building type, climate, and utility cost structure; the optimal mix of retrofits, however,
varies from one building to another depending on a number of different factors. All retrofits would not
be implemented together in a single building or apartment as many of the retrofits are substitutes for each
other. Therefore, the retrofit costs (see Table D-4 for calculation methods) will be used in the Facility
Energy Decision System (FEDS) model, a general equilibrium model that measures detailed energy
consumption in buildings, to conduct a whole-building analysis of the building prototypes in the project
and thus to determine the optimal mix of investments for each prototype.3 The exact design of the
retrofits for Phase 11 of the project will be determined based on the experimental design work currently
under way in Ryazan (see Chapter 3, Box 3-1), which will be used to run the FEDS model. Experience
gained each year during Phase II will be incorporated into the design of the following years' retrofits as
well.
Characteristics of Energy-Saving Retrofits
3.              Active vs. Passive Retrofits. Eight of 31 building-level measures are "active" and 23 are
"passive." Active measures are defined as retrofits with moving parts. All other retrofits are defined
as passive. Insulation is an example of a passive measure. Examples of active measures are radiator
thermostatic controls, building level controls, and roof-top ventilation controls. Some active measures
give occupants more control over their environment. However, active measures typically have higher
maintenance requirements and, for some applications, the savings are more uncertain. For example,
/        Six retrofits are meter-installation retrofits, either on the building or apartment level, to introduce an energy billing
system based on actual energy consumption. The last 'retrofit' for consideration under the project is scaffolding, which is not
a retrofit, but which is needed to implement several retrofits.
V       The majority of the investments in the project will be retrofits within the boundary of the multi-family building; a small
amount of resources, however, will be reserved for retrofits that are outside the building's boundary and that decrease utility
costs.
3/       Because the FEDS is still under development, however, a preliminary analysis (see Table D-3) will serve as a
substitute until the FEDS is completed. This preliminary analysis was based on experience with whole-building analyses
conducted in the west and extensive studies of Russian multi-story apartment buildings.



2                                           Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
would occupants use thermostatic radiator controls or would they continue to use the window to control
the temperature?
4.             Reduced Utility Costs vs. Reduced Distict Heating Costs. Thirty-one of the energy-
saving retrofits reduce utility costs within the buildings while three reduce costs in the district heating
system that serves the buildings. (One of these three, district hot water optimization, fall into both
categories). Twenty-two of the utility-saving measures directly affect space heating-the most important
and costly utility service-of which 14 affect the building envelope. The remaining utility-saving retrofits
affect either the heat delivery mechanism or the ventilation system.
Condusion
5.             The interaction among heat delivery, ventilation, hot water, and appliances within a
building system is complex and no detailed studies on Soviet-style buildings existed prior to EHDP
preparation work. To some degree, space heating measures are substitutes for hot water and household
appliance measures as households periodically use the gas range and/or filling the bath tub with hot water
for generating extra heat. In addition, motors of household appliances, as well lights, generate waste heat
which may contribute to total heating energy, and particularly in small spaces. Little information is
available on the relative contributions of these factors to total apartment and building heat loads for
Russian multi-family housing. This lack of information makes it difficult to determine ex-ante the
potential relative contribution from each utility-saving measure being considered. As stated earlier, there
is sufficient information on the contribution and performance of each measure by itself; i.e, as if it were
the first measure implemented. Furthermore, when retrofits are substitutes, one eliminates the need for
another, e.g., exterior insulation will likely mean that radiator reflectors will not be cost-effective.
6.             Given the results of whole building analyses in the west, and the current level of
knowledge of Russian multi-family buildings, reasonable combinations of retrofits can be designed for
the first cut at estimating the level of investment, savings, etc. When the results of the experimental
design work under way in Ryazan and the full configuration of the FEDS model are complete, whole
building analyses of prototypes will be conducted. Meanwhile, Table D-3 gives a preliminary analysis
of the equipment and materials needed for the prototypes.



ANNEX F
FiNANCIAL, ECONOMIC, AND SENSITIVITY ANALYSES OF RETROFIT INVESTMENTS
1.             This annex presents the results of financial, economic, and sensitivity analyses of
investments in building retrofits.' The financial and economic analyses are presented in a base case
scenario, and sensitivity analyses were conducted for heat price, total installed cost, labor cost, tax rates,
and the use of external insulation.
1. Financial and Economic Analysis: The Base Case Scenaro
2.      The financial analysis was conducted on the level of the city, while the economic analysis was
conducted on a national level. All values are expressed in real 1995 dollars.
Assumptions
3.              The following assumptions were used for the base case scenario:
a.     Discount Rate. A 10 percent real discount rate was used.
b.      Heating Degree Days (HDD..  5,940 HDD  was used as it is representative for all
project cities, except for Novocherkassk, which is slightly warrner than the other five
cities. (The sensitivity analysis takes into account an HDD of 4,750 as well as 5,940).
c.     Labor Input Ratio. The labor required for retrofit installations was assumed to be one
hour of Western labor for every five hours of Russian labor.
d.      No Wage Escaltion. No wage escalation was assumed for Russian labor. Due to the
considerable uncertainties concerning wage dynamics for Russian workers, a relatively
conservative or high average wage rate was used for the analysis-US$5.00 per hour.
(A sensitivity analysis was conducted to account for increases in Russian wage costs, see
Table F-8).
e.      Materials Multiplier.  The value of technology and equipment used in the financial
analysis was reduced by the materials multiplier of 15 percent to account for duties and
taxes in the economic analysis. The value of saved energy and water does not include
VAT.
I/      This analysis does not include the cost of building-level meters because it is difficult to estimate the savings that will
accrue to them. The addition of building-level meters adds 4 to 12 percent to the total investment requirements depending on
building type and reduces payback and the IRR by about the same percentages if no additional savings are attributed to metering.
With the inclusion of meter investments in medium-sized buildings, the IRR falls from 39.8 percent to 38.5 percent, and the
IRR from 32.4 percent to 31.3 percent.
2/      The HDD for a Russian city is defmed as (the target inside temperature minus the average outside temperature during
the heating season) times the number of days in the heating season.



2                                          Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
Inputs
4.            The basis for the following inputs is described in Annex D and are given in Table F-1.
Table F-1. Inputs of the Base Case Analysis
Inputs      Fiancial Analysis | Escalation   Economic Analysis | Escalation
!I 0               0(real)  J                        (real)
Heat          $22.80/Gcal        2.5%       $16.50/Gcal        2.5%
Hot Water     $22.80/Gcal        2.5%       $16.50/Gcal        2.5%
Electricity   $0.054/kWh         2.5%       $O.045/kWh         2.5%
Cold Water    $0.240/m3          2.5%       $0.200/m3
Natural Gas    $72.00/10OOm3     2.0%       $45.00/1000m3
Results and Conclusions of the Base Case Scenario
5.            Financial Analysis. According to the base case scenario, the project will generate an
internal rate of return (IRR) between 40 to 55 percent and have a payback ranging between 1.9 to 2.7
years (see Table F-2).
Table F-2. Results of the Base Case Financial Analysis
Investment
Building Type   BuUding        Apartment              NPV         Payback            IRR
small           $30,104              $1,254        $68,760          2.7               39.8
medium          $97,388              $1,082       $222,350          2.7               39.8
large           $86,299               $838        $310,778           1.9              55.2
Note: Investments in district heating systems are not shown in this table.
6.            Economic Analysis. The IRR ranges from 32 to 45 percent in this scenario, with a
payback of 2.3 to 3.3 years (see Table F-3).
From both a financial and economic point of view, large buildings are the best investment
targets.



Annex F. Financial, Economic, and Sensitivity Analyses of Retrofit Investments                 3
Table F-3. Results of the Base Case Economic Analysis
Investment
Building Type   Building       Apartment              NPV         Payback            IRR
small           $27,088              $1,129        $45,100          3.3               32.4
medium          $87,839               $976        $145,956          3.3               32.4
large           $77,896               $756        $212,215          2.3               45.0
Note: Investments into district heating systems are not shown in this table.
II. Sensitivity Analyses
7.            Several sensitivity analyses are presented in this annex. The exogenous variables that
could have the greatest impact on the financial and economnic viability of the EHDP have been identified.
These are the:
a.     value of heat energy saved (cost of district heat), and
b.     total installed cost of the technical measures.
Financial and economic switching value analyses are conducted for these two variables.
8.            Furthermore, financial sensitivity analyses are conducted for four additional variables of
interest; Russian labor costs, Western labor costs, tax rates and exterior insulation.
Heat Price - Switching Value Analysis
9.            The switching value analysis for district heat prices is presented for both the financial and
economic analyses.
10.           Financial Analysis. The switching value analysis is shown in Table F4.  An IRR
analysis is conducted for small, medium, and large buildings for 4,750 and 5,940 HDD . Because the
discount rate being used is 10 percent, an IRR of 10 percent is the point where the net present value of
the project falls to zero. The starting value for the heat price is $22.80/Gcal, which is the base price used
in the financial analysis.
11.           In Table F-4, movement is in the right direction and there are no surprises. The heat
price where the IRR falls below 10 is shown in bold. The heat price would have to fall more than 75
percent (from $22.80/Gcal to $5/Gcal) before the project would become inviable from a financial
perspective. Project risk can be minimized by focusing on relatively cold cities with large buildings or
large buildings within any city.



4                                            Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
Table F-4. Flnancial Switching Value Analysis for District Heat Price
Internal Rate of Return (IRR)
Heat Price              4,750 HDD                               5,940 HDD
$IGcal       SM         MED         LRGJ           SM            MED            LRG
22.80        33.4       33.6        46.5           39.8          39.8           55.2
22           32.3       32.5        45.1           38.6          38.6           53.5
21           30.9       31.2        43.3           37.0          37.0           51.3
20           29.6       29.8        41.4           35.3          35.4           49.1
19           28.2       28.4        39.6           33.7          33.8          46.9
18           26.8       27.1        37.7           32.1          32.1           44.7
17           25.4       25.6        35.9           30.4          30.5           42.5
16           24.0       24.3        34.6           28.7          28.8          40.2
15           22.5       22.8        32.1           27.1          27.2           38.0
14           21.0       21.3        30.2           25.3          25.5           35.7
13           19.5       19.8        28.2           23.6          23.8           33.5
12           18.0       18.3        26.3           21.8          22.0           31.2
1 1          16.4       16.8        24.3           20.0          20.2           28.8
10           14.8       15.2        22.3           18.2          18.4          26.5
9            13.2       13.5        20.2           16.3          16.6           24.1
8            11.4       11.8         18.1          14.3          14.6           21.6
7            9.6        10.0         15.8          12.3          12.6           19.1
6            7.7        8.2          13.6          10.1          10.5           16.5
5            5.7        6.2          11.2          7.8           8.3            13.7
4            3.5        4.1         8.6            5.4           5.8            10.8
3            1.0        1.7         5.8            2.6           3.2            7.6
12.            Finally, it is important to note that at $60/1000 m3 for natural gas, the value of natural
gas embedded in the delivered heat is $9.43/Gcal, which is nearly 50 percent above the price to which
district heat would need to fall to render the project financial inviable.
13.            Table F-4 does not include the cost of building-level billing meters because quantitative
estinates of savings resulting from meter installation have been used in this analysis. The inclusion of
building-level meters, assuming no attributable savings, would have no significant impact on the IRR.
For example, for large buildings, the heat price at which the IRR falls below 10 remains unchanged.
14.            Economic Analysis. The economic switching value analysis for heat price is shown in
Table F-5. The starting price used for heat is $16.50/Gcal which is the base price used in the economnic
analysis. All general conclusions drawn from the financial analysis pertain to the economic analysis.
The only difference is the heat price at which the IRR falls below ten. These values are shown in bold.
The heat price would need to fall by over 75 percent for the project IRR to drop below 10.



Annex F. Financial, Economic, and Sensitivity Analyses of Retrofit Investments                        5
Table F-S. Economic Switching Value Analysis for District Heat Price
Internal Rate of Return (IRR)
Heat Price                4,750 HDD                       5,940 HDD
$SGcal          SM        fMED       LRG         SM          MED        LRG
16.50          27.1       27.2      38.0         32.4       32.4        45.0
16             26.3       26.5      36.9         31.5       31.5        43.8
15             24.7       24.9      34.9         29.7       29.7        41.3
14             23.1       23.3      32.8         27.8       27.8        38.9
13             21.5       21.7      30.7         25.9       26.0        36.4
12              19.8      20.1      28.5         24.0       24.1        33.9
11              18.1       18.4     26.4         22.0       22.1        31.3
10              16.4      16.7      24.2         20.0       20.2        28.7
9               14.6       14.9     21.9          18.0      18.1        26.1
8               12.8       13.1      19.6        15.9       16.1        23.4
7               10.8       11.1      17.2        13.7       13.9        20.7
6               8.8        9.1       14.8        11.3       11.6        17.9
5               6.6        7.0       12.1        8.9        9.2         14.9
4               4.2        4.7       9.4         6.2        6.6         11.7
3               1.6       2.1       6.3          3.3        3.7         8.3
Installed Cost - Switching Value Analysis
15.            The switching value analysis for total installed cost is presented for both the financial and
economic analyses.
16.            Financial Analysis. The switching value analysis is shown in Table F-6. The analysis
is conducted for small, medium, and large buildings for 4,750 and 5,940 heating degree days (HDD).
Installed costs of the energy and water efficiency measures are relatively uncertain. There has been no
project of this magnitude undertaken and, therefore, no experience base to judge installed cost under a
prolonged, high volume, program. The base costs assume a mix of five Russian labor hours to one
Western labor hour and all material and equipment purchased at Western prices. Therefore, the base
costs are reasonably conservative. The points at which the IRR falls below 10 are shown in bold.



6                                           Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
Table F-6. Financial Switching Value Analysis for Total Installed Measure Cost
Internal Rate of Return (IRR)
Installed Cost           4,750 HDD                      5,940 HDD
Multiplier       SM         MED        LRG           SM        MED       LRG
1.OOx            33.4      33.6        46.5         39.8       39.8      155.2
1.25x            22.6      26.8        37.5         32.0       32.0      44.5
1.SOx            21.9      22.1        31.3         26.6       26.6      37.3
1.75x            18.4      18.6        26.7         22.6       22.6      32.6
2.00x            15.7       15.8       23.2          19.5      19.5      28.6
2.25x            13.4       13.6       20.4          16.9      16.9      24.7
2.50x            11.6       11.7       18.1          14.8      14.8      22.1
2.75x            10.0       10.0       16.1          13.1      13.1      19.9
3.00x            8.6        8.7        14.4          11.5      11.5      18.0
3.25x            7.3       7.4         12.9          10.2      10.2      16.3
3.50x            6.3       6.3         11.6          9.0       9.0       14.9
17.    Table F-6 indicates that the total installed costs would need to increase by a factor of 3.5 before
the project would become financial inviable. Because the installed cost base values are conservative
estimates, this seems unlikely. Even then, large buildings would still be attractive.
18.    As with the heat price analysis, building-level billing meters are not included in these estimates.
The addition of meters would have minimal impact on the IRR. For example, at a multiplier of 2.50,
5,940 HDD, and medium-size buildings, inclusion of meters would cause the IRR to drop from 14.8
percent to 14.1 percent. This change is less than 0.7 percent IRR, or about 5 percent of 14.8.
19.    Table F-6a shows that the tax rate would need to increase 28 fold (from 17.65 percent to 500
percent) before the financial viability of the EHDP would be threatened. The tax rate could increase 17
fold and the IRR for all buildings would still be greater than 10 percent. (The 17.65 percent tax rate is
implied with the .85 materials multiplier.)
Table F-6a. Financial Sensitivity Analysis for Tax Rate
(Internal Rate of Return)
4,750 HDD                      5,940 HDD
Tax Rate   SM       MED      LRG           SM      MED    LRG
17.65%    33.4     33.6    46.5          39.8    39.8    55.2
100%    22.5     22.8    32.3           27.2    27.4    38.4
300%    10.9      11.2    17.6          14.1    14.3    21.5
500%     5.3       5.6    10.9           7.9      8.2    14.0
20.    Economic Analysis. The economic switching value analysis is shown in Table F-7. The base
installed costs are adjusted by lowering the materials component of each measure by 15 percent to account
for taxes and duties. All general conclusions drawn from the financial analysis pertain to the economic
analysis. The only difference is the total installed cost multiplier at which the IRR falls below 10.



Annex F. Financial, Economic, and Sensitivity Analyses of Retrofit Investments                       7
21.    Table F-7 indicates that the total installed costs would need to increase by a factor of 2.75 before
the project would become economically non-viable. Even then, large buildings would still be attractive.
Table F-7. Economic Switching Value Analysis for Total Installed Measure Cost
Internal Rate of Return (IRR)
Installed Cost          4,750 HDD                             5,940 HDD
Multiplier     SM           MED         LRG          SM          MED          LRG
I.OOx          27.1        27.2         38.0        32.4         32.4        45.0
1.25x          21.4        21.5         30.4        25.8         25.8        36.2
1.5Ox          17.3        17.4         25.2        21.3         21.2        30.2
1.75x          14.3        14.4         21.4        17.8         17.8        25.8
2.00x          11.8         11.9        18.4         15.1        13.1         22.4
2.25x          9.9          9.9         15.9         12.9        12.9         19.6
2.50x          8.2          8.3         13.9         11.1        11.0         17.4
2.75x          6.7          6.8         12.2         9.5         9.5          15.4
3.00x          5.5          5.6         10.7         8.1         8.1          13.8
22.            Table F-7a shows that equipment costs would need to quadruple to begin to impact the
economic viability of the EHDP. Even with a five-fold increase, large buildings are still economically
viable for retrofits in cold cities.
Table F-7a. Economic Sensitivity Analysis for Equipment Cost
(Internal Rate of Return)
Equipment          4,750 HDD                      5,940 HDD
Cost
Multiplier   SM      MED    LRO            SM       MED    LRG
1.OOx   27.1    27.2    38.0           32.4    32.4    45.0
3.00x    9.8    10.1    16.2           12.8    13.0    19.9
4.00x    6.0      6.3    11.7           8.7      8.9    14.8
5.OOx    3.3      3.6     8.4           5.7      6.0    11.3
Summary - Switching Value Analysis
23.            The switching value analysis for the price of district heat and total installed measure cost
indicates that dramatic changes from the base case inputs would need to occur for the project to become
inviable. Furthermore, in all cases, it is clear that in the face of uncertainty, project risk will be
minimized by focusing on large- and medium-size buildings first, in cities with the coldest climates.
24.            Sensitivity to Labor Cost Changes.  There are two components of labor costs that
warranted evaluation. First, Russian wage rates are expected to increase at a relatively rapid rate over
the life the EHDP. The Russian labor component in the base case is at a ratio of five to one compared
with Western labor. It is important to know how significant changes in Russian wage rates will affect
the financial viability of the EHDP. This is shown in Table F-8.



8                                           Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
25.            Table F-8 indicates that Russian wage rates could increase by a factor of 5 and have no
significant impact on the financial viability of the EHDP.
26.            Although comprising only 20 percent of the labor hour contribution, Western labor
accounts for a greater portion of the total projected labor bill than does Russian labor. An analysis was
conducted to determine the sensitivity to the project from dramatic increases in Western labor costs and
to compare this to the impact from increased Russian labor costs. It was found that a 50 percent increase
in Russian labor costs would increase total installed cost by 6 percent whereas a 50 percent increase in
Western labor costs would increase project costs by 12 percent.
27.            An important conclusion is that the EHDP cannot be successful without a sizeable
component of Russian labor.
Table F-8. Financial Sensitivity Analysis for Russian Labor Costs
Internal Rate of Return (IRR)
Russian Wage                4,750 HDD                             5,940 HDD
Multiplier       SM           MED           LRG         SM           MED          LRG
i.OOx            33.4         33.6          46.5        39.8        39.8         55.2
5.00x            23.2         23.0          32.3        28.0        27.6          38.5
28.            Sensitivity to Use of External Insulaton.  The inclusion or exclusion of external
insulation can significantly impact the total project cost estimates because it is the highest single cost
technical measure per building. The product identified and evaluated by the technical team is
polyurethane foam as it appears to be the cost-effective external insulation option. Foam is, typically,
not used in the West as external insulation because buildings are well insulated when constructed so there
is no need for external insulation. Also, in the few situations where external insulation is needed, there
are more aesthetically pleasing products which are, also, less ultraviolet sensitive. However, these other
products are also significantly more expensive and less cost-effective than foam. There is documented
evidence of buildings in North America which have had foam applied to the exterior as insulation.
Examples are found in Montana and in Toronto with reported satisfactory results regarding insulating
performance and durability of the foam. In Russia, there is, also, some experience with using foam as
exterior insulation. One 13 story multi-family building has been found in Vladimir which had foam
applied to the exterior in 1989. The results have been positive and are similar to the North American
experience in terms of insulating performance and durability. Furthermore, the city is enthusiastic
regarding further use of foam as exterior insulation. Additional technical evaluation needs to be
completed as well as to verify the working hypothesis that the market will be able to supply the product
in mass quantities at the costs used in this analysis. Because of these reasons, a financial sensitivity
analysis was conducted assuming no external insulation is used as a retrofit option. The analysis
compares the optimally estimated retrofit package to the same package minus external insulation.
29.            As expected, retrofit costs per building fell significantly; dropping 47 percent for large
buildings, 30 percent for medium buildings, and 29 percent for small buildings. The IRR increased
because external insulation does not payback the investment as rapid as other measures. For medium-size
buildings in cold cities, for example, the IRR increased from 39.8 percent to 45.4 percent.



ANNEX G
FINANCIAL IMACT ON CITIES AND CREDITWORTHINESS
1.              Spending by regional budgets has increased from  12 percent of GDP in 1992 to 17
percent of GDP in 1994 in Russia (despite increasingly limited resources for the consolidated government
budget) as fiscal responsibilities of municipal authorities have expanded. However, because of an
underdeveloped financial infrastructure, municipal authorities in Russia have as yet very limited access
to long-term borrowing, and thus their long-term debt outstanding is insignificant.
2.               Rapid growth of local budget expenditures on housing is the most critical threat to
sustainable development of municipal finance. For instance, in Petrozavodsk the total subsidies for
supporting the existing housing stock increased from 5 percent of the total budget expenditures in 1990
to 24 percent in 1992-93.' A corresponding decline in new budget investments, from 32 to 6 percent,
occurred as a direct consequence of the housing subsidy increase, and this clearly hinders further urban
development.
3.              On average, for the six cities selected for the project, the total explicit budget liabilities
for housing subsidies amounted to about 30 percent of their 1994 budgets.2 (see Table G-1) Taking
current trends in energy prices and forthcoming completion of enterprise housing divestiture into account,3
it might be expected that without strong policy response on cost recovery the demand for housing that
subsidies might reach 50 percent of available budget funds after 1995. While real local budgets are
expected to grow further-by 15-20 percent by 2000 compared to 1994 levels-under such a scenario
housing expenditures would remain unacceptably high.
4.              Therefore, both investments to reduce housing costs and reforms in the housing sector,
which would encourage efficiency growth within the sector, are crucial for municipal finance. Without
comprehensive housing reform there is no way to improve the budget situation or to secure medium-term
creditworthiness of municipal budgets.  Therefore, from  the point of view  of external lenders,
transformations within the urban housing sector in Russia are not only a priority for long-term lending
but also an important condition for proper debt repayment and avoiding defaults by municipal borrowers.
1/     In 1994, housing spending in Petrozavodsk fell to 17.5 percent due to some increase in real rent paid by residents and
also because of accumulation of arrears to local utlity companies. The latter is sdill possible in Russia as a result of extremely
opaque legal environment.
2/      Total liabilities include both actual expenditures on housing and accumuladon of budget arrears to housing maintenance
and utility companies. This does not account for the volume of underfinancing, i.e. it does not reflect the fact that total liabilities
are still below the amount of funds necessary for proper housing maintenance.
3/     In 1994, on average, about 30 percent of the total housing stock in cities in question was maintained by enterprises,
and this amount had fell sharply during 1995 as a part of the project preparation (See Annex P).



2                                         Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
Table G-1. Housing Expenditures by Municipal Governments In 1994
Ryazan Novocherkassk Orenburg Vladimir Petrozavodsk Volkhov
Budget expenditures,       186.63         75.82   300.78   177.96      122.91   28.16
total, bn Rb
Budgeted housing            33.77         12.20    43.95     34.8       21.56    7.45
expenditures, bn Rb
As % of total budget        18.09         16.09    14.61    19.55       17.54   26.46
expend.
Current Debt to Utilities    4.20          4.46    32.00    25.04        8.02    5.20
byl/l/95, bn Rb
As % of total budget         2.25          5.88    10.64    14.07        6.53   18.47
expend.
Debt/Housing Expend.        0.12           0.37     0.73     0.72        0.37    0.70
ratio
Total Housing               37.97         16.66    75.95    59.84       29.58   12.65
Liabilities, bn Rb
As % of total budget        20.35         21.97    25.25    33.63       24.07   44.92
expend.
5.            The project will reduce local budget expenditures on housing via the following:
a.     Increase in Cost Recovery. Under the project, the cities are responsible for achieving
full cost recovery in housing maintenance and utilities in 1998 and for simultaneously
developing the housing allowance program for poor residents. This dramatic growth in
cost recovery from an average of less than 15 percent in 1994 will be a major source of
savings for the local budgets. An analysis of affordibility of an increase in housing
tariffs shows that households will be able to cover from their own incomes about 80
percent of the total housing costs under full cost recovery (see Annex R).4
b.     Investments in Energy Efficiency.  The proposed types of investments in housing
improvements will potentially save about one-third of the current volume of utility
services in heating and hot water supply. Because two-thirds of the total municipal
housing expenditures are spent on utility bills, appropriate investments might result in up
to 22 percent in savings of total housing expenditures, which will be equivalent to more
than 10 percent of total municipal budget outlays in the without-project scenario.5
4/     Tuis is consistent with the requirenent that the household expenditures on housing will have to be below 20 percent
of family income.
5/     As noted above, the without-project scenario assumes that housing subsidies will rise to 50 percent of local budget
revenues.



Annex G. Financial Inmpact on Cities and Creditworthiness                                    3
c.     Seting New Incentives within the Housing Sector. A number of policy and technical
measures envisaged under the project are aimed at changing the incentive structure for
economic agents in the sector. These measures will help to improve overall economic
efficiency of the sector and to gain additional budget savings in maintenance. First,
increased cost recovery will be a major incentive for households to avoid wasting energy.
Second, the creation of condominiums and the formation of competitive markets for
maintenance will provide an institutional framework for households to pressure providers
of housing services to reduce costs. Third, installation of meters will help both the
residents and municipalities to monitor actual delivery and use of utility services and
therefore to fully benefit from reduced energy and utility consumption.
6.            As a whole, it is expected that in five years the share of housing expenditures in city
budgets might be reduced to 10 percent (from their existing level of 30 percent) and projected without-
project level of 50 percent of the total budget expenditures as a result of comprehensive housing policy
supported by necessary investments. The remaining housing expenditures will consist mainly of housing
allowances and to some extent from budget grants for capital repair of housing and infrastructure assets.
The budget savings will be available for new investments in city infrastructure and public services as well
as servicing accumulated municipal debt. Therefore reform efforts and investments supported by the
project provide rather substantial payback that will provide the necessary cash flow for cities to repay
their loans under the project. (Cities will also recover part of the costs from special changes to tenants
who benefit from the retrofits.)
7.            Analysis of city creditworthiness has been done under assumptions derived from the
Bank's medium-term macroeconomic forecast for Russia, which assumes successful macroeconomic
stabilization.6 In general, the considered scenario presents quite optimistic while reasonable prospects
for Russian municipal finance development. The following assumptions are the most important for the
purposes of the analysis under the chosen scenario:
a.    In the next five years from 1995 to 1999, Russian municipal budget revenues will remain
at the same level as a portion of GDP while the volume of real GDP will increase by 16
percent.
b.     The ruble will continue to appreciate and reach its PPP level by the end of the century.
This will lead to an increase in the real exchange rate of 65 percent and will dramatically
increase the hard currency equivalent of corresponding budget revenues.
c.     As mentioned above, the cities might increase operating budget surplus by 10-15 percent
of their total revenues as a result of positive developments within the housing sector.7
d.     Cities' access to domestic borrowing will remain very restricted, which will keep the
municipal debt levels low.
§/     See 1995 Russian CEM (Russian Federation: Towards Medium-Term Viability, World Bank Report No. 14472-RU).
7/     All other revenue and expenditure items are considered unchanged.



4                                            Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
Table G-2. Loan Per City and Debt Service
References:
Ryazan Novocherkassk    Orenburg Vladimir Petrozavodsk  Volkhov   Weighted   Exchange rate 2205
Average
1994 budget
Revenues, net loans,   83.46       33.01       118.25    82.60      55.85    12.88   83.27       Including Inter-
mn $                                                                                             budget transfers
Budget Investments,   6.99          4.21        8.62     5.14        3.32      1.90    6.15
mn $
Budget surplus, mn $    1.71        0.34        2.14      5.53       0.09     0.09    1.60
Estimated 2000 budget                                                                        1.65 real ex.rate growth
Revenues, net loans,   158.37      62.64      224.39   156.74       105.98    24.43  158.01  1.15 real growth
2000/1994
Budget Investments,    13.26        7.99        16.35    9.76        6.30     3.61   11.68       fixed share
Budget surplus,      15.84          6.26       22.44    15.67        10.60    2.44   15.80  0.10 budget surplus due
to hous.ref.
Estimated annual debt    3.17        1.25       4.49      3.13       2.12     0.49    3.16  0.02 moderate muni
service due before the                                                                           debt
loan
Proposed Loan mn S"  70.00         31.50       70.00    65.00       41.00    12.50   59.53       TOTAL= 290.00
as % of 2000 Budget  44.20        50.29       31.20    41.47       38.69    51.16   39.59      9% Interest, 14
Revenues                                                                                         year maturity
6 year grace
Average Debt Service,  12.29        5.53        12.29     11.4       7.20     2.20   10.45       debt service 0.1475
mn $21
as % of 2000 Budget   7.76         8.83        5.48     7.28        6.79     8.89    6.62
Revenues
DSCR3'                1.88          2.10        2.31      1.75        1.81    2.25    2.02
Population, 1993,      582           188         555      340         280       90  428.16
thous.
1994 Budget revenues  143.41      175.59      213.07   242.95      199.47   143.06  194.49
per Capita, $
Average 1994        727.51        680.76      778.16   692.80     1641.32   774.62  865.37
annualized income, $
Loan per capita, $  120.27        167.55      126.13   191.18      146.43   138.89  145.68
Weights               0.22          0.09        0.31     0.21        0.14     0.03
1/ including repaymnent of CPIU costs.
2/ average payments during period of loan amortization.
3/ DSCR is estimated as a ratio of operating savings before interest to the average debt service.



Annex G. Financial Impact on Cities and Crediworthiness                                              S
8.             Table G-2 presents the main city budget characteristics based on the following scenario.
It is assumed that under the project the cities will borrow at 9 percent interest for 14 years with a 6-year
grace period and 5-year disbursement schedule.8 This financing schedule results in an average annual
debt service, during the amortization period, equal to 17.6 percent of the loan principal amount (Table
G-3). $290 million of the loan will be allocated to cities taking into account variation in the current fiscal
situation across them. The total revenues, budget investments, budget arrears, and the role of intra-
governmental transfers in revenues of municipal budgets were taken into consideration. As an external
constraint for the proposed financial program, it was assumed that the volume of the funds lent to each
of the cities should not be greater than 50 percent of the estimated total budget revenues of these cities.
9.             While Table G-2 shows some variation in debt service coefficients across the cities,
overall, the proposed lending plan is considered to be sustainable. The data prove that the proposed
operation is quite feasible in a wide macroeconomic framework. In particular, the average annual debt
service would amount to about 5.5-9.0 percent of the municipal budget revenues if the cities bear the full
responsibility for the loan. If tenants repay 70 percent of the loan themselves, than the net debt burden
for cities amounts to 2-3 percent of the budget revenues.9 Average debt service coverage (DSCR)'° would
be 2.0 with individual DSCR falling in the range of 1.8-2.3. The value of the loan per capita would
amount to $147.
10.            To evaluate sensitivity of the proposed financial program, alternative calculations of
DSCR were conducted. The calculations correspond to a possibility of a much slower implementation
of housing reforms, which would lead to continued high budgetary spending on housing, of about 20
percent of the total budget revenues instead of 10 percent as it is assumed in the basic scenario. Higher
housing expenditures will reduce the estimated budget surplus by one-half. This might reduce the average
DSCR from 2.0 to 1.5, which is still a very reasonable level, indicating high capability of municipalities
to serve their debt obligations.
11.            However, to reflect general macroeconomic uncertainty which has been recently a
dominating feature of Russia's transition to a market economy, it is proposed to incorporate into the
financial program under the project a requirement to revise the municipal budget situation and fiscal
trends in the cities within three years of loan effectiveness. Should budget situations at the time be
unfavorable. reductions in the subloan amounts described in Table G-2 might be made.
8/     Nine percent is a conservative assumption that provides for the possibility of future LIBOR increases. At current
LMOR levels. the onlending rate will be 8.0-8.5 percent.
9/     This assumes that the cities will assume repayment responsibility for the engineering and procurement groups.
10/    DSCR is estimated as a ratio of operating savings before interest to the average debt service.



6                                        Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
Table G-3. Debt Service Schedule for the Loan of SUS 10 mn.
Loan, mn     10.000            Maturity      14
Interest      0.090            Grace         6
Annual Debt payments
Year Disbursement    Principal due    Interest  Principal Total
% of the total    by the end of the year
1       2              0.2          0.009       0  0.009
2        7             0.9           0.018       0  0.018
3       14             2.3           0.081      0  0.081
4       20             4.3           0.207       0  0.207
5       35             7.8           0.387      0  0.387
6       22             10.0          0.702      0  0.702
7                      8.8           0.900    1.25  2.150
8                      7.5           0.788    1.25  2.038
9                      6.3           0.675    1.25  1.925
10                      5.0          0.563    1.25  1.813
11                      3.8          0.450    1.25  1.700
12                      2.5          0.338    1.25  1.588
13                      1.3          0.225    1.25  1.475
14                       0           0.113    1.25  1.363
Total       100                          5.45   10.00  15.45
Note Disbursement-on 1/1 of each year. Amortization-on 1/1



ANNEX H
COST RECOVERY AND HOUSING ALLOWANCES
1.             The Soviet Legacy. The housing sector was a traditional recipient of budget subsidies
in the FSU with rent levels set below maintenance costs, direct budget investment grants allocated to local
utility companies, and cross-subsidization of energy tariffs for households provided through higher prices
for industrial consumers. It is estimated that in 1991 households spent on housing only 2 percent of their
total consumer expenditures. After price liberalization in 1992, rent and the main utility tariffs remained
under federal government control, and price adjustment in the sector has been going on the basis of
periodic administrative price revisions. As a result, in 1992-93 the rise in prices within the sector lagged
well behind overall price increases (Table H-1, H-2; Figure H-1).   Later in  1993, municipal
administrations obtained the right to set rents, as well as local tariffs for heating, sewage, water supply,
etc.' at their own discretion. However, this did not change the main trends in the sector. Despite some
growth in real costs, real total household expenditures on housing fell by a factor of 3 by end 1993
relative to their 1991 level (Table H-3). In particular, payments for housing maintenance were in real
terms less than 10 percent of the pre-reform level. The level of cost recovery in housing fell below 5
percent in the middle of 1993 (Tables H-2 and H-4)2, while the share of housing expenditures in the total
consumer expenditures reached its lowest level of 0.5 percent.
2.             Initiatves to Increase Cost Recovery. In 1994 the federal government launched a number
of initiatives targeted at an increase in cost recovery (see Table H-5). In particular, the local authorities
were directed to reach full cost recovery in the sector (excluding capital repair costs) by 1998. In
addition, federally controlled prices of natural gas, both for households and housing organizations, were
substantially increased. This pushed local governments to increase utility tariffs further, and led to a
substantial price adjustment in the sector in the course of 1994. It is estimated that the overall cost
recovery level reached 11-12 percent for 1994 as a whole, with additional tariff increases at the end of
the year. In fall of 1994 real household expenditures on housing rose to their 1991 level, and in early
1995 they exceeded this level by far, especially in reform oriented municipalities (Tables H-i - H-3).
The hard-currency equivalent of these costs has increased dramatically, reflecting the substantial ruble
appreciation in real terns, which began in early 1992: the total monthly costs of a 3-room apartment in
Petrozavodsk increased from less than 10 cents in late 1991 to above $35 in July 1995.
3.             Cost Recovery under EHDP. An accelerated schedule for increasing cost recovery was
among major criteria for city selection (see Annex P) under EHDP. Cost recovery had to reach at least
30 percent by July 1, 1995, and 40 percent by end 1995, while it had been 20 percent in most
participating cities at the end of 1994. All selected cities managed to fulfill the first requirement on time.
1/     Government resolutions No. 935 of 9/22/93 and No. 239 of 3/7/95. In addition, according to the Law on State
Regulation of Tariffs on Electricity and Heat of 4/14/95, regulatory power over tariffs on heat provided by regionally and
federally owned energy companies has been transferred from municipal administrations to specially created regional energy
commissions, which also are responsible for setting energy tariffs.
2/     Cost recovery ratios in 1992 and in early 1993 were relatively high because of extremely low administrated prices for
fuel, especially for gas.



2                                          Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
Table H-1. Trends in Maintenance and Utility Tariffs
In Comparison with Changes In CPI 1991-95
Dec-91    Jan-92    Jan-93    Jan-94    Jul-94    Jan-95    Jul-95
Maintenance  fee,  per         1      1.00     15.38    23.08       192       462       923
sq.m
Water/Sewage, per m3           1        4        12        46     221.2      2520    10560
Heating, per Gcal              1      4.95    29.14     87.43        87      1009      4208
Electricity, per kWh           1        3         9       150       450       900      1500
Gas, network, per person       1       5.0      11.4      31.0     74.3       190       850
CPI                            1      3.45      30.5    269.8    415.6    814.5        1296
Source: Ryazan city government, Goskomstat, staff estimates.
4.             Housing Alowance Program. Local authorities were mnandated to institute a targeted
housing allowance scheme to protect vulnerable households. It was required that households with housing
expenditures exceeding 15 percent of their money income' would be eligible for receiving such
allowances. Only expenditures on housing that met locally approved social norms for housing would be
compensated through the allowances. Many cities, including all those involved in EHDP,4 have set up
more or less workable mechanisms for disbursing allowances, and these mechanisms include both formal
indicators of eligibility as well as testing of applicant's income statements. However, in most cases there
had been a limited number of actual recipients of the allowances by mid-1995, since even with the higher
charges, housing costs remained on average about 5 percent of household money incomes, compared with
20-25 percent in market economies. In addition, the average size of allowances disbursed was still rather
small.'
5.             Impact of Increased Cost Recovery on Household Income. Achieving full cost recovery
without any housing allowances in place would raise the average share of household income spent on
apartments to about 13 percent. Taking into account current patterns of income distribution in Russia,
this might lead to a situation where more than 40 percent of households face housing expenditures
exceeding 20 percent limit on such costs, and become recipients of housing allowances. The estimates
show (Annex R) that under the current legislation, the household sector as a whole might afford to pay
about 80 percent of actual housing costs, or 6.5 percent of GDP. This is equivalent to 10 percent of total
household income and 15 percent of total consumer expenditures. The rest of the costs, 1.5 percent of
GDP, will have to be covered by local budgets through the allowance scheme. Any further reduction in
such subsidies will require both an overall increase in the average real wage in the context of economic
recovery as well as reduction in real housing costs.
2/     This share might be as high as 20 percent beginning 1998.
I/     Setting up effective allowances schemes was one of the city selection criteria used under the project (see Annex P).
Sl     For instance, in Novocherkassk in spring of 1995, about 2.5 percent of families became recipients, and their average
allowance was less than 20 percent of minimal wage.



Annex H. Cost Recovery and Housing Allowances                                                  3
Table H-2. Trends In Cost Recovery by Cides through
Maintenance and Utility Tariffs, %
Q1-92    Q1-93   Q1-94   Q3-94   Q1-95    Q3-95
Maintenance fee        6.5      16.7     2.2     9.6    17.4      22.0
( per m2)
Water/Sewage          14.5      5.3      1.2     1.8    18.5      49.2
(per m3)
Heating (per Gcal)    60.6     45.0      7.7     1.2    13.1      17.1
Electricity (per kWh)    80.0   17.1    24.2    33.0    47.3      45.8
Source: Ryazan city government, Goskomstat, staff estimates.
Note: Cost recovery ratios for 1992-93 appear high because of extremel low administered pricesforfueL
6.            Problems with Enforceability and Exemptions. Other challenges related to increasing
cost recovery are enforcement and preferential tariffs. If households refuse to pay their housing bills,
they are not easily evicted. About 15 percent of families in Russian cities pay for their housing with at
least a three-month delays. In addition, a number of social groups in Russia benefit from preferential rent
and utility payments. Such benefits, amounting currently to 15 percent of the total housing payments due,
have been as a rule inherited from FSU legislation, and are based on national regulations that cannot be
changed by local administrations. To address both of these problems, municipal authorities need support
from the federal level in revising relevant federal regulations, which currently prevent them from taking
more active intervention in this field.
7.            Need to Improve Monitoring and Administrave Capacity. To make full cost recovery
sustainable, and to get adequate financing for the housing allowance program, local governments have
to improve their monitoring and administrative capacity with respect to housing sector development.
This includes:
a.     improving control over the actual volume and quality of services provided by the local
utilities;
b.     developing mechanisms for regulation of utilities' prices. In case of electricity and heat
tariffs, this will require establishing effective interaction between municipal governments
and regional energy commissions;
c.     developing the system of monitoring actual housing payments by households, and to
impose penalties for non-payments;
d.     for a transitional period, until the end of housing divestiture, improving accounting of
actual enterprises' spending on housing and delivery of utility services, and to link this
with necessary changes in local regulation of the turnover tax in order to make associated
financial burden more evenly distributed across the enterprise sector.



4                                           Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
Table H-3. Housing Expenditures on 3 Room Apartment in Petrozavodsk, 1991-95
1          2          3
Nominal      Real       Dollar
Monthly    Monthly    Monthly           CPI       Average
Payment   Payment   Payment           1991 = I     Ex.rate
rbl     1991=100       $                      Rbl. per 1$
Dec-91             15        100        0.09           1.0            170
Jan-92             38        72         0.19           3.5            198
Jun-92             72        47         0.57          10.0            126
Jan-93            506        109        1.04          30.5            484
Aug-93           1099         61         1.11        118.2            986
Jan-94           1528        37         1.06         269.8           1444
Jul-94          14273       226         7.05        415.6            2026
Jan-95          46479       375        12.05         816.0           3858
Jul-95         111454       566        24.67        1296.0           4518
Oct-95         168495       748        37.44        1481.0           4500
Note: This includes payments for housing maintenance and main utilities (gas, water, sewage, heating, TV antenna) but not
phone and ekectricity. It assumed that the apartment of 67 m2 of the total space is shared by 5 people.
Source: Petrozovodsk city government, Goskomstat, staff estimates.
Table H-4. Financial Aggregates Regarding Housing Expenditures and Cost Recovery,
1993-94 and estimates for 1998
1993    1994    1998"
1.Household expenditures on housing and utilities, % GDP        0.2    0.75       6.5
2. Implicit housing subsidies, %GDP, total                      5.5      5.9     -
o/w: - Local Budgets                                     3.5     4.2     -
- Enterprises                                           1.2        1    -
- Cross subsidies on electricity and gas                0.8      0.7     -
3. Housing allowances, %GDP                                    -         0.0        2
4. Total housing expenditures, 1+2+3                            5.7      6.7        8
5. Cost recovery level, %                                       4.0       11      100
6. HH housing expenditures as % of total consumer expend.2'     0.6      1.8       15
7. Total housing subsidies as % of total consumer expend.2'    14.0    13.6       4.3
8. Total housing subsidies as % of total money expend.Y.3'     10.6      9.4       3.0
Notes:
1/ Assuming ful cost recovery in 1998, liberalization of energy prices, and moderate institutional reform.
2/ Assuming the stabk level of real households incomes.
3/ Total money expenditure includes saving, taxes, etc.
Source: Goskomstat, MOF, staff estimates.



Annex H. Cost Recovery and Housing Allowances                                                                              5
Table H-S. Cost Recovery and Housing Allowances
(Guidelines to be Applied Under Project)
% of costs' to be recovered from        Maximum proportion of
Dates                                   tenants                   expenditures on housing as a % of
household income2
1994                                    15-20                                       10
1995                                    2040                                        15
1996                                    40-60                                       15
1997                                    60-80                                       15
1998                                     100                                       20
I/ Includes routine operation and utilities, but excludes expenditures for capital repair in most cities.
2/ Any amount over this to be paid by city/enterprise in the form of a housing allowance.
Note:    The relevant Presidential decree mandates that full cost recovery be achieved by 1998. However, cities are free to phase in the
increases according to their own schedules; the figures cited above serve simply as guidelines.
Flgure H-1
Maintenance and utility tariffs in real terms, 1991-95
9
8
7
|  _   ~6  * Maintenance fee, per sq. m
_ <  ~5    *Water/Sewage, per m3
_ _  _  . 34            Heating, per Gcal
*__________________ _3 O Electricity, per kwh
r--              Mr 1    h  2 Gas, network, per person
0
Dec- Jan- Jan- Jan- Jul- Jan- Jul-
91      92      93       94      94      95       95






ANNEX I
STAKEHOLDER ANALYSIS
The institutional structure of stakeholders in the current situation is shown in Figure I-1.
The stakeholders in Figure I-1 will be relevant in all situations with the exception of the regional electric
power utility (energo) and the regional energy commission. The energo and the regional energy
commission will be important stakeholders only if the city purchases heat from the energo (which is the
case for Vladimnir, Ryazan, Petrozavodsk, and Orenburg) or if end-use electricity efficiency improvements
are included under the project and electricity demand for the energo is affected.
2.           The following organizations have a stake in project cost, benefits, and outcom:
a.    City Government. The city government is interested in reducing its expenditures on
housing maintenance and operation, both through reduced true costs and through greater
cost-recovery of those costs from residents. The city government provides the subsidies
to housing maintenance enterprise necessary to pay for the difference in utility costs and
payments from residents. The city government's stake in the project is primary, as the
loan recipient, beneficiary, and responsible repayment agent.
b.    Muncpl Housng Mainennce Enterprises.   Municipal housing maintenane
enterprises are responsible for maintaining and operating city-owned buildings, and in
most cases are responsible for collecting utility payments from residents, for collecting
subsidies from the city governnent, and for paying utility suppliers (heat, hot water,
electricity, cold water, etc.) their full tariffs (representing true production costs).
Exceptions exist where residents pay electricity bills directly to electricity suppliers
(either the energo or a city distribution company) or to cold-water sewage enterprises.
Municipal housing maintenance enterprises will be concerned about the maintainability
of renovation measures, and will need to be trained to understand these measures and
how to maintain new equipment.
C.    Muncpa Water/Sewage Enterprise and Mwdcipl Heat Enteprise. These enterprises
are stakeholders in that demand for their products will be reduead by the project. Thus
the project will affect their future capacity planning, and their cost and profit structures
in terms of fixed versus variable costs and associated profit mnargins. Operational
changes in district heating and water supply systems may be necessary to accommodate
the reduced demand. Contractual changes with the city government may be necessary
so that heat sales and purchases will be based upon actual consumption rather than design
nonrs. Depeading upon other sources of demand, these enterprises may be able to sell
any excess capacity and heat production to their customers, minimizing some of the
above changes.
d.    Munipal Heat and Hot Water Distribudon Enterprise. In most case the functions of
heat and hot water distribution are performed by the same municipal heat enterprises that
produces heat and/or purchases heat from the energo. If this is a separate enterprise,
then this enterprise will be affected if distribution tariffs become based upon metered
quantities of heat rather than fixed charges based upon design norms. The distribution
costs (as distinct from heat production costs) to this enterprises probably won't change
very significantly as a result of the project, but its revenue structure may change.



2                                         Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
e.     Residents in Renovated Buildings. Residents are interested in low utility bills, indoor
apartment comfort, responsive housing maintenance companies, and uninterrupted
supplies of utilities, and will be affected under the project by changes in all of these areas
(primarily positive changes; see section on incentives below). Residents may be resistant
to other kinds of changes unless they clearly perceive direct benefits to themselves. For
example, future heat billing based upon actual consumption rather than floor-space norms
may be actively resisted unless there are clear and direct financial benefits.
f.     Residents in Unrenovated Buildings. All residents in the city are stakeholders to the
degree that tariffs for utilities are reduced by the city (relative to a no-project scenario).
All residents are also stakeholders to the degree that improved city government financial
conditions have a positive influence on the city's ability to provide public services.
Nevertheless, residents in unrenovated buildings may perceive themselves as stakeholders
in the project for costs only and not benefits if they believe that their utility costs are
rising to pay for investments in other buildings in which they do not share in the benefits.
These perceptions may be exacerbated by cost-recovery-driven tariff increases enacted
before or at the same times as the loan repayment obligations begin. Thus public
education and outreach, directed not only at residents in renovated buildings, but also at
residents in unrenovated buildings, will be critical.
g.     Regional Combined-Heat-and-Power Plant. These plants are owned by a combination
of the regional electric power utility (energo), and/or the national electric power utility
RAO "EES Rossii." Under the project, their sales of heat to the city may be reduced (if
not all demand reductions are met from supply reductions in city-owned heating boilers),
and this will affect their future capacity planning, their cost and profit structure (in terms
of fixed versus variable costs) for both heat and electricity production.
h.     Regional Energy Commission. Regional energy commissions have a stake in the project
to the extent that regional energos and combined heat and power plants are affected by
the project. Prior to 1995, regional energy commissions were not legal entities, and thus
had no budgets or staff. Without resources, the commissions were weak and influenced
strongly by their chairmen, who often were representatives from the very energy utilities
the commissions are charged with regulating.  A  1995 law  gave these energy
commissions legal status, meaning that they can have a budget and hire staff. But it is
not yet clear where money will come from to pay for the commissions. Thus regional
energy commissions have the potential to become more autonomous from the oblast
administrations, but this question depends partly upon sources of financing and whether
the commissions can now become stronger and develop their regulatory capabilities,
experience and resources. In the past, the primary function of regional commissions has
been to approve tariffs for the regional energo, but greater regulatory authority will be
possible in the future. The role of the federal energy commission in the operation of the
regional commissions has been minimal, except for some guidance, training, or
coordination assistance.
i.     Regional (Oblast) Government. The regional government receives tax payments from
enterprises within the region, and will benefit from the increased profitability of these
enterprise when the liabilities of social assets are removed. The regional government
must guarantee the loan to the city government, thus it has a direct stake in project



Annex 1. Stakeholder Analysis                                                              3
performance and city government financial strength.
j.     Federal Government.   The Russian government is ultimnately responsible for loan
repayment, and thus has a stake in project performance and city government financial
strength. The Russian government will benefit from increased taxes and duties from
importation of equipment from abroad and from the increased economic activity
associated with project implementation.
3.            The following organizations are secondary stakeholders who may need to be included in
project implementation and procurement designs and strategies:
a.     Municipal Housing Maintenance Enterprises. With their detailed knowledge of the city
building stock, municipal housing maintenance enterprises will play a key role supporting
sub-contractors audit buildings, design renovations, and install equipment and materials.
One challenge for project implementation will be to create incentives and strategies for
municipal housing maintenance enterprises to support sub-contractors in an effective and
accountable manner.
b.     Municipal Design Instiues. Municipal design institutes have traditionally provided
engineering and design for municipal construction projects, and may have expertise about
the housing stock, about local codes and standards, and in other areas that will be useful
during project implementation. Like the case with municipal housing maintenance
enterprises, explicit strategies will be needed for including these institutes in project
implementation if appropriate.
4.           Incentives to stakeholders for participation in the project are clear in some cases and need
further definition in others. Residents and municipal governments will clearly see their total expenditures
on utilities decrease relative to a no-project scenario (although absolute payments by resident will increase
due to increase cost-recovery). The splitting of project benefits between the city and the residents will
be a policy issue that the city government will (implicitly or explicitly) decide when setting future utility
tariffs to residents. When cost recovery reaches 100 percent, the city government will no longer finance
utility services, but will still need to collect payments from residents for loan repayment, either through
continued collection of utility payments with a loan repayment component, or through a separate charge
if utility payments from residents will go directly to utility suppliers at some future point. Residents will
also experience increased comfort within buildings (see Annex K).
5.           Incentive for municipal organizations like design institutes and housing maintenance
organizations are less clear. These organizations will need to be administratively directed by the city
government, but such direction may not provide adequate incentives. Municipal heat supply and
distribution companies, which profit from increasing heat sales, will not have strong financial incentives
to participate in the project unless some part of the investments target the distribution system or unless
reductions in energy demand defer future capacity needs that these companies would have difficulty
meeting by themselves. The regional (oblast) energo, which also profits from increased heat sales,
likewise has less clear incentives to participate in the project. Additional regulations, for example
mandating payments to the energo for heat based meters at the point of city purchases of heat, may need
to be established by the regional energy commnission and the regional government. Such meters and
regulations already exist in two of the six candidate cities. Incentives for the regional energy commission
may include technical assistance to strengthen their capacities and capabilities.



4                                          Saff Appraisal Report: Russia EnterprLse Housing Divestlure Project
6.             The impact of increased energy prices is shown in Figure 1-2. As energy prices reach
world levels, the cost of delivering utility services to households increases, and the volume of the flow
of funds in the shaded section increases.
7.             The impact of policy and institutional changes is shown in Figure 1-3.  Municipal
subsidies for heat, hot water, and cold water/sewage are eliminated, and the only financial flows
involving the city directly are housing allowances. Enterprise subsidies for enterprise-owned housing are
also eliminated as that housing is divested to the city. As city and enterprise subsidies are cut, households
necessarily assume greater financial burdens for paying for their utility services.
8.             The impact of investments financed by the project is shown in Figure 1-4.  Energy
efficiency renovations and the creation of a competitive market for maintenance services lowers the
volume of the flow of funds and services within the restricted circle. In other words, this mitigates the
increased burden for households, who as a result of the policy and institutional reforms under the project
assume greater responsibility for paying for these flows.



Figure I-l
1995: The Current Situation
reigulation
flow of funds  ... flow of services   .



Figure 1-2
The Impact of Rising Energy Prices
As a result of energy price increases, the volume of the flow of
funds in the shaded section increases
~~~~~~~~~regulationl
Femeral and                                    wtr
regional/._
budgetsl
\ / C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ombined heatI
t     j                       _     t  ~~~~~~~~~~and power plant 
Enterprisen
Municipal heat
and hot water
distribution     _        
.\                             | ~~~~~~~~~~enterprise  _    unicipal heat 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~enterprises 
_ Muni~~~~~cipal_ 
_ . .~~~minenn                          Municipal water/
_              ~~~~~enterprises              sewage
flow of fuJnds    X    flow of services



Figure 1-3
The Impact of Policy and Institutional Changes
Sought under the Project
Divestiture and cost recovery seek to restrict the flows to fall
within the darker circle
t    egional energy   regulation
Enterrcoimissiores
/   Federal and                                       hea
regional/
budgets 
a  h - r  Combined heat
~~~~~ - -: - - ~~~~~~and power plant
t  Cw           l    d~~~Hoseholds( 
Enterprises     / -
.  : . -  -   ~Municipal heat
_    --     -      ~~~~and hot water
distribution
T  <    ;   enterprise   Municipal heat
enterprises
\t        ~~Municipal     _
\       ~~maintenance            Muiialwtr
\ . .terriesunicipalewager
City
flow of funds    ... flow of services  .          flows to be cut    X-!-



Figure 1-4
The Impact of Investments Financed by the Project
The energy efficiency retrofits (and the creation of a competitive
market for maintenance services) lowers the volume of the flow
of funds within the restricted circle.
/~~~~~~~ ~~regulation
Regional enegy----~
e Fdral and                                         /
regionalI/
budgets       / 
\ / C~~~~~~~~~~~~ombined heat
~~~ ~~~      __                          an~~~~~~~d power plant i/
S                 /       Households/
Enterprises          o f
Municipal heat
_                  ~~~~~~and hot water
l ~~~~~~~~~~~~distribution_
\                  __~~~~~~~~~ntrrs                       Municipal heat
\ qK _ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~enterprises
\ ~~Municipal  
\ ~~maintenance                    uncia wae
\      ~~enterprises/units Imsewage
City
|flow of funds     X-  flow of services|



ANNEX J
POLICY IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT
(Financed by USAID)
Technical assistance to the participating cities will be provided in the following areas:
a. Overall housing policy development, including enterprise housing divestiture and
institutional reforms in housing sector which can contribute to maintenance and utility
costs reduction.
b. Cost recovery, including determination of the best pace and possible limits on cost
recovery increases in specific situations for each city.
c. Housing allowances, including information campaign and work with local
administrations to develop administratively efficient programs as the number of
recipients increases and to improve income verification procedures.
d. Promotion of apartment unitprivatization, including work with local administrations
on an information and publicity campaign and to simplify privatization procedures.
e. Formation of condomiiaium associatons, including work with local administrations
and tenant groups to form associations and to help the associations with their initial
operations, including selection of maintenance companies.
f. Introducing competitive maintenance, including work with the city administrations
on improvement of methodology, legal mechanisms and procedures for competitive
tenders and organization of ccmpetitive tenders on large scale basis.
g. Privatization of municipal maintenance companies (ZHEOs) and private
management of housing stock to cities that request assistance in these areas.
h. Work with local banks on proWvsion of home improvement loans for condominium
associations-2 or 3 year loans which should be profitable for the lender and safe for
the borrowers.






ANNEX K
ENVIRONMENTAL RISK MITIGATION PLAN
1.           The Bank has determined that this project requires a category "B" Environmental
Mitigation Plan (EMP), as defined in the Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment,
O.D. 4.01. As a category "B" project, a limited analysis of specific environmental impacts is required,
but not a full environmnental impact assessment (EIA).
2.            The Russian Federation Law on Environmental Protection (No. 2060-1 adopted 12/19/91)
determines general requirements for siting, designing, and construction of projects, as well as the
responsibilities of the State Ecological Expertise to review and approve projects. EIA requirements are
outlined in the Environmental Impact Assessment Guidelines (1992) by the Ministry of Environmental
Protection and Natural Resources (MEPNR). MEPNR Order No. 222 (7/18/94) contains a list of the
types of projects for which a formal EIA is required.
3.            Under the above Russian Federation laws and guidelines, no formal EIA is required by
the Russian government for this project.  Confirming this conclusion, the director of the Legal
Department of MEPNR stated to a Bank representative that no fonral EIA is required for a housing
renovation project. Rather, a more limited environmental analysis is required. This environmental
analysis is subject to review and approval by the State Ecological Expertise of MEPNR, according to
Resoiution No. 942 of the Council of Ministers ("Status of State Ecological Expertise," 9/22/93).
4.            Since the primary environmental impacts and mitigation measures are associated with
residential building renovation, the Ministry of Construction of the Russian Federation will review project
plans and procurement documents as appropriate for environmental impacts and mitigation measures and
for compliance with appropriate construction standards and normative documents.
5.            Ground soil contamination at the sites of proposed building renovation will preclude
investments in those buildings. Sampling of ground soils will be required at selected project sites, in
advance of final building selection for renovation. The sites to be tested will be those in or near areas
of industrial concentration or areas of known or suspected soil contamination, as indicated by consultation
with municipal environmental departments or authorities. Ground soil testing will be the responsibility
of the local implementation groups (LIGs) and central project implementation unit (CPIU). Ground soil
testing is a relatively new field in Russia, and local capacity for performing such testing is still limited.
Thus, external expertise will probably be required in the short-term although local expertise will be
phased in as soon as possible.
6.            Specific engineering measures to be carried out will be finalized after loan approval, but
all construction work for the project will involve renovation of existing buildings. No construction of
new buildings or facilities will occur. Guidelines in the Bank's Environmental Assessment Sourcebook
(1991) do not explicitly cover this situation. The section on large-scale housing projects (vol. 11, p.196)
deals primarily with new construction and site development and has limited applicability to building
renovations.
7.           The beneficial impacts of the project include reduced atmospheric emissions of nitrogen-
oxides (NOX), sulfur-dioxide (SO2), and carbon-dioxide (CO2) from reduced consumption of natural gas
and mazut (heavy fuel oil) in district heating plants or combined heat-and-power plants. Estimates of
emissions reductions depend upon the specific engineering measures ultimately adopted and the fuel mix
of displaced heat sources. A preliminary estimate for gas savings of the full project is on the order of



2                                       Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
300 million cubic meters annually, and for mazut savings is on the order of 150,000 tons annually.
These fuel savings would result in reductions of SO2 by 7600 tons, NO, by 1600 tons, and CO2 by
950,000 tons annually.
8.            Since natural-gas transmission capacity or administrative allocations by Gazprom often
limit gas consumption in specific regions of Russia, the reduction of natural gas consumption can also
promote economic development by freeing gas supplies for other uses in a specific region. Gas
allocations that fall short of demand were observed in several of the cities that are candidates at the time
of project appraisal.
9.            Occupants of renovated buildings should in general experience less undesirable apartrnent
overheating, and experience more uniform and comfortable supplies of heat and hot water. Indicative
surveys and measurements from residential building renovation projects that have already occurred in the
former Soviet Union have shown that residents report improved indoor conditions, and that building
heating responds better to changes in outdoor temperature, resulting in better comfort.
10.           The potential adverse impacts of the project are the following:
a.     Change in Indoor Air Quality. Indoor air quality for occupants may change due to
changes in building insulation, heat regulation, and air infiltration resulting from
renovations.
b.     Changes in Indoor Air Temperature, Humidity, Heat and Hot Water Supply. Residents
of renovated buildings or nearby unrenovated buildings may experience changes in heat
and hot-water supply operating regimes (schedules), average indoor temperatures, or
indoor humidity. These changes may be involuntary, such as reduced overheating of
historically overheated apartments through building-level automatic controls, or may be
voluntary, as in the case of occupant-regulated heating controls made possible by the
project.
C.    Health and Safety of Occupants and Construction Workers. The health and safety of
occupants or construction workers may be affected during renovation construction.
Renovation work will be conducted while buildings are fully occupied and in-service.
Injuries can result from unsafe working conditions or procedures. Temporary disruptions
to hot water or heating supply can lead to an increased incidence of burn accidents or
electrical fires if residents boil water on stovetops or use electric-resistance heaters during
these disruptions.
d.    Asbestos. Hazards to occupants and construction workers may exist from asbestos in
existing building materials if any existing asbestos insulation or asbestos-insulated piping
is being removed or replaced. Transport and disposal of asbestos also creates additional
hazards. Asbestos is no longer used in residential buildings, although older buildings
may contain asbestos-cement insulated pipes. The frequency of such occurrences is
expected to be small.
e.     Ozone depleting substances. Installation of insulating plastic foams may utilize blowing
agents that are harmful to the ozone layer.



Annex K. Environmental Risk Mitigation Plan                                                  3
11.           Mitigation measures that need to be taken are the following:
a.     Indoor Air Quality. Technical design and specifications in procurement documents by
the Bank's technical consultants will ensure that ventilation measures provide an adequate
ventilation rate of at least 0.5 air-changes per hour under all circumstances. Procurement
documents will specify that contractors perform air infiltration measurements after
renovations to ensure that installations meet design requirements.
b.     Changes in Indoor Air Temperature or Humidity. Currently, indoor air temperatures
are determined by the district heating company and the city govermment. Indoor
temperatures are supposed to remain above 18 degrees Centigrade, but in practice often
fall below this level during particularly cold winter conditions. The project will have no
direct influence over operation of district heating systems. But the renovations installed
under the project will make it easier to maintain temperatures above this level.
Automatic controls within buildings will be set to acceptable temperature levels as
determined by municipal authorities and district heating authorities, and with the
participation of building occupants.  Reduction of apartment overheating so that
temperatures are more "normal" is considered a project benefit, although may not be seen
as such by some occupants. Indoor humidity is expected to remain the same or increase
as a result of reduced air infiltration.
c.     Construction Safety. General contractors will be responsible for construction safety of
occupants and workers. In addition to the World Bank Occupation Health and Safety
Guidelines (1988), Russian Federation requirements will be adhered to in procurement
documents for general contractors and all subcontractors. Furthermore, each city has its
own occupational safety regulations. Renovation procedures should conform to all city
regulations. Relevant Russian Federation documents and city regulations are currently
under investigation by Bank consultants.
d.     Asbestos. Asbestos-containing products will be prohibited from use in renovations.
Federal laws on residential building renovations do not yet exist, so there is no explicit
Russian government requirement or procedure on what to do with existing asbestos-
insulated piping in buildings. Although each situation must be reviewed individually and
actions must comply with local laws in each city, the project will require general
contractors to ensure that asbestos-insulated pipes be removed and replaced in entirety.
Russian worker-safety standards for handling asbestos are outlined in construction
standard SNiP 2.03.09-95 (1985), "Asbestos-Cement Construction" and in state standard
GOST 12871-83E (1983). Prior to tender preparation for building renovations, the
Project will commission a consultant to compare these standards with those of the World
Health Organization (WHO), the International Labor Organization (ILO), and other
relevant international bodies, and to work with the Russian government to incorporate
the most appropriate standards into tender documents for procedures on removal,
transport, and disposal. By the time tender preparations are complete (late 1996),
Russian standards on building renovations, and specifically any asbestos-related
requirements, may be further advanced and can be incorporated into this process. It will
be the responsibility of the general contractor to provide the necessary training and
oversight of subcontractors to ensure that these procedures are followed, and local



4                                       Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
implementation groups (LIGs) will also receive training to enable proper supervision of
contractors.
e.     Ozone-Depleting Substances.  If plastic foam  insulation is used in any building
renovations, blowing agents must be non ozone-depleting substances. Tender documents
will state this requirement.
f.    Heat and Hot Water Supply Disruptions. Heating system renovations that require the
heating system to be shut down will occur in non-heating-season periods whenever
possible. Valves and bypass arrangements installed during non-heating-season periods
will allow some heating-system renovations to proceed during the heating season without
supply disruptions. Hot water system disruptions will be necessary in many cases, but
their impact can be minimized by performing work at night and/or informing occupants
beforehand. Heating system and hot water outage times and durations will conform to
local standards and practices and will be minimized. Contractors will be responsible for
planning their work to minimize outages and for obtaining necessary clearances
beforehand from local building maintenance organization before conducting work, for
informing occupants in advance.
12.          Compliance with the above mitigation requirements will be monitored by local municipal
officials and those responsible for oversight of general contractors and subcontractors (from the CPIU
and LIGs). Local implementation groups and/or the central project implementation unit will review
variances or special circumstances and will provide resolution as necessary. In particular, one person
in each local implementation group will be designated as responsible for environmental mitigation.
13.          Institutional capabilities by various branches and departments of the Ministry of
Construction will be strengthened as a result of this project. Two specific areas include standards for
residential-building renovation and ground-soil testing.



ANNEX L
RESULTS OF HOUSEHOLD SURVEY
1.           A household survey was conducted in a random sample of 508 households in Vladimnir
(population 350,000) and 300 households in Volkhov (population 30,000) in September and October
1995.
2.            The objectives of the survey were to:
a.    identify knowledge of, attitudes toward, and general perceptions of the need for proposed
retrofits;
b.    explore major problems with the provision of heat and water;
c.    provide information on average utility use;
d.    identify prevailing opinions about the current maintenance system, privatization, and the
housing allowance system;
e.    determine potential willingness to pay and to take loans for installation of retrofits; and
f.    anticipate changes in behavior that might result from metering and installation of
proposed retrofits.
3.            In addition, the survey provided an opportunity to correlate the above information with
data about the type, age, and location of the respondents' buildings; the location of the respondents'
apartments in the buildings (e.g., corner, middle); as well as personal information such as education,
income level, age, sex, and profession.
4.           In some cases, the survey results confirmed that retrofits could increase comfort as well
as reduce costs. Respondents reported widespread dissatisfaction with the heating systems in their
apartments, reporting that they feel cold during the heating season unless they use supplementary sources
of heating such as electric ranges or gas heaters, and that heat supply is terminated before the cold season
ends. In many cases, however, respondents could not identify all the causes for high energy losses in
their apartments, and therefore were not aware of some of the most cost-effective methods to prevent
energy loss. They tended as a whole to focus on the perception that their radiators were not giving off
enough heat, and therefore felt that the solution lay in making the radiators hotter. Overall, tenants
expressed enthusiasm for proposals that would make their apartments warmer. Most tenants (93-96
percent) currently insulate doors and weatherize windows using homemade devices, and, less often,
replace radiators. More than half of the respondents were willing to have such retrofits installed
professionally.
5.           The survey will contribute to future project design by: determining tenants' attitudes
towards metering; augmenting findings in the demonstration phase about utility usage and the correlation
between building and apartment characteristics and temperature levels; and identifying the most urgent
housing issues. Survey results indicate expected acceptance of proposed retrofits as well as potential
willingness to pay and borrow for retrofits.



2                                     Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
6.           Most households were interested in paying for heat on the basis of their actual
consumption (85 percent in Vladimir and 75 percent in Volkhov), although only a few would be willing
to pay for meters themselves (4.9 percent in Vladimir and 1.7 percent in Volkhov). Greater interest was
expressed in heat regulators (90.2 percent in Vladimir and 77 percent in Volkhov), and more would be
willing to pay for them (20.7 percent in Vladimir and 9 percent in Volkhov). Under 5 percent of
respondents in each city was willing to take out loans to pay for heat-saving equipment.
7.           Survey results also confirmed the direct correlation between comfort levels and apartment
location in the buildings, with the most frequent perception of low temperatures by those living in corner
apartments on the top and bottom floors.
8.           Between one-fifth and one-third of respondents thought humidity was a problem;
approximately one-third worry about drafts; and one-tenth complain of overheating. Almost all families
report water shortages andjfrequent interruptions of water supply, particularly of hot water in the summer
months (90 to 150 days). Respondents claimed that they would make efforts to conserve water if they
were charged for consumption and approximately half of the respondents said that they would turn down
their heat at night if they had control over it.
9.           Loans for the purchase of retrofits were of interest to many, although few (1.2 percent
in Vladimir and 4 percent in Volkhov) have taken loans in the past. Respondents' top priority for
borrowing was improvement of building or apartment appearance; heat-saving devices ranked third.
10.          Some results of the survey also will provide a guide for shaping the project's publicity
component. For example, the survey evidenced that willingness to permit installation of a particular
measure was directly linked to perceived need.
11.          In many cases, the survey confirmed attitudes toward reform measures that are included
in the project and has provided valuable input into implementation strategies. More than half of the
respondents complained about the quality of the maintenance services, but somewhat fewer of them think
that the quality of private service will be higher. They do, however,. believe that private maintenance
services would be more expensive. The survey showed that many people did not privatize their
apartments because they thought monthly payment would increase or that they would have to pay property
taxes, and because there was no deadline for privatization.



ANNEX M
SUPERVISION PLAN
Introduction
1.            In return for implementing a range of policy and institutional reforms needed to make
housing divestiture feasible in the short run and sustainable over the longer run, EHDP will finance
investments that will both reduce operating costs and increase comfort levels in the housing stock. The
project includes a strong package of technical assistance to support the implementation of the required
policy and institutional changes, and to design and carry out the investments. Because implementation
of the investments are contingent upon progress in policy and institutional reforms, project cities are
unlikely to proceed with implementation at the same rate. Thus, the Central Project Implementation
Unit's (CPIU) role in coordinating and assessing the phasing of activities in the cities will be critical.
CPIU Supervision Responsibilities
2.           To ensure that project objectives are achieved, the CPIU will have to successfully
integrate monitoring of both the policy and investment components of the project. Monitoring of progress
in achieving policy objectives will be done in two ways. First, cities will be expected to meet, and will
be measured against policy and institutional reform targets every year (see Annex T for Year 1 targets).
Second, cities will also be evaluated on their progress on policy reforms using the policy monitoring
indicators (see Table 4-4). Monitoring of the investment component will simflarly be carried out along
two parallel tracks. Aggregate disbursement will be measured against the disbursement schedule set out
in Table 4-2, but investments will also be evaluated using the performance indicators (see Table 4-5).
Finally, the effectiveness of technical assistance being channeled to cities under the project will be
evaluated against program output targets as well as beneficiary assessments. These evaluations will be
integrated to form a basis for the CPIU's annual operating plans and schedules for procurement and
disbursement. All of these elements will be included in the CPIU's assessment and reporting of annual
progress for submission to the Government and the Bank.
3.            Annual reporting will be carried out in a three-stage process. On September 15 of every
year the CPIU will submit to the Bank an agreed upon work plan for each city for the next calendar year.
This will include a description of the size, nature, timing, and handling of procurement actions for each
city, and confirmation that both the LIGs and the CPIU have adequate resources to handle the aggregate
workload. Subsequently in November, the CPIU will carry out preliminary assessments of each city's
performance against the annual policy and institutional reform targets for that year, and propose new
targets for the next calendar year. These targets, upon confirmation by the Bank, will be communicated
to the cities by the CPIU. By March 1 the CPIU will carry out final assessments of city performance
against annual policy and institutional targets and submit to the Bank for its no-objection recommendations
whether each city should continue to be eligible to participate in that year's investment cycle.
4.            The CPIU will also be responsible for monthly and quarterly reporting of project data,
including: overall procurement progress and project costing; revisions of cost estimates; procurement
schedules; disbursement progress and completion dates; and compliance with prior reviews and aggregate
limits on specified methods of Bank-financed procurement. This includes gathering data, if any, from
LIGs and other project participants, including bilateral donors. As necessary, the CPIU will work with
the LIGs to establish project budgeting and accounting systems to track both Bank and non-Bank project
funding.



2                                        Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
5.            In the period prior to the mid-term review scheduled for this project, the CPIU will
prepare, on the basis of the most recent annual report described above, a strategy paper justifying either
continuation of project implementation as described in the original project and loan documents, or a
revised plan of action. This will be submitted to the Bank six weeks before the scheduled supervision
mission.
Bank Supervision Responsibilities
6.            The proposed Bank supervision plan and schedule are summarized in Table M-1.
7.            Bank supervision will begin with a project launch mission at loan effectiveness and a
supervision mission no more than three months thereafter to ensure implementation systems are in place
and that participants the Bank's procurement, disbursement and project accounting processes. Following
this, at least two supervision missions a year will be scheduled, to discuss or participate in the annual
assessments carried out by the CPIU every year. These initial missions will cover all policy, physical,
and financial aspects of the project. The supervision missions are expected to involve the Task Manager,
financial and economic specialists from Headquarters, and procurement and technical specialists, including
possibly sociologists and environmental experts. Missions will review the CPIU's assessment of
implementation issues and progress toward targets, and CPIU plans for work and remedial action. Bank
supervision missions will also include field visits to project cities, and city officials and tenants will be
interviewed. The project's technology and engineering consultants will also be interviewed to ensure
progress is being made in contracting and installation of building retrofits. In addition, the CPIU's annual
reports will provide the basis for supervision missions in the last quarter of each project year to assess
progress during the previous period, achievement of project milestones and discuss work plans for the
next year.
8.            Periodic Bank supervision missions will, whenever possible, be carried out by staff who
have been involved in project planning and initiation. Supervision missions will be supplemented, if
necessary, by follow-up activities by designated members of the Bank's Resident Mission.
Notwithstanding, every effort will be made to combine supervision activities under this project with other
Bank activities in the country or region to minimize cost and conserve counterpart staff time.
9.            To be consistent with Bank guidelines for supervision activities (OD 13.05), supervision
missions will focus on the following key progress indicators or factors:
a.    implementation delays, cost overru.as or disbursement irregularities;
b.     SA operations;
c.     project accounting and audit scheduling/results;
d.     compliance with project objectives, legal covenants, provision of counterpart funding, and
performance management targets;
e.     compliance with procurement guidelines;
f.     satisfying Bank environmental requirements and mitigation strategies, and



Annex M. Supervision Plan                                                                 3
g.     compliance with agreed upon technical and implementation standards for the public sector
--            and private sector elements of the project.
In addition, the CPIU's annual reports will provide the basis for supervision missions in the last quarter
of each project year to assess progress during the previous period, achievement of project milestones and
discuss work plans for the next year.
10.          Based on the mid-term project strategy prepared by the CPIU, the Bank will conduct a
detailed mid-term review approximately 30 months after loan effectiveness to review a range of project
issues. It will be held in lieu of the third annual policy reform review for the cities, and be expanded
in scope to include not only progress against annual reform targets, but issues of implementation capacity,
rates of disbursement, decentralization of management, municipal creditworthiness, and possible
reallocations of funds among cities. At this time each city's progress in implementing the investment
component of the project will be carefully reviewed to determine whether LIGs could be tasked with
increasing responsibility for procurement and disbursement. Implementation capacity as evidenced by
disbursement rates will also be used to determine whether undisbursed subloan amounts might be
reallocated among cities.
11.          A Project Completion Report and wrap-up audit will be prepared by the CPIU at the end
of the program.



4                                       Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiure Project
Table M-1. Proposed Supervision Plan
Approximate                 Activity                  ExpeCted Skifls      Staff weeks
Dates                                                 Required
June 1996         Project Launch                    Task Manager             15
Participating city conference     Economist
Review implementation             Procurement Specialist
arrangements for CPIU and LIGs    Disbursement Specialist
Review work plans for CPIU and    Project Assistant
LIGs
Finalize tender documents
September 1996    Supervision                       Task Manager             12
Review annual work plans          Procurement Specialist
Selected site visits              Energy Specialst
Financial Analyst
Environmental Specialist
February 1997     Supervision                       Task Manager             10
Review city progress against      Economist
annual policy targets             Social Scientist
Selecte site visits               Procurement Specialist
July 1997         Supervision                       Task Manager             12
Review annual work plans          Procurement Specialist
Selected site visits              Energy Specialist
Financial Analyst
_  Environmental Specialist
February 1998     Mid-term Review                   Task Manager             15
Review implementation             Economist
arrangements, subloan allocations    Procurement Specialist
Disbursement Specialist
_  Lawver
FY98-02:
July              Supervsion                        Task Manager             10
Review annual work plans          Procurement Specialist
Selected site visits              Energy speciahst
Financial Analyst
February          Supervision                       Task Manager             10
Review city progress              Economist
Selected site visits              Social Scientist
Procurement SDecialist
July 2003         Project Completion Review         Task Manager             8
Energy Specialist
Economist
Financial Analyst



ANNEX N
PROCUREMENT INFORMATION
Summary of Procurement Activities:
ENTERPRISE HOUSING DIVESTITURE PROJECT
Cateory    ontrctsLoan Funds  GOR/Others        Total
Category       # Contracts  (US$x000)   (USx0       (USSx)
Technical Services       22        25,920      15,777       41,697
Energy Technology      1         9,326        2,000       11,326
Services__        _ _ _   __ _ _ _ _  __  _ _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _
Procurement &                  3,790        1,905       5,695
Installation Supervision
Consultants        10         1,060        130         1,190
Banking Services      1          425          95          520
Project Accounting     1         430           95          525
Systems
Legal - Financial                375          80          455
Advisorv Services
CPIU - LIG Audp t     2          760          165         925
Retrofit O& M    | n/a           0          2,109       2,109
Training                r            r
CPIU - iG          fa         4,754       9,198       13,952
Equipment & Goods       101        35,298       8,306       43,604
ICB              8        27,833       4,175       32,008
DC              3          830          105         935
IS             12         1,705         210        1,915
NCB              18        2,861        3,528       6,389
NS              60         2,069        288         2,357
Civil Works              68       233,970      99,993      333,963
Building Metering &    50        228,067      46,803      274,920
Energy Retrofits
Upstream Systems      11         5,256       53,092       58,348
Retrofits__       _ _ _   __ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _  _  _ _  _ _
Other Small Works      7          647          98          745
Recurrent Costs     n/a          0          54,305      54,305
Housing Allowances     n/a         0          71,125      71,125
Office Leases       n/a        1,312        783         2,095
PPF                     n/a        3,500         525        4,025
Program Totals      191        300,000     250,814      550,814



Annex N
Page 2                                                                   EHDP.- Project Implementation Details
Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
Procurement Schedu e for Major Purchases
_FOCUFWFWN                                                    lPocuremet  Schedule
C -egrY    Unit  Contractng AOn  Loan Bt00Procurement il issue ENi   |                carv C ed    Begin De
*  ______________ S X 00         to      Docmet.11 R111i11          Award     Ben  ilw
T    l        = wm                       27,232
Energy Technology         9,326    Short Ust  11/95 - 12/95  2/96 - 3/96   3/96 - 4/96   5/96 - 6/96
2      Petroit rnsaihlon  4,660    Short Ust   3/96 - 6/96   5/96 - 8/96  7/96 -10/96  8/96 -11/96
3   Procu= t Trnlng    4,130    Short Ust  12/95 - 1/96   2/96 - 3/96   4/96 - 5/96   5/96 - 6/96
4 -    . SupMor1        760     Short Ust  10/96 - 1/97  12/96 - 3/97  2/97 - 5/97   4/97 - 7/97
5    Banking Senrlces      425     Short Ust   7/95 - 8/95   9/95 - 10/95 10/95 -11/95 11/95 - 12/95
Proecl Accountlng     430     Short Ust   1/96 - 3/96   3/96 - 5/96   5/96 - 7/96   6/96 - 8/96
SehAoess_             _   __                                           _   _   _   _   _
7 _      al - Flnarncal    375       Indivs.    1/96 - 8/96   3/96 - 10/96  5/96 - 12/96   7/96 - 2/97
8    Other Consultanis    1,060    Shorts.    4/96 - 6/99   6/96 - 8/99  8/96 - 10/99  10/96 - 12/99
9 CPIU   min. / O         6,086    FA / Indvas.   n/a          n/a          n/a      12/95 - 4/96
Support__                               _ _ _ _   __ _ _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _
CNN V*                                   233,970
10    Phae I CnroupA)      6,490      ICa.      2/96- 8/96   4/96 - 10/96  5/96 - 11/96  6/96 - 12/96
11   Meterlna Contracts    9,865      ICB'     10/96 - 5/97  12/96 - 7/97  2/97 - 9/97   4/97 - 11/97
12  *hne   CFonp C)        4,326      ICB      12/96 - 4/97   2/97 - 6/97   4/97 - 8/97   5/97 - 9/97
13    aetroffi Contracts  76,160      ICB'      5/96 - 8/96   7/96 - 10/96  9/96 - 12/96  10/96 - 1/97
Phaset Con(troacts
14   Pharn I (Group B)    108,913     ICB'      8/97-4/98   10/97-6/98  12/97-8/98  2/98- 10/98
15   Phto t (GroupC)    27.569        NCB,    5/98 - 11/98   7/98 - 1/99   9/98 - 3/99   11/98 - 5/99
_ _ Retrofi    Contract a_ _ _ _ _          _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _
16      and Filouts        745         LS'      5/95 - 4/96   7/95 - 6/96   9/95 - 8/96   10/95 - 9/96
Equ"wd   a                               35.298
17    Hetng Syntwu       8,450        ICB-     10/96 - 8/97  12/96 -10/97 2/97 - 12/97   3/97 - 2/98
18       Ming              715        NCB | 2/97 - 8/97   4/97 -10/97  6/97 -12/97   7/97 - 1/98
19                         9,347      ICB9     12/97 - 8/96  2/98 -10/98  4/98 -12/98   5/98 -1/99
20                         2,256      ICB'    12/97 - 8/98  2/98 - 10/98  4/98 - 12/98   5/98 - 1/99
21    Hot / Cold Wat r     4,597      ICB'      2/97 - 8/97   4/97 - 10/97  6/97 - 12/97   7/97 - 1/98
22  HA                     530       IS/DC*    3/97 - 10/97  5/97 - 12/97  7/97 - 2/98   8/97 - 3/98
23                         475        NCB-    12/97 - 8/98  2/98 - 10/98  4/98 - 12/98   5/98 - 1/99
24    In  lamoB            725       IS/DC-   6/96- 12/96   8/96 - 2/97  10/96 - 4/97  11/96 - 5/97
25    Builg Entp          B5,183      ICB      5/97 - 12/97   7/97 - 2/98   9/97 - 4/98   10/97 - 5/98
26      F     tnvenal      260         IS      5/97 - 12/97   7/97 - 2/98   9/97 - 4/98   10/97 - 5/98
27    Bulkng Enbe          650        NCB-      7/97 - 1/98   9/97 - 3/98  11/97 - 5/98   1/98 - 6/98
28   venlW aStr            285 oIS              8/96 - 4/97   10/96 - 6/97  12/96 - 8/97  2/97 - 10/97
29          1   nen  ros   530        NCB-      8/96 - 4/97   10/96 - 6/97  12/96 - 8/97  2/97 - 10/97
30         M atn           240         IS,      4/97 - 8/98   6/97 - 10/98  8/97 - 12/98  10/97 - 2/99
31    Conull Injating      491        NCB-    4/97 - 8/98   6/97 - 10/98  8/97 - 12/98  10/97 - 2/99
32       Fur-              495       IS/DC*   6/96 - 10/97  8/96 - 12/97  10/96 - 2/98  12/96 - 4/98
33      utu ENtc.          1,484       LS'     5/95 - 12/95   7/95 - 2/96   9/95 - 4/96   10/95 - 6/96
3 is and  Ea IlDmen   585         LS'      7/95 - 7/99   9/95 - 9/99  11/95 -11/99 12/95 - 12/99
34  Mloc' Ms&      29856
* l    tbemtieprcaebCICtisdrnthpeosincae28850D t
*UkeIy tO be mutlphe purchase by CPIU - CNles during the penlods Indicated.



ANNEX 0
PRoJECr ORGANIZATION
CPIU Organization
1.            Project Director. Responsible for performance of project, accountable for reporting to
Government and Bank.
Authorities:
Sign Applications for Withdrawal to replenish SA
Clear shortlists
Sign all contracts
Approve bid evaluations, contract negotiation results
Clearance of local procurement
Issues General Notice, Procurement Bulletins
Signs project audit results and reports
2.            Communicatons Coordinator. Responsible for pulling together project information from
3, 4, 5 (listed below) of interest to cities and bidders and Government. Produce newsletters, press
releases, etc. Responds to public inquiries. Reports to Project Director.
3.            Policy Issues Coordination. Staff report to Project Director. Responsible for interactions
with technical assistance providers, coordination of training to cities, monitoring of policy progress in
cities. Responsible for interaction with ministries and federal agencies on policy issues such as
divestiture, enterprise taxation, housing policy, energy pricing, utility regulation, and to alert Project
Director of policy issues which may affect implementation of project. Work with engineering group on
issues related to construction standards and energy efficiency.
4.            Deputy Directorfor Implementation. Responsible for oversight over the Engineering
Group and Procurement Group. Carries out procurement actions on behalf of the cities when it involves
international procurement (this may change over time-cities might be able to carry out international
procurement in a few years). Assures that procurement group provides all necessary support to cities for
local procurement actions-and is ultimately responsible to see that local procurement is carried out
according to Bank guidelines.
Authorities:
Prepares shortlists, bid evaluations, LOIs, contract negotiation results, payments, general
notice procurement bulletins, etc. for Director clearance, in absence of Director, authority to
clear.
5.            Deputy Director for Finance. Responsible for oversight over Disbursement and Loan
Management Group. Also oversees financial analyst directly under this position. Responsible for



2                                                     Staff Appraisal Report: Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
P   Project Director s
ICommunicaons CoordinatorL
PolricyIses               Deut DiPr.c lol    Deputy Directaolr                            Office Manager    l
Coordination          fcr Implementation                        for Finance
;-          1 8   Financial Analyst
Techndogy Advisory   Procurement and
Group         Engineenng Group
10                11
Disbursements    Loan Management
The Technology Advisory and Procurement and Engineerng Groups will be under contrads to the CPIU.
Figure 0-1. Central Project Implementation Unit
arranging for all disbursements, including local (this may change over time, when and if localities can
come up with enough capacity to report directly to the Bank on SAs). Responsible for loan repayment
issues from the cities, and interaction with the Ministry of Finance as necessary in this regard. Assures
that disbursement group serves as a service provider to cities, and responsible to see that disbursement
is carried out according to Bank guidelines.
Authorities:
Prepares project audit results, SA reports, loan status reports, etc. with assistance of financial
analyst for Director signature.
In Director's absence, signs.
Prepares withdrawal applications, etc,. in Director's absence, allowed to sign.
6.              Office Manager. Responsible for running office. Organizes hiring of support staff for
Director, supervises support staff. Maintains office accounting.
7.              Technology Advisory Group (TAG).  Will be bid out to firms as a single contract.
Responsible for identifying cost-effective energy and water efficient technology packages are selected for
the cities. Will work intensively with the LIGs in each city to: identify and sequence appropriate
investment packages; design appropriate tender packages (working closely with the procurement group);
and provide assistance as necessary to LIGs in overseeing work implemented by contractors.



Annex 0. Project Organization                                                            3
8.           Procurement and Engineering Group (PEG). To be bid out to firms as a single contract.
Responsible for international procurement (for now) and acts on behalf of cities when doing so. Supports
and controls the quality of local procurement actions and assists LIGs with contract management.
Maintains all procurement records, and supplies inputs to financial analyst and Deputy Director for
Finance as necessary.
9.           Financial Analyst. Interacts with procurement, disbursement and loan groups to prepare
all necessary reports for Bank, under supervision of Deputy Director for Finance. As project develops
and reporting from local PIUs necessary, also coordinates document review and production.
10.          Disbursements. Staff report to Deputy Director for Finance. Does all disbursements (for
now), and acts on behalf of cities when doing so. Must be very responsive to cities. Maintains all
disbursement records, and supplies inputs to financial analyst. Must be very well staffed and trained able
to respond quickly.
11.          Loan Management.  The Ministry of Finance has indicated that documentation and
management of subloans to cities be coordinated by the CPIU on behalf of the Ministry of Finance.
Staffing needs for this function are likely to be modest.
External consultants as necessary, including legal, management and environmental consulting services.
List of Positions Reauirn  Bank Prior Review
Director
Deputy Director for Implementation
Deputy Director for Finance






ANNEX P
Cr SELECrlON PROCEDURE
Background
1.           General principles for city selection were determined during the first project mission in
the fall of 1994. In discussions with counterpart agencies it was agreed that:
a.    Cities that are potential candidates for participation in the project should vary in their:
size (with the emphasis to medium-sized cities and inclusion of enterprise-towns),
administrative status, and geographical location.
b.     Potential candidates should be leaders in housing reform implementation and should
demonstrate their commitment to enterprise housing divestiture.
c.    The city selection procedure should be of a competitive nature. Potential candidates
would be invited to participate in the competition. At the end of a competitive process
four or five cities would be selected to be the final participants in the project. Terms of
competition would include both quantitative and qualitative criteria of cities' progress in
the areas of divestiture, formation of competitive market for maintenance services,
privatization of apartments and condominium formation, and cost recovery.
2.            On the basis of principles mentioned above, a 'long list" of cities was formed. It
included 12 cities: Ryazan', Vladimir, Yaroslavl', Petrozavodsk, Orenburg, Krasnoyarsk, Novocherkassk,
Cherepovets, Zhukovskiy, Volkhov, Kulebaki, and Efremov (for more details see Table P-1). This initial
selection was based on proposals of government officials from the counterpart agencies, opinion of
privatization and housing experts (from the Russian Privatization Center, the Urban Institute, and the
Institute on Housing and Municipal Economy), impressions from city visits of the World Bank mission,
and results of surveys of five enterprises and municipalities in nine cities.
3.            In February 1995, a meeting of officials from the twelve candidate cities was organized.
It was hosted by the Government and the World Bank mission. In the course of this meeting the main
ideas of the project and principles of city selection were presented to the participants and their reaction
was received both in the general discussion and in separate meetings with each city. On the basis of this
information the project preparation team was able to finalize the set of criteria to be used for competitive
process.
4.            The general reaction of city officials to the project presentation was very positive and after
the meeting all 12 potential candidates confirmed their participation in the competition. It was agreed
that in the course of competition all the cities from the "long list" would receive training in the areas of
competitive maintenance, condominium formation, and procurement. All of them would also receive
preliminary engineering and design information on the energy efficiency measures and would have access
to information on the actual results of energy-saving investments over the course of the project.



2                                          Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
Table P-1. Initial City Selection
CITY                           POPULATION   LOCATION                  SPECIAL
thousand people                      REMARKS
Ryazan'                               536.6    Central Russia       Oblast center, Ryazan'
oblast
Vladimir                              357.7    Central Russia       Oblast center, Vladimir
oblast
Yaroslavl'                            629.0    Central Russia       Oblast center,
Yaroslavl' oblast
Petrozavodsk                          278.8    Northwest Russia     Republican center, Karelian
republic
Orenburg                              576.9    Urals                Oblast center, Orenburg
oblast
Krasnoyarsk                           919.0   Eastern Siberia       Kray center, Krasnoyarsk
kray
Novocherkassk                         203.1   Southwest Russia      Rostov oblast
Cherepovets                           318.4   Central Russia        Vologda oblast
Zhukovskiy                            100.2   Central Russia        One enterprise town,
Moscow oblast
Volkhov                                47.8    Northwest Russia     Enterprise-town, Leningrad
oblast
Kulebaki                               62.2    Central Russia       One-enterprise town,
Nizhni Novgorod oblast
Efremov                                55.4    Central Russia       One-enterprise town, Tula
oblast
City Selection Criteria
5.             The list of city selection criteria was drafted on the basis of discussions with officials from
counterpart agencies and finalized after the meeting of candidate-city representatives. It was sent to the
cities after they confirmed their participation in the competition. This list included a set of minimum
standards to qualify for the project, but it was specified that the selection of winners would be based on
a comparison of real results among participants in order to keep the number of finally selected cities
reasonably limited.



Annex P. City Selection Procedure                                                            3
6.            The following criteria were officially presented for the cities as the basis for the final
selection:
a.     formal agreements for divestiture by the end of 1995 of at least 80 percent of the
enterprise housing stock that is eligible for divestiture according to Russian legislation
and regulations (with corresponding utility networks), taking the amount of enterprise
housing stock as of January 1, 1992 to be 100 percent;
b.     divestiture of all maintenance units from those enterprises that would hold no housing on
their balance by the end of 1995 (divested units would be either privatized or reorganized
into separate municipal enterprise but not included into existing municipal maintenance
structure);
c.    transfer of both residential and non-residential premises in residential buildings divested
by enterprises since March 1995 to the balance of the same balance holder, preferably
the "single customer service";
d.     functional and organizational separation of customers and contractors for the rendering
of maintenance services;
e.     at least one open non-discriminatory tender for the rendering of maintenance services
organized by the end of competition;
f.     privatization of 40 percent of apartments in the municipal and enterprise housing stock
by the end of competition;
g.     creation of a relevant regulatory framework for condominium formation;
h.     cost recovery from residents' fees of at least 30 percent by July 1, 1995 (with regulations
in place mandating at least 40 percent by the end of 1995) with a functioning housing
allowance system  to protect the poor.  Cities were also proposed to identify
demonopolization measures for maintenance market they were going to undertake in
1995-1996.
7.            It was agreed with the cities that their progress would be measured by the information
they were obliged to provide to the project preparation team (in response to the uniform information
request which was sent to the cities) and by reports of consultants which would visit the cities to clarify
the information and obtain more details. The deadline for reporting was defined as June 20, 1995. By
this time the cities had to provide information about their actual results and to prove (by legal decisions,
officially approved schedules, etc.) further progress by the end of 1995 where necessary.
Recommended Cities
8.            In the course of the competition, the project preparation team received information from
and visited all eleven cities (Krasnoyarsk declined to participate). On the basis of all this information
three groups of cities were identified at the end of the competitive process:
a.     only one city, Ryazan', met all the minimum requirements;



4                                        Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divesdtiure Project
b.     five cities clearly failed to meet the criteria because of poor progress either in enterprise
housing divestiture (Yaroslavl, Efremov) or in implementation of housing reform
(Cherepovets, Kulebaki, Zhukovskiy, Efremov);
c.     five cities showed mixed results: they had good progress in certain areas but didn't meet
minimum standards in the others (Novocherkassk, Vladimir, Petrozavodsk, Volkhov,
Orenburg).
9.            During the Pre-Appraisal missions, the project preparation team visited all the cities from
the first and third groups to make the final check and clarification of data, negotiate further steps, discuss
obligations related to inclusion in the project with municipal and regional authorities, and try to assess
implementation capacity of each city.
10.           On the basis of assessment of the results of the competition and the pre-appraisal city
visits, a shortlist of six cities (Ryazan', Novocherkassk, Vladimir, Petrozavodsk, Volkhov, Orenburg)
was formed. This list was discussed and confirmed by Russian counterparts on the meeting of the working
group. Among these six cities only Ryazan' was unconditionally selected at this stage. All the others
were included conditionally. For them the term of competition was prolonged to the end of September
and intensive technical assistance was offered to help them meet all the criteria which were not yet met.
As a result, all the cities in the shortlist proved to be able to meet the criteria and were finally included
in the project.
11.           At the same time one of the "losers," Cherepovets, continued to express great interest in
participating in the project and stressed its commitment to fast implementation of housing reform. Taking
into account that Cherepovets had made substantial if not adequate progress on reforming and had proved
its high implementation capacity in other World Bank projects, it was decided to consider Cherepovets
as a "reserve" city. This means that this city can be included in the project at a future date if: 1) one of
the cities-participants drops out or is removed from the project; 2) Cherepovets undertakes all of the
policy and institutional reform measures required at the time of inclusion.
12.           This "6+1" formula was approved by the EHDP Governmental Working Group in the
course of the Appraisal mission, when the final review of progress in policy and institutional actions
undertaken by candidate cities was made. A detailed description of six participating cities and the reserve
one follows below. All the information is as of October-November 1995.
a.     Ryazan'. More than 60 percent of enterprise housing stock has already been divested and
the city administration submitted the schedule for further divestiture to reach 80 percent
by the end of the year. The functions of customer and contractor have been separated,
and a "single customer service" was created as a part of municipality to play the role of
client on behalf of residents of municipal buildings. The city administration achieved
good results in demonopolization of maintenance market. The first competitive tender for
maintenance services took place in March 1995 and the second one is scheduled for the
end of the year. The city of Ryazan' is the leader in condominium creation; 28 condos
have already been formed and its condominium regulations for a long time was used as
a model for the other cities. Cost recovery level has reached 30 percent and the housing
allowance system works very efficiently. The level of privatization of apartments is 32



Am= P. Ciy Selection Procedure                                                            5
percent. The city administration of Ryazan' demonstrated good potential implementation
capacity and a high level of commitment to the project ideas.
b.     V&ndimir. About 50 percent of enterprise housing has been divested. Now the city
administration is working with 10 more enterprises on divestiture issues to reach by the
end of the year an 83 percent level. The city achieved good results in housing reform
implementation. "Single customer service" has been created. The decision was made that
maintenance of all the divested housing would be organized through competitive tenders.
The first tender took place in July 1995 and was very successful. Condominium
regulations are in place and three condos have been formed. Cost recovery is maintained
on a 30 percent level for all services except cold water and at 100 percent for cold water,
and the housing allowance system works quite efficiently. Privatization of apartments has
reached the 40 percent level. The city administration has some experience in working
with energy efficiency investments, but needs to make some additional efforts to increase
its implementation capacity.
c.    Novocherkassk. The process of divestiture in the city is going rather fast, and 78 percent
of enterprise housing has already been transferred to municipality. Single Customer
service has been formed and the first tender for maintenance services took place in
February 1995. The next tender is scheduled for the end of the year. The city is the
pioneer in privatization of maintenance enterprises. Condominium regulations are in place
and 9 condos have been formed, including 2 on the basis of enterprise housing. Cost
recovery level is about 40 percent and the housing allowance system performs well.
Privatization of apartments is extremely high - about 70 percent. The city administration
is interested in the project, but has to improve data collection in the city and find
qualified people to work on the project to make implementation successful.
d.     Orenburg. The city achieved rather good results in the divestiture area, and by the end
of 1995 almost all enterprise housing stock except Gazprom's (about 12 percent of total
housing stock in the city) was to be accepted by municipality. Their progress in housing
reform is also impressive. Cost recovery is maintained on the level of 40 percent and the
city administration is committed to reach 50 percent level in the beginning of 1996. The
housing allowance system works quite efficiently. Apartment privatization goes quickly,
at least in municipal housing stock (45 percent, but they do not have reliable information
on enterprise housing). Single Customer service has been created. The first tender for
maintenance services took place in September 1995. Three condos are in the process of
registration, though it's necessary to improve the city's regulations in this area. The city
administration demonstrated good potential for project implementation, the ability to form
qualified and competent group to work with project preparation team and a high level of
responsiveness for project preparation team requirements.
e.     Petrozavodsk. The city administration is moving fast in implementing housing reform.
Single Customer service was created recently. A competitive tender for maintenance
services took place in October 1995 and was very successful. In general there are very
good preconditions for competitive maintenance in this city as Petrozavodsk was very
active in private sector involvement in maintenance activity (more than 30 private firms
provide different kinds of maintenance services and a big joint stock company which is
going to specialize in this area was created). Condominium regulations are in place and



6                                        Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
an active publicity campaign was started, though no condos have been actually formed.
Cost recovery is close to 30 percent, which is particularly important as Petrozavodsk has
already faced world level energy prices. A housing allowance system is in place and
works efficiently. Privatization of apartments is on the level of 33 percent. Enterprise
housing divestiture is moving fast; by the end of 1995 only two enterprises eligible for
divestiture will keep housing on their balance. The city administration is experienced
enough in energy efficiency projects and has demonstrated high potential project
implementation capacity and high level of commitment to project ideas. The group of
people working with the project preparation team had good skills and a high ability to
collect and process information, and were very responsive to project preparation team
requirements.
f.     Volkhov. This city is the only representative of enterprise-towns on the "shortlist". It
was very active in the divestiture area and in some areas of housing reform. "Single
customer service" has been created. Cost recovery exceeds 40 percent level. A housing
allowance system is in place but needs some improvements. Privatization of apartments
is on the level of 35 percent. Competitive tender for maintenance services was announced
but still not completed as the city administration was working very seriously with
potential bidders. Work on condominium creation has been started though both
regulations and logistics in this area have to be improved. The city administration
demonstrated sufficient capacity for project implementation and interest for participating
in the project.
g.     Cherepovets. The city is the leader in divestiture process: more than 90 percent of
enterprise housing has already been transferred to municipality. Some progress has been
made in housing reform, though it was not sufficient for inclusion into the project.
"Single customer service" has not been formed yet and financial and management
responsibilities for housing and utility sector are divided between three departments in
the municipality, though some reorganization plans are being discussed currently in the
city. Tariffs for population were raised 2.6 timnes from the beginning of November 1995,
but cost recovery is still rather low: 40 percent for maintenance and 13 percent for
utilities. A housing allowance system was created, but did not function because of the
low level of cost recovery. Competitive tender for maintenance services took place, but
only for two buildings and was not very successful because of this limited scale.
Regulations for condominium creation were issued and a publicity campaign has been
started but not too much progress was achieved. Apartment privatization is on the level
of 27 percent and the city administration is planning an active campaign to increase this
indicator. The city administration considers energy efficiency improvements as one of
the main directions of its activity and has accumulated a lot of knowledge and experience
in this area.
13.           It was decided to maintain competitive relations among cities-participants in the course
of project implementation as well. Each year of the project the cities have to prove their ability to make
further progress in policy and institutional reforms by meeting policy and institutional targets, the list of
which has to be approved and sent to the cities in the beginning of each year. If some cities seriously fail
to meet the indicators or prove to have no sufficient capacity for project implementation it can be
considered as a reason to redistribute loan money or even to exclude these cities from the project.



Annex P. City Seketion Procedure                                                             7
Lessons Leamed
14.           Selection of project participants through competitive procedure proved to be very efficient
for acceleration of reforms implementation. All the cities in the long list participated in training courses
and improved their knowledge about housing reform ideas and implementation mechanisms. It was
especially important for enterprise-towns, for which information about housing reform appeared to be
very limited. In about 2/3 of cities participation in the competition led to substantial acceleration of
housing reforms (even Krasnoyarsk which declined to participate in the competition continues contacts
with consultants who carry out technical assistance for the project). In two cities participation in the
competition was critical to overcome resistance of housing reform opponents. One of the main reasons
for the success of competition was a unified system of selection criteria which left no room for bargaining
and lobbying. The pace of changes in project cities is much higher than in general. For example,
according to rough estimates levels of cost recovery in project cities are more than twice as high as the
average in Russia.
15.           At the same time, experience shows that standards for competition should not be limited
by policy criteria. At least three other factors are critical for city selection process: (i) technical potential
for investments (which appeared to be very difficult to assess on the basis of information provided by
cities, without careful examination by project preparation team experts); (ii) budget situation in the city
(which proved radically changeable during the period of competition); and (iii) implementation capacity
of city officials which becomes obvious only after series of contacts and visits to the city. These three
factors should either be included in the competitive procedure or city officials should be informed from
the very beginning that their cities can be disqualified on the basis of certain reasons which are not
reflected in selection criteria.






ANNEX Q
ENERGY REGULATION AND PoLIcY IN RUSSIA
1.            This annex describes some of the most relevant and recent aspects of energy regulation
and policy in Russia that pertain to the project. In general, energy in Russia is supplied by both public
and private enterprises at the national, regional, and local levels. Almost all energy supply and
distribution enterprises have been privatized into joint-stock companies, with the exception of many
municipally-owned district heating enterprises (production and distribution) and electricity distribution
enterprises. In recent years, oil markets in Russia have become more deregulated and competitive,
although regional monopolies, administrative allocations to some consumers, and export limits remain.
Electric power, natural gas and coal, on the other hand, have remained dominated by regulated
monopolies.
2.            National Monopolies in the energy sector at the national level include Gazprom (for both
production and transport of gas) and the electric power utility RAO "EES Rossii." Natural monopolies
a the regional level include regional electric power utilities, regional gas distribution companies, and oil
pipeline operators. These natural monopolies have been only weakly regulated up until now, and
institutional capacity for strong regulation is still an important missing ingredient. A federal law
approved in August 1995 (147-FZ, "On Natural Monopolies") is the latest document regulating these
natural monopolies. This law allows price regulation, mandatory service to designated consumer groups,
and mandated minimum service levels when supply shortages exist.
3.            A federal law passed in April 1995 defines the economic, organizational, and legal basis
of state regulation of tariffs for electricity and heat (41-FZ, "On State Regulation of Electrical and
Thermal Energy Tariffs in the Russian Federation"). This law states that tariffs for all heat and electricity
supplied by commercial organizations are subject to state regulation. The jurisdiction of state organs is
as follows: (a) municipally owned heat and electricity producers and distribution companies are subject
to regulation by local government; (b) commercial electricity and heat producers and distribution
companies at the regional and local levels are subject to regulation by regional energy commissions,
except if they supply consumers through interregional bulk electricity markets; (c) interregional bulk
electric power transfers are subject to regulation by the federal energy commission. The basis for setting
tariffs is cost plus profit, where both reasonable and normal costs must be substantiated in energy
suppliers' submissions to tariff approval bodies. The Federal Energy Commission is responsible for
specifying a set of recommended methodologies for determining reasonable tariffs, but the regional
commissions are not obligated to use these methodologies, and may use their own. Other requirements
for energy supply enterprises are specified within the law; for example, energy supply and distribution
enterprises must competitively select equipment suppliers and construction contractors (as verified by the
regulatory body with jurisdiction of that enterprise).
4.            Municipal governments regulate municipally-owned utility supply and distribution
enterprises according to locally-determined regulations. The basis for setting tariffs is also cost plus
profit, where municipal officials examine the enterprise's cost structure and rule on what is reasonable
and normal. These enterprises may own and operate district heat production (and peaking) plants, heat
distribution networks, cold water and sewage systems, and electric power distribution networks. These
types of utility enterprises are not always municipal, and in some cases the enterprises are privatized or
owned by the regional electric power utility. In the case of electric power distribution companies, final
electricity tariffs to consumers are fixed by the regional energy commission, and so the difference
between the wholesale purchase price and the final selling prices of electricity (total revenues) is not
subject to control by municipal governments even if the enterprise is municipally owned.



2                                       Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
5.            Both federal and regional energy commissions are now allowed to be legal entities with
their own budgets and staff, although regional energy commissions still need substantial training and
capacity building before they can perform well all of their mandated functions. Funding of regional
energy commissions and their transformation from unpaid commissions to new legal entities is the
responsibility of regional administrations, and no such transformations have yet occurred. Funding will
most likely come from either regional budgets or special energy taxes. Members of regional energy
commissions are appointed according to procedures adopted at the regional government level. The
chairman of the regional energy commission must be approved by the federal energy commission. The
chairman of the federal energy commission is appointed by the president of the Russian Federation.
6.            Tariffs to residential consumers in municipal-owned buildings for heat and hot water are
set by municipal governments. It appears that regional energy commissions have jurisdiction in regulating
heat and hot water tariffs to cooperatives and privately-owned buildings, according to instructions issued
by the Ministry of Fuel and Energy and the State Committee on Pricing in April 1995. These instructions
acknowledge, however, that heat and hot water tariffs for residential consumers in cooperatives or
privately-owned buildings must be the same as for consumers in municipal-owned buildings (according
to Council of Ministers Decree No. 935, September 1993, "On the Transition to a New System of
Payment for Housing Services...").
7.            Residential energy prices have been a moving target in recent years and will continue to
adjust in the near future, because of supply privatization, price liberalization, cost recovery, and changing
regulatory jurisdictions and laws. The residential energy price situation in mid-1995 is summarized
below:
a.     Electricity. The April 1995 law meant that regional energy commissions can now
determine residential electricity rates, rather than the federal energy commission. Few
actions have yet been taken by regional energy commissions to reduce electricity cross-
subsidies from the industrial to residential sectors. In September 1995, residential
electricity rates in central European Russia ranged from 15 percent to 50 percent of
industrial rates, and typically were 20-35 percent of industrial rates. Industrial rates in
central European Russia varied from 3.8 to 4.4 cents/kWh.
b.     Heat and hot water. Residential heat and hot water tariffs that city governments charge
to residents are still substantially below the cost to the city of purchasing the heat and hot
water (see Annex H on cost recovery). Heat prices in central European Russia (set in
August 1995) that city govermnents will have to pay to heat suppliers in the winter of
1995-96 ranged from a low of $13/Gcal in Moscow to a high of $31/Gcal in Vladimir,
with typical values around $20-25/Gcal.
c.     Gas. Residential gas prices are now regulated by regional government administrations.
Residential gas tariffs are fixed monthly charges depending on the end-uses in an
apartment (stove, hot water heater, etc.), and are still well below the cost of service.
Local and regional gas distribution companies do not subsidize the gas that they sell to
residential consumers. Rather, they purchase the gas sold to residential consumers at a
reduced tariff from the gas transmission company, although the margins (as set by
regional government administrations) typically do not cover their full cost of service.
Cross-subsidies occur at the point of transmission (Gazprom and its transmission
affiliates).



Annex Q. Energy Regulation and Policy in Russia                                        3
8.           Policies specifically to promote energy efficiency have proved difficult to enact and
implement in Russia since 1992. Energy efficiency was the subject of much rhetoric and the goal of
attempted reforms during the Soviet Period, especially during Glasnost under Gorbachev. But little
changed in reality. In 1992 a government decree established the Russian Energy Saving Fund (RESF)
administered by the Ministry of Fuel and Energy. The RESF was charged with financing scientific
studies, drafting norms and standards, providing equity financing for energy efficiency projects,
supporting the development of manufacturing capabilities for energy-efficiency equipment and materials,
and providing preferred credits for small energy efficiency projects. Various domestic mechanisms for
funding the RESF since that time have been proposed, but none have been enacted. The Bank plans to
utilize the RESF to prepare and evaluate candidate energy efficiency projects for financing under the first
Gas Distribution Loan.
9.           A few energy efficiency policy initiatives have in fact resulted in concrete activities. For
example, regional energy efficiency funds, administered by the regional government and financed through
energy taxes, have developed in a few regions of Russia, and these funds were actually collecting and
dispersing money. But a draft national law on energy efficiency first written in 1992 still has not been
passed by parliarnent. This law would provide for the collection of capital through taxes and surcharges
on energy and for investments under the direction of central authorities. Many observers aren't optimistic
that federal-level legislation will be passed, and think that regional and local laws are much more likely.
In Moscow for example, new energy-efficient residential building construction standards have been
enacted. "There are no federal laws on energy efficiency, so we had to make one for Moscow" said an
official of the Moscow Government Department of Energy Efficiency in an interview in 1994.
10.          At the direction of the Russian government Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Fuel
and Energy has been developing an energy policy document in conjunction with the Ministry of Economy
and other government bodies, entitled "Main Directions of Russian Energy Policy Through 2010."
Adoption of this document has not yet occurred, but a May 1995 presidential degree (No. 472, "On
Fundamental Guidelines for Energy Policy and Structural Rebuilding of the Fuel and Energy Complex
of the Russian Federation Up to the Year 2010") specifies that adoption should take place. The "Main
Directions..." document establishes national priorities and the conditions for cooperation between the
federal government, regional governments, local governments, private enterprises, and other
organizations. Energy efficiency features prominently in this policy document, and energy efficiency in
buildings is specifically targeted. More recently, the Government has adopted a decree "On Urgent
Measures Towards Energy Conservation," (#1087, November 2, 1995), and the Duma has passed a law
on energy conservation, both of which legislate an active state role in the promotion of energy efficiency
and regulation.






ANNEX R
AFFORDABILITY AND COST REcovERY FOR HOUSEHOLDS
Sulmmary
1.             In order to anticipate the potential financial and economic consequences of full cost
recovery in Russia's housing sector, a statistical model on household incomes and housing expenditures
was developed, upon which the analysis in this annex is based. Although there are drawbacks to the
analysis due to the unavailability of updated data and uncertainty regarding the future macroeconomic
environment in Russia, the conclusion of the analysis is that full cost recovery in the housing sector will
require additional reforms in the areas of housing and income policy as well as a campaign to reduce
housing costs through measures to conserve energy use in residential buildings.
Background
2.            In 1994, the Russian Government announced that full cost recovery in the housing sector
would be achieved by 1998, with local authorities required to raise tariffs associated with housing costs
(i.e., utilities and maintenance costs) according to their own schedules (see also Table H-5). Some cities
have reached 30 percent cost recovery in 1995; considering the fact that cost recovery in the sector in
1993 was only 5 percent, this signifies meaningful progress. However, such drastic changes beg the
question of what the real costs will be under full cost recovery, for both the population and the local
governments responsible for providing housing allowances to them.
The Statistical Model
3.            Under the assumption that the current reform program in the housing sector is achieved
by 1998, this model attempts to estimate possible outcomes regarding the following:
a.    the average level of housing expenditures;
b.     percentage of the population that will be eligible for housing allowances; and
c.    the overall fiscal burden on local governments to finance these allowances.
4.            These questions will be addressed using household income and consumption data from
the Russian Longitudinal Monitoring Household Survey (RLMS)I, and estimates of the economic costs
for maintaining typical Russian housing.
Caveats
5.            The RLMS is recognized as the best source of raw sample data available on income and
consumption patterns across Russian households; at the same time, there are caveats that should be taken
into account, in particular: income data in the RLMS are probably downwardly biased; income
1/     The RLMS was a nationally representative household survey covering more than 6,300 households located in 21
regions of the Russian Federation, administered jointly by Goskomstat and the World Bank in period 1992-94. The survey
contains a set of indicators regarding households' incomes, expenditures (including those on housing), as well as the families'
housing conditions.



2                                       Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
distribution has most likely changed dramatically since 1992, the last year for which data is available;2
and there is no reasonable information regarding regional variation in real housing costs, and thus, the
average costs of European Russia has been used as a substitute.
6.           In consideration of these three caveats, all estimates must be considered preliminary as
the quality of the data is not sufficient for conclusive policy recommendations. The results are also very
sensitive to the assumptions made about incomes and costs.
The Framework of the Model: Assumptions and Parameters
7.            The assumptions used in the model are as follows:
a .    Cost-recovery increases according to the Government's recommended schedule: 60
percent by 1996, 80 percent by 1997, and 100 percent by 1998.
b .    Real incomes in 1996-98 increases at a rate of 6 percent annually.3
c .    All preferential tariffs for housing are eliminated and households do not run any payment
arrears.
In addition, the policy parameters incorporated into the model are as follows:
a .   Maximum allowed housing expenditure. This is the maximum allowable proportion of
expenditures on housing as a percentage of household income determined by the
Government. This maximum was set at 15 percent for 1995-97 and 20 percent thereafter
(Table H-5).
b.    Maximum subsidizable housing space per household. According to Russian regulations,
only expenditures on housing which fall under locally approved social norms are eligible
for housing allowances.  Although these vary according to the particular local
government and across regions, in this model, the following norms were used: 30 square
meters of living space for the first member of the household and 15 square meters per
each additional member of the household.
Results of Modelling the Basic Scenario
8.            The results of the model show that it will be challenging to achieve full cost recovery by
1998 (Table R-1) without a deepening of reforms and other measures to increase household incomes
and/or reduce housing costs. Even with increases in real income by almost 20 percent between 1996 and
1998, almost half the households would be eligible for housing allowances. Although average housing
expenditures amount to about 12 percent of total household income by 1998, given the high degree of
income differentiation, the size of housing allowances would most likely be high-on average, more than
2/     Later rounds of RLMS do not contain data on household housing conditions.
3/    This assumption is based on the medium-term outlook for the Russian economy in the World Bank Country Economic
Memorandum, 1995.



Annex R. Affordability and Cost Recovery for Households                                             3
a third of average unit housing costs. As a result, local budgets would have to cover about 16 percent
of total housing costs in the form of housing allowances.'
9.             The administrative, political and economic costs of a housing allowance program of such
magnitude could be excessive, however. According to the model, the percentage of households eligible
for housing allowances will exceed the level of 25 to 30 percent, the threshold beyond which marginal
fiscal gains might be questionable. The costs of administering an allowance program of such a scale in
a weak institutional environment may reach 100 percent of the value of benefits.5
Recommended Policy Reforms and their Results
10.            Within the given scenario, the following policy options might be considered by the
Government to achieve full cost recovery according to their proposed schedule:
a.     Encourage investments in energy savings. A 20 percent drop in utilities expenditures
is equivalent to a 25 percent increase in real incomes. This would lead to a drop in the
number of housing allowance recipients to 30 to 35 percent.
b.     Accelerate the liberalizaton of wage/income policy. The Government has already made
a number of crucial decisions in this sphere6, however, the efficacy of these decision will
depend on the pace at which they are implemented. Wage/income policy reform has a
direct impact on increasing the affordability of housing under full cost recovery for the
population.
C.     Increase the maximum  share of housing expenditures to total income from 20 to 25
percent. This will cut the number of eligible recipients of housing allowances up to 50
percent. However, this will be the most difficult to implement, both politically and
financially. Although spending 20 to 25 percent on housing in developed market
economies is normal where rents/mortgages cover capital costs of the homeowner, in
Russia, spending on recurrent costs alone might exceed 20 to 25 percent of income, thus
crowding out investments in new housing.
Conclusions
11.            Despite the lack of updated data, achieving full cost recovery in the housing sector by
1998 will be difficult unless additional policy reforms in housing, income, and energy savings are
introduced. The EHDP will ease some of the major constraints currently hampering the path to full cost
recovery by supporting housing divestiture, investments in housing retrofits, and institutional reforms in
the sector. A strong effort must be made to replicate these measures nationwide.
4/     This means that the net budget gain for the local budgets compared to 1995 would be about 55 percent of total housing
costs. Budgets covered 70 percent of housing expenditures in 1995 through direct subsidization of the sector, and about 16
percent would be expended as allowances by 1998.
5/     Refer to the 1995 Russian Country Economic Memorandum for more information.
6/     These include accelerating the pace of housing divestiture and other social assets, reducing implicit housing subsidies,
eliminating excess wage taxes, and accelerating substitution of non-cash and in-kind benefits with conventional'wages and social
transfers.
/



4                                        Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divesuture Project
Table R-1. Housebold Payments for Housing In Rusda In 1992-98
1992     1993       1994     1995      1996     1997      1998
Policy parameters
Cost recovery, %                            6          5       15       30        60        80      100
Max non-subsidized level of housing        10         10       10       15        15        15       20
spending, as % of income
Income and cost estimates
Average household money income, rb, 1/   9092.32   10137.90  12875.20  9849.51  10440.50  11066.90 11730.90
- in real terms, July, 92 =100    100.00     111.50    141.61   108.33    114.83    121.72   129.02
Full housing costs for average apartment,   1422.46    1422.46   1422.46  1422.46   1422.46   1422.46  1422.46
rb. 11,2/
- in real terms, July, 92 =100    100.00     100.00    100.00   100.00    100.00    100.00   100.00
Households payments and allowances
Net average household payments, rb, 1/  89.13      70.83    210.79   413.32    755.59    946.60  1226.24
- in real terrns, July, 92 =100   100.00      79.47    236.50   463.73    847.74   1062.04  1375.79
Net housing spending as % income         0.98       0.70      1.64     4.20     7.24      8.55    10.45
Number of allowance recipients          83.00      44.00    129.00   503.00   1665.00   2177.00  1895.00
Share of recipients in the sample, %     1.93       1.02      3.00    11.70    38.72     50.63    44.07
Average housing allowance for the sample,  1.05     0.29      2.58    13.42    97.89    191.37   196.22
rb. 1/
Average allowance per rocipient, rb. 1/  54.40     28.34     86.00   114.72    252.81    377.99   445.25
Subsidies in housing
Total subsidies, as % of full housing costs  94      95        85       71        47        33       14
o/w: - through allowances, %           0.07       0.02       0.2      0.9      6.9      13.5     13.8
-through cost recovery, %           94         95       85       70        40        20        0
1/ - in July, 1992 prices
2/ - average 1994 costs
Source: RLMS, Goskomstat, staff estmates



ANNEX S
NET BENEFITS AND CosTs TO ENTERPRISES, CITIES, AND HOUSEHOLDS
1.           As energy prices are raised at both the city-gate and apartment level, enterprise, city, and
household budgets have come under increasing stress. Given the number of variables (e.g., pace of cost
recovery, energy price increases, divestiture, etc.) it is difficult to construct a single "without project"
scenario. Assuming that policy reform and efficiency investments would proceed much slower without
the project, it is estimated that the project will decrease total housing expenditures in local budgets,
enterprises, and households by one-third. This reduction will derive from two sources. Roughly one-half
of the savings is expected to come from policy and institutional changes supported under the project that
will reallocate payment responsibility for housing and utility services, alter incentives, and thereby
increase efficiency in various activities. These include the development of competitive maintenance
markets, increase in cost recovery, privatization and the formation of condominium associations, and
metering of actual consumption of heat and hot water. These will be captured by the city, enterprises,
and households. The other half of the savings from the project is the direct return to energy efficiency
investments (see Box S-1). These will be captured by the city and the households. Funds will be
invested in retrofit of about a third to a half of the existing housing stock in the cities and this will reduce
by one-quarter to one-third the consumption of utility services in retrofitted buildings.
2.            Enterprises that divest housing will lose tax deductions in an equivalent amount up to 1.5
percent of their turnover. This means that many enterprises will get no net financial gain from
divestiture, and the enterprise sector as a whole is expected to gain only about 0.5 percent of GDP from
the divestiture process in the short term. However, individual enterprises that provide alot of housing
will get substantial net benefits-up to 70 percent of gross expenditures on housing in some cases.
3.            To the extent that restructuring will require enterprises to focus their financial and other
resources on their core business, it is useful to look at the gross costs to the enterprise sector of providing
housing.     A   special  survey  of  24  Russian  manufacturing   enterprises  from   ten
different cities was conducted in December of 1994. These enterprises varied substantially in size and
in the magnitude of their housing burden. On average, each enterprise in the sample was responsible for
maintaining 70 multi-apartment buildings with as many as 4,000 apartments in them. More than 7
percent of enterprises' labor force was involved in this activity either full-time or more than half of their
working time. Full employment in the provision of both the housing and other social services (health,
child care, recreation, entertainment) amounted to almost 18 percent of total labor. Total housing costs
denominated in per employee terms amounted to 20 percent of average cash wages, while the full housing
and social costs made up 35 percent of average wages. This provides a useful indicator of the scale of
wage distortions which will be eliminated as a result of divestiture. Since the total payroll costs for
Russian industry are almost equal to the value of the gross profit, these data might be also considered as
a measure of gross financial benefits for enterprises participating in divestiture.
4.            Under a without-project scenario in which cost recovery is increased only slowly, the
municipal budgets will be the main beneficiaries of proposed changes in housing policy. Encouraging
implementation of full cost-recovery in housing will transfer the main burden of municipal housing
financing from local governments to tenants. It is estimated that the share of local budgets spent on
housing will be reduced from 25-40 percent in the without-project scenario to 7-15 percent with the



2                                          Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
project.' Because the main budget savings under the project derive both from investments and from
policy changes, and because proposed investments have a high rate of return, the cities will get this
dramatic reduction in budget expenditures at a relatively low price: during the amortization period for
the project-financed investments, net debt service payments will not exceed 2-3 percent of budget
revenues, since about two-thirds of the debt-service costs will be recovered from tenants.
Box S-1. Mechanisms for Flncial Returns to Cities from Retrofits.
Investments that reduce utility costs of operating buildings translate into financial returns to city
budgets through three prmar typ  of mechanisms outlined below. For further background, refer to
Annex I on Stakeholder Analysis, and Anne Q on Russian Energy Regulation and Policy.
Financial retums from city-produced beat and bot water, In cases of heat produced by a
municipal heating company, the muniipal heating company will reduce its fel consumption in response
to decreased heat and hot water consumption at the building level. The city will pay the municipal heating
company for actual heat delivered to buildings, as measured by building-level heat meters. As energy
consumption is lowered, the payments the city makes wlll also decrease, freeing city budget resources for
loan repayment and other needs. This mechanism has three requirements: (a): building-level heat meters
need to be istalled (Included in Phase I of the project); (b) agreements between the city and the municipal
-heain$ company need to be modified, so that the city pays according to actual consumption at the building
rathed than according to a design or theoretical consumption estimate, as Is the case now; (c) the
organizational capacity for periodic meter readings is required. None of these requirements presents any
special problem,: since the city admWiantion has the authority and resoures to saomplish all tree. At
the city meeting in October 1995, all cities said they planned to implement billing based on meter readings
(in 0one city 'the next mornig' after meters are inslled). Since there is only one set of meters per
apartment b n, the manpower requirements for monthly meter reading are quite minimal. Some of
the cities ae aleady unrk_ing mering installations in all heat distribution substations. It is anticipated
that district eating companies will themseves install beat meters on the output of heat production plants
so that they can better monitor and reduce distition system losses.
Fiaia :e rometurnsfromrgionalerycompany producedheatandbotwater. Thissituation
an the ruiremt  ssocsited With it are siilar to those under the preceding paragraph, except that the
agreem:t to be modified for paymns based      actual consmption (at the building and/or at the
substationlevel) is bewen the city land the regional energy company. While the city and the regional
ENgy cOmpany may be able to negotiat this areement without outside involvement (city  yors during
preparation  mions have 0  not conidered this a problem), the participation of the regional energy
commison ndWor regional govermsent :may be mquired in forging a new agreement. One other
differenc is that meterigforblgpurpoes may make nore ense at the primary distribution substation
level rather tdh  at the bulWing level.
Finanal return f    plvatentrp fheproducd heat and hotWater. In some cases, where
meitersa arwdy eXist on the out   offntrpnae-poduced beat into municipal  ating networks, the ctty
a:ready pay for heat c tion bad uponmetrreadin. In this situation reduced heat consumption
t  ranslates direcdtly no reduced tbinan payments (though mets,  if theyo do't exist oi the beat return
pipe *om the municipalnetwiorkback  to the enterprise, may be needed). In situations where meters do
not exist, ¢theechansmsand            Are siml to those described in ft premding pargraph.
I/     The amount of public expenditures on housing under the "with-project" scenario will depend on the demand
for housing allowances and the pace at which residents can take over responsibility for capital repairs.



Annex S. Net Benefits and Costs to Enterprises, Cities, and Households                         3
5.            Under an alternative without-project scenario in which fiscal pressures force cities to
increase cost recovery rapidly, the project mitigates the burden of increased cost recovery for households,
and residents will capture a greater part of the financial gains under the project. With strong progress
toward full cost recovery in the sector and no decreases in operating costs, housing expenditures as a
share of the total household consumer expenditures would increase from 2 percent in 1994 to 14-15
percent by 1998. Such an increase is necessary to raise efficiency within the housing sector, accelerate
the development of the housing market, and free budgetary resources for basic infrastructure and social
services. As households' responsibility for financing recurrent costs increases, households will benefit
proportionally more from the increase in energy efficiency of their housing and other policy and
institutional changes supported under the project. All else being equal, project interventions are expected
to reduce housing costs for households by 20-25
percent compared to the without-project scenario,
depending on the pace at which cost recovery is
phased in, household income levels, and the       Box S-2. Inpact on Real Elousehold Income
housing allowance scheme. Without interventions
to contain costs, full cost recovery will be hard to  The loan will have two positive impacts on real
achieve given low incomes and the high income     household income:
differentiation in Russia.                         S      Savns in Uiity ExpendareL Housng
improvements under the project are
6.            The extent to which the without-            expected to result in 3-4 percent savings in
project  scenario  incorporates  policy   and             average household income due to reduced
institutional reform  depends on  the  reform             utility use.  Households are the direct
inclinations of each city.  A reformist city is           beneficiaries of energy savings under
likely to try and implement some of the policy            increased levels of cost recovery.
and institutional reforms associated with the
project even in the absence of the project.        *      Employment Gener4otn.  Civil works
However, the extent to which they will be                 amounting to 50 percent of total loan
successful in  implementing  the  policy  and       -     ependtIte will utilize high proportions
institutional reforms will also depend on the             of local labor. A comparison between the
investment component, because the investment              curent average money income per capita
cp nl rh"tof the policy and         in the cities in question and proposed loan
component lowers the  "costs"    stakeholder in           proceeds per capita (see Table G-2) shows
institutional reforms for some key stakeholders in       that loan implementation  during the
the project.   For example, as noted above,               disbuemnt period will have direct
interventions  to  contain  costs-such   as               positie impact on household incomes,
investments in energy efficiency-will lower the           wbish is equivalent to about 0.75 percent
"cost" of increased cost recovery for residents.          of increase In local employment.
Alternatively, municipal enterprises who find
themselves cut out of a guaranteed job of
maintaining housing as a result of the competitive tenders may find alternative work installing some of
the energy efficiency retrofits.
7.     Tables S-1 and S-2 present the estimates of net benefits from the project on a per-apartment basis
for local budgets and households. The tables compare the net cash flows under the project with the "non-
project" scenario as described above in para. 4, i.e., with a slow increase in cost recovery up to only 50
percent and therefore lower budget spending on housing allowances (Table S-1). This table shows that
the net present value of the cash flow for city budgets is highly positive even if the cities repay the loans
without recourse to cost recovery from the tenants for the retrofit costs.



4                                        Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
8.     Table S-2 demonstrates that the net increase in housing expenditures of tenants will be driven by
various factors that push household expenditures in opposite directions. Annual housing expenditures of
tenants would increase by 7.5 percent of their annual incomes if full cost recovery would have been
achieved without the project. Building retrofits under the project will decrease this potential loss by 3.5
percent, i.e. household expenditures would increase by only 4 percent of annual income under the project
instead of 7 percent in this without-project scenario, based on the energy efficiency retrofits alone. In
addition, incremental housing allowances supported under the project, amounting to about 1 percent of
average household income, reducing the net increase for households to 3 percent. On the other hand,
if depreciation charges for the retrofits are introduced, this will increase the cost for tenants by about 1.9
percent of household income.



Annex S. Net Benefis and Cosus to Enterprises, Cties, and Households                                 5
Table S-1. Project Benefits for Local Budgets
Assumptions:                                Per Average Apartnent              In
SUS
Current annual full economic costs of housing  700   olw: energy related (70%)    500
Costs after retrofit                        530      o/w: energy related (70%)    330
Retrofit investments per apartment          650
Time life of retrofit, average, years       15
Average cost recovery by the end of 1995, %  30
Loan repayment 14 years, 9% interest
With retrofit done on 12/31/95  Annuity     0.1756
The whole loan is repaid by cities
Average                 Budget                     Housing            Total Savings    Debt        NET
Cost-recovery, %          Subsidies                  Allowances                          Service    cash flow
with   without     with   without Savings     with  without Savings     before debt               after debt
project project    project project            project project            service                    service
A       B   X=B-A          C       D    Y=D-C        Zl=X+Y           E       Z2=ZI-E
1995    30      15         371    595    224          8.0    5.3       -2.7       221.3
1996    50      20        265     560    295         26.5   7.0       -19.5       275.5          59        217.0
1997    70      25         159    525    366         37.1   8.8       -28.4       337.7          59        279.2
1998    90      30         53     490    437         71.6   10.5      -61.1       376.0          59        317.5
1999   100      35         0      455    455         79.5   12.3      -67.3       387.8          59        329.3
2000   100      40          0      420    420         79.5   28.0     -51.5       368.5          59        310.0
2001    100     45          0      385    385        79.5   31.5      -48.0       337.0          59        278.5
2002   100      50          0      350    350        79.5   35.0    -44.5         305.5         114        191.4
2003   100      50          0      350    350        79.5   35.0    -44.5         305.5         114        191.4
2004   100      50          0      350    350        79.5   35.0    -44.5         305.5         114        191.4
2005   100      50          0      350    350        79.5   35.0    -44.5         305.5         114        191.4
2006   100      50          0      350    350        79.5   35.0    -44.5         305.5         114        191.4
2007   100      50          0      350    350        79.5   35.0    -44.5         305.5         114        191.4
2008   100      50          0      350    350        79.5   35.0    -44.5         305.5         114        209.6
2009   100      50          0      350    350        79.5   35.0    -44.5         305.5         114        209.6
2010   100      50          0      350    350        79.5   35.0    -44.5         305.5          0         305.5
Total (1996-2010)            477    5965  S506          1089   413       676         4832         1264        3568
Net present value                                                                                2871.58     2174.94



6                                              Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
Table S-2. Direct Project Benefits for Households
Assumptions:                               Per Average Apartment                  In SUS
Current annual full costs of housing       700          o/w: energy related (70%)  500
Costs after retrofit                       530          o/w: energy related (70%)   330
Retrofit investments per apartment         650
Time life of retrofit, average, years      15
Average cost recovery by the end of 1995, %   30
Loan repayment 14 years, 9% interest
With retrofit done on 12/31/95   Annuity   0.1756
Average cost-      HHs housing payments             Gains from                   Total                Total
recovery.%          before allowances              allowances                   savings             savings        .
Savings
w i t h without    with  without Savings       with   without Savings       before  Investment          after     from
project project    project project            project project             depreciation depreciation    depreciation  Reulks"
A       B    X=B-A          C       D     Y=C-D       Zl=X+Y         E          Z2=Zl-E
1995   30     15        159      105     -54        8.0     5.3      2.7         -51.3         0           -51.33
1996   50     20        265      140    -125        26.5    7.0      19.5        -105.5      84.3          -181.8      80.8
1997   70     25        371      175    -196        37.1    8.8      28.4        -167.7      84.3          -251.9     107.1
1998   90     30        477      210    -267        71.6    10.5    61.1         -206.0      84.3          -290.2     137.7
1999  100    35         530      245    -285        79.5    12.3    67.3         -217.8      84.3          -302.0     144.5
2000  100    40         530      280    -250        79.5    28.0    51.5         -198.5      84.3          -282.8     144.5
2001  100    45         530      315    -215        79.5    31.5    48.0         -167.0      84.3          -251.3     144.5
2002  100    50         530      350    -180        79.5    35.0    44.5         -135.5      84.3          -219.8      144.5
2003  100    50         530      350    -180        79.5    35.0    44.5         -135.5      84.3          -219.8     144.5
2004  100    50          530     350    -180        79.5    35.0    44.5         -135.5      84.3          -219.8     144.5
2005  100    50          530     350    -180        79.5    35.0    44.5         -135.5      84.3          -219.8     144.5
2006  100    50         530      350    -180        79.5    35.0    44.5         -135.5      84.3          -219.8     144.5
2007  100    50         530      350    -180        79.5    35.0    44.5         -135.5      84.3          -219.8     144.5
2008  100    50         530      350    -180        79.5    35.0    44.5         -135.5      84.3          -219.8     144.5
2009  100    50         530      350    -180        79.5    35.0    44.5         -135.5      84.3          -219.8     144.5
2010  100    50         530      350    -180        79.5    35.0    44.5         -135.5      84.3          -219.8     144.5
Totd (1996-2010)           7473    4515   -2958        1089    413       676        -2282        1264         -3546       1915
Net present value                                                                  -1377.93                  -2118.31   1122.57
Note: I/ Savings for residents, which derive from retrofits under full cost recovery.
Memo: Average household income will amount to $4,500 per annum by the year 2000.



ANNEX T
PoLIcY AND INSTITUTIONAL REFORM TARGETS: YEAR 1
By the end of calendar year 1996, project cities will meet the following reform targets to remain eligible
for continued investments:
1.    Divestiture. Complete divestiture of 90 percent of enterprise housing stock eligible for divestiture
(January 1, 1992 = 100 percent) together with corresponding utility networks.
2.     Competitve Marketfor Housing Maintenance Services.
a.    Place at least 10 percent of total housing stock in the city under competitive maintenance.
b.     Undertake the following structural reforms in order to demonopolize maintenance market:
1 .   Reorganize structures (both  municipal maintenance  organizations, and
maintenance departments divested from enterprises) which provide housing
maintenance services into legal entities.
ii.    Liquidate management structures which serve as intermnediaries between Single
Customer Service and organizations which provide maintenance services.
c.    Improve procedures and legal mechanisms for competitive tenders for maintenance
services based on experience to date.
d.     Establish clear and transparent framework for financial and legal relations with winners
of tenders.
3.     Condominium  Formation.  Give condominiums the legal and actual right to own (but if
prohibited by federal law, then long-term leases with full right to develop and to sub-lease) both
commercial real estate located in their buildings as well as surrounding land.
4.     Cost Recovery.
a.    Achieve 60 percent cost recovery, as long as the number of housing allowance recipients
remains less than 25 percent of households in the city (eligibility threshold level of
household income for housing and utility payments set at 15 percent).
b.    Ensure sufficiency of the institutional and administrative capacity of the housing
allowance system via the following:
i.    Consistently provide information on housing allowance system  in a city,
including criteria of eligibility for housing allowances, application procedures,
contact persons;
ii.    Ensure that the number and location of branch offices of the housing allowance
service, are sufficient to accommodate applicants;
iii.    Build in flexible hiring mechanisms for temporary expansion of housing
allowance services to avoid lines following tariff increases.






ANNEX U
SELECTED DOCUMENTs AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FIL
This annex presents a list of the major documents in project files including contributions by consultants,
articles, reports, laws, decrees and resolutions relating to the Project.
Project Reports
Enterprise Housing Mission Back-to-Office Report. Dennis Whittle and Mari Horne. July 29, 1994. 21
pp.
Proposed Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project: Initial Executive Project Sunuary - Review Meeting.
Yukon Huang. September 7, 1994. 18 pp.
Proposed Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project: Minutes of IEPS Review Meeting. Dennis Whittle.
September 27, 1994. 15 pp.
Proposed Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project Back-to-Office Report of Identification/Preparation
Mission. Dennis Whittle and Mari Kuraishi. October 26, 1994. 13 pp.
Proposed Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project Back-to-Office Report. Dennis Whittle and Mari
Kuraishi. January 18, 1995. 6 pp.
Proposed Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project Back-to-Office Report of Preparation Mission. Dennis
Whittle and Mari Kuraishi. March 27, 1995. 19 pp.
Proposed Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project Back-to-Office Report of Preparation Mission. Dennis
Whittle and Mari Kuraishi. June 14, 1995. 17 pp.
Proposed Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project: Request for Project Preparation Facility (PPF). Dennis
Whittle. July 31, 1995. 23 pp.
Project Agreement Between IBRD and Project Center for Enterprise Housing Divestiture. Legal
Department, World Bank. December 15, 1995
Loan Agreement Between Russian Federation and IBRD. Legal Department, World Bank. December 15,
1995.
Background Documents
An Analysis of the Main Directions in Russian Federation Policy on Housing Facilities Controlled by
Enterprises. N.B. Kosareva. The Urban Institute. October 1994.
Case Studies of Energy Consumption in Residential Buildings in Russia's Middle Belt Area. Yu. A.
Matrosov, I.N. Butovsky and R.K. Watson in Energy and Buildings, 20 (1994) 231-241.
A Conparison of the Condition of Russia's Municipal and Departmental Housing. Raymond Struyk and
Clare Romanik. The Urban Institute. October 1994.



2                                      Staff Appraisal Report: Russia Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project
Reducing Energy Use in Russian Residential Buildings. Yurij A. Matrosov and Leslie K. Norford. April
1994.
Reforming EnergyAssistance to the Post-Planned Economies. William Chandler. ACEEE Summer Study,
Asilomar, California. June 5, 1994.
Russia Energy Supply Industry: Institutional Structure and Pricing. Peggy Wilson. June 1994.
Russia's Early Experience with Private Housing Maintenance and Management. Raymond Struyk. The
Urban Institute. October 1994.
Transition in the Russian Housing Sector: 1991-1994. Raymond Struyk and Nadezhda Kosareva. The
Urban Institute. April 1994.
Technical Background File on Retrofit/Metering Design. Battelle Memorial Institute, 1995.
Laws and Decrees
Draft Housing Code of the Russian Federation.
Decree of President of the Russian Federation on Measures to Provide for Completion of Unfinished
Apartment Houses.
Decree of the President of the Russian Federation on Issue and Circulation of Housing Certificates. June
10, 1994.
Decree By the Supreme Soviet of the Russian Federation on the Procedure to Enact the Law of the
Russian Federation-Basic Principles of the Tax System of the Russian Federation. August 1994.
Resolution of the Government of the Russian Federation on Organization of Activities with Foreign
Investments and Advisory and Technical Assistance. April 4, 1994.
The Russian Federation Law on Value-Added Tax. December 6, 1991.
Comments on Laws and Decrees
Comments on Condominium Law. Stephen Butler. August 26, 1995.
Ownership of Condominium Land. Stephen Butler. December 1, 1994.
Implementation of the Russian Housing Reform Project: Legal Issues in the Russian Federation. Stephen
Butler. July 15, 1994.
Comments on Draft Federal Housing Code of the Russian Federation. Stephen Butler. September 26,
1994.
Russian Utility Price Regulation. Melissa Platkin. March 8, 1995.



Annex U. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File                      3
Surveys
Household Survey in Vladimir and Volkhov.
Ex-ante Household Survey in Demonstration Buildings in Ryazan.
Report on the Results of Household Survey in Wadimir and Volkhov. Alla Guzanova and Gennady
Diachenko. December 1995.
Related Projects
Central and Eastern Europe. Increasing the Efficiency of Heating Systems in Central and Eastern Europe.
ESMAP Activity Initiation Brief. March 20, 1995.
Estonia. Energy Demand and Efficiency in Estonia: Structure, Potentials, and Policies. Eric Martinot,
Lee Schipper and Marta Khrushch. Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory, Energy Analysis Program, Energy
and Environment Division and Stockholm Environment Institute, Tallinn. July 1994.
Estonia. Housing Renovation and Energy Efficiency in Estonia: World Bank Mission to Estonia Back to
the Office Report. Eric Martinot. November 28-December 2, 1994.
Lithuania. Proposed Energy Efficiency/Housing Project: Project Information Document. Thomas
Blinkhorn. August 11, 1995. 8 pp.
Russian Federation. Trip Report: Status of Condominium Demonstration Project. Carol Rabenhorst. June
8, 1994. 32 pp. 6 pp.
Russian Federation. Privatization Implementation Assistance Loan: Proposed Component for Divestiture
of Enterprise Social Assets. Nils Fostvedt. July 25, 1994. 14 pp.
Russian Federation. Staff Appraisal Report: Housing Project. Infrastructure, Energy and Environment
Division, Country Department 3, Europe and Central Asia Region, The World Bank. January 30, 1995.
308 pp.
Slovakia. Housing ProjectAide-Memoire. Margret Thalwitz, Toru Konishi and Antonio Milia. April 11-
20, 1994. 6 pp.






MAP SECTION






_IRD 27409
T  koonaa  colr, doammnons                                                                                                                                                                                                                              UNITED STATES  F A..ERICA
-d any oh.  ormahan o-D,
ii.ma d.o n imply, A. Forrof                                                                                                RUSSIAN  FEDERATION
TF.e World 60nk Croop. any adgnr,i
legal  alan-jr i.rraony, a'                                                               ENTERPRISE HOUSING  DIVESTITURE PROJECT
owl, baiondonin.                                                                                                             PROJECT LOCATIONS
IJ   PROJECT CITIES/OBLASTS
0     RESERVE CITY
UNITED                                                                                                                              NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                   E6
KINGDOM                                                                                                                              RIVERS
OBLAST, KRAI, OR REPUBLIC BOUNDARIES
AUTONOMOUS OBLAST, OKRUG, OR REPUBLIC BOUNDARIES'
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
NO  R W A Y                                                                                                                OAr.pscblica oA4g , A/b. Kodhomr.v-dn
,_t    DS tDS                             SWEDEN                    j  '                                                                                                                                                               '                           82
GERMtANY                                                             C        5
FINLAND 
mY                                                     *- @;N   \,]    ;-SIOr*_,,,   i   F                                                                78                                                                        c -- v
POLAND             
; ~ ~ 0 T'/                                                                     2 \-   ;'    7  ;                                               .                                   89
BELA                      0~~~~ 06 
B9-/' ELA8IS                           S            O,7hpoS                                                                                                                                                                  2 __h 
N.-< 0         T7+29  15 i                                                                      69
ROMANIA                                                                                                                                                             76 U   A   TR  I   A S   SF    t     D    E8 83
9)  L2¾                                            58                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~68-
*.) 29 78 .n 4i    '                 I7 \. -        - '     60
5)>  SR    >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~  59                                                             K                             80 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JAPAN
---                                                                                                                                                                                                    - '  '   '   r-  -  75
34                                                     55                                                                                                                                                                      67~~~54/ 
35                   *2J~~~~~~~~JJAkM4          ''"'2rr1,  ~~~~~~~~~            6*6                                                                  70    /        i8
11  41                                                                    67 1.v               6                                                                                                 .-  A
- --                       'ti                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~63         74                        72
TURKEY                                                                                                                                             77                                                                                    C H I N A
tisK AZ A K S T A N                              ;                                79    t          \       _-_  62                             /j*
U 1W  0 3W    OW   eU   SWANLES                     6
sy s--   rM5      1        ~                 /---                    O ,0O  700  so   oo  soouLs u                                                                                                                                                          ------------_ 
P;^    x       n9; sr U^s               uiieoTs>               °      oo     O    ro    o rirzi.rsANf                                                   M O  N G O  L I A                         //rr
I .10BaES-ERIA                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Y EASTYN SIBRIA           Xi FAR LAST
I A,khmg           7N-gr2y7 Nngra            12 dy k   2i Tulo                                            30 Chechn                     40. Astrelkh-n         AE Ch,,osh                53 B-s-kortosIon       6 1 All.,                 70 BErynX 80 A.a,
2. Nenatz        8. Pskoa                 13 Ivonovo   23  Vladimir          25. Bigorod               31. DoghIs.n                   Al Kolmykia-            9 Kirav                  54 Ch.lyobiosk            62 Corny Alto.         71 Ch.l                   81 Kamchatko
3 KoreIo           9 Leningrd                14 Kolago   24 Yarasla-l           26 K-,.k                  32 Ingash                         Kholmg Tongh        50 Many El                55. Krgan              63. Kemeroao                 72. Aginu Bryot           82. Koryok
4 Komi             10 S Peltrsbrg GCy        15 Kostramo                        27 Lip hk                 33 Kabordino-al1kor           42 Penzo                51 Mnrdoa                 56 Or-nburg           64 Noaasibirsl            73 Irkatik                83 Kh6obaro-sk
5. Marmanik                                  16. Moscow                         28 Tombon                 34. Kro-nador                 43 Somoro               52 Nilnihy No-gorod    57 Perm                  65 OmSk                       74 Ust-Ordyn Buryot       84 JwIsh AO
6 Vologda                                    17 Manow- CGty                     29 Voronezh                  35 Adyg.ya                 Ad Soroon                                            58. Kami-P-rmiok  66. Tomsk                  75 Krasnayorsk            85. Magodon
18 0ra                                                      36. North Osstia               45 Totorstan                                     59. Udmart             67 Tymen                     76 Enenk                  86 Chuot
i9 Ry z                                                     37  Roston                     46. Volgogrod                                    60 S-ardio-sk             68 Khonty-Monsi           77 Khokas              87 Primors-
20 Smol.nsk                                                 38. Stroaropo                  47 Ulyonan-k                                                               69. Ymolo NI nets         78 Taimir              88. Sakholh,n
11 Koliningrod            21 Tnqr                                                         39 Karochlo.o-Chrrkess                                                                                                       79 T-o                    89. Sacho (Yokuti
FEBRUARY 1 996









IMAGING
Report No:      15112 RU
Type: SAR



