Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                                LOAN NUMBER 4012 RU
                          Project Agreement
              (Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project)
                               between
                INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                           AND DEVELOPMENT
                                 and
           PROJECT CENTER FOR ENTERPRISE HOUSING DIVESTITURE
                         Dated July 29, 1996
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4012 RU
                          PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 29, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and PROJECT CENTER FOR
ENTERPRISE HOUSING DIVESTITURE (CPIU).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
RUSSIAN FEDERATION (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equi-
valent to three hundred million dollars ($300,000,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that the CPIU agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as
are set forth in this Agreement;
      (B)   by subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into among the
Borrower, each of the Participating Cities (as defined in Section 1.02
(b) of the Loan Agreement), and the Governments of the Oblast or
Republic in which the Participating Cities are located, part of the
proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made
available to Participating Cities on the terms and conditions set forth
in said Participating Cities Subsidiary Loan Agreements (as defined in
Section 1.02 (c) of the Loan Agreement); and
      WHEREAS the CPIU in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                              ARTICLE I
                             Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and
the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the term "Operations Manual" means the manual to
be adopted by the CPIU pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01 (b)
of this Agreement.
                             ARTICLE II
                      Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. (a) The CPIU declares its commitment to the objec-
tives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement,
and, to this end, shall manage, coordinate, and supervise the carrying
out of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, and engineering practices,
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   The CPIU shall, without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Bank and the CPIU shall
otherwise agree, take all measures as shall be consistent with the
Implementation Program set forth in the Schedule to this Agreement.
      Section 2.02. Procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the
Loan Agreement.
      Section 2.03. (a) The CPIU shall carry out, or cause the
Participating Cities to carry out the obligations set forth in Sections
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of the Project Agreement.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, the CPIU shall:
             (i)    prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to
                    the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than
                    six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later
                    date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
                    Bank and the CPIU, a plan for the future operation
                    of the Project;
            (ii)    afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
                    views with the CPIU on said plan; and
           (iii)    thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence
                    and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate
                    practices, taking into account the Bank's comments
                    thereon.
      Section 2.04. (a) The CPIU shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project,
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the
Participating Cities Subsidiary Loan Agreements and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
      (b)   The CPIU shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the
performance by the CPIU of its obligations under this Agreement and
by the Participating Cities under the Participating Cities Subsidiary
Loan Agreements.
Page  3
                             ARTICLE III
                Management and Operations of the CPIU
      Section 3.01. (a) The CPIU shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative and
financial practices and in accordance with the Operations Manual,
once adopted pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this
Section, and under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management, which shall include a director general and two deputy
directors, whose experience and qualifications are acceptable to the
Bank, assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
      (b)   The CPIU shall, not later than September 15, 1996, adopt
an operations manual (the Operations Manual), acceptable to the Bank,
setting forth its own detailed operations, internal approval,
monitoring, and reporting procedures and specifying the expected
reporting formats to be followed by the LIGs in respect of Project
budgeting and accounting systems and furnish a copy of the Operations
Manual to the LIGs.
      (c)   The CPIU shall not amend, abrogate or waive any provision
of the Operations Manual without the prior approval of the Bank.
      Section 3.02. The CPIU shall at all times operate and maintain
its machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof,
all in accordance with sound engineering, and financial practices.
      Section 3.03. The CPIU shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.
                              ARTICLE IV
                         Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The CPIU shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its
operations and financial condition and those in respect of the Project:
      (b)   The CPIU shall:
            (i)   have its records, accounts and financial statements
                  (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
                  and related statements) and those in respect of the
                  Project for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
                  with appropriate auditing principles consistently
                  applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
                  Bank;
           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
                  case not later than six months after the end of each
                  such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
                  statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
                  report of such audit by said auditors of such scope
                  and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                  said records, accounts and financial statements as
                  well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from
                  time to time reasonably request.
                              ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination;
                     Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on
the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Page  4
      Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and
of the CPIU thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan
Agreement shall terminate or one year after the Closing Date, whichever
is the earlier, in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall
promptly notify the CPIU thereof.
      Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension
under the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE VI
                      Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such
party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                    Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                   197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.            248423 (RCA),
                                               64145 (WUI) or
                                               82987 (FTCC)
      For the CPIU:
            Project Center for
              Enterprise Housing Divestiture
            Building 2/3
            Khlebnyi pereulok
            121814 Moscow
            Russian Federation
      Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and
any document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement
on behalf of the CPIU, may be taken or executed by the Director of the
CPIU or such other person or persons as said Director shall designate
in writing, and the CPIU shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
      Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counter-
parts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one
instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  5
                  By /s/ Yukon Huang
                                            Europe and Central Asia
                  PROJECT CENTER FOR ENTERPRISE
                  HOUSING DIVESTITURE
                  By /s/ Yuli Vorontsov
                                          Authorized Representative
                               SCHEDULE
                         Implementation Program
1.    (a)   By November 1 of each year until the completion of the
Project, the CPIU shall furnish to the Bank a report on: (i) the
initial assessment of compliance of the Participating Cities with the
policy and institutional reform targets during the respective year;
(ii) estimated budgets for the next calendar year of the Participating
Cities, including line items for taxes and local contributions for the
Project; and (iii) a proposal for the policy and institutional reform
targets to be complied with by the Participating Cities during the next
following year for its approval.
      (b)   By November 30 of each year of execution of the Project,
the CPIU shall make available to all Participating Cities the policy
and institutional reform targets to be complied with by the
Participating Cities during the following year as such policy and
institutional targets have been approved by the Bank.
      (c)   By March 1 of each year of execution of the Project, the
CPIU shall finalize its initial assessment of Participating City com-
pliance with the policy and institutional reform targets and furnish
a proposed final report thereon to the Bank; such report to include a
detailed executed budget from each of the participating Cities for the
last calendar year.
      (d)   By March 15 of each year of execution of the project, the
CPIU shall issue the final version of the report referred to in para-
graph (c) of this Section, satisfactory to the Bank, and inform the
Participating Cities of the results promptly.
      (e)   In case that a Participating City has been found non-
compliant with the policy and institutional reform targets, the CPIU
shall not take any action in respect of new procurement for the benefit
of any such Participating City under Part B or C of the Project, unless
the Bank shall have been satisfied that adequate remedial measures have
been taken by any such Participating City to achieve the respective
policy and institutional reform targets.
2.    In respect of Part A (1) of the Project, the CPIU shall engage
the consultants or consultant firms for engineering, procurement, and
technical services for the benefit of the Participating Cities in
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 4 to the Loan
Agreement and shall apportion expenses to each of the Participating
Cities in accordance with the provision of the respective Participating
City Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
3.    In respect of Parts B and C of the Project, CPIU shall, on behalf
of the Participating Cities, invite bids or solicit quotations, as the
case may be, in respect of goods, services and works to be provided
under such Parts of the Project, evaluate such bids or quotations,
together with Participating Cities representatives, recommend to the
Participating City concerned the award of contract, all in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement;
the respective Participating City shall, upon receiving such recommen-
dation, execute the contract with the supplier, consultant or contractor
so recommended and, thereupon, the CPIU shall assist to monitor and
supervise the execution of the contract concerned.
Page  6
4.    (a) In selecting housing facilities to be included under Part B.2
of the Project, the CPIU shall:  (i) assure that no investments shall
be carried out in respect of housing facilities which are owned by
enterprises; and (ii) apply eligibility and priority criteria, agreed by
the Bank and the CPIU.
      (b) In selecting investments in respect of building retrofits
under Part B.2 of the Project, the CPIU shall review investments pro-
posed by the Participating Cities in order to ensure that such invest-
ments have an overall internal financial rate of return of the proposed
retrofit intervention of no less than 20% and each single retrofit
measure included in such intervention shall have an internal financial
rate of return of no less than 10%, unless otherwise agreed by the Bank
and the CPIU, such rates of return to be calculated in a manner accept-
able to the Bank.
5.    Without any limitation upon the provisions set forth in Section
9.07 of the General Conditions, the CPIU shall furnish monthly and
quarterly reports, which shall include information on overall procure-
ment progress, Project costing and estimates, revisions of Project cost,
procurement schedules, and disbursement progress.
6.    The CPIU shall:  (a) maintain policies and procedures adequate to
enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance
with targets and indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof.
      (b)   Prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank, on or about December 31, 1998, a report
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding
the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
      (c)   Review with the Bank, by February 28, 1999, or such later
date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of
the said report and the Bank's views on the matter.
