Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                                LOAN NUMBER 4012 RU
                           Loan Agreement
              (Enterprise Housing Divestiture Project)
                               between
                         RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                                 and
                INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                           AND DEVELOPMENT
                         Dated July 29, 1996
                                                  LOAN NUMBER 4012 RU
                            LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 29, 1996, between RUSSIAN FEDERATION (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the
Project;
      (B)   the Project will be carried out with the participation of
the Participating Cities (as hereinafter defined) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to the Participating Cities part of the proceeds of the Loan
as provided in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and condi-
tions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even
date herewith between the Bank and the Project Center for Enterprise
Housing Divestiture (CPIU);
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                              ARTICLE I
                   General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Single
Currency Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of
the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (the General Conditions) constitute an
Page  2
integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and the CPIU of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
      (b)   "Participating Cities" means the Cities of Ryazan, Vladimir,
Petrozavodsk, Volkhov, Cherepovets, Orenburg;
      (c)   "Participating City Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the
agreements to be entered into among the Borrower, the Participating
Cities, and the Governments of the Oblast or Republic in which the
Participating Cities are located pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules to the said Agreements;
      (d)   "Participating City Subsidiary Loans" mean the loans to be
provided out of the proceeds of the Loan to the Participating Cities
under the Participating Cities Subsidiary Loan Agreements;
      (e)   "CPIU" means a foundation or other independent organization
created by the Borrower for the purposes of this Agreement;
      (f)   "LIG" or "LIGs" mean the local implementation group or
groups established by the Participating Cities pursuant to the
provisions of sub-point (iii) of Section 3 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (g)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (h)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of
letters dated July 31, 1995 and August 21, 1995 between the Borrower and
the Bank.
                             ARTICLE II
                              The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
an amount equal to three hundred million Dollars ($300,000,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the
amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation
Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid
charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such
Page  3
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify
the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a
rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total
Spread.
      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means the initial period from and
                  including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding,
                  the first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter,
                  and after the initial period, each period from and
                  including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding
                  the next following Interest Payment Date.
           (ii)   "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in
                  Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
          (iii)   "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the
                  London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits
                  in single currency for value the first day of such
                  Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial
                  Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date
                  occurring on or next preceding the first day of such
                  Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank
                  and expressed as a percentage per annum.
          (iii)   "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period:
                  (A) one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus
                  (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such
                  Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank
                  offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-
                  month deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding
                  borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank
                  to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made
                  by it that include the Loan; as reasonably determined
                  by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
      (c)   The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the
determination thereof.
      (d)  Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section
2.05, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers
as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the
interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest
rates applicable to amounts of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not
less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The
basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless
the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable May 15
and November 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                             ARTICLE III
                      Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
Page  4
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall carry out the
Project with the participation of the Participating Cities. To that
end, the Borrower shall act through the CPIU, shall cause the CPIU to
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all
the obligations of the CPIU therein set forth, shall take or cause to
be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the
CPIU to perform such obligations and the Participating Cities to carry
out their obligations in respect of the Project, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with
such performance.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:  (i) make available to the CPIU the
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Categories (1) (b)
and (4) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and (ii) relend the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time
to time to each of the sub-Categories of Category (2) of such table
to the respective Participating City and the pro-rated portion allocated
to Categories 1 (a), 3, one-half of 5 and 6 of such table under
subsidiary loan agreements (the Participating City Subsidiary Loan
Agreement) to be entered into among the Borrower, each of the
Participating Cities, and the Government of the Oblast or Republic in
which the Participating Cities are located, providing for Participating
City Subsidiary Loans, under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank which shall include:
            (i)   the principal amount of each Participating City Loan
                  will be denominated in Dollars and be the equivalent
                  amount withdrawn from the Loan Account, or the payment
                  out of the Special Account, and the Participating
                  Cities shall carry the foreign exchange risk;
           (ii)   each Participating City shall pay: (1) interest on the
                  principal amount of the Participating City Subsidiary
                  Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a
                  variable interest rate equal to the rate applicable
                  pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.05 of this
                  Agreement plus a mark-up of up to 250 basis points;
                  and (2) a commitment charge on the amount relent to
                  the respective Participating City Subsidiary Loan not
                  withdrawn from time to time at the same rate as
                  applicable under the provisions of Section 2.04 of
                  this Agreement;
          (iii)   the Participating City Subsidiary Loan shall have a
                  grace period of six years and a final maturity of 14
                  to 15 years; and
           (iv)   the implementation responsibilities of the respective
                  Participating City in respect of Parts A.4, B and C
                  of the Project.
      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each
Participating City Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish
the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Participating
City Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procure-
ment of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by the CPIU
or the respective Participating City.
Page  5
                             ARTICLE IV
                         Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements
of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with
                  sound accounting practices, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
                  expenditures are retained until at least one year
                  after the Bank has received the audit report for the
                  fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account was made; and
          (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                  records.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                  (a) (i) of this Section and those for the Special
                  Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
                  with appropriate auditing principles consistently
                  applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
                  Bank;
           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
                  case not later than six months after the end of each
                  such year the report of such audit by said auditors,
                  of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
                  have reasonably requested, including a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements
                  of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal controls
                  involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
                  support the related withdrawals; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                  said records and accounts and the audit thereof as
                  the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
                              ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   The CPIU shall have failed to perform any of its obli-
gations under the Project Agreement.
      (b)   A Participating City shall have failed to perform any of
its obligations in respect of Project execution under the respective
Participating City Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
      (c)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that the CPIU will be able to perform
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (d)   The charter of the CPIU shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely
the ability of the CPIU to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
      (e)   An authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any
Page  6
action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the CPIU or for
the suspension of its operations.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the events specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur in respect of an obligation so as
to affect materially and adversely the execution of the Project and
shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower;
      (b)   the events specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   at least two Participating City Subsidiary Loan Agreements
have been executed on behalf of the Borrower and two Participating
Cities.
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to
be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
      (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the CPIU and is legally binding upon the CPIU in accordance
with its terms; and
      (b)   that the Participating City Subsidiary Loan Agreements
referred to in Section 6.01 (a) of this Article have been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the respective Participating
City and are legally binding upon the Borrower and the respective
Participating City in accordance with their terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE VII
              Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance or any Deputy Minister of
Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            Ilyinka Street 9
            103009 Moscow
            Russian Federation
                                                 Telex:
                                                 112008
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  7
            United States of America
            Cable address:                       Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                      197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA),
                                                  64l45 (WUI) or
                                                  82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                  By /s/ Yuli Vorontsov
                                          Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ Yukon Huang
                                            Europe and Central Asia
                             SCHEDULE 1
               Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Technical Assistance
    under Part A (1) of
    the Project
    (a) Engineering,           20,500,000         100%
        Procurement, and
        Technical Services
    (b)  Other Consultants'     5,500,000         100%
         Services
(2) Parts B of
    the Project in:
    (a) Ryazan:                59,100,000
        (i) Works                                 100% of foreign
                                                  expenditures and
                                                  80% of local
                                                  expenditures
       (ii) Goods                                 100% of foreign
                                                  expenditures, 100%
                                                  of local expenditures
                                                  (ex-factory cost)
Page  8
                                                  and 80% of
                                                  local expenditures
                                                  for other items
                                                  procured locally
    (a)    Ryazan (contd.)
     (iii) Consultants'                           100%
            services
    (b)   Vladimir:            54,500,000
       (i) Works                                 100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 80% of local
                                                 expenditures
      (ii) Goods                                 100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures,
                                                 100% of local
                                                 expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory cost)
                                                 and 80% of
                                                 local expenditures
                                                 for other items
                                                 procured locally
      (iii) Consultants'                         100%
            services
    (c) Petrozavodsk:          34,800,000
        (i) Works                                100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 80% of local
                                                 expenditures
    (c) Petrozavodsk (contd.)
       (ii) Goods                                 100% of foreign
                                                  expenditures,
                                                  100% of local
                                                  expenditures
                                                  (ex-factory cost)
                                                  and 80% of
                                                  local expenditures
                                                  for other items
                                                  procured locally
      (iii) Consultants'                          100%
            services
    (d) Volkhov                10,900,000
        (i) Works                                 100% of foreign
                                                  expenditures and
                                                  80% of local
                                                  expenditures
       (ii) Goods                                 100% of foreign
                                                  expenditures,
                                                  100% of local
                                                  expenditures
                                                  (ex-factory cost)
                                                  and 80% of
                                                  local expenditures
                                                  for other items
                                                  procured locally
     (d)  Volkhov (contd.)
       (iii) Consultants'                         100%
Page  9
             Services
    (e) Cherepovets            27,300,000
         (i) Works                                100% of foreign
                                                  expenditures and
                                                  80% of local
                                                  expenditures
       (ii)  Goods                                100% of foreign
                                                  expenditures,
                                                  100% of local
                                                  expenditures
                                                  (ex-factory cost)
                                                  and 80% of
                                                  local expenditures
                                                  for other items
                                                  procured locally
      (iii) Consultants'                          100%
            services
    (f) Orenburg:              59,100,000
        (i) Works                                 100% of foreign
                                                  expenditures and
                                                  80% of local
                                                  expenditures
    (f) Orenburg (contd.)
       (ii) Goods                                 100% of foreign
                                                  expenditures,
                                                  100% of local
                                                  expenditures
                                                  (ex-factory cost)
                                                  and 80% of
                                                  local expenditures
                                                  for other items
                                                  procured locally
      (iii) Consultants'                          100%
            services
(3) Upstream retrofits          5,000,000
    under Part C of
    of the Project:
    (i) Works                                     100% of foreign
                                                  expenditures and
                                                  80% of local
                                                  expenditures
    (ii) Goods                                    100% of foreign
                                                  expenditures,
                                                  100% of local
                                                  expenditures
                                                  (ex-factory cost)
                                                  and 80% of
                                                  local expenditures
                                                  for other items
                                                  procured locally
   (iii) Consultants'                             100%
         Services
(4) Operating cost              3,000,000         100%
    of the CPIU
(5) Refunding of Project        3,000,000         Amount due pursuant
Page  10
    Preparation Advance                           to Section 2.02 (c) of
                                                  this Agreement
(6) Unallocated                17,300,000
                              ___________
         TOTAL                300,000,000
                              ===========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of
the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)   the term "operating cost" means expenditures on account of
the Project incurred by the CPIU for rental of premises, purchase or
rental of small equipment, utility services, fees for maintenance of
premises, including minor renovations, or equipment, and office supplies.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; nor
      (b)   expenditures under each of the sub-Categories of Category
(2) of this Schedule unless: (i) the respective Participating City
Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been signed with the respective
Participating City; (ii) the Bank has received a legal opinion,
satisfactory to the Bank of counsel acceptable to the Bank that the
respective Participating City Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the respective Participating
City and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the respective
Participating City; and (iii) the respective Participating City has
established a local implementation group (LIG) with responsibilities
and staffing acceptable to the Bank.
4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods,
works and services provided by consulting firms under contracts not
exceeding $100,000 equivalent and for expenditures for services provided
by individual consultants, under such terms and conditions as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                             SCHEDULE 2
                     Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to accelerate the sustainable
divestiture of enterprise housing throughout Russia by demonstrating
within the Participating Cities a combination of housing reforms and
investments designed to transfer housing to the private sector and
lower its operating cost.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Housing Divestiture and Associated Reforms
1.    Provision of technical assistance through the CPIU to strengthen
the Participating Cities' technical, institutional and financial
capacity for the purpose of the process of implementation of the enter-
prise housing divestiture program.
2.    Provision of technical assistance through the CPIU to the
Page  11
Participating Cities in the following areas: (a) cost recovery for
housing maintenance and utility services; (b) establishment and
implementation of a system of providing housing allowances to protect
vulnerable households; (c) formation of condominium associations,
including the legal and regulatory framework necessary therefor; and
(d) competitive bidding for housing maintenance.
3.    Dissemination of experience emanating from the Project reforms
and investments, both among Participating Cities and throughout Russia
by means of periodic meetings, seminars, newsletters, and other media.
4.    Provision of housing allowances by the Participating Cities to
protect vulnerable households in Participating Cities.
Part B:      Energy Efficiency Investments in Housing Facilities in
             Participating Cities
1.    Acquisition and installation of metering equipment.
2.    Investments for the retrofitting of housing facilities to reduce
energy consumption and lower operating costs in accordance with
eligibility and priority criteria acceptable to the Bank.
3.    Capital repairs of housing facilities, including repair of roofs,
doors, walls and windows.
Part C:      Upstream Retrofits in Participating Cities
1.    The repair of existing utility networks outside of the building
boundaries to permit these networks to function as designed.
2.    The retrofitting of existing networks outside of the building
boundaries with equipment or materials designed to improve the
efficiency of these networks.
                              * * * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
                              SCHEDULE 3
                        Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (Expressed in Dollars)
On each May 15 and November 15
      beginning November 15, 2002
      through November 15, 2010                  16,665,000
And on May 15, 2011                              16,695,000
                             SCHEDULE 4
                Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     General
      Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 (the
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:      International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1
Page  12
thereto.
2.    The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
      (a)   Grouping of contracts
      To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in
bid packages estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent or more each and
contracts for works in bid packages of $1,000,000 equivalent or more each.
      (b)   Preference for domestically manufactured goods
      The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory
of the Borrower.
3.    National Competitive Bidding
      Metering and retrofit equipment estimated to cost $300,000 equiva-
lent or less per contract and $3.4 million equivalent or less in the
aggregate, and works estimated to cost $1 million or less per contract
and $34.5 million equivalent or less in the aggregate may be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
4.    International Shopping
      Goods estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent or less per contract
and $1.9 million equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the
Guidelines.
5.    National Shopping
      Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2.4 million equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6
of the Guidelines.
6.    Procurement of Small Works
      Works estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or less per contract,
and not to exceed $745,000 in the aggregate, shall be procured under
lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations
obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a
written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description
of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion
date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor
who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has
the experience and resources to successfully complete the contract.
7.    Direct Contracting
       Goods which are of a proprietary nature may, with the Bank's
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part C:      Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any bids for contracts, the proposed
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for
its review and approval in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works
shall be undertaken in accordance with a proposed procurement plan,
which shall be furnished and have been approved by the Bank, and in
Page  13
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $300,000 or $1,000,000 or more respectively,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants services shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, and lump-sum assignment, such
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consul-
tants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as
shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable
to the Bank shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not
apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not
apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-
source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical
nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank, (d) amendments to con-
tracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value
to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to
$50,000 equivalent or above.
                             SCHEDULE 5
                           Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through
(4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $1 million to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$300,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account
plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $1 million.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
Page  14
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, with-
draw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such'
                  intervals as the Bank shall specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph
                  4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in
                  respect of which replenishment is requested. On the
                  basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on
                  behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                  Account and deposit into the Special Account such
                  amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as
                  shall have been shown by said documents and other
                  evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                  Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to theBank pursuant to 
said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter,
withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such pro-
cedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
Page  15
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such out-
standing amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
