Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1317 3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
ELETROBRAS I & II POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECTS
LOANS 2138-BR & 2364-BR
JUNE 17, 1994
Energy and Industry Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in tbe performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         -        Brazilian Cruzeiro (Cr$)
Cr$1.00               -         100 centavos
US$1.00               =        Cr$92.44 (December 1981)
US$1.00               -        Cr$328.47 (December 1982)
MEASURES AND EOUIVALENTS
kW (kilowatt)         -        1,000 W (Watts)
MW (Megawatt)         -        1,000 kW
kWh (kilowatt hour)  -         1,000 Wh (Watt hour)
MWh (Megawatt hour)  -         1,000 kilowatt hours
GWh (Gigawatt hour)  -          1,000,000 kWhs
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY TO ACRONYMS
CAEEB       -    Companhia Auxiliar de Empresas Zletricao Brasiloira.
CEAL        -    Companhia Eletrica do Alagoas
CELPA       -      Companhia Eletrica de Alagoas
CELPE       -      Companhia do Eletricidado do Pernaibuco
CEMAR       -      Centrais Eletricas do Maranhao
CEPISA      -      Contrais Eletricac do Piaui
CERON       -      Cntrais Eletricas de Rondonia
COELCE      -      Companhia de Eletricidade do Ceara
COSERN      -      Companhia do Sorvicos Iletricos do Rio Grande do Norte
DFC         -      Development Finance Company
DNAEE       -      Departamento Nacional do Aguas * Energia Zletrica
ELETROBRAS  -      Contrain Eletricas Brasileiras
ELETRONORTE -      Centrais Eletricas do Norte do Brasil
ELETROPAULO -      Eletricidade de Sao Paulo
ENERSUL     -      Empresa de Energia Zletrica de Mato Grosso do Sul
PSRP        -      Power Sector Rehabilitation Plan
LIGHT       -      LIGHT-Servicos de Eletricidade
SEPLAN      -      Secretaria do Planejamento da Presidencia da Republica
SEST        -      Secretaria de Controle de Empresa. Estatais



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 17, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Brazil
Eletrobras I & II Power Distribution Projects
(Loans 2138-BR & 2364-BR)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Brazil - Eletrobras I
& II Power Distribution Projects (Loans 2138-BR and 2364-BR)" prepared by the
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office. No Part II was prepared by the
Borrower.
The two loans were channelled through Eletrobras, the federal power
holding company, to twelve of Brazil's local utilities for the expansion and
reinforcement of their sub-transmission and distribution systems.  The physical
objectives of the projects were essentially achieved, albeit with significant
delays (four and three years respectively) caused by insufficient counterpart
funds. However, the projects failed to achieve their two main institutional and
policy objectives:  (i)  Eletrobras  could not be  transformed  into a power
development finance company capable of appraising and supervising sub-projects
in accordance with Bank standards, as its role was weakened by the shift in
federal-state relations provided under the new (1988) Constitution; and (ii)
sector finances did not improve as expected and instead deteriorated sharply
during project implementation, as tariffs were allowed by the Government to
decrease in real terms, a trend which has not been reversed to this day. Indeed,
this very issue led the Bank to gradually withdraw from the sector (the last
power loan to be made effective was approved in 1986; another loan approved in
1990 was subsequently withdrawn).
The project concept was innovative and reasonable given circumstances
at the time of appraisal. However, the Bank's performance during implementation
was inconsistent as it did not seek remedies and indeed continued to lend for a
time to the sector in spite of the dramatic worsening of sector finances and of
the Government's repeated unwillingness to meet a series of commitments on tariff
policy.
Accordingly, the project is rated marginally unsatisfactory overall,
its institutional impact negligible and its sustainability unlikely, given the
current persistence of the sector's serious problems. The Project Completion
Report is thorough and informative. An audit may be carried out in the future.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard K6pp
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
I their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
CENTRAIS ELETRICAS BRASILEIRAS, S.A. (ELETROBRAS);
ELETROBRAS I & II POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECTS
LOANS 2138-BR & 2364-BR
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE                                                                               (i)
EVALUATION SUMMARY .(i)
PART I: MAIN FINDINGS & LESSONS (Prepared by the Bank) .1
1. Project Identity .1
Concept .1
2. Sector Background.                                                              2
Bank Power Lending.                                                          2
Bank Lending for Brazil Power in the 1980.                                   2
Organization.                                                                3
Regulation and Planning.                                                     3
3. Preparation and Appraisal: ELETROBRAS I.                                        4
Dovelopment Objectives.                                                      4
Timetable.                                                                   4
Description, Objectives, and Coat .S
Appraisal: Project Issues.                                                   5
Appraisal: Sector Issues .8
Re-appraisal, Procurement, Risks, Etc.                                       9
4. Preparation and Appraisal: ELETROBRAS II   ..10
Development Objectives    ..10
Bank Objectives, Sector and Non-sector                   .10
Timetable   ..10
Description, Objectives, and Cost    ..11
Appraisal: Sector Issues    ..11
Procurement and Risks, Etc    ..12
5. Implementation: ELETROBRAS I & II .13
ELETROBRAS I: Cost, Changes, and Timetable .13
ELETROBRAS II: Cost, Changes, and Timetable    ..15
Procurement   ..16
Project Unit   ..17
6. Results of the Project.                                                        18
Physical and Institutional Objectives    ..18
Zconomic Rate of Return    ..18
7. Financial Performance .19
Bank Approach to Financial Supervision .19
Sector Finances .19
Policy Context & Institutional Context .21
Justification for Bank Lending .21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their |
|official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
ELETROBRAS .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   23
ELETROBRAS I: Beneficiary Financial Performance .  . . . . . . .   24
ELETROBRAS II: Beneficiary Financial Performance .  . . . . . . .   24
8. Performance of ELETROBRAS, the Bank, and the Government .  . . . .   27
ELETROBRAS .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   27
Bank    ...  .   .   .    .   .   .   .    .   .   .   .    .   .   .   .    .   .   .   .    .   .   .    .   .   .   .   .  27
Federal Government  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   28
9. Lessons to be Learned   ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    28
Project Lessons .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   28
Sector Lessons  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   28
Annex 1: Policy Context and Bank General Lending Policy, 1982-1991     30
Annex 2: Tariff Legislation and Regulation in the 1970s  . . . . . . .   33
PART II.  COMMENTS OF EXECUTING AGENCIES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   34
PART III.  STATISTICAL TABLES
Table I : Bank Lending to ELETROBRAS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  35
Table 2.1: ELETROBRAS I: Project Timetable   . . . . . . . . . . . . .   37
Table 2.2: ELETROBRAS II:  Project Timetable   . . . . . . . . . . . .   38
Table 3.1: ELETROBRAS I:  Actual & Forecast Project Cost   . . . . . .   39
Table 3.2: ELETROBRAS II: Actual & Forecast Project Cost   . . . . . .   40
Table 4.1: ELETROBRAS I: Actual & Forecast Disbursement Timetable      41
Table 4.2: ELETROBRAS II: Actual & Forecast Disbursement Timetable     42
Table 5.1: ELETROBRAS I:  Actual & Forecast Impelemtation Timetable  .   43
Table 5.2: ELETROBRAS II: Actual & Forecast Implementation Timetable   44
Table 6 : ELETROBRAS I: Actual & Forecast Expenditure by Category  .   45
Table 7 : Zconomic Rate of Return   ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ..... .   .   46
Table 8.1: Actual & Forecast Sector Results, 1981-1986   . . . . . . .   47
Table 8.2: Actual & Forecast Sector Results, 1983-1987   . . . . . . .   49
Table 8.3: Actual & Forecast Sector Results, 1986-1987   . . . . . . .   51
Table 9.1: ELETROBRAS I: Beneficiary Financial Results   . . . . . . .   53
Table 9.2: ELETROBRAS II: Beneficiary Financial Results  . . . . . . .   58
Table 10.1: Loan 2138-BR: Compliance with Loan Conditions  . . . . . .   64
Table 10.2: Loan 2364-BR: Compliance with Loan Conditions  . . . . . .   66
Table 11: Use of Bank Resources  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   68



-1-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
CENTRAIS ELETRICAS BRASILEIRAS, S.A. (ELETROBRAS);
ELETROBRAS I & II POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECTS
LOANS 2138-BR & 2364-BR
PREFACE
This i the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the ELETROBRAS I &
II Power Distribution Projects, for which Loans 2138-BR (US$182.7 million) and
2364-BR (US$250.6 million) were approved on, respectively, May 11, 1982 and
December 8, 1983. The borrower was Centrais Eletricas Braoileiras, SA (ELETRO-
BRAS), the public-sector corporation which serves as holding company for the
Federal power utilities and which performs sector-wide planning and financial
functions. The beneficiaries were operating power utilities.
The loans helped to finance works and equipment to expand/reinforce
the sub-transmission/distribution systems of the beneficiaries. With the agree-
ment of the Bank, the volume of works completed under the first project was sub-
stantially increased and that of the second project marginally reduced. Loan
2138-BR was closed on December 30, 1989 (two years late); and the last disburse-
ment was on July 25, 1990. Loan 2364-BR was closed on December 31, 1991 (two and
one half years late); and the last disbursement was on May 28, 1992.
The Energy and Industry Operations Division, Country Department I
(Brazil, Venezuela, and Peru) prepared this PCR based on, inter Al": (i) final
project reports prepared by ELETROBRAS; (ii) Bank sources, including the loan
documents, supervision reports, and Bank-borrower correspondence; and (iii)
interviews with Bank and borrower staff.   Preparation of this PCR began in
October 1992.
Copies of the draft report (Parts I and III) were sent to the
borrower, the Ministry of Mines and Energy, the Ministry of Planning, and the
Departmento Nacional de Aguas e Energia Eletrica; but no comments were received.
If comments are received in the near future, they will be incorporated into the
PCR as Part II.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
CENTRAIS ELETRICAS BRASILEIRAS, S .A. (ELETROBRAS)
ELETROBRAS I & II POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECTS
LOANS 2138-BR & 2364-BR
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Concept.    Loans 2138-BR (US$182.7 million; 1982) and 2364-BR
(US$250.6 million; 1983) helped to finance companion distribution projects,
hereafter referred to as ELETROBRAS I and ELETROBRAS II. The project. consisted
of sub-projects (sub-transmission and distribution works) of twelve operating
utilities.  The projects were executed between 1983 and 1991.
The borrower was Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras, SA, the Federal
holding company which has sector-wide planning and financial functions.  The
borrower relent the proceeds of the loans to two groups of beneficiaries
(numbering 5 and 7, respectively). All but two of the beneficiaries were state-
owned.
The project objectives were to: (a) meet efficiently market needs of
the beneficiaries; (b) remedy unsatisfactory system conditions; (c) strengthen
the organizations of the beneficiaries; and (d) equip ELETROBRAS with the
capability for appraising and supervising projects in accordance with standard
Bank procedures (para. 3.04). It was expected that ELZTROBRAS would play the
role of a development finance company (DFC).
Under the projects, physical goals were met, albeit with lengthy
delay; procurement procedures of the beneficiaries were improved; but ELZTROBRAS
was not transformed into a DFC (para. 6.01). Based on actual tariffs and costs,
the economic returns of the investment programs of the beneficiaries ranged from
zero to less than zero (para. 6.02).
Actual and Forecast Cost and Proiect Timetable. Actual expenditures
of ELETROBRAS I amounted to US$572.2 million, 22.1% less than the appraisal
forecast (US$736.6 million); ELETROBRAS II cost US$679.0 million, 13.5% less than
the appraisal forecast (USS785.0 million). The reduced cost of ELETROBRAS I was
due to lower-than-expected unit costs and the beneficial impact of international
competitive bidding (ICB).   ELETROBRAS did not provide unit cost data for
ZLETROBRAS II, but it in likely that unit costs were lower than expected. The
volume of works completed under ELETROBRAS I were larger than anticipated; the
volume of works completed under ZLETROBRAS II was marginally lower than
anticipated  (paras. 5.05  and  5.11).   The Bank agreed to these changes.
ZLETROBRAS I was completed in 1990, four years late; ELETROBRAS II was complated
in 1991, three years late. Due to differences in the volumes of completed and
expected projects, longer implementation periods, and lower unit costs, the
actual costs are not fully comparable with the costs anticipated at appraisal
(paras. 5.02 and 5.09).
Project delay had several sources:   (i) investment curtailments
mandated by a Federal planning agency in the early years of implementation (para.
5.06); (ii) incomplete understanding of ICB by the agency charged with the
procurement function and poor coordination of the procurement effort among the



different beneficiaries (paras. 5.13-5.14); and (iii) continuing financial
constraints on the part of the beneficiaries due to low tariffs, negative net
internal cash generation, and inadequate levels of funding from other sources,
including equity contribution from state government (paras. 7.02-7.05 and 7.14-
7.16). Of the sourceu of delay, financial constraint was the most important.
Prolect Issues.  During the appraisal of ELETROBRAS I, the major
institutional goal of the Bank was to transform ELETROBRAS, with its sector-wide
access to technical and human resources, from being another Government
planning/financial agency into a transmission belt for the diffusion of advice,
managerial talent, and high technical/financial standards -- the primary object
being to improve the operations of the smaller, weaker utilities (para. 1.03).
Inherent to the DFC concept was the power to discipline the operating companies
by, if necessary, withholding financial resources. The Bank devoted considerable
effort to training borrower staff in appraisal and supervision procedures; and
unsuccessfully urged ELETROBRAS to create a formal project unit on its table of
organization (paras. 3.08-3.14).   Given the paramount role of the Federal
Government in sector decision-making and the abundance of able and experienced
staff at ELETROBRAS, such transformation was a feasible objective prior to the
adoption of the 1988 Constitution (para. 8.03).
Bank training efforts proved unavailing because, in the final
analysis, the operating companies answered to the owners, the state governments,
not ELETROBRAS, which lacked the means to discipline the power companies. For
ELETROBRAS to suspend disbursements to the state power companies was not
politically feasible, especially in circumstances of Constitutional change
(increasing the autonomy of the states and decreasing the authority of the
Federal Government and its agencies). The state companies were aware of their
political advantage and were prepared to use it (para. 5.17). Also undermining
the authority of ELETROBRAS was the worsening state of sector finances -- the
result of poor Federal tariff regulation.
Sector Issues. During most of the 1970s, the revenue covenants of
loan agreements had relied successfully on fair interpretation of tariff
legislation to provide its power borrowers with adequate levels of revenue, i.e.,
an annual return of 10-12% on annually revalued remunerable assets. A new, more
restrictive regulatory regime began to prevail at the end of the decade; and
thereafter, the state of sector finances became a constant source of worry to the
Bank (paras. 2.05-2.07; Annex II).
In 1981, 1983, and 1986, the Bank obtained agreement from the Federal
Government to three successive plans for the rehabilitation of sector finances
based on inter alia, higher tariff levels. The plans called for small tariff
increases in their first years followed by progressively larger increases in the
subsequent years; hence, they deferred to the future the target date when the
sector would earn the minimum legal rate of return: 10%. In connection with the
1981 plan, the target date was 1986.  When the Federal Government did not
implement adequately the first plan, the Bank agreed to a second plan (1983) with
a target date of 1989 for earning 10%.  When the Federal Government did not
implement adequately the second plan, the Bank agreed to a third plan (1986) with
a target date for earning 10% after 1989. As long as the Government was making
progress toward improving the financial situation of the sector, the Bank
promised not to enforce the revenue covenants of existing loan agreements. By



-iv -
agreeing to these plans, the Bank was making a considerable concession to help
the Brazilians (paras. 7.02-7.05).
During the period 1981-1986, in addition to sector objectives, Bank
lending supported non-sector objectives. For example, in 1983, Loan 2364-BR was
part of a larger lending package demonstrating the Bank's faith in the
creditworthiness of Brazil. This demonstration was intended to calm the fears
of foreign lenders who were badly shaken by the debt payment crisis of Mexico in
1982.   In 1986,  Loan 2720-BR  (USS500 million),  a sector adjustment loan
supporting a plan for sector financial rehabilitation, was part of a larger
lending package reinforcing the global economic strategy of the first civilian
president in twenty years (Mr. Jose Sarney -- paras. 7.10-7.13 and Annex I).
Throughout the decade, the continuing justification for power lending
on sector grounds was that, given the importance of the electric power sector to
the development of Brazil, it would be more useful to help the Brazilians to
formulate and implement a credible plan of tariff and financial recovery than to
suspend disbursements or to stop the processing and approval of new loans. In
1987-1989, instead of restoring sector finances, the civilian Administration,
like its military predecessors, focused on a shifting group of short-term
political/macroeconomic goals and other strategic objectives.
In these circumstances, a measure of caution, even ambivalence, began
to be reflected in Bank dealings with Brazil. For the sake of flexibility and
dialogue with the Federal Government, the Bank continued to disburse from
existing loans, notwithstanding the declining state of sector finances, but would
not complete the processing for additional power loans due to disagreement on
tariff levels and deteriorating economic conditions. By not sending a clear and
consistent message to the Federal Government, the inherent contradictions of this
approach tended to undermine Bank efforts to influence sector tariff policy. In
1990, the Bank approved its last power loan to Brazil (3227-BR; US$365 million);
and then withdrew the loan in 1992, as the agreement remained unsigned because
the Government declined to raise sector tariffs to levels specified as a
condition for effectiveness (para. 8.04).
Lessons to be Learned.  This project has five lessons: (a)  The
lower-than-expected unit costs for materials and equipment demonstrate the
usefulness of ICB. (b) In the event of inexperience on the part of beneficiaries
with Bank-approved procurement procedures, the Bank should, as standard practice,
seek appointment of an experienced procurement co-ordinator by the borrower,
distribution of a procurement manual based on Bank-approved procurement
procedures, and appropriate training for beneficiary personnel. (c) The loan
agreements should have included a mechanism to re-allocate loan proceeds from one
beneficiary to another, as their needs and performance merited (para. 9.01).
(d) Zatablishing an autonomous regulatory agency is a necessary first step toward
insulating the power sector from short-run political or economic considerations
(para. 9.02). (e) It seems clear that lending in circumstances of continuing
financial deterioration, as occurred between 1981 and 1986, sends the borrower
the wrong message and leads to a significant risk that agreements for financial
rehabilitation will not be observed. The Bank withdrawal of Loan 3227-BR, after
waiting almost two years for signature and the tariff increases required for
effectiveness, appears to be the right way to maintain the credibility of the
Bank (para. 9.05).






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
CENTRAIS ELETRICAS BRASILEIRAS, SA (ELETROBRAS)
ELETROBRAS I & II POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECTS
LOANS 2138-BR & 2364-BR
PART I: MAIN FINDINGS AND LESSONS (PREPARED BY THE BANK)
1.   Proiect Identity
Namaes              ELETROBRAS I & II Power Distribution Projects
Borrower         : Centrais Eletricas Branileiras, SA (ELETROBRAS)
Loan Numbers       2138-BR & 2364-BR
Beneficiaries  :  (i) 2138-BR: CELPA, COELCE, CELPE, COSERN, ENERSULLI
(ii) 2364-BR: CEAL, CEMAR, CEPISA, CERON, ELETROPAULO, LIGHT,
and ELETRONORTE (distribution system for city of
Manaus )/
Loan Amounts e       (i) 2138-BR: US$182.7 million  (Disbursed% US$172.1 milliont
Canceled: US$10.6 million)
(ii) 2364-BR:  US$250.6 million  (Disbursed:US$237.0  million;
Cancelled: US$13.6 million)
Loan Dates       : (i)  2138-BR: Approval, May 11,  1982; Effectiveness, October
25, 1982; Closing, December 31, 1989 (two years after
original   deadline   of   December   31,    1987);   Last
Disbursement: July 25, 1990
(ii) 2364-BR: Approval,  December 8, 1983; Effectiveness,  May
21, 1984; Closing, December 31, 1991, two & one-half years
after  the original  deadline  of June  30,  1989);   Last
Disbursement: May 28, 1992
RVP Unit         : LAlEI
Country          : Brazil
Sector           s Energy
Subsector        : Zlectric Power
1.01          Conc-ct   Between 1978 and 1991,  Brazilian power officials, with the
help of Bank staff and the financial support of Loans 2138-BR (US$182.7 million,
1982) and 2364-BR (US$250.6 million, 1983), prepared and executed the ELETROBRAS
Power I and II Distribution Projects (hereafter referred to as ILETROBRAS I &
II). These projects reflected features sufficiently innovative that they merit
highlighting at the beginning of the report.
The bwneficisries of Loon 2138-BR were power utilities owued by the states of Pars, Ceara, Rio Cronda do
Morts, Pern buco, and Mato Grosso do Sul -- respectively, Centrais Eletricas do Pars, SA (CELPA), Cmp- nhlo
d Eletricidade do Ceara (COELCE), CoWhanis do Servicos Eletricos do Rio Grande do Norte (COSERN), Com p nih
do Eletricidade do Pernambuco (CELPE), and Empresa do Energia Eletrica do Moto Grosso do Sut, SA (EVERSUL).
The beneficiaries of Loan 2364-BR included thb power utilities of five states (Narenhao, Piaul, Alagoa,
londonia, and Sao Paulo) wnd two of the operating subsidiaries of ELETROBRAS. The five state-owned utilities
were: Centrals Eletricas do Maranhao, SA (CEMAR); Contrals Eletricas do Piaul, SA (CEPISA); Coephania Eletrie
de Alageas CCEAL); and Electricideds do Sao Paulo CELETROPAULO). ELETROPAULO servoe the city of Sao Paulo only;
the other state-osmed utilitios have state-wide responsibilities. The two ELETROBRAS *ubsidiario were LIGNT-
Soevices do Elotricidade, SA (LIGHT), which serves the city of Rio do Jansiro, nd Centrais Eletriasc do Morto
do Srasil, SA CELETRONORTE), which has region-wide responsibilities for generation nd tranomission, nd uhich
osto operatn the distribution systm for the city of NanUs.



-2-
1.02        The  borrower  would  be  Centrais  Eletricas  Brasileiras,  SA
(ELETROBRAS), a majority Government owned corporation serving as a holding
company for Federally-owned power companies.  The borrower would relend the
proceeds of the loans to the beneficiaries, two groups of power utilities, both
Federally-owned and state-owned (see above) in need of investment funding and
management/institutional reinforcement.3/  The projects, ELETROBRAS I and II,
would consist of time slices of the investment programs (sub-transmission and
distribution works) of the beneficiaries for the middle years of the 1980z.
1.03        What set these lending operations apart from prior power loans
featuring ELETROBRAS as borrower/r-lender was the anticipated division of
responsibilities between the borrower and the Bank -- that is, (i) ELETROBRAS,
in addition to relending the proceeds of the Bank loans, would appraise the sub-
projects and supervise the boneficiaries in the manner of a development finance
company (DFC); and (ii) the Bank would instruct ELETROBRAS as to its role and
would monitor its performance, but would otherwise limit its direct interaction
with the beneficiaries. Another distinguishing mark of these operations was the
effort to help the weaker utilities in the less developed states. Prior Bank
loans had tended to aid the stronger utilities in the better developed states.
1.04        It was expected that full implementation of the DFC concept would:
(i) transform ELETROBRAS, with its sector-wide access to technical and human
resources, from being another government planning/financial agency into a trans-
mission belt for the diffusion of advice, managerial talent, and higher technical
and financial standards; and (ii) equip ELETROBRAS with the means to discipline
the operating companies to enforce fulfillment of agreements. The primary object
of implementing the DFC concept was to improve the operational efficiency and
reliability of the weaker utilities of the less developed states. An expected
benefit of such implementation would be to release Bank resources for employment
elsewhere -- Bank resources being, in any event, inadequate to the task of pre-
paring, appraising, and supervising the increasing numbers of small power
projects in Brazil in the less developed states.
2. Sector Backoround
2.01        Bank Power Lendino. Since 1949, the Bank has made 41 power loans
amounting to about US$3.7 billion, including nine loans to ZLETROBRAS for almost
US$2.1 billion (Part III, Table 1) -- excluding Loan 3227-BR (USS385 million),
which was withdrawn in April 1992 (paras. 2.02 and 7.12).  Through relending
agreements, almost all of the proceeds of the loans to ELETROBRAS were used to
help finance the projects of state and Federal power utilities -- hydroelectric
stations (before the mid-1970s) and transmission/distribution works (after the
mid-1970a). Among the beneficiaries of Loan 2138-BR, only CELPE was a partial
beneficiary of a prior Bank loan (1300-BR; US$50 million; 1976).
2.02        Bank Lendinag for Brazil Power in the 1980s.  In 1983-1986, leaving
aside Loan 2364-BR, the Bank approved three investment loans and one sector
adjustment loan (for a total of US$1,434.8 million), but thereafter, despite
The shortcomings of the benficferies inctuded: high levels of Losses, loading, wnd arrearage; inadequate
systm plaimng; low saLaries; large nibers of poorly qualified staff and politicized mwnagements; and poor
financial adkinistration -- lack of budgets or other control mchanim. Also see pars. 3.03.



-3-
major offorts to negotiate additional sector adjustment loans (paras. 7.11-7.12),
the Bank did not approve another power loan to Brazil until 1990 (Loan 3227-BR).
Under ordinary conditions, the pace and amount of Bank lending for power projects
in Brazil during the second half of the 1980s would probably have been similar
to that in the first half of the decade because of the great need to reinforce
and expand the transmission and distribution systems. But this did not happen.
Instead, the processing of power loans to Brazil stalled during the late 1980z
and then stopped altogether in 1992. The political, macroeconomic and sectoral
factors underlying this development are detailed in Annex 1. They constituted
the context in which the projects were carried out.
2.03        oraanization. When the projects were prepared and implemented, the
sector consisted of a relatively compact group of Federally-owned and state-owned
power utilities with primary responsibilities for, respectively, generation/
transmission and distribution.  The authority of the Federal Government to
supervise sector decision-making, especially with respect to levels for tariffs,
borrowing, and investment expenditure, was paramount.  Further, the tariff-
equalization and revenue-sharing regimes strongly connected the individual
companies to each other and to the Federal Government. As discussed later (para.
7.01), the impact of Federal policy in sector affairs, together with the strong
sector financial connections (see Annex II), was so important that Bank staff
tended to focus more on sector financial performance than on the financial
performance of individual utilities.
2.04        There has been growing criticism by state governments of Federal
regulatory policies since 1987. In 1993, the Congress approved major changes to
the tariff regime and the elimination of the mechanism which transferred
resources from the financially stronger companies to the financially weaker
companies. In the future, it is not certain that the Federal Government shall
exercise the same degree of authority as used to be the case.
2.05        Reaulation and Planninc. Prior to appraisal of ELETROBRAS I (1980),
the Government supervised the sector through two agencies under the jurisdiction
of the Ministry of Mines and Energy: Departamento Nacional de Aquas e Energia
Eletrica (DNAEE), a regulatory body which approved, inter JLJa, tariff levels and
projects of particular companies; and ELETROBRAS, which besides performing
holding-company functions (para. 1.02), carried out sector-wide financial
functions and sector-wide planning based on least-cost criteria. These were not
fully autonomous agencies. The decisions of DNAEE and ELETROBRAS were expected
to be consistont with the objectives and policies of the Administration. Annex
II details the power tariff legislation prevailing during the 1970. and the
unsatisfactory regulatory performance of DNAEE after 1977.
2.06        The planning and regulatory regime began to change in 1979 when the
Federal Government, to align sector policies more closely with its larger
macroeconomic strategy, required the review of DNAEE-authorized tariff increases
by the Secr-taria de Empresas Estatais (SEST).  SEST was an agency of the
planning secretariat, Secretaria de Planejamento da Presidencia da Republica
(SEPLAN). Final approval of tariff increases was to be taken at a meeting of
ministers. This limitation of the authority of DNAEE to set tariffs was followed
by a qualification (and therefore limitation) of the authority of ELETROBRAS to
undertake sector planning. In 1980, the Federal Government required review by
the Secretaria de Controle de Empresas Estatais/Secretaria de Planejamento



-4-
(SEST/SEPLAN) for levels of investment expenditures by all state enterprises,
including power utilities. Again, final approval wan to be taken at a meeting
of ministers.
2.07        Given the poor regulatory performance by DNAEE, the Bank interpreted
the new regime as being a continuation of pant regulatory trends and did not seek
a reversal of the limitation on the autonomy and authority of DNAEE. Instead,
even though it recognized that the new regime lacked adequate provision for the
long-term view, the Bank accepted, even welcomed, the new regime, given its
potential for increasing dialogue between the utilities, ELETROBRAS, DNAEZ, and
the planning agencies.  During the 1980s, the Bank earnestly sought and obtained
Government agreement to a series of programs which aimed at the financlal
restoration of the sector through tariff increases and other measures. As shown
later (paras. 7.02-7.13), the Government did not fully implement these programs,
thereby seriously undermining the financial health of the sector.
3.  Preparation and ADpraisal: ELETROBRAS I.
3.01        Develovment Obiectives.  According to all versions of the Project
Brief (PB)4/, the Government, in order to reduce dependence on imported
petroleum, had adopted a national energy policy emphasizing rational use of
energy,  conservation,  and maximum exploitation of local primary sources,
especially hydro. The Government also sought to expand the supply of electric
power to those areas having little or inadequate service.   The 1978 Country
Program Paper called for Bank support of the policy of the Government by: (a)
providing a portion of the financial requirements of the sector; (b) acting as
a catalyst for the mobilization of long-term funds from other external financing
agencies; (c) promoting rational tariff policies enabling sufficient self-
financing for the sector; and (d) helping to strengthen the management and
planning of power companies. The proposed loan would support all of the above
objectives; and would, in addition,   .. provide ELETROBRAS an opportunity to
continue developing its project appraisal/supervision capabilities...   /
3.02         Timetable    The processing of ELETROBRAS  I --  from project
identification (June 1978) to loan approval (May 1982) -- took almost four years.
Between November 1978 and September 1980, the Bank dispatched seven preparation
missions (Part III, Table 2.1). Almost no progress toward preparing the project
was achieved until late 1979 due to inadequate organization and staffing of the
project unit of ZLETROBRAS. After the organizational problems were solved and
ELETROBRAS had satisfactorily completed the appraisal of the COSERN sub-project,
Bank staff appraised the project (October 1980; paras. 3.06-3.14). Thereafter,
project processing stalled until the Bank and the Government negotiated
(September 1981) an agr-ement to addregs the problem of sector finances (para.
3.15-3.19).  In November 1981 a preparation mission instructed the staff of
ZLETROBRAS on how to update its appraisals of the sub-projects; and in January
1982, the Bank dispatched a re-appraisal mission, after which Loan 2138-BR was
approved (May 11, 1982).
*Betwen April 5, 1979 and October 30, 1980, Bank staff produced eight versions of the Project Brief for
ELETROBRAS 1; here fter referred to as P-El 1.
* Vorld Bank CWB): PS-EE 1, pars. 2.03, fourth through eighth versions, respectiveLy dated November 27. 1979,
February 6, 1980, Ray 23, 1980, August 29, 1980, and October 30, 1980.



-5-
3.03        Descriotion. Obiectives. and Cost.   As finally defined, five sub-
projects constituted the project, each of which was to consist of portions of the
1983-1985 slice of the 1982-1986 investment programs of beneficiaries (page 1,
footnote 1) selected by ELETROBRAS on the basis of need and willingness to
cooperate  in  sub-project  preparation  using  Bank-approved  criteria.   The
investment programs provided for the installation of sub-transmission lines,
substations and associated transformer capacity, distribution lines (primary
feeders), low voltage distribution lines (secondary circuits), consumer
connections, general service equipment, etc. The programs provided for plans
which emphasized the connection of rural and low-income consumers and included
the use of consultants, as needed.
3.04        The basic objectives of the investment programs were to meet
efficiently the needs of the respective markets and to remedy unsatisfactory
system conditions arising from inadequate planning and lack of sufficient
investment during preceding years.   Strengthening the organizations of the
beneficiaries, including their technical and financial capabilities, was another
important objective, as was the creation of the capability within ELETROBRAS for
appraising and supervising projects in accordance with standard Bank procedures
and methods. As shown below (paran. 3.06-3.14), this was the central project
issue at appraisal and before.
3.05        Including physical and price contingencies, the project was expected
to cost US$736.6 million with a foreign cost of US$190.0 million. The Bank loan
(US$182.7 million) would cover US1S8O million of the foreign costs of items to
be procured under international competitive bidding (ICB - para. 4.10) and a
front-end fee of US$2.7 million.  The remaining foreign costs of the project
(US$10 million) would be covered by co-financers (foreign commercial banks).
Such costs related to items to be procured on a reserved basis.  It was also
expected that co-financers would loan the beneficiaries an additional US$70
million for local-currency purchases. The balance of local-currency financing
would be provided by local development banks (US$47.9 million), state governments
(US$97.2 million), ELETROBRAS (US$279.9 million), and the beneficiaries (US$51.6
million).
3.06        Aoraisal: Prolect Issues,   As already stated (para. 1.03), the
innovative aspect of this project was the substitution of =LETROBRAS for the Bank
-- that in, ELETROBRAS would carry out the appraisal and supervision functions
normally exercised by the Bank, thereby freeing Bank resources for employment
elsewhere.
3.07         The goal of the Bank was to transform ZLETROBRAS from another
Federal planning/financial agency into a DFC A/ In the course of preparing the
project, Bank staff addressed two issues related to ELETROBRAS's future
Jde.: Intrnal Memo (IN) dated July 11, 1980, mkos clear that ELETROBRAS, besides helping the
beneficiaries design technically suitabLe, loast-cost sub-projects nd forulasto appropriate financing plne.
would also holp tho beneficiaries to define and implement institution-building masures to improve their
operatioe and to addres their *mnagement deficincies. ELETROBRAS had system-wide access to the resources
financial and humn, ihich these companies urgently needed. It was expected the proposed project would
facilitate such accss.



-6-
functioning as a DFCz (i) its authority and will to supervise the beneficiaries
(paras 3.08-.11), and (ii) the organization of a project unit (para. 3.12).
3.08        Concerning the authority and will of ELETROBRAS to supervise the
beneficiaries, Bank thinking focused on the possibilities and opportunities for
helping ELETROBRAS evolve into a DFC.  For example, the PB. stated: Overall
direction of the sector is provided by ELETROBRAS.. .".2/   This statement
applied to planning, not operational control of individual state utilities, which
was the province of state governments; and it did not reflect Federal-state
political realities. Further, it did not take into account the growing role of
SEST, which by summer 1980 was displacing to some extent -- or infringing on --
the roles of ELETROBRAS and DNAEE (parao. 2.05-2.06).8/
3.09        Bank staff recognized that under then current conditions it would be
politically unfeasible for ELETROBRAS to condition or withhold loans and equity
contributions to state utilities to ensure compliance with technical/financial/
operational targets. ELETROBRAS had planning and financial powers which were
important to the state utilities, but in the final analysis, the utilities
answered to their owners,  not ELETROBRAS.   Nevertheless,  believing that
implementation of the DFC concept would lead to improved operational performance
on the part of the smaller companies, the Bank decided to press for a
transformation of ZLETROBRAS into a DFC and go forward with loan processing.
3.10        By June/July 1980, Bank staff noted that ELETROBRAS was taking a more
active role in helping the beneficiaries to prepare satisfactory sub-projects.
In one instance, it had even seconded personnel from an operating subsidiary to
become the directors of COSERN's planning and operations departments.  This
action was interpreted by the Bank as an example of a changed attitude. Bank
staff reported: "In the future, personnel of Eletrobras' [sic) Directoria de
Gestao Empr-marial (DGE) will participate in the execution of the proposed
project and in preparation, appraisal, and implementation of similar projectsl
DGE would propose solutions to distribution utilities' management problems,
either by secondment of personnel from Eletrobras [sic), its subsidiaries, or
utilities from more developed states or by engagement of consultants."2J  It
appeared that ELETROBRAS was taking the first steps toward becoming a DFC.
3.11        Bank thinking did not take into account the growing role of SEST
which was demonstrated in September 1980 by the discharge of the planning and
financial directors of ZLETROBRAS and the resignation of its president.  The
directors had opposed SEST's limiting to five percent the real growth of public
sector investment in 1981, as this limitation was expected to impact adversely
on the ability of the sector to meet demand. The Minister of Mines and Energy
demanded that the president discharge the directors. When the president could
not prevent this, he resigned.   This action, which clearly demonstrated a
reduction in the authority of ELETROBRAS to plan and finance sector expansion,
did not cause Bank staff to question their project strategy before appraisal
.z,, PS-El 1. para. 1.02, first and eighth versions, dated Aprit 5, 1979 to October 30, 1980.
* ~., gBack-to-Office (BTO) Report, dated October 1, 1980, p. 3, para. 10.
' j.~., IN, dated July 11, 1980.



-7-
(September 1980) or later. In like manner, the staff relied on the successive
Government commitments to raise tariffs and take such actions as required to
restore the financial health of the sector.
3.12        Since the organization of a project unit was a vitally important
issue for ELETROBRAS to function as a DFC, the Bank devoted considerable time
over a period of eighteen (18) months to instructing borrower staff on the
appraisal methods and approaches used by the Bank; and helped to develop an
acceptable appraisal manual. ELETROBRAS was very slow in organizing a proper
unit in 1979 with the result that project preparation lagged. In the early part
of the year, the Bank recommended the recruitment of a senior engineer with ample
experience in the management of distribution companies to head the unit;W
and later the Bank sent a number of documents to help ELETROBRAS prepare an
appraisal manual.11/ By September 1979, ELETROBRAS had appointed two men from
its staff, one for finance and one for technical matters, to head the unit. The
appointees delegated most of their duties to assistants who in turn delegated
day-to-day work to a two-man working group12. (which later included a senior
engineer recruited by ELETROBRAS). In due course, the working group was assisted
on an ad hoc basis by specialists from other directorates, such as market
studies, transmission lines, and distribution design.
3.13        Given the delays in preparing the project in 1979, the Bank deferred
appraisal from February 1980 to May 1980 and then to September 1980. To assure
itself that the borrower would be able to carry out its new role, the Bank
conditioned its appraisal to the satisfactory appraisal of one sub-project by
ZLETROBRAS. During the summer of 1980, ELETROBRAS fulfilled this condition
(including a recommendation that COSERN engage a consultant to improve its
structure and organization); and in September 1980 the Bank appraised the
project.
3.14        The appraisal experience caused Bank staff to doubt that existing
arrangements within ELETROBRAS provided for adequate coordination among
directorates to handle the expected additional work load. "It seems clear that
the CELPE work [appraisal), coming on top of... [other] ...appraisals, has shown
up the weakness we feared right from the start, and we have concluded that
ILETROBRAS has developed some ability for this work, but does not have adequate
capability. 42/ To remedy this situation, the Bank conditioned negotiations
to the submission by ELETROBRAS of an organizational scheme providing for: (a)
adequate coordination/involvement of all its directorates in appraisal and
supervision work; and (b) adequate coordination with the Bank. The Bank also
conditioned negotiations to the submission of: (i) a satisfactory project brief
on the sub-project at CELPE; (ii) appraisal reports on two other sub-projects;
and (iii) draft on-lending and shareholder agreements. By the end of February
1981, all of the above project issues took second place to the Bank's growing
I*     Bank Letters to ELETROSRAS, dated April 5, 1979 and Kay 31, 1979.
" .L,m.. Bank Letter to ELETROSRAS, dated July 16, 1979.
" 1,.* P-ELI, (third version), dated October 24, 1979, par&. 5.01.
" j1., IN, dated February 13, 1981.



-8-
dissatisfaction with Government tariff policy; and thereafter project processing
stalled.
3.15        Aporaisal: Sector Issues.  For several years prior to appraisal, in
connection with sector tariff and revenue levels, the Bank had been concerned
about the: (i) methodology of asset revaluation which did not maintain values in
circumstances of high, rising inflation, i.e., use of an unrepresentative price
index; and (ii) low level of sector tariffs which did not permit Bank borrowers
to generate revenues sufficient to earn the legal rates of return of 10-12% on
remunerable assets.
3.16        The Government justified the low level of tariffs, which were popular
politically, as part of its effort to combat inflation; and assured the Bank that
past and current revenue shortfalls (below the legal rate of return) would be
recovered through future tariff increases. The law permitted the incorporation
of such shortfalls into the rate bases of the operating companies.
3.17        In March 1980, in connection with Loan 1824-BR and later with Loan
1939-BR, the Bank accepted a proposal to raise tariff and revenue levels whereby
the Government committed itself to: (i) approximate the 10% rate of return for
the sector in 1980 by increasing tariffs 30% in June 1980; (ii) provide a 10%
rate of return for the sector beginning in 1981 with future tariff increases; and
(iii) allow for recovery of revenue shortfalls in 1980, if any, and accumulated
shortfall. for prior years over a three-year period beginning in 1981. This plan
explicitly recognized the possibility of a return on remunerable assets below the
10% legal minimum in 1980, but was acceptable because of the prospect of
compliance in 1981 and subsequent years.
3.18        By the fall of 1980, it was clear that the Government had not
implemented the plan sufficiently to permit the sector to approximate the 10%
rate of return in 1980;IA/ hence, the credibility of the Bank became the
overriding issue, (w .. it is obvious that we cannot continue to be satisfied with
intentions  and promises... ").1/    In these  circumstances,  the  appraisal
mission recommended the conditioning of negotiations to,  inter alia,  the
Government's: enacting a program of tariff increases to permit the sector to earn
the minimum legal rate of return (10%) in 1981 and begin to recover past revenue
shortfalls; and submitting an asset revaluation methodology based on actual costs
of construction and equipment. More importantly, the Bank stopped processing the
loan and informed the Government that it expected the Government to fulfill its
agreements.16/  During the summer of 1981, the Bank advised the Government
that it would stop lending to the sector and would consider suspending
disbursements on all power loans unless the Government agreed to undertake
appropriate measures to improve the financial condition of the sector.,,/
Ide., INs, dated December 4, 1980 and December 17, 1980.
'f jgB. , IN, dated February 13, 1981, p. 2, para. 2.01.
d ., Bank Letter to ELETROBRAS, dated January 12, 1981. and IN, dated January 13, 1981.
'7 1j£R. IN, dated March 23, 1981; BTO, dated May 13, 1981; BTO, dated JuLy 29, 1981.



3.19        In September 1981, to address the financial problems of the power
sector, the Government and the Bank agreed on a new recovery plan featuring
"real" tariff increases of 3% in 1982 and of 5% annually thereafter until the
sector earned a return of 10% on remunerable assets. The Bank confirmed this
agreement by its letter to the Government of December 23, 1981. The letter also
provided that the Bank would not enforce the revenue covenants of previous loans
as long an the Government and the power companies complied with the plan for
sector financial recovery. The new recovery plan represented a major concession
on the part of the Bank, as the sector would not earn a 10% return on remunerable
assets until 1987.  Further, it displaced the conditions for negotiations --
namely, enactment of a program of tariff increases leading to a 10% return on
remunerable assets in 1981 and submission of an asset revaluation system based
on actual costs of construction and equipment.
3.20        Later, it was realized that the language of recovery plan did not
specify the reference point for measuring the 3% increase in 1982 and 5%
increases in later years. It was not clear whether the increase of 3% (or 5%)
was measured by comparing tariff levels at the beginning and end of year (or oem
intermediate point) or whether it was measured by comparing the annual average
tariff  level of the current year against  that  of the prior year.   In
circumstances of accelerating inflation, this was a major issue.
3.21        Re-aloraisal. Procurement.  Risks.  Etc.   A preparation mission
instructed (November 1981) ELETROBRAS on how to update completed appraisals.
Thereafter, loan processing moved quickly.  The re-appraisal mission, which
completed its work in January 1982, more than a year after the initial appraisal,
found that " ...the organization of ELETROBRAS for the.. project has substantially
improved" and waived the condition for submission of a coordination plan.iff
The appraisals of the COELCE and CELPE were satisfactorily completed.  The
submission of project briefs for the sub-projects of two new beneficiaries (CZLPA
and ENERSUL) continued as a condition of negotiations.  The Staff Appraisal
Report  (SAR)  reflected  a   enerally  "up-beat"  tone  about  the  appraisal
capabilities of ELETROBRAS. /
3.22        Equipment and materials financed under the loan would be procured in
accordance with Bank guidelines through international competitive bidding (ICB),
except for minor quantities where special reasons justified international
shopping. Brazilian suppliers whose bids contained local components equal to at
least 50% of the value of the bid would be given a margin of preference of 15%
or the applicable import duty, whichever was lowest. Given it. experience with
ICB, Companhia Auxiliar de Emprena. Eletricas Brasileiras (CAEEB) would handle
procurement for the beneficiaries, as they had little experience with ICB.
3.23        The SAR reflected an optimistic assessment  of project risks.
ZLETROBRAS, which had developed an appraisal capability using Bank-approved
procedures, would offset the weaknesses of the beneficiaries  through its
supervision efforts.  There were no major technical problems.  An optimistic
~ S~., TO, February 12. 1982, p. 2, pera.6
1. gii,  ff AnCroifs ReLort SAR). ELETROBRAS I Distribution Proiect (Report No. 3338b-t), dated April
19, 1982, pp. 25-6, p ras. 4.05-4.07. Hereafter referred to e SAR. ELETR08RAS I



- 10 -
assessmont also prevailed with respect to counterpart funding.  *Shortage of
counterpart funding is a minor risk because consumer-based funds depend on tariff
levels regarding which the Bank has reached  agreement with the Government;
moreover, ELETROBRAS had adequate plans for and has agreed in assisting the
beneficiaries in obtaining required counterpart funding, involving local state
government resources and federal funding agencies in addition to its own
resources ....The  federal  government  has  provided  assurances  that  the
beneficiaries' sub-projects will be supported by adequate counterpart
funding.. ".2Q.
3.24        No major issues delayed negotiations (March 1982).  The loan was
approved on May 11, 1982, war signed on May 12, 1982, and became effective on
October 25, 1982, about a month late due to slow action by state legislatures in
ratifying their respective shareholder agreements.
4.  Preparation and Appraisal: ELETROBRAS II
4.01        Develoonent Obiectives.  ELETROBRAS II was a duplication/extension
of ZLETROBRAS I. From the point of view of the Federal Government, ELETROBRAS
I and II aimed at the same development objective: reducing dependence on imported
oil by substituting local primary sources and conservation.21/   To this end,
the project objectives duplicated those of ELETROBRAS I: expanding the supply of
electric power to those areas having little or inadequate service; promoting
balanced sector development between generation, transmission, distribution, and
rural electrification; and strengthening the institutional and professional staff
of ELETROBRAS and the beneficiaries.
4.02        Bank Obiectives. Sector & Non-Sector.  In August-September 1982, the
Dank and the world financial community were profoundly shaken by the news that
declining oil prices and revenues were undermining the capacity of Mexico to
service its foreign-currency obligations. The prospect of default by Mexico and
other Latin American countries, including Brazil, posed a threat to the stability
of the banking systems of the United States, Europe, and elsewhere.  Calming
these fears by demonstrating continued faith in the creditworthiness of Brazil
through new loans became an explicit part of Bank lending strategy.  Hence, the
Bank, in addition to fulfilling the role expected in connection with ELETROBRAS
I (para. 3.01) -- plus assisting the Government in its energy substitution and
conservation efforts -- saw itself as a leading participant in a financial rescue
effort for Latin America and Brazil.
4 03        Timetable, After identification (June 1980), the time required to
prepare and approve ELETROBRAS II (September 1982 to December 1983: 16 months)
was much less than the time for ELETROBRAS I (almost 3.5 years) (Part III, Table
2.2). During the processing of ELETROBRAS I, the shortcomings of the ELETROBRAS
project unit had been a major source of delay (para. 3.12), but this was not the
ik. p. 29° psra. 4.20.
' I,: The three versions of the PB for ELETROBRAS 11 (dated July 23 1982 March 4, 1983, and March 25,
1963) Lmd the s*m lanuage:  ...The mIn probltm faced by the country Is Its heavy dependwnce on leported oll;
thu the basic objective of the energy plan now under preparation is to reduce this deprndence through
substitution nd conservation." Hereafter, the PBs will be referred to as PB-EB 1



- 11 -
case with respect to the processing of ELETROBRAS II.22/ The Bank dispatched
preparation missions in September and November 1982 and appraised the project in
January-February 1983. Thereafter, project processing stalled due to the Bank's
renewed misgivings concerning the financial situation of the power sector. In May
1983, the Bank dispatched a post-appraisal mission to examine the finances of the
sector, the borrower, and the beneficiaries. During the summer, the Bank and the
Government engaged in an extended dialogue on the problems of obtaining adequate
counterpart funding for all Bank-funded projects;23/ and in September-October
1983, they negotiated a new agreement to improve sector finances, after which
Loan 2364-BR was approved (December 11, 1983).
4.04        Description. Oblectives & Cost.  The description and objectives of
ELETROBRAS II were virtually identical to those of ELETROBRAS I. ELETROBRAS II
would consist of seven sub-projects, each of which was to consist of portions of
the 1983-1988 slice of the 1984-1987 investment programs of seven beneficiaries
(para. 1.01) selected on the same basis as those selected for ELETROBRAS I
(paras. 1.02 and 3.03). The investment programs provided for the purchase and
installation of the same categories of sub-transmission/distribution works and
equipment contemplated under ELETROBRAS I. For two of the beneficiaries, the
programs included the rehabilitation of generating plant. The programs provided
for the uso of consultants, as needed.
4.05        The main objectives of the investment programs were the same as those
under ELETROBRAS I (para. 3.04).   Strengthening the organizations of the
beneficiaries, including their technical and financial capabilities, was another
important objective, as was consolidating the capability of ELETROBRAS for
appraising and supervising projects in accordance with standard Bank procedures
and methods. As already stated (para. 4.03), the organization and appraisal/
supervision capacity of the project unit were no longer issues, but sector
finances continued to be a problem.
4.06        Including physical and price contingencies, the project was expected
to cost US$785.0 million with a foreign cost of US$316.1 million. The Bank loan
(US$250.6 million) would cover US$250 million of the foreign costs and a front-
end fee of USSO.6 million. The remaining foreign costs of the project (US$66.1
million) would be covered by co-financers.  Local development banks and the
beneficiaries would provide the resources to cover the remaining local costs --
US$132 million and US$336.9 million respectively.
4.07         Appraisal: Sector Isues.  While project issues did not delay the
processing of ZLETROBRAS II, by the spring of 1983 it was clear that sector
finances needed remedial measures additional to those agreed in September 1981.
In 1982, the Government implemented properly the first and second quarterly
tariff increases, but delayed carrying out the last two increases with the result
2 Id. Ims, dated October 19, 1992 and January 13, 1983. The Latter document indicates thit ELETROBRAS had
created a project unit which closeLy approximated what the Bank had been urging ELETROBRAS to do -- namely, a
single indifiduil -- the Financial Director assisted by an Executive Assistant from the Engineering Directorato
-- was the chief and only coordinator of the project unit. Under the Executive Assistant were three working
groups headed by a coordinator: a technicaL group, a financial anaLysis group, nd an institutional
investigation group.
LL aj. nd Goverrmnt: Aide N.ojir, dated July 22, 1983.



- 12 -
that tariff gain. of late 1981 had been eroded by the end of 1982.             In
these circumstances, the appraisal mission recommended the conditioning of
negotiations to the Government's agreeing on a plan " ...of electricity price
increases that ensures an improving trend in sector finances .251
4.08        An extended discussion between the Bank and the Government during the
summer of 1983 resulted in an agreement to amend the 1981 plan by substituting
a graduated rate-of-return approach for the program of real, annual tariff
increases (5% p.a.). Just as negotiations for the ELETROBRAS II loan were about
to begin, the Bank obtained commitment from the Government to a new sector-wide
financial agreement -- namely, that through tariff increases and other actions
(mostly efficiency measures to reduce costs), the Government would raise the
sector rate of return on remunerable aosets by 1% annually from the then current
level of 4% until the sector reached the legal minimum of 10% by 1989.26/
4.09        The new recovery plan replaced that of September 1981; and as long
am the Government and the sector were making progress with respect to its
implementation, the Bank agreed not to seek enforcement of existing financial
covenants, which, based on power-tariff legislation, required an annual return
of 10% on remunerable assets.  By agreeing to 1989 as the target year for
compliance with existing power tariff legislation -- as compared with the target
years of 1986/1987 under the prior recovery program -- the Bank made a further
major concession to the Brazilians. Underlying this concession was a sympathetic
attitude on the part of the Bank toward the restoring the international credit
standing of Brazil (para. 4.02; Annex 1).
4.10        Procurement  and Risks.  Etc.       Procurement  arrangements under
ELETROBRAS II would be the same an those under ELETROBRAS I (para. 3.22) -- that
is, adherence to Bank guidelines and procurement of Bank-financed items through
international competitive bidding (ICB), except for minor quantities where
special reasons justified limited international bidding; a margin of preference
of 15% or the applicable import duty, whichever was lowest, for local suppliers;
and reliance on CAEEB to handle procurement for the smaller beneficiaries.
4.11        Like the SAR for ELETROBRAS I, the SAR for ELETROBRAS II reflected
an optimistic assessment of risks due to organizational shortcomings of the
beneficiaries -- namely, that ELETROBRAS and consultants would offset the
weaknesses of the beneficiaries through their respective supervision/advisory
efforts. There were no major technical problems. An optimistic assessment also
prevailed with respect to counterpart funding.   "ELETROBRAS  has adequate
arrangements for obtaining required counterpart funding, primarily from state
governments and federal agencies.  In addition, the federal government has
^' S: Bork Letter to Goverrfunt, dated March 18, 1983; also Staff Asoraiset Reoort (SAR). ELETROBRAS I!
Distribution Prolect (Report No. 4660b-BR), p. 10, para. 10 (dated November 11, 1983). Hereafter referred to
as SAR for ELETROSRAS II
jIa., "issues NMeorau", dated March 25, 1983.
ds I     IN, dated lovwuor 2, 1983.



- 13 -
provided assurances that the beneficiaries' sub-projects will be supported by
adequate counterpart funding.127/
4.12        No issues delayed negotiations (October/November 1981). The loan was
approved on December 8, 1982, was signed on December 14, 1982, and became
effective on May 21, 1984.
5. ImDlementation: ELETROBRAS I & II
5.01        ELETROBRAS I: Cost. Chances. and Timetable. As origindlly conceived,
ELETROBRAS I would consist of five sub-projects which were portions of the 1983-
1985 time slice of the investment programs of the beneficiaries for 1982-1986 and
would be carried out between 1983 and June 30, 1986. For convenience, subsequent
discussion of the five sub-projects and the five beneficiaries will treat both
as a single project and a single beneficiary. The same treatment will prevail
in connection with ELETROBRAS II.
5.02        As shown in the Schedule 5.1 on the next page, the actual cost of
ELETROBRAS I, US$573.65 million (reflecting current prices) was well below (-22%)
the appraisal forecast, US$736.6 million (Part III, Table 3.1). These costs,
actual and forecast, are not fully comparable, as: (i) the completed project was
larger than what was appraised, reflecting major rescheduling (1984) and
reformulations (1988 & 1989); (ii) the project was completed in 1990, four years
late; (iii) market developments (annual sales growth) were very different (lower)
after 1986 from what they had been before 1986, (5.3% p.a. for the period 1986-
1990 vs. 14.1% p.a. for the period 1982-1986); and (iv) unit costs were well
below appraisal forecasts. ELETROBRAS provided data on the sources of funding
for the investment programs of the beneficiaries (see para. 7.16), but did not
provide details on sources of funding for ELETROBRAS I. This lack of detail also
applies to ELETROBRAS II.
5.03        The actual cost of the project does not include disbursements from
Loan 2138-BR for stock -- materials and equipment held in inventory (US$42.9
million). Due to slow project execution, the pace of disbursement was also
delayed. Total disbursements amounted to US$172.2 millions, including US$2.7
million for finance charges; the balance, US$10.6 million, was cancelled
following the Bank's closing the Loan (December 31, 1989), two years late (Part
III, Table 4.1).
" IJM  SAR. ELETROSRAS It, p. 27, pera. 4.20.



- 14 -
Schedule 5.1: Actual and Forecast Project Costs *
(in millions of current USS)
Actual                         Forecast
Percent
Difference
Stock      Foreign                     from
IBRD   Other  Total   IBRD    Z       Other Local  Total    Fore.
CELPA     18.5    69.2   87.7   6.3      26.4   1.5   79.7   107.6   -18.5
COKLCZ    21.2   137.9  159.2  24.3      51.0   2.8  133.0   186.8   -14.8
COSERN    11.6    49.2   60.7   3.2      16.2   0.9   57.0    74.1   -18.0
CELPE    40.0   124.7  164.8   6.0      48.5   2.7  165.4   216.6   -23.9
ZNER5UL    35 3    65.9  101.2   3.1      37.9  2_1  111.5   151.5   -33,2
Total  126.5   447.1  573.6  42.9    180.00 10.00 546.60  736.6  - 22.1
* May not add correctly due to rounding off.
5.04        During the period 1982-1986, financial and other constraints (para.
5.06) substantially delayed implementation of the entire investment program, even
though the beneficiaries' summarized electricity sales for 1982-1986 developed
about as expected (actual sales: 45,607 GWh; vs. forecast sales: 48,971 GWh, or -
6.9%). During this period, actual summarized investment expenditure on the part
of the beneficiaries was well below (-56.6%) the appraisal forecast (para. 7.15)
As for ELETROBRAS I, by 1986, the actual volumes of finished works were below the
forecast levels, representing a delay of about 24 months: km. of transmission
line, - 23.4%; MVA of transformer capacity, - 4.3%; and km. of distribution
lines, -32.4. (Part III, Table 5.1).
5.05        By 1988, two years after the original project completion date, all
of the physical goals of the project had been met or exceeded, and by 1990, when
the loan was closed, the final project was much larger than the project expected
at appraisal: km. of transmission line: 3,477 vs. 2,343, or + 48%1 km. of
distribution line: 19,448 vs. 13,164, or + 48%; and MVA of transformer capacity
in substations, 1521 vs. 780, or + 95%. This larger project was carried out in
the face of declining market growth: by 1990, actual sales levels (13,500 GWh)
just surpassed sales levels expected for 1987 (13,145 GWh).  Contributing to the
lower cost for the larger project were lower-than-expected average unit pricest
km.of transmission line, - 57%0; MVA of transformer capacity, - 75%; and km. of
distribution lines, - 54% (Part III, Table 6).
5.06        The project was executed over a longer period than expected: eight
years (1983-1990) rather than four years (1983-1986). Financial constraints were
a major cause of delayed project execution, including low levels of internal cash
generation due to low tariffs and inadequate contributions and loans from other
sources. Mounting arrearage was a constant problem. Other constraints included



- 15 -
SEST-mandated investment limitations.2i/ The Bank advised ELETROBRAS and the
Federal Government repeatedly and unsuccessfully that low tariff levels and
increasing levels of negative net internal cash generation were delaying the
project and that if the Federal Government did not take remedial measures, the
beneficiaries would later find themselves making both amortization and
commitment-fee payments before the loan was fully disbursed. In due course, this
proved to be the case, thereby adding to the financial distress of the
beneficiaries. As discussed later, the financial performance of the sector and
of the beneficiaries seriously deteriorated during the later part of the 19803
(paras. 7.03-7.05; and 7.15-7.16).
5.07         Also  contributing  to  delayed  project  execution  was  a  slow
procurement process (paras. 5.13-5.14). Slow procurement was less important as
a source of delay than lack of adequate levels of local-currency funding.2V
Another problem -- if not exactly a source of delay -- was the absence of a
mechanism in the Loan Agreement to reallocate loan proceeds easily from one
beneficiary to another, depending on their needs and performance. The presence
of such mechanism might have provided a means for more rapid disbursement of the
loan proceeds. This comment applied equally to the Loan Agreement for ELETROBRAS
II.
5.08        ELETROBRAS II: Cost. Chances. and Timetable.  ELETROBRAS II and
ELETROBRAS I were based on the same project concept (para. 1.01-.03).   Like
ZLETROBRAS I, ELETROBRAS II would consist of sub-projects (seven) which were
portions of the 1984-1987 time slice of the investment programs of the
beneficiaries for the period 1983-1988. The project was expected to be carried
out during the years 1984-1988. The implementation experience of ELETROBRAS II
broadly paralleled that of ELETROBRAS 1.
5.09          As shown in Schedule 5.2, the actual cost of the project, US$679.0
million (reflecting current prices) was below (-13.5%) what was expected at
appraisal, US$785.0 million (Part III, Table 3.2).  These costs, actual and
forecast, are not fully comparable, as (i) the volume of finished works is
marginally smaller than what was appraised; (ii) the project was completed in
1991, four years late; (iii) and market developments (annual sales growth)
differed (were lower) after 1987 from what they had been before 1987 (0.5% p.a.
for the period 1987-1991 vs. 6.0% p.a. for the period 1983-1987).
Notwithstanding requests from the Bank, ELETROBRAS did not supply data on actual
and  forecast  unit  costs.    The  constraints  --  financial,  regulatory,
institutional, and procurement -- which delayed implementation of ELETROBRAS I
also delayed implementation of ELETROBRAS II (paras. 5.06 and 5.07).
5.10        The actual cost of the project does not include disbursements from
Loan 2364-BR for materials and equipment held in inventory (US$62.1 million).
- Source dociunts setting forth detaiLa on factors contributing to deLay include: Bank letter to ELETROBRAS,
dated July 19, 1984; Supervision Report (SR), dated July 24, 1984; Aide  maoire, dated March 21, 1985; SR, Annox
7, pp. 1-2, dated ApriL 16, 1985; Loans 21328-BR and 2364-BR, Project ImpLementation File (PIF), Section II,
pp, 1-4 and Section III, pp. 2-5, dated April 21, 1986; For. 590, Section 3 for Loan 2138-BR or 2364-BR, dated
March 6, 1987, January 25, 1988, April 20, 1988, and May 19, 1988; Loan 2138-BR, PIF, Port IV, p. 1, pares. 2-3.
dated June 20, 1988.
- Jg"., SR, dated April 11, 1985, Arnnx 7, pars. 8, p. 3



- 16 -
Due to slow project execution, the pace of disbursement was also delayed. Total
disbursements amounted to US$237. 0 millions, including US$0.6 million for finance
charges; the balance, US$13.6 million, was cancelled following the loan closing
(December 31, 1991), two and one half yeare late (Part III, Table 4.2).
Schedule 5.2: Actual and Forecast Project Costs*
(in millions of current US$)
Actual                         Forecast
Stock     Foreign
IBRD  Other  Total  IBRD   (IBRD) Other  Local  Total   Fore
CEAL             9.5    30.4   39.9  14.7       28.5   0.0   41.0    69.4  -42.6
CEMAR           20.2    77.0   97.2  13.5       40.4   0.0   59.6    99.9  - 2.7
CEPISA          11.5      NA    11.5  12.4      23.8   0.0   34.7    58.4  -80.4
CERON           19.7      NA    19.7  10.1      28.9   0.0   43.7    72.6  -72.9
ELETRONORTE     16.6   102.4  119.0   9.0       28.3   0.0   41.4    69.6   71.0
ELETROPAULO     55.9   193.6  249.5   0.0       57.3  34.5  139.7   231.5    8.1
LIGHT           39.5   102.6  142.1   3.9       42.7  32.1  108.8   183.6  -22.9
Total   172.9  506.1 679.0  63.5    250. 0  66.1 468.9   785.0  -13.5
* May not add correctly due to rounding off.
5.11        During the period 1983-1987, financial and other constraints (para.
5.06) substantially delayed implementation of the entire investment program, even
though the market for electricity sales for 1983-1987 developed about as expected
(actual summarized sales: 307,431 GWh; vs. forecast summarized sales: 315,552
GWh, or -6.9%). During this period, actual summarized investment expenditure for
five of the beneficiaries was almost 18% below the appraisal forecast (para.
7.16).  Actual investment expenditure data for CEPISA is not available, but if
it had been, it is unlikely that it would have changed substantially the
percentage of expenditure shortfall by the group of five beneficiaries. Larger-
than-expected expenditures (51.5%) by ELETRONORTE increased group expenditures
by 30.7%.  As for ELETROBRAS II, by 1987, the actual volumes of finished works
were well below the forecast levels: km. of transmission line, - 65%; MVA of
transformer capacity, - 20%; and km. of distribution lines, - 49%. (Part III,
Table 5.2).
5.12        By 1991, when the loan was closed and three years after the original
project completion date, the physical goals of the project had not been met:
km. of transmission line: 1,265 vs. 1,816, or - 30%; km. of distribution line:
4,467 vs. 4,896, or - 9%; and MVA of transformer capacity in substations, 1675
vs. 1324, or + 27%. This marginally smaller project was consistent with market
developments: by 1991, actual sales levels (73,719 GWh) had not yet reached the
sales levels expected for 1988 (77,334 GWh).
5.13        Procurement.  At appraisal, the Bank and ELETROBRAS expected that
CAEZB would carry out ICB-based procurement for the smaller beneficiaries.
Unrecognized at the time was the deterioration of CAEEB due the departure of
experienced personnel at the managerial level.  During implementation, this
development, plus inadequate understanding of Bank-approved procurement
procedures by staff of CAEEB and the beneficiaries, led to confusion,



- 17 -
misunderstanding, and delay. For example, in 1984, a Bank review of various
procurement documentation revealed that CAEEB had: (i) requested approval for
purchases not in compliance with Schedule 4 of the Loan Agreements which
specified ICB-based procurement procedures or which limited the maximum amount
procured using special procedures (i.e., direct purchase); and (ii) introduced
changes to purchase orders to modify quantities, prices, or the price escalation
formula. From the point of view of the Bank, such modifications undermined the
fairness of the bidding documents,30/ and were, therefore, unacceptable. The
beneficiaries, CAEEB, and ELETROBRAS complained that Bank personnel were
excessively rigid in their interpretation of procurement procedures. By 1986,
after the Bank made a successful effort to acquaint all parties with ICB, most
of the misunderstandings which had contributed to this problem had been
eliminated.
5.14        Another problem delaying procurement were the numerous steps in the
approval sequence among the beneficiaries and CAEEB and later the Bank.  It
required a long lead time -- up to 18 months if there were no problems -- between
the submission of specifications (by the beneficiaries), coordination of
quantities, issuing of bidding documents (by CAEEB), etc., and the delivery of
equipment and material. The Bank successfully recommended that ELETROBRAS co-
ordinate the bidding programs of the smaller beneficiaries with CAEEB to
facilitate the inclusion of similar items from interested companies in single
bids, thereby reducing the number of bids, increasing their value, and raising
the interest of foreign suppliers.31/
5.15        Proiect Unit. After appraioal of ELETROBRAS I and II, Bank efforts
to transform ELETROBRAS into a DFC centered on improving the effectiveness of the
supervision operations of the project unit. In 1984, Bank supervision missions
found that the project unit was a unit in name only -- that is, no special
organization was created within ELETROBRAS to supervise Bank-funded projects.
Instead, the Bank relied on the commitment of senior management to organize an
effective supervision effort outside the normal structure of the borrower,
utilizing its abundant and capable staff on an informal basis.'/
5.16        Nominally in charge of the project unit, the Financial Director
delegated day-to-day operations to a part-time deputy who relied on the authority
of the Director to co-ordinate with other senior management for the release of
staff from their respective departments to supervise the beneficiaries. Bank
staff noted that the resulting supervision effort of the project unit reflected:
(i) poor coordination and inadequate definition of responsibilities among staff
of the different departments; (ii) incomplete integration of findings into a
coherent set of reports to the Bank and of recommendations for the beneficiaries;
and (iii) no "follow-up" on actions taken by the beneficiaries.23/  In later
years, although Bank staff devoted considerable time to explaining the objectives
' j., Letter to ELETROBRAS, dated April 25, 1984.
'   ., Project lapLesentstion Index, Section IV, porn 8, p. 3, dated ApriL 21, 1988.
" j*., SR, Arnex 9, par". 9.5-.6, dated July 24, 1984: uAs Long as the Leadership and coordination of the
pest continue, no mJor difficuLties should be expected."
s  d"., Form 590 for Loas 2138/2364-BR, dated ApriL t1, 1985. Also, SR, Arnex 1-B, dated April 16, 1985.



and methods of supervision, the performance of the project unit continued to be
disappointing. In 1986, Bank staff reported: "Up to the present... very little
implementation improvement is ...attributable to... supervisory ...efforts.... As
no... request is ...made in the covering letters to the beneficiaries to ...inform
(ELETROBRAS] of the implementation of the plans of actions suggested by ZLZTRO-
BRAS, very few of the beneficiaries are_providing the necessary feed-back...to
establish how it can further help.. .".1/   The Bank was direct and frank in
informing ELETROBRAS that it had "...fallen short of performing an effective and
dynamic role in the execution of the project."a/
5.17        In 1987, as requested by the Bank, ELETROBRAS assigned a full-time
coordinator to the project unit. He contributed to coordinating/organizing the
procurement effort of the beneficiaries. However, in the final analysis, the
efforts of the Bank to improve the supervisory performance of the project unit
and to transform ELETROBRAS into an DFC were unavailing. This result reflected
the fact that: (i) ZLETROBRAS had no effective enforcement mechanism to ensure
that the beneficiaries accepted its recommendations, except to suspend
disbursements under the sub-loan agreement; (ii) suspension was politically
unfeasible, especially following the return of civilian government (1985) and
given the deteriorated state of sector finances (a Federal responsibility); and
(iii) the beneficiaries, which were instrumentalities of state governments, were
aware of their political advantages and were prepared to use them.2Vi   By
1991, when ELETROBRAS II was completed, the borrower had not become a DFC.
6.0 Results of the Proiects
6.01        Physical  and  Institutional  Obiectives.    Clearly,  the  trans-
mission/distribution facilities completed under both projects were consistent
with the original goal. The same was not true with respect to the institutional
development of ELETROBRAS, which, in circumstances of unfavorable macroeconomic
developments, sector financial constraints, and increasing autonomy for state
governments, did not evolve toward becoming a DFC. As for the beneficiaries, in
the opinion of ELETROBRAS staff, the projects led to lasting improvements in the
following procedures: system planning and project preparation, procurement,
inventory control, insurance, warehouse conditions, and meter-reading, billing,
customer services. All of the beneficiaries showed improving trends with respect
to numbers of customers per employee.
6.02        Economic Rate of Return.  Besides being least-cost solutions, the
sub-projects were justified as being part of investment programs with
satisfactory economic rates of return.   Under Loan 2138-BR, the investment
programs were expected to generate economic rates of return ranging from about
10% to 19%; under Loan 2364-BR, investment programs were expected to generate
returns ranging from about 10% to 32%. In both cases, the underlying assumption
was the implementation of sector-wide plans for financial rehabilitation. Part
III, Table 7 sets forth the economic rates of return of seven of the twelve
"  ., PIF, Sectlon IV, parr. 2, pp. 2-3, dated ApriL 21, 1986.
a Id"., SR, Amexes 1 * 2, dated March 28, 1986.
a ., PIF, Section IV, pera. I, p. 2, dated Jim 20, 1988.



- 19 -
beneficiaries, based on actual investment costs, operating costs, and tariff
levels prevailing when the projects were completed (1990 and 1991, respectively).
The return. ranged from zero (CERON) to about -18% (CEMAR) to negative beyond
calculation (ELETROPAULO). These calculations make no allowance for the concept
of consumer surplus; they only show the impact of adverse tariff regulation and
policy.
7. Financial Performance
7.01        Bank ApDroach to Financial SuDervision.   During the 1980s, the
organization of the sector and the importance of Federal regulation on the
performance of the individual utility were such (paras. 2.03-2.04) that the Bank
concentrated its efforts more on helping the Government to formulate sector-wide
financial rehabilitation plans and monitoring sector results than on supervising
the financial performance of ELETROBRAS and the beneficiaries.  Indeed, Bank
staff stopped supervising the financial performance of ELETROBRAS in 1986, as the
comparison of actual and forecast financial results had been rendered
.. meaningless, given the substantial differences between the SAR's assumptions
and the development of real events ...". 7/   As for financial supervision of
the beneficiaries, the Bank monitored LIGHT and ELETROPAULO in connection with
another Bank loan (2565-BR), but devoted few resources to the other companies.
This report will focus more on sector performance and the efforts of the Bank to
influence Federal policy than on the financial performance of ELETROBRAS and the
beneficiaries.
7.02        Sector Finances.  Schedule 7.1 compares actual and forecast sector
results for the period 1982-1989.   Forecast results reflect the financial
recovery plans agreed in 1981, 1983, and 1986. To facilitate comparisons, all
financial data reflect price levels of mid 1981.  Having been developed in
connection with ELETROBRAS I and II and the Power Sector Adjustment Loan (1986:
2720-BR), the different forecasts are referred to, respectively, as EB I
(covering 1982-1986), EB II (covering 1983-1987) and the Power Sector Recovery
Plan (PSRP, covering 1986-1989). Sector data after 1989 is not available.
7.03        ZB I. While actual and forecast levelo of summarized sector sales
for 1982-1986 were close (745 TWh vs. 757 TWh, or -1.6%), actual sector financial
results were well below what had been expected. For example, average revenue per
kWh sold was expected to increase from CrS5.02 to Cr$6.38 (in December 1981
prices) between 1982 and 1986; and 1987 was the deadline for sector financial
recovery. This development would be signaled by the sector's earning the minimum
legal rate of return on remunerable assets: 10%. Actual corresponding data weres
Cr$5.00/kWh, CrS3.36/kWh, and 5.2%; and actual summarized revenue for the period
(CrS2,993 billions) was 32% below forecast levels (Cr$4,399 billions). There
were similarly disappointing results with respect to actual and forecast
summarized debt-service coverage and consumer-financing ratios -- respectively,
0.5 (times) vs. 0.8 (times) and -24% vs. 31% (Part III, Table 8.1a-8.1b).
7.04        3B I1.  Sector financial performance in 1983-1987 paralleled that
under EB I; actual and forecast levels of summarized sales were close: 804 TWh
vs. 792 TWh, or + 1.6%, but actual financial results were below expected levels.
3' jM., PIF, Section III, pp. 1-2. pars. 3, dated April 21, 1986.



-20 -
Scehdule 7.1
Actuol & Forecast Sector Financisl Perforunce, 1982-1989
1982-1986     1983-1987       1986-1989
SueL          SLWU-           Su_-
arized  A/F   arized   A/F   arized  A/F
1982   1983  198'  198   1986  1987  1988  1989   Data   (X)    Date        X)    Data   (X)
Sales (TWh)
Actul 1/     123    132   148   162   180   182   187   189    745   -1.6         804    1.6    738   -8.0
Fore: El 1 2/ 121    132   146   170   189    --    --    --    757                                      --
El 11 3/  --    128   141   157   174   192    --    --    MA          A      792    MA              --
PSRP   1/--    --        --    --   178   193   208   223    NA       MA      MA      MA     802
Revenues (in billionr of CrS, reflecting prices of mid-1981) 4/
Actust        615    565   580   629   604   783  1148   975   2994  -31.9    3161  -11.2   1991  -52.0
Fore: ES 1    606    721   838  1029  1205    -       --    -    4399                     --             -
ES 11    --   505   589   686   814   965    --    --    MA         KA     3558    KA
PSRP     --   --      --    --   689   897  1137  1423    MA        MA      KA      MA    4147
Ave. Revenue per kWh Sold (CrS, reflecting prices of mid-1981) 4/
Actual       5.00   4.28  3.92  3.88  3.36  4.31  3.53  2.63   4.02  -30.8    3.93  -12.5   2.63  -48.2
Fore: El 1   5.02   5.47  5.75  6.06  6.38    --    --    --   5.81               --      --             -
El 11    --   3.95  4.17  4.38  4.67  5.03    -M --    4A           MA     4.50    4A              --
PStP     --    -      --    --3.87  4.65  5.47  6.38    MA          MA      KA      MA    5.17
5-year        5-year          4-year
late of Pouneration CX)                                             Ave.            Ave.           Ave.
Actual        6.1    4.9   5.8   3.4   4.1   5.2   4.2  -0.6    4.9    7.5         4.7  -24.5    3.2  -54.3
Fore: EB 1    5.3    3.4   3.2   4.8   5.9  10.0  10.0  10.0    4.5                --     --             --
E1 11    --    3.8   6.0   6.2   7.0   8.0   9.0  10.0    MA        MA      6.2    MA              --
PUP      --   --      --    --   5.0   6.4   7.7   9.1    MA        MA      MA      MA     7.1
Summary        Sumry          Su   ry
Debt Service Coveraeg  (X)                                          Ratio          Ratio           Ratio
Actual        0.6    0.5   0.4   0.4   0.5   0.6   0.2   0.1    0.5  -37.5         0.5  -37.5    0.3  -71.0
Fore: E1  1    0.8    0.7   0.7   0.9   0.9    --    --    --    0. 8 
ES11    --   0.5   0.7   0.7   0.8   1.0    --    --    MA          MA      0.8    MA              --
Pup      --   --      --    --   0.5   0.8   1.0   1.3    MA        MA      MA       A     0.9
Summry         Summary        Sumnmry
Coermeur Fin. Ratio CX)                                             Ratio          Ratio           Ratio
Actual          2    -17   -35   -45   -32   -22  -2Z7  -345    -24   -177         -30   -184   -146   -738
Fore: El 1     21     24    24    35    49    --    --    --        31             --     --             --
E  It    --     10    28    33    37                          A --    --    MA  MA  35    MA       --
PSAP     --   *-      --    --   -39    11    37    65    MA        M        MA     MA    22.8
1/ Source: For 1982-198, Staff Approasal Report for Power Sector Loan, Arwnx 3.6.1-.2 (No. 6159a-dated
fay 27, 1966); for 1986-1989,  ELETROURAS/ONAEE.
2/ Source: SAU  for ELETUOSIAS 1, pp. 38 £ 41, Arnxoes 2-2/2 and 2/2-5 (Report No. 3338b-U), dated
April 19. 1962.
3/ Source: SAN for ELETROURAS It, pp. 37 & 40, Arnexes 2-2/2 w*d 2-2/5 (Report Mo. 4660-BR), dated
Noveber 11, 1983.
4/ late of Exchange: USS1.O0:CrS92.4U.
S/ For 1988 and 1989. avregrg revenu per kth sold In derived from sources other than those shown in
above table -- a sries preparod by ELETROSRAS/DNAEE, uiAch is not fully cqeorable with data from
prfor yeers. However, In titutional chwnoge mwiated by Constitution of 1968 mko such values re-
presentative of tariff lveols in those years.



- 21 -
Average revenue was expected to increase from Cr$3.95 to Cr$5.03 between 1983 and
1987; and the deadline for earning 10% was 1989.  Actual corresponding data
were:Cr$4.28, CrS4.31, and -0.6%; and actual summarized revenue (Cr53,161
billions) was 11% below the forecast level (CrS3,558 billion). Actual ratios of
summarized debt-service coverage and consumer financing were well below forecast
levels -- respectively, 0.5 (times) vs. 0.8 (times) and -30% vs.35% (Part III,
Table 8.2a-8.2b).
7.05        PSRP.  The financial performance of the sector deteriorated badly
after 1987. Actual summarized sales for 1986-1989 (738 TWh) were 8% below fore-
cast (802 TWh); and actual summarized revenue (Cr51,991 billion) was 52% below
forecast (CrS4,147 billion). Actual ratios of summarized debt-service coverage
(0.3 X) and consumer financing (-146%) were well below forecast levels --
respectively, 0.9 (times) and 23%. By 1989, average revenue amounted to only
CrS2.63 as compared with the forecast level of CrS6.38; the actual rate of return
on remunerable assets was -0.6% as compared with the forecast level of 9.1% (Part
III, Table 8.3a-8.3b).
7.06        Policy  &  Institutional  Context.    The  deteriorating  financial
performance of the sector in the 1980. had its origins in the difficult policy
choices and complex political/macroeconomic problems confronting the Federal
Government (Annex 1).  In such circumstances, both the military and civilian
regimes, having chosen strategic objectives other than the financial
rehabilitation of the power sector, allowed tariff levels to decline in real
terms. This decline, which was politically popular, was justified on the grounds
of fighting inflationary expectations.
7.07        Institutional factors also contributed to the deterioration of sector
finances.  For example, in 1983, the Central Bank inaugurated a process of
centralizing in its hands the payment of so-called "regiotered" long-term debt
owed to foreign creditors. In theory, once the borrower had made payment to the
Central Bank, the Government assumed the obligation to the foreign lender. In
the case of the larger power companies, some of which had been active in world
capital markets, the interposition of the Federal Government tended to attenuate
the  link between  borrowers  and  lenders    --  that  is,  over  time  and  in
circumstances of financial constraints, the operating power companies came to
feel a reduced sense of obligation to make timely payments to the Central Bank.
Instead, they tended to give priority to using their resources for other purposes
such as paying contractors and expanding their systems.
7.08        In like manner, the operating companies also became increasingly
delinquent in making timely payments to one another for electricity purchases or
to the revenue-transfer mechanism (see Annex II). This delinquency accelerated
as the decade closed, given the poor example of the Federal Government, which
suspended debt-service payments to foreign lenders in the second half of 1987.
By 1990, there were major unpaid debts by the power companies to their foreign
commercial lenders and to the revenue-sharing mechanism and between the power
companies for electricity purchases; and there were major elements of the
remunerable rate base of the sector due to revenue shortfalls.
7.09        Justification for Bank Lendinc.  In 1981 and 1983, the Bank obtained
Federal agreement to financial rehabilitation plans reflected in the sector f ore-
casts, EB I and EB II (paras. 3.17-3.20; and 4.07-4.09).  In 1983, part of the



- 22 -
rationale for Bank lending was to help restore the international credit standing
of Brazil (para. 4.02).  When the sector again did not meet the new targets
(1984), the Bank and the new civilian Administration agreed in 1985 on the PSRP
which they reformulated in 1986 to achieve consistency with the a larger plan for
macroeconomic stabilization, the "Cruzado" Plan.  The macroeconomic strategy
featured price controls, including a freeze on electricity prices in 1986. The
freeze was to be followed by progressive tariff increases in later years plus
equity contributions and other measures. The Bank supported the PSR? (and there-
form the Cruzado plan) with a sector adjustment loan (2720-BR, US$500 million).
7.10        In addition to helping to restore the international credit standing
of Brazil (1983) and supporting an anti-inflation macroeconomic plan of the new
civilian Administration (1986), Bank lending continued to be justified on sector
grounds -- namely, that given the importance of the electric power sector to the
development of Brazil, it would be more useful to help the Brazilians to
formulate and implement a credible plan of tariff and financial recovery than to
suspend disbursement, or to stop the processing and approval of new loans.
7.11        These financial recovery plans incorporated substantial concessions
on the part of the Bank -- that is, between 1981 and 1986, the Bank agreed to
postpone the deadline for sector financial rehabilitation from 1986 to 1989 and
then to sometime after 1989. After 1986 and during the balance of the decade,
Bank policy reflected both a sympathetic approach to the complex economic
problems of Brazil and a measure of caution toward the macroeconomic policies of
the Administration (Annex 1). The Bank continued to disburse from existing power
loans, but did not successfully complete the processing of new power loans
notwithstanding substantial effort toward this end.
7.12        In August 1987, the Bank and the Government discontinued their
efforts to negotiate a second sector adjustment loan due to the re-introduction
of a global macroeconomic policy featuring price controls, including a freeze on
electricity tariffs.   At  about the  same time,  the more  important  state
governments of the South and South-east authorized their respective power
companies to withhold payments to the sector revenue-sharing mechanism (para.
7.01). This action eventually forced the Government, very much against its will,
to raise sector tariffs.   In due course, the revenue-sharing mechanism was
redesigned to address some of the complaints of state government; but without a
higher level of tariffs, the sector was starved of the financial resources needed
for expansion. Another factor reducing resources available to the sector was the
redirection of the proceeds of the Sole Tax -- about 2% of sector revenues in
1988 -- to state and municipal governments for disposition an they saw fit.
Formerly about 60% of the revenues of this tax were returned to the sector.
7.13        The Bank and the Government renewed their efforts to negotiate a
second sector adjustment loan in 1988 and a loan promoting environmental reform
and conservation in 1989 but these efforts again failed due to deteriorating
economic conditions and the Government's choosing strategic objectives other than
the financial rehabilitation of the sector. A full discussion of the results and
expectations for Loan 2720-BR appears in OED Report No. 9267 (dated December
1990). In 1990, the Bank approved its last power loan to Brazil: 3227-BR: US$365
million. Two years later, the loan agreement remained unsigned because the
government declined to raise sector tariffs to the levels specified as a
condition for effectiveness. In these circumstances, the Bank withdrew the loan.



- 23 -
7.14             IL ETOBRAS        In the  above  circumstances  of  financial  constraint,
between 1982 and 1986, the financial performance of ELETROBRAS was below that
forecast  in  connection  with  ELETROBRAS  I.   Summarized  consumer-based  funding
($Cr689.4 billion -- in constant mid-1981 price.) was 40.4% below the forecast
level (Cr$1,157.7 billion)(see Schedule 7.2). The shortfall of consumer-based
funding (CrS468.3 billion) was offset by surplus contributions and other sources
(Cr$380.4 billions) and a short-fall with respect to summarized uses of funds
(Cr$87.4 billions). Government contributions (Cr$350.4 millions) were far larger
than expected (Cr549.0 millions) and accounted for much of the increase of non-
consumer-based funding. Debt-service coverage declined from 1.2 times to 1.0
times; the debt-equity ratio rose only modestly: from 54% to 57%, well below the
range expected at appraisal (60% and 74%). Between 1987 and 1989, total uses of
funds declined from Cr$412.8 billions to CrS249.9 billions with Govornment
contributions as a source of funds declining from CrS158.7 billions to Cr513.8
billions.
Schedule 7.2:ELETROORAS: Sources & Uses of Funds. 1982-1959
Suworized Data. 1982-1956
X             % X       Differ.        Actual
of    Fore-   of   from
Actun L 1n1l   cast  Totrl  Fore.        1987    1988    1989
(in bilLions of CrS9 refLecting prices of mid-1981) 1/
ources                2052.6  100.0 2140.4  100.0  -4.1    412.8   342.6    249.9
Oross int. cash gen.  1073.4   52.3  728.3  34.0  47.4    279.0  306.2   948.2
Les: Debt ser. 9 div. 943.7   46.0  865.0  40.4   9.1          296.7  254.4   301.4
Met int. cash gen.     129.7    6.3  -136.7  -6.4 -194.9    -17.7    51.8   646.8
Sol* Tax                 0.0     0.0  168.3   7.9 -100.0         0.0     0.0      0.0
Rversion               346.2   16.9  715.1  33.4  -51.6         22.7    8.5      13.5
Co pulsory Loan       J21.6   10.4  411.0  j1.2  -48.0          i;      2.       NA
Sub-totat            559.8   27.3  1294.4  60.5  -56.8        57.0   36.8    43.5
Totsl consu_r-baued   689.5   33.3 1,157.7  54.1  -40.4    39.3   88.6   690.3
funding
Equity cant.           350.4    17.1    49.0   2.3  615.1    158.7   114.1       13.8
Borrowings             898.2   43.8  933.7  43.6   -3.8   211.4  131.0  -454.3
Other                  1.        S.6     0.0   t        NA      _ 3A    _.9       0.0
gm                    2052.6  10    2140.4  120.    -4.1   412.8   B             249.
Equity Invest's.       392.0   19.1  125.4   5.9  212.6          3.6    15.4      0.0
Loans 4 Advances      1415.6   69.0  2005.2  93.7  -24.7   408.2  322.5          15.5
Other                  244.9   11.9    9.8   0.5    NA           1.0     4.6   234.3
1/Rate of Exchange: USS1.00:CrS92.44
Key Financiat Ratios
Debt-srnvice Cov. (X)    1.1             0.8           37.5      0.9     1.2       1.2
Debt/LT Cap. Ratio MX)  58/23*          68/32*        -14.7    56/44   44/66      39/61
* five-year average



- 24 -
7.15        ELETROBRAS I: Beneficiary Financial Performance,   Exhibiting the
tariff and other adverse factor. affecting the sector, the financial performance
of the beneficiaries was lower than what was expected at appraisal. Schedule 7.3
compare. actual and forecast summarized levels of investment expenditure and
source. of financing of the beneficiaries for the years 1982 and 1986 and also
sets forth summarized investment expenditure and sources of financing for the
years 1982-1990 (see Part III, Tables 9.1a to 9.1b for details).  All data
reflect constant December 1981 prices. Actual summarized investment expenditure
($Cr75,221 millions) was 56% below the forecast level (Cr$175,378 millions).
Matching this shortfall of expenditures (Cr$98,157 millions) were corresponding
reductions in financing from operations and sector contributions (Cr$61,505
millions) and in financing from other sources (Cr$36,652 millions).  For the
period 1982-1990, when the project was executed, sunmiarized investment
expenditures of the beneficiaries amounted to Cr$148,841 million. Financing from
non-sector sources (CrS218,475 millions) covered such expenditure plus the
deficit of financing from operations and sector contributions (CrS69,634
million.).  Negative net internal cash generation due to low tariff levels,
inadequate contributions from state governments, high levels of accounts
receivable, insufficient collections from the revenue-sharing mechanism, lack of
co-financing -- these were the factors underlying the poor performance of the
beneficiaries.
7.16        ELETROBRAS II: Beneficiary Financial Performance,  Schedule 7.4
compares actual and forecast summarized data of the beneficiaries for the years
1983 and 1987 and also sets forth data for the years 1983-1991 (see Part III,
Tables 9.2a to 9.2f for details).  All data reflect constant December 1982
prices. The financial performance of the beneficiaries under ELETROBRAS II
exhibited the same tariff and other factors which affected the beneficiaries
under ELETROBRAS I.  However, during the period 1983-1987 the larger-than-
expected investment expenditures of ELETRONORTE and ELZTROPAULO caused
corresponding increases with respect to the investment expenditures of the
beneficiaries as a group. Actual summarized investment expenditure for 1983-1987
($Cr2,855 billions) was about 31% above the forecast level (CrS2,185 billions).
Matching this expenditure increase (CrS670 billions) were increases in non-sector
financing (CrSl,728 billions) and decreases in sector financing (CrSl,058
billions). For the period 1983-1991, when the project was executed, summarized
investment expenditures of the beneficiaries amounted to Cr$5,735 billions.
Financing from other non-sector sources (Cr$7,078 billions) covered such
expenditure plus the deficit of financing sector sources (Cr$1,343 billions).



-25.
Schedule 7.3:  ELETROCIUS 1: Forecat wnd Actual Forecast Sources of Investmet_   Funding
(In CrS willion, reftlecting prices of Decechr 1981) l/
Forecast Suiury Data, 1982-1986
enef fl-   Not Int.   Mon-Oper.   Sector    Non-Sec.   Long-ters            Invw tmnt
ciary     Cash Gen.  Income      Contrlbut. Contribut. Borrowing  Other   Expenditure
CELPA         7404          97      14708        2404       138U2   -1583 -    36872
COELCE        1739        -924      13621        2500       17191    3987 -    38114
CELPE         3997        -227      14781        1814      25587      797 a    4749
ENERSUL        511         1s5       8925        3695      22472    -565 *    35196
COSERN         911         -61       6578        1560       4M       2685 u    16417
Total        14565        -957      58613       11973      83863    5321 a   173378
X Total        8.4        -0.6       33.8         6.9       48.4      3.1       100.0
Actual Sum_.ry Data, 1982-1986
CELPA         -226        -195      12130         372       15103    3589 -    30773
COELCE       -7620      -16032       788          715       9776   17879 -    12586
CELPE         2588         995       9714        54        4336   -6884 *    11293
ENERSUL      -3989       -1273       4279        1438       9016    3513 *    12984
COSERN         -83        -986       354         1970       2105    1033 *       7585
.....      .....   .   -----      .....   .  . -----  ------.    . ..... ................ ..... ..
Su-Total    -9330       -17491      37537        5039      40336   19130 *    75221
I Total      -12.4       -23.3       49.9         6.7        53.6    25.4       100.0
ftf. frm
Forecast    -164.1      1727.7      -36.0       -57.9      -51.9   259.5        -56.6
Actual Sumory Data, 1987-1990
.. . . . .,.. . . . . .. . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . .            .........
CELPA       -11609        5932       4582        2533        758    12365 *    21391
COELCE      -40574       -2940       3474        2035       12457   35732 a    10184
CELPE         2725        7468       7284        "18        14382  -1S985 u    20492
EINESUL     -16226       -5107     -19832        2924       8203   41522 *    11.44
COSEmN      -19941        2630        1787       2057       10766    9775 a      7069
Sub-Total    -----        ----       .....      ---
-85628       7983       -2705      14167       5394   86409 a    73620
Z Total     -116.3        10.8        -3.7       19.2        72.5   117.4       100.0
Actusl Su _ ry Data, 1962-1990
......................................................................   ---------
CELPA       -11835        5737      16712        2905       22691   15954 a    52166
CtELCE      -48194      -18972      11342        2750       2Z3    53611 *    22770
CELPE         5313        863       16996        5162       1871   -22869 a    31785
ENEJI.U    -20215        -6380     -15553        4362       17219   48035 *    27468
COSERm      -20027        1614       53          4027       12869   1O80  -    14654
kubTot&l   -94958        -9508      3832        19206       93730  105539 a   14841
X Total      -63.8        -6.4        23.4       12.9        63.0    70.9       100.0
1/ Rate of Exchange: USS1.00:CrS92.44



- 26 -
Schedule  7.4
ELETROSUAS Il: Forsecst wnd Actusl Sources of Investmmnt Funding (in Cr$ bIllions    of 12/82) 1/
Forecast Swumry Data, 1983-1987
,.................................................................. .....
enaf tI-    Net Int.   Non-Oper.   Sector    Won-Sec.   Long-term           Invl t_ nt
clary      Cash Gan.  Incom      Contribut. Contribut. Norrowing  Other a Expenditure
2/ Given unavaflability    CERON           1.5        0.3        5.8         5.6       15.7      0.3 *      29.1
of actual data, fore-   ELETRONORTE  -236.4       12.0      306.7         0.0     1557.1   -113.4 *    1526.0
cast data was excluded  CEAL            5.3       -1.1       12.3         1.4       16.1      0.0 *      33.9
to m_ke cowrarions    CEMAR           -0.2        0.1       20.9         4.3       15.8    -0.3 a       40.6
of actual and fore-     LIGHT           5.5       50.5       68.9         0.0       52.5     33.6 *     211.0
cast siary date         ELETROPAULO    -3.6        0.0       97.6         0.0      216.1     34.6 *     344.7
vaxld.                  CEPISA 2/       0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0      0.0 *       0.0
.....      -- --      -- --      -- --       -- -      .....     .......... 
Sub-Total    -227.9       61.7      512.2       11.3      1873.2   -45.2 *    2185.4
X Total       -10.4        2.8       23.4        0.5        85.7    -2.1        100.0
Actual Suoaary Data, 1983-1987
CERON          -7.4      -22.1        4.4        3.1         3.7     29.7 *      11.3
ELETRONORTE  -545.2     -162.5       85.6        2.0      1521.4   1411.1 *    2312.4
CEAL           -3.2       -3.0        6.3        1.1         5.0      3.5 *       9.7
CEMAR          -7.0        2.2       12.8        6.7         8.9      3.8 *      27.4
LIGHT          -2.7      108.6        7.8        3.3       258.2   -268.8 *     106.4
ELETROPAULO  -212.8        0.0       26.3        0.0       259.1    315.5       388.1
CEPIA  2/       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0      0.0 *       0.0
Sib-Total    -778.3      -76.8      1U3.2        16.1     2056.3   1494.8 a    2855.3
I Total       -27.3       -2.7        5.0         0.6       72.0     52.4       100.0
Z Dif. from   241.5    -224.4       -72.1       42.7         9.8  -3405.5        30.7
Forecast
Actual Sumi_ry Data, 198-1991
cIRCE         -1.6        4.3        0.0         0.0        5.2      1.9 *       9.8
ELETROSIRTE -1156.1      746.8      106.3        0.0       396.3   2390.9 *    2484.2
CEAL          -49.8        5.6        1.1         0.5        9.9     45.6 a      13.0
CEPAR         -84.1        8.5       69.3        9.1        23.9     27.8 a      54.5
LIGHT         -89.9      157.2        1.4        6.7        23.9    -11.9 a      87.4
ELETROPAULO  -362.4        0.0       12.3        0.0       375.2    206.0 a     231.1
CEPISA 2/       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0      0.0 a       0.0
umb-Total           ----    ....    .....       .....      .....   .....       -----
-1743.9      922.4      190.4       16.3      834.4  2660.3 *    2860.0
S Total       -60.6       32.0        6.6         0.6       29.0     92.4       100.0
Actual Summanry Data, 1983-1991
CEOSC          -9.0      -17.8        4.4        3.1         8.8     31.6 *      21.1
ELETRONCETE -1701.3      584.3      191.9         2.0     1917.7  3802.0 *    4796.6
CEAL          -52.9        2.6        7.4         1.6       14.9    49.1 *       22.7
CEIAN         -91.1       10.?       82.1        15.8       32.8     31.6 *      81.9
LIChT         -92.6      265.8        9.2        10.0      262.1   -280.7 a     193.8
ELETROPAULO  -575.2        0.0       38.6         0.0      634.3    521.5 *     619.2
CEPIA 2/        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0      0.0 *       0.0
.....  .....  -----     .....      .....     .....     ...._... . _ 
Sub-Total   -2522.1      845.7      333.6       32.5      2890.7   4155.1 *    5735.3
X Total       -44.0       14.7        5.8         0.6       50.4     72.4        100.0
1/ Rate of Exchange: US#1.00:Cr125



- 27 -
8.0 Performance of the ELETROBRAS. the Bank. and the Government.
8.01        ELETRBRAS.  It is not surprising that ELETROBRAS did not play the
role of a DFC (para. 5.17) and that its compliance with certain financial
covenants war delayed or worse (Part III, Tables 10.1-.2), given that political,
economic, and sector developments evolved in a manner totally different from
those prevailing and expected when the projects were first conceived.  Those
differences included: the advent of a civilian Administration (1985) which
adopted and/or continued macroeconomic and sector policies exacerbating inflation
and undermining sector finances (1986-1989) (Annex 1); and the writing of a new
Constitution (1988) which altered the Federal-state relationship to provide for
much greater state autonomy (para. 7.11).  In such circumstances, ELETROBRAS
lacked the support of the Administration to play the role of a DFC. Further it
lacked the mechanisms to discipline the beneficiaries, except for suspending
disbursements under the sub-loan agreements. Such drastic action was politically
unfeasible.
8.02        Bank   At the time of the appraisals (1980-1982), the Bank did not
anticipate the need for mechanisms in the loan agreements providing for easy
reallocation of loan proceeds among the beneficiaries in the event that their
implementation performances and financial needs might vary from what had been
expected (para. 5.07); and the Bank misjudged the capability of CAEEB to manage
the procurement process (para. 5.13).
8.03        At the time of the appraisals and for a few years afterwards (up to
1986-7), the Bank's understanding of the position of ELETROBRAS within the sector
was correct, according to the staff of the borrower (paras. 3.07-3.11). Further,
even after SEST partially displaced ELETROBRAS, the expectation of transforming
ELETROBRAS into a DFC was reasonable, given the primacy of Federal decision-
making within the sector. Equally reasonable were the financing plans of the
beneficiaries, given the commitments of the Federal and state governments to
support the project. What undermined these expectations was, first, a shift in
the support of both the Federal and state governments to objectives outside the
sector and, second, a shift in Federal-state relations.
8.04        During the decade of the 1980s, the involvement of the Bank with
ELETROBRAS and the beneficiaries took place in the wider context of: (i) helping
to restore the international credit standing of Brazil (1983); (ii) supporting
the Cruzado Plan (1986); and (iii) the continuing dialogue with the Federal
Government on restoring sector finances (parao. 7.09). Between 1981 and 1986,
the Bank, taking account of the complex economic, financial, and political
problems of Brazil, made a series of investment loans and one sector adjustment
loan based on a series of understandings that the Government would implement
three credible plans negotiated in 1981, 1983, and 1986 for rehabilitating the
finances of the sector. The plans failed to achieve their objective because the
Government, in its effort to combat inflation and due to political considerations
plus other factors (including short-comings inherent to the plans), did not
support the sector with adequate tariff levels (paras. 7.03-7.05). Between 1987
and 1989, for the sake of flexibility and continued dialogue with the Federal
Government, the Bank continued to disburse from Loans 2138-BR, 2364-BR, and other
power loan., but did not make new power loans due to macroeconomic, tariff and
other conditions. Given the inherent contradiction of this approach, the Bank



- 28 -
did not send a clear and consistent message to the Federal Government; hence,
this tended to undermine the Bank's effort to influence sector policy.
8.05        The level of supervision, including visits to the beneficiaries, was
adequate and the measures recommended appropriate (Part III, Table 11). The Bank
was correct to insist on strict adherence to ICB procurement procedures; and the
appointment of a procurement coordinator at ELETROBRAS contributed to an
expediting of the procurement process (paras. 5.13-5.14)
8.06        Federal Government. In spite of the importance of the electric power
sector to the development of Brazil, both the military and civilian regimes
subordinated the financial rehabilitation of the sector to short-run political/
macroeconomic goals, especially fighting inflation, or other strategic
objectives. Such subordination devastated sector finances and led to a pattern
of underinventment which may result in serious constraints on the economy. It
also caused the Bank to withhold its financial support from the sector; the Bank
has no active loans supporting the electric power sector. That the sector still
provides a reasonable level of service to current customers has led political
decision makers, who must allocate scarce resources among other groups with
legitimate claims for support, to underestimate the risk of having electric power
shortages. Lack of political consensus within Brazil is at the heart of this
unhappy situation.
9. Lessons to be Learned.
9.01        Proiect Lessons.  The project lessons are three:   (i) the loan
agreements should have provided mechanisms to transfer loan proceeds from one
beneficiary to another, depending on performance and need (8.02); (ii) ICB proved
its value in lower-than-expected unit costs (para. 8.06); and (iii) when dealing
beneficiaries who are inexperienced with Bank-approved procurement procedures,
the Bank should, as a standard practice, seek the: (a) appointment of an
procurement specialist by the borrower to co-ordinate the activities of the
beneficiaries; (b) preparation and issuance of an acceptable procurement manual
to the beneficiaries; and (c) the provision of appropriate training to
beneficiary staff (para. 8.06).
9.02        Sector Lessons.  The sector lessons relate to the regulatory regime
and Bank lending. It seems clear that establishing the institutional autonomy
of DNAZZ (or of a new regulatory agency) is a necessary first step toward
insulating   sector  policy   from   short-run  political   or  macroeconomic
considerations; and that the Government should begin to consider those steps
leading to its establishment. Further, in order to prevent future domination of
the regulators by the regulated, DNAEE or the new regulatory agency whould
include, in addition to representatives of the Government, representatives of the
various consumer groups.
9.03        The financial performance of the sector during the 1980s illustrates
the need for an autonomous regulatory agency to: (i) enforce power tariff
legislation mandating the level and structure of tariffs in line with the
marginal cost of supply; and (ii) protect the sector from the impact of short-run
policy shifts on the part of the Government.   In the 1980s, the Government
ignored legislation relating to power tariffs and DNAEE in favor of review by
planning agencies. Furthermore, the Government agreed with the Bank on a series



- 29 -
of financial rehabilitation plane which took the place of existing financial
covenants based on the norms of tariff legislation. The substitution of these
plans for the tariff legislation started the sector on a downhill path which
continually allowed for the subordination of the long-term financial needs of the
sector to the short-run political and macroeconomic objectives of the Government,
including anti-inflation, price-control schemes, and other strategic objectives.
9.04        Notwithstanding its adverse impact on sector finances, this situation
continues to prevail. For example, between 1987 and 1989, due to macroeconomic,
tariffs and other issues, the Bank and the Government did not agree on the terms
for new loans to the power sector.   In June 1990,  after the Government
implemented major tariff increases to reach 90% of an agreed target level, the
Bank approved a new loan to support a power transmission and conservation
project. Effectiveness and continued disbursement were conditioned on achieving
and maintaining the target tariff level; however, almost two years after loan
approval, with the target tariff level not reached and the loan agreement
unsigned, the Bank withdrew the loan. The existence of an autonomous regulatory
agency with proper power might have avoided this situation.
9.05        There is another lesson to be learned about the proper circumatances
for Bank lending: continuing to lend despite the record of unkept financial
rehabilitation plans undermined the credibility of the Bank and led to
expectations on the part of the Government that the Bank would not insist on
adherence to either covenants or plans. This message did not contribute toward
implementation of the plans. It seems clear that lending in circumstances of
continuing financial deterioration sends the borrower the wrong message and leads
to a significant risk that agreed plans for financial rehabilitation will not be
observed.






- 30 -
Annex I
Policy Context and Bank General Lendina Policy. 1982-1991
1.          Political & Economic Factors. During 1982-1983, when Loans 2138-BR
and 2364-BR were approved, the military Government faced complex political and
economic problems. On the political side, the military successfully undertook
those steps leading to its withdrawal from direction of national political life
in 1985 (see below). On the economic side, to stimulate exports and to restore
the shaken confidence of foreign lenders following the debt crisis of 1982, the
Government implemented stabilization policies aimed at reducing aggregate
domestic demand yvj restrictive monetary and fiscal policies, real exchange-rate
depreciation, and tightened import restrictions.  On balance, these measures
achieved their objectives, thereby laying the basis for an export-led recovery
starting in mid-1984 (see Schedule 1 for key economic indicators).
2.          In 1985, with the implementation of both projects underway, a
civilian President (Mr. Jose Sarney) took office. That same year, led by booming
exports, the economy grew strongly with the result that Brazil continued to
achieve the external adjustment required by the debt crisis and a resumption of
growth. However, inflation became more entrenched -- 235% in 1985 (after 211%
in 1984). The causes of inflation were the: inability of Brazil to eff-ct the
necessary change in the domestic saving-investment balance required by the
contraction in foreign borrowing; continued recourse to borrowing from the
monetary authorities to finance persistent public sector deficits; and pervasive
indexation of the economy.
3.          Because Mr. Sarney succeeded to the presidency following the death
of his party's presidential candidate (Mr. Tancredo Neves), his political man-
date, which was weak at the beginning of his Administration, became weaker under
the pressure of events.11/  To offset his weak mandate and strong opposition
in Congress, the President tried to muster support for anti-inflation programs
entailing minimum or no sacrifices by any major political group. The Cruzado
Plan (February-November 1986) and the Bresser Plan (June-September 1987) included
some forms of price control and deindexation; but they included no significant
fiscal/monetary measures. In 1989, there was one final attempt to control prices
(the "Summer Plan), but this was not successful. These measures failed with the
result that the economy suffered from "stop-start" growth, high rates of
inflation, large public sector deficits, and problems servicing foreign debt.
Mhghy Crmg  w ,s."   do Cawddm bahvedi a cwhgmm &n X   sd poidial paskim of P"idmM  Uay. Duwr O yi. 197-198u .&
_ mdaa_X.pinhidm ddof bsfrmS y_n b 4. Th 19M Caustk ud=ssh.d u . powodll Camp... mlua.omU _ i _dXa_ryofg
us &hiai.iud  Xoiapw.o s Eosw UuhfudX  lh o ras uo.



-31 -
Schedule 1: Key Economic Indicators, 1981-1989 *
1981   1982   1983   1954   1985  1906   1987   1988    ifl
Real GDP Growth Ras 1%)  14.4)   0.6 o3.5)  6.1    8.3   7.6    3.6    10.3)    3.0
PubUc d*flct/ODP %)    6.0    6.6    3.0   1.6    4.3   3.6    5.5        4.3   NA
Inflation Rate 1%)    96.1   99.7  210.9  223.8  235.1  55.0  416.7  1037.0  1783.9
(IOP/DI - Dec./D.c.)
Exp. Vol. Growth Rate 1%)  21.3   -9.2   14.3  22.1   -2.0  -23.6   14.5    17.6    2.3
Imp. Vol. Growth Rate M  -12.3   -6.0  -17.3  -3.0   -1.1  15.0   -3.8    -0.8   15.8
fIn Bluon of US*l
Debt service          17.8   20.8   18.4  20.0   22.3  24.2   25.3    16.4   17.2
Total debt            73.9   85.4   93.6  102.0  106.1  111.0  121.3   114.0   115.3
Trede balence          1.2    0.8    6.5  13.1   12.5   8.3   11.2    19.1   16.0
Current eccount balance  -11.7  -16.3   -6.8   0.1   -0.2  -6.3   -1.4    4.4    0.3
Source.: World Beak: BrazIl: A Macroeconomic Evaluation of the Cnrndo Plan, dated December   1987, p. 3. Table 1.1 nd p.
13. Table 1.6: end Brazil: Economic Stabilizgtion with Structural Refomis. Report No. 8371- BR. dated January 31. 1991. p. 47. Table
2.2 ard p. 80, Table 4.2.
4.           Bank General Lendina Policy. The lending policy of the Bank changed
in response to changes in the Government's macroeconomic goals. For example, in
1984-1985, the Bank supported the objective of restoring creditworthiness not
only with conventional project loans, but also with its so-called "Special Action
Program" (SAP), consisting of quick-disbursing, policy-based loans for export
development and agriculture, and other SAP actions including loan increases and
supplements  and  special  account  operations.   The  SAP  successfully  raised
disbursements while supporting policy adjustments required by the crisis.
5.           In 1986, with Loan 2720-BR (US$500 million, 1986), an adjustment loan
supporting a plan for sector financial rehabilitation, the Bank endorsed the
Cruzado Plan. The financial targets for sector financial rehabilitation were
designed to be consistent with the price-control approach of the Cruzado Plan
(para. 6.05), i.e., only modest tariff increases in late 1986 followed by higher
tariff levels in 1987 and later years, resulting in a return on remunerable
assets rising to 9.1% by 1989.   (It was expected that a second power sector
adjustment loan would be processed in 1987, provided that sector performance in
1986 was satisfactory and provided that there was reason to believe that sector
performance would be consistent with the financial targets for that year.) The
subsequent efforts of the Bank and the Government in 1987 and 1988 to negotiate
two additional sector adjustment loans were unsuccessful primarily because the
Government pursued strategic objectives other than the financial rehabilitation
of the power sector.
6.           In 1988 and 1989, following the failure of the Bresser plan in 1987,
the Bank saw the Government's major task to be, not GDP growth and improved
creditworthiness, but stabilizing the economy and controlling the growth of
fiscal deficits financed through money creation -- a task made infinitely more



- 32 -
difficult by the weak political position of the President and a host of
complicated economic constraints.   Cognizant of the political and *conomic
uncertainties facing Brazil and of the implications of different lending levels
for the its risk exposure, the Bank designed a lending *trategy based on the
concept of "graduated response" to policy and institutional changes -- that is,
the level of lending would depend on the comprehensiveness and credibility of the
Government's stabilization and adjustment efforts. The Bank intended that its
ESW work focus on providing the basis for dialogue with the Government on the
fiscal side of its stabilization program. This approach continued to prevail
when the projects were completed in 1990-1991.



- 33 -
Annex II
Tariff Legislation and Reculation in the 1970.
1.          Before 1976, the power tariff legislation applied by DNAEZ provided
for: (i) nationally uniform tariffs set at levels to earn returns of 10-12% on
"remunerable investment" (or rate base); (ii) the transfer of financial resources
through the Global Guarantee Fund (GGF) from the stronger utilities to the weaker
utilities until the weaker utilities earned 10% on their rate bases; and (iii)
the addition of revenue shortfalls to the rate base (Compensation Account) for
recovery through future tariff increases. The revenue covenants of Bank loan
agreements relied on power tariff legislation. In 1981, there was a fundamental
change in the concept of the GGF: Decree-Law 1849 provided for the redistribution
of the earnings of utilities with a rate of return in excess of the rate of re-
turn of the sector. During the 1980s, liberal use of the Compensation Account
deferred to the future tariff levels consistent with a rate of 10-12% on
"remunerable investment"; Decree-Law 1849 provided the GGF with access to the
earnings of the financially stronger companies, even if those companies were
earning less than the legal minimum rate of return.
2.          Before 1976, DNAEE applied this legislation in a manner enabling the
sector to earn the legal return (10%) on its rate base and finance a considerable
share of its investment expenditures from internal resources. In the opinion of
the Bank, during the first half of the 1970., the application of this legislation
produced a financial environment satisfactory for sector development. In like
manner, the Bank felt that the planning and financial operations of ELETROBRAS
contributed to sector development.
3.          In the  latter  1970s,  the  level  of  sector  revenues  began  to
deteriorate because DNAEE did not authorize adequate tariff increases. It took
a new approach to the application of power tariff legislation by: (i) redefining
"remunerable investment' in a way which effectively lowered the rate base; (ii)
adopting a methodology for asset revaluation which failed to maintain the value
of the rate base in circumstances of high, rising inflation; (iii) disapproving
some utility operating expenses; and (iv) making more liberal use of the so-
called Compensation Account, which provided for the addition of revenue shortfall
to the remunerable rate base. Underlying this new approach was Government pres-
sure on DNAEE to reduce electricity tariffs in real terms to contain inflationary
expectations. The Bank maintained an active dialogue with DNAEE on the bases for
its decisions; but it was understood that in the final analysis the rulings of
DNAEE reflected Government policy.



- 34 -
PART II. COMMENTS OF THE BORROWER
Copies of the draft report were sent to ELETROBRAS, the Ministry of
Hines and Energy, the Ministry of Planning, and DNAEE but no comments have been
received.



35 -
PART III
Page 1 of 2
Table 1: Eannk Lending to ELETROBRAS
Loan NuWmr           (in US#                                                  Year of
& Project Titte      mllions)                   Purpose                      Approval                   Status
1300-BR:                 50.0   To help finance reinforcement and expan-  06/24/76   Substantially completed in
Northeast Power                 sion of distribution facilities of three                 1982. about 3 years late; and
Dfstribution                    state-osned power utilities: CELPE,                      with many Bank-agred changes
COELBA & COELCE.                                        to take account of patterns of
growth different from hat was
expected at appr asal.
153S-UR:                130.0   Sam  as above for three state power          03/28/78   Completed In 1964-1986, about
South-southeast                 utilities: CENIG, CELESC A ESCELSA.                     4.5 years late; and with many
Power Distribution                                                                       Bank-agreed changes to project
to account for slow growth.
1939-BR:                 54.0   To help finance construction of national  12/23/80   Substantitlly completed in
Power System                    load dispatch center at grasilia (ELETRO-                1991, about five years late
Coordination                    ERAS) and a regional load dispatch cen-                 due to greater-than-expected
ter at Recife CCHESF).                                  technical compLexity.
2138-R:                 1U2 T   To help finance a time-slice (1983-85)    05/11/82   CompLeted In 1989-90, about 4
ELETROBRAS I                    of the inwestment progra_  (1982-86)                     years late due to lack of
Power Distribution              for distribution expawsion of five state                 counterpart funding  nd slow
power utilities: COSERN, ENERSUL, CELPE                 demnd growth.  Loan closed on
CELPA & COELCE.                                         12/31/89.
2364-1R:                250.6   To help finance a tim  slice (1983-1988)  12/08/83   Project under construction A
ELETROBRAS II                   of the corresponding program  for dis-                   substantlolly delayed. Loan
Power Distribution              tribution expansion of five stste-oimnd                  closed on 06/30/91.
power utilities and two ELETROBRAS sut-
sidiarie -- respectively, CEAL, CEPISA,
CENAR, CERON, and ELETROPAULO; & ELETRO-
NORTE and LIGHT.
2365-BA:                22.8   To help finnce rurrl distribution             12/08/83   Project  uccemfully completed
Rural Electrifica-              faclitties of two state power utilities:                 without delay   Fully disbursed,
tion Project                    CENIC & COPEL.                                           loan was closed on 06/30/90.
25o-U:                 400.0   To help finance mjor transmission            06/04/85   Project substantially delayed
CNESF-FURNAS Power              facilities of two ELETROBRAS rub sdiar-                  due to counterpsrt funding
Trommission                      lea: CHESF and FURNAS.                                  deficit. Loan closing set for
for 12/31/92.
2565-n:                 312.0   To help finance portiors of the distri-   06/04/85   Sam _ s above.  Loan closing
Southeast Power                 bution expansion program  of three                       sat for 12/31/92
Distribution                    state power utilities: CPFL. LIGHT, 
ELETROPAULO.



-36-
Pag 2 of 2
Table 1: Sank Lending to ELETROBRAS (Cont'd.)
Amouant
Loan NLmber         (in USS                                                  Year of
& Project Title     millions)                   Purpose                      Approval                  Status
... .. ... .... ............. ............................ .... ...... ......... .................. ...................
2720-BR:               500.0   To help finance general imports procured  06/26/86   Loan was fully fisbursed in
Power Sector Loan               under ICB. Disbursement of this *quick-                 1986. Except for envirornnt/
disbursing, policy-based" loan was con-                resettlement objectives, loan
ditloned to tiplementation of a Least-                 fmiled to generate lasting i-
cost sector expansion progrm, a corres-                proveents in sector finnces,
ponding tim-phased sector financial                    especially with respect to
reabilitation plan,  nd environmuntal/                 tariff levels.
resettlement measures. This operation
was also intended to support a m_cro-
economic stabilization progrm ("Cruzado
Pltan) which depended pri_mrily on
price controls to achieve its objectives.
3227-BR:               35.0   To help finance a time-slice (1990-93)    06/14/90   After loan aWpoval (Juw  1990), the
Electricity Trans-              of the transmission investment & rehab.                Government did not: (i) raise tariffs
mission & Conserva-             programs of several power utiLities, plus               to the target level hich was a con-
tion Project                    implementation of a conservation progrm                dition for effectiveness; and (11)
(PROCEL).  Proposed beneficiaries in-                  mintain tariffs in real term.  In
clude seven state coqpanies  nd two ELE-               c1rcuastance  of high, rising infle-
TROBRAS subsidiaries.                                  tin, the financial consequences for
the sector have ben advers. Also
the Governmnt deferred signing the
loan agreemnt in order to avoid pay-
ing commltmnt fees since It did not
anticipate effectiveness until Decem
ber 1992 as per Its proposed tariff-
improvent progrm. In circ_takncs
of substantfal nd adverse change
since loan approval and If the loan
agreement remains unslgned, It is
Sank policy to consider the option of
withdrawing the ursigned loan. hor-
l ly, once the Government has taken
substantila corrective action, the
Bank and the borrower resume their
dialogu with positive results. In
the case of this loan, the Sank has
withdrawn the loan nd is waIting for
corrective  ction.
2487.1



- 37 -
Table 2.1: ELETROBRAS 1: Project Tunetblo
Daft        Date        Date
hem              Planned    Rvnisd        A
- Identification/PrcpLrtion                          0o/t-
09/80
- Apprisal                                            10/#;
01/82
- Loan Negotitions                                    03182
- Board Approval                                   05/11/82
- Loan Signature                                   05/12182
- Loan Effectiveness       09/10182    10/25/82     10/25182
- Projet Completion        06/30/86    12/31/90     06/30/90
- Loan Closing Date        06/30/87    12/31189     12/31/89
- Las Disbusemnt                                    07/25/90
L                L-T



I
I
I.
0
t.1
p..'
0.               IJ
I.)
gI3III3u*ir    m
a                   w
- m                 -
'-1
I



39 -
Table 3.1: ELETROBRAS 1: Actual & Forecast Cost
( In miLLions of current US S)
Actual                        Forcast
For-                                                       Net Percent
*ign                     Stock   For-                      Change from
8eneficieries   (1RD)   Other*  Total  (IBRD)   eign    Local   Total    Forecast (X)
CELPA           18.46   69.24   87.70   6.30    27.90   79.70  107.60        -18.49
COELCE          21.21  137.98  159.19  24.25    53.80  133.00  186.80        -14.78
COSERN          11.57   49.17   60.74   3.25    17.10   57.00   74.10        -18.03
CELPE           39.99  124.78  164.77   6.05    51.20  165.40  216.60        -23.93
EMERSUL         35.29   65.96  101.25   3.06    40.00  111.50  151.50        -33.17
0*                             0**
Total        126.52  447.13  573.65  42.91   190.00  546.60  736.60        -22.12
*  ELETROBRAS did not            '   Of the foreign cost, the 8ank  was
furnish detailr on                expected to furnish USSISO *. end
the local-currency                foreign commercial banks the balance.
cost of the project
or on sources of
financing.
-- Includes freight
& Insurance.



40-
Table 3.2: ActuaL and Forecast Project Cost, ELETROBRAS II
( in millions of current US S)
Actual                                        Forecast
 ......................................
For-                                    Foreign          Local   Total    Not Percent
eign                    Stock   ------------------------                  Change from
Seneficiaries   (IBRD)   Other   Total  (IBRD)  (tBRD)2/ (Other) Total 3/                  Forecast MX)
............. ----.     ..... . ... . -----  -----. .... -----  ..... . .... -----  ..... ..... .....  -----..... ......... .. .------...------... .. ........ .. ........ ......
CEAL            9.51   30.35   39.86  14.74      28.51  -0.11    28.40   41.00   69.40      -42.6
CElAR          20.21   77.04   97.25  13.50      40.42  -0.12    40.30   59.60   99.90       -2.7
CEPISA          11.6    NA      11.4  12.49      23.83  -0.13   23.70   34.70   58.40       -80.4
CERON           19.65    MA     19.65  10.15     28.91  -0.01    28.90   43.70   72.60      -72.9
ELETRONORTE     16.62  102.41  119.03   8.99     28.32  -0.12    28.20   41.40   69.60       71.0
ELETROPAULO    55.86  193.64  249.50   0.00      57.30  34.50    91.80  139.70  231.50        7.8
LIGHT          39.50  102.57  142.07  3.71       42.70  32.10    74.80  108.80  183.60      -22.6
1/                                               -
Total       172.81  506.01  678.82  63.58    249.98  66.12   316.10  468.90  785.00       -13.5
L/ Includes freight             2/ Source: Sch dule 1, Loan Agreoent for Loan 2364-SR.
* insurance.
3/ Source: SAR for ELETROBRAS 11 p. 61, Arnnx 4-1. Value
sat forth in SAU for foreign cost of individual sub-projects
are not fully consistent with those appearing in Loan
Agreoment for Loan 2364-BR; hnce the explanstion for nep-
tive valus for forefgn-currency financing from othorm
(foreign co-fminncers).



- 41 -
Table 4.1: ELETROSAS 1: Actual and Forecast Disbursemant Tiatable for Loan 2136-U
Actual
as X of
Actual                     Forecast          Fore.
....................    ................ ..........  ..................._............   ......
Dur1ng                   During
S_nster Ending   S_mnter Cumltative        Semseter      Cjlative
12.31.82            2.7      2.7              2.7             2.7      100.0
06.30.83            0.0      2.7              0.0             4.7      -42.3
12.31.83           15.1    17.8              16.0            20.7     -14.2
06.30.U4            7.7    25.5              31.0            51.7      -50.7
12.31.U             8.3    33.8              37.0             Y.7      -61.9
06.30.15            4.0    37.7              36.0           124.7      -69.7
12.31.85            1.4    39.2              25.0           149.7      -73.8
06.30.86            3.2    42.4              17.0           166.7      -74.6
12.31.56           11.9    54.2              10.0           176.7      -69.3
06.30.87            3.5    57.7               6.0           182.7      -68.4
12.31.87            3.6    61.2                                       -66.5
06.30.8a            9.5    70.8                                        -61.3
12.31.88           31.8   102.6                                        -43.9
06.30.39           19.6   122.2                                        -33.1
12.31.89            6.5   128.7                                        -29.5
06.30.90           43.4   172.1                                         -5.3



-42-
Table 4.2: ELETROfRAS II: Actual and Forecast Disburcsmnt Timtablt for Loan 2364-33
Actust
a X of
Actual                  Forecast         Forc.
.... ...........................  .......................................   ......
Durfng                 During
Semester Ending  Semester Cumulatfve   Semester     Cumulative
06.30.84          22.7    22.7            5.6            5.6     404.5
12.31.84          0.0    22.7            20.0          25.6    -11.5
06.30.85           1.2    23.9           40.0          65.6    -63.6
12.31.85          0.2    24.1            55.0         120.6    -80.0
06.30.86          5.6   29.7             45.0          165.6    -82.1
12.31.86          8.6    38.3            35.0          200.6    -80.9
06.30.87          6.0    44.3            25.0          225.6    -80.4
12.31.87          10.0    54.4           15.0          240.6    -77.4
06.30.88          19.4    73.8            5.0          245.6    -70.0
12.31.8          25.7   99.5              5.0         250.6    -60.3
06.30.89          21.1   120.6                                   -51.9
12.31.89         16.4   137.1                                   -45.3
06.30.90          26.1   163.1                                  -34.9
12.31.90          16.6   179.8                                  -28.3
06.30.91          20.9   200.7                                   *19.9
12.31.91         30.9   231.6                                    -7.6
06.30.92          5.4   237.0                                    -5.4



-'3-
Table 5.1  ELETRO0RAS l: Actuol   F Forecast Implementation Timetablt
Sumry, 1983-1986
..... .... .... ......
Net                               simry,  1983-1990
Percent                           -----------------------
Chng.                                            Net
genefi-                                                   from                                             Chng.
cieries                                                   Fore.                                            frm
& Works        1983  19U4  195  1986   Actual   Fore.   (x)    1987  198   1989  1990   Actuat  Fore. Fore. (2)
.. ....       ..............    . ......  .....   ........  ....   ...... .. .....  -----   ----.. ----  ----. ----. ......... .......... ........
CELPA
TL km.        163    37    50   279      529     310    70.6       0    53   289      0     871      310    181.0
SS NVA         19    88    13   124      243      107   127.1     33      0     6    49     331      107    209.6
DLs kaIlO       0    55    83    61      199      254   -21.7     66   101   101    U        555     254    118.5
CELPE
TL km.         U     55    65    84      267      256     4.1    116    52    38    82       556     256    116.7
SS NVA         25    40    40    65      170      169     0.6      0    20    60    83       333     169     96.8
OLs k/1O       50    46    53    54      202      501   -59.6     29    41    60    39       372     501    -25.7
COELCE
TL km.         71  133       2     9     216     901  -76.0       68    51    51    37      424      901    -53.0
SS NVA         81    25    10      0     116      182   -36.2     95      0    45    96     353      182     93.7
DLs km10       61    39    49    44      193      245   -21.3     30    34    40    69      365      245     49.0
COSERN
TLkm.          l   77    27       0     184       86   113.4      2    27      1     0     214       86    148.0
SS INVA               10    43    27     125      141   -11.5      3    15    31    25       196     141     40.5
DLs kI/10      38    21    55    41      154      172   -10.1     43    73    57    36       363     172    111.8
ENERSUL
TL km.         77     0   120   403      600      790   -24.1    143   304   220   133    1400       790     77.1
SS NVA         82     0      0    30     112      201   -44.3     58    33    35      0      237     201     17.9
DLs km/10      48    28    34    47      156      168    -6.9     26    49    39    19       289     168     7.2
TOTAL
TL lm.        455   302   264   77s    1796    2344   -23.4    329   488   599   252    3464    2344         47.8
SS NVA        253   162   105   246      766      800    -4.3    1u8     6    177   253    1451      J00     81.5
OLs ka/lO     197   189   273   247      905    1339   -32.4    193   296   296   251    1945    1339         45.2
Key:   TL km.:  kilometers of Trwnamission Linfe
SS NVA: Sub-Station Trwonfor_er Capacity
DLc ka/10: kilometers of Distribution Lines divided by 10.



Toble 5.2: ELETROBRAS Il: Actual & Forecast Irplemmntotion Timtable
Summry, 1983-1986
Net                                Sumry, 1983-1990
Percent                            .......................
Chng.                                             oet
Senf f -                                                  from                                              Chng.
ci ar ies                                                 Fore.                                             from
& Works        1984  1985  1986  1987   Actual   Fore.  (X)    1988  1989  190  1991   Actual  Fore. Fore. tX)
.. ... ..    - -      - - - -      - - - - -      -- -  - - -    - -   - -      - - - -    ......  -- -    -------
CEAL
TL km.         56    21    37      0     114     320   -64.4       0      0    26    80      220     320    -31.4
SS NVA         40     6     2      0      49      50    -2.8       0      0    45    60      154      50    207.2
DL. km/10      31    28    23    21      103      319   -67.6     39    20    26    53       240     319    -24.8
CEAU
TL km.          0     0      0     5       5      790   -99.4    133    55    52    97       342     790    -56.7
SS NVA          0     0      0    27      27      229   -a8.2      0      4    74      0     105     229    -54.2
DLr kImtO      58    65   106   241      469      400    17.4      55   116    90    79      809     400    102.4
CEPISA
TL km.          0    99   340      0     439      362    21.2      0      0    50    60      549     362      51.7
SS NVA         34    22     6      0      61       42    44.0      0      2    13     4       79      42      8.1
DLs km/10      48    35    35    13      131      114    14.9     49    11      0      0     191      114     68.1
CERON
TL km.          0     0    48      0      48      293   -83.6      0      0    43    12      103     293    -6.8
SS NVA          0     0      5     0       5       51   -90.2       0     0     5      8      18      51    -64.?
OLs kb10        6    11    18    14       49       83   -41.0      56    17    22    13      157       83     88.3
ELETROiORTE
TL km.          0     0    11      0      11       35   -68.5     20      0     0      5      36      35       2.0
SS NVA          0    40    53      0      93      346   -73.1     40    80      0    67      279     346    -19.2
DLa k/10       12    14    10    10        4       61   -23.8      11     9    10    15       91       61     50.2
ELETROPAULO
TL km.          4     1      2     8       14      15    -7.2       1     1     0      0      16       15      2.0
SS NVA        175   250   160   240      825      606    36.1     40   140    35       0    1040     606      71.6
OLc km/tO     171   256   248   226      900    1570   -42.7    194   121    66    51    1332    1570    -15.2
LIGHT
TL km.          0     0      0     0        0       0     KA        0     0     0      0       0        0    NA
SS NVA          0     0      0     0        0       0     MA        0     0     0      0       0        0    MA
OLe k/10     166   208   247   193      814    2349   -65.3    182   213   217   220    164         2349    -29.9
TOTAL
TL km.         60   120   438    13      631    1816   -65.2    153    55   172   254    1265    1816    -30.3
#S NVA        249   318   226   267    1059    1324   -20.0        80   225   172   139    1675    1324       26.5
DLo ka/lO     492   617   687   718    2513    4896   -48.7    585   506   431   431    4467          96      -8.5
Key:   TL km.:  kiLamters of Tranmumsion Line.
SS NVA: Sub-Station Tra_forer Cpcity
DLs km/10: kiLomters of Distribution Lines divided by 10.



-45 -
Table 6: ELETROBRAS I: Actual rd Forecast Expenditure by Category of Works
(in millions of USS reflecting current prices)
Gwweral
Inetalla-
Transmissfon           Substation           Distribution          tfon
-- - - - -- - -   -   .. . .  . . . . . ..    . .. . . . . . . . .   . . . .
Physical              Physical               Physical                Total
Expen-      Goal      Expen-       Goal      Expen-       Goal      Expen-     Expen-
Seneficlriro     diture    (In km.)   diture        CMVA)     diture    (1n km.)    diture       diture
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..... ....... ......  .........  .......... .........  .........  .......... .........  ---------...... .... .......
CELPA
Forecast (F)      17.49      310.0       17.46      107.5      66.63      253.0        6.02      107.60
Actual (A)         7.59      871.0        8.50      331.3      68.76      5550.0       2.68       37.53
Not I Chng.        43.4      181.0        48.7      208.2      103.2       118.7      -55.5       -18.7
from Forecast
COELCE
F                 32.57      900.5      39.74       182.0     103.4       2225.3      11.05      186.80
A                 11.93      468.9       34.15      338.8     111.17      3362.5        1.37     158.62
Not X Chn.         36.6      -47.9        85.9       86.2      107.5        51.1        12.4       84.9
from Forecast
COSERN
F                  2.41       86.4      27.17       140.7      37.55      1715.1       6.96       74.10
A                  5.14      214.3       11.47      197.7      36.13      3632.7       7.75       60.49
Not X Chnr.       113.2      148.0       -57.8       40.5       -3.8       111.8       11.3        81.6
from Forecast
CELPE
F                 22.11      256.3      33.27       169.0     141.09      5006.5      20.13     216.60
A                 21.77      523.7       17.06      416.3     121.11      4012.1       2.87      162.81
Not X Chng.        -1.6      104.3       -48.7      146.3       -14.2      -19.9      -85.7        75.2
from Forecast
ENESUL
F                 48.54      790.3      29.12       181.0      41.36      1679.0      32.47      151.50
A                 32.07     1399.5        0.96      237.0       47.5      2890.8      20.25      100.75
Not   Chag.       -33.9       77.1       -96.7       30.9       14.8        72.2      -37.6        66.5
from Forocat
..............-  ---------. ......... .........  ---------..... ---------  .........  -- --- --  --- ---  ......... ......................................................................_.
TOTAL
F                123.12     2343.5      146.77      780.2     390.07    13163.9       76.63      736.60
A                  75.5     3477.4       72.14     1521.1     384.67    19S44.1       34.92      570.23 I/
Not X Chng.       -36.2       48.4       -50.8       95.0       -1.4        47.7      -54.4       -22.6
from Forecast
AVE. UNIT COST
(in thou. of USSO)
F                 52538                 18119                  29632
A                 22574                  47426                  19779
Net X Chnr.       -57.0                  -74.8                  -33.2
from Forecast
1/ Does not include disbursmemnts frm Loan 213B-P
for material and sipment held as Inventory.



Table 7: Ecnrmic late of Retun CEO)
1991-
Year                   1962   19M    1984   1965   1966   1967   198   1969   190 2014
ELETROBRAS I                 (in ailliora of CrS, reflecting prices of December 1961)
CELPE                                                                                           ERR
aerginal Saet" CGh)       18     65    307    690    816    157    308    540    570    570  -2.0
MarginaL  Cevwme         96    323   1303   2711   3260    832   1742   2458   2518   2518
Marginal Op. Expes         6    276   1073   2293   2625    58    1104   1517   1896   1896
Global Invest. Preg.' 3167   2028   2155   214    1915   2610   4041   3600   2800          0
Mrtginel Not Benfits -3155  -1961  -1930  -1726  -1280   2S62  -3403  -2929  -2180    620
COELCE
Margfril Sales (alA)      21     54     83    141    371    212   1423   1675   1667   1667  -8.3
Marginal keverus         123    282    416    734   1879   1230   5906   5592   5746   576
Marginal Op. Expwfes   126    266    382    697   1687   1172   5589   6852   5547   5547
Clebal Irwest. Prag.*  4179   2234   1777   1913   2057   1672   386    1471   3173         0
Marginal Not Benfits -4182  -2218  -1743  -1946  -1665  -1614  -3551  -2731  -2974    199
CELPA
Marginal sales (OA)       4      36     67    139    323    515    544    615    711    711  -3.0
Marginal Revuns          30    214    379   7M    1669   334    3514   3427   4338   438
Marginal Op. Expwes_  35    238    416    925   1738   2972   3489   3m           3990   3990
Global Irwnt. Prog.*  6338   3267   3151   7736   9475   456   6835   2258   7314           0
MargI,L Met enffIts -6343  -3291  -318  -793  -9594  -4282  -6810  -2604  -6916    396
192-
taar                  1I       19u    1965   1966   1967   196    1989   1990   191 2015
ELETROSA  11                        (in billifoe  of Cr5, refIecting prifce  of DaceNbar 19)
Marglnal Sales ( )    162    36        517   1260   1383   1836   2463   2399   2279   2279 -10.9
Marginatl Ravwe         1569   3255   4592  10570  14U 1  19334  21703  20341  1924   1924
Marginal Op. Ep          965   2025   3120   8278  11001  15137  19405  16403  18413  18413
Global Invest. Proo.* 15051  16165  26327  21631  2M       28950  24745  14776  1           --
Marginal Not Benfita-1467 -14935 -24855 -19339 -23810 -24753 -22u7 -10838 -B002    831
ELETEOALILO
Margfenl Sales (OA)    135    94    2483   4107   3747   5834   7081   6550   776   7796   eg.
ftrginal leveme         1303   842  20805  34915  40541  6279   63089  5482   64006  64006
Margiral Op. Expef.   908   5938  15023  25792  29733  49srf   54081  50164  64362  6362
Clobal Invest. Prog* 39435  60172  95841  96408  94206  6M7    41603  67632  54782          --
Marginal Nt Benfits-39040 -57668 -90059 -892   -83400 -S4048 -32595 -62968 -55138   -356
rginl Saltes (GMt)         a      3     12      35     63     90    130    151    151    151   0.0
Marginal *It               0     12     55    167    438    682    861   1053   1126   1126
Margiral Op. Expwess       0     20     76    191    331    427    466   1181    579    579
Global Invest. Pro,'* 1349   2142   2636   2842   2327   3336    495         39    442      -
NargiNal Net Saf its -1349  -2150  -2657  -2866  -2220  -3061   -100   -167    105    s47
CEWJ'
Margirl gates (OA)         9     16     34    115    166    Z2t   369    494    546    s   - 18.9
Margiral levwmes         105    175    348   196   191l   2594   3401   5409   54M    548
Marginal Op. Expene    115    183    423   1330   2156   3132   4530   503o   5414   5414
Eaclidn fIn nci           Globatl Irnt. Prog.' 2742   2003   3090  11930   m2   9505   2522  144e   M796
charges                   Marginal Not B n fits -2752  -2011  -3165 -12162  -7950 -o14   -361 -1467 -27846            70



FtblaxS  1s Ii Sector uIlnwe lot ultt: Actual and Forecxet Cost of Service  1962-U 19; ktual Cost of Service  196. 19tt -
(in bililon  of crt. reflecting prices of mId-1981) -
sumarized Seutte
1961         192          1             19"           1965         196               1962-.16S               1967  1966   19"
I Siff.
tine                                      Act.  Prol.  Act. foe.   ct. fPo.   Act. Fore.  Act. Fore.    Act.  Fore. Act.  Po. from Fore.                   Act. Act.   Act.
I Amm lorte Inetuont                   18U9  I922   206   2400   2I54  3206    2S71  3710   3122  4355    2956  4015    --    *-          -            3314   2914  2709
2    Utillty Plant In service          2013  2165   2223  2414   2469  26        233  335   3154  386    2SU 4256    -                                      --  U   IA  NA
3    workint Capital                     34    20      36    S6      16    52      IS    35     14    29        2    34                                 NA   IIA    NA
4    Loe   Depreciatiolt (ccu.)         317   420    37    46       44 *r   5    5U3   7O    540    43        6621001                                   N -   K-  I  A  A
5    Ptu: Excees (def.) Iet   t.    -99  -156   -182  -395   -114  -661   -307  -t9t   -494 -t2U             -33 -1524      -A --         -                    A      NA
6 lewule                                631   594    615   604    565   721    S0   U          629  1029      404  120C   2994  439   -31.9             7      1140   975
........                             ....      ....  ....   ....  ....      ....  ....     ....  ....     ....  ....   ..... ... ........  -   . ...     ....... .... . . , .......   .... .... .........   
7    flectricity bilingt                504   496    S0   543   4*O   US    491   726    527   NO            526  1040   2528  3620  -33.6             701    NA    NA 
Sole tax                                63    52       4      4     54    33      50    37     53    43       ST    49    25    I66   53.1              48    NA    NA                   t
9    Cmueory loan                        44    48       4      T     34   6S       39    75     49    9        42   116    209   411  49.Z               34    NA U   tA                  C
10 Cost of SevIce                        334   354    381   416    372   521    353   609    421   676         406   157   I92  2961  -3S.2              S30   1004   99
, ,,, .......                        ....        ....  ....     ....  ....     ....  ....     ....  ....     ....  ....     ....     ....  ....   ....  ....   ....  .... 
1    Operstine  Efpxo                    183   197    227   225    207   2t9    IT  333    256   3S6           23   406   1139  1611  -29.3              374    671    9 o
rt
12    Depreciatien, etc.                  73    74      A7   91       90   III     96   132    121   153       11    1eJ    515   655  -21.3             129    103    6 
13   Iovrsien                             79    63      67   100      74   121     6    144      U    167       24   163    277   75  -61.2               24     32      a                 -
14  _owratte  (7-11)                    176   143    125   127    106   102    138   117    106   210         120   26      594   an   -26.9            172    142   -15                  1t
15 Let  (tU a 1)                         1U    192    207   240    215   301    237   3h        312   436      294   482   1267  169  -30.7              331    291   271                  0
14 Exxce  (da(.)  (14-15)                -13   -49    -82  -113   -109  -1t        99  -254   -206  -226    -176   19t   -671   990  -32.2              -159   -150  -2s &
1T late of *_urarotlen (X)   (14U1)   9.3   7.         6.1   5.3    4.9   3.4    5.6   3.2    3.4   4.8        4.1   5.9    4.7   4.4    2.5             5.2    4.9  -0.6                   t
16 Enerr Sales (T0h)                     116   116    123   121    132   12    14t    16    162   170          10   169    745   nr7  -1.6               1t2    17   19 5n
19 Ave. Neov  par kiH  (Cr) (6/18)      S.4   5.15   5.00  5.02   4.28  S.47   3.92  5.75   3.68  6.06    3.36  6.38   4.02  5.61  -30.8                4.31   3.53  2.63
20 per cent () Inc. Over Prlr Yr.    NA    NA    -.4  -2.5  -14.3   9.0   -6.4   5.0   -1.0   S.4   -13.4   5.3                                         26.5  -1t.2 -25.5                  rt
0
pi
s mm-t   or the y e 1961-1915, octuml date  mi taken from AreLx 3.6.1. of the Staff Apreisl lIeort for the Poer Sector Loan (No. 4159.-N, detod 1y 27, 1966). 
sote for 196e wd 1967 wU s_4pli be r b LtETttUA   In coew tlon with  nuwscesafut ettots to proceee a aecel sector lan. the actmal date for 1962-1967 ue                               an
the se   fewrt * that ued at  awielt, en  Is tbherfe corxble with oppreelt dota. Oats for 19-1969 we sppled bV DWU/ELETROSM   wW reflocts
Inrtitutiomlt dhre         (A therefor   foer_t  hehrl) mited bV the Conatitutien of 1966. Given thle  chwwe. the data for 19-1969 Is not fully comparale                             rt
with that of prior  we. fwr  wre 19111969. overage revowe per I&. Is derived freo  different  Acee  --  a series prared by ELtETrUM/Dl LE  Web Is not                               0
fully caor_  bte with data of prior Verx.
Rate of Excdhsga  US$1.00t Crn92.44.                                                                                                                                                 0
1D



ELEIEOMAS 1: Secter Fir,weiet lowult.s Actuel eid Foreceet Flow of Fureb. 1962- 1966; Actmsi flow of Fwds. 196?-1909
(in billions of er5, reflecting prices of mid-1981) -*
Summoritd ~seults
Line                            1961         196           1963          196           l96w           1966             1962-1966            fercent    19617  1966  1969
I of            of  from
SMACaS                 Act.  Prel.  Act. Fore.   Act. Fore.   Act. Fwoe.   Act. Feoe.    Act. Fore.   Act t. Ttal Fort.  Total  Fore.            Act.  Act.  Act.
1IGross mnt. Cadh GMn.   222   166    I"2   210    17    217    212   267    260   366    229   687    1051  57.4  1IS6  52.5  -32.9               26    26      106
2 Lees: Debt Service       261   364    360   262    3M    301    687   373    S51   447    452   559    2214 120.9   1941  65.0   14.1             470  1317   1369
3Nmet Int. took sen.       -39  -in6   -147   -52   - 207   -S.   -275  -106   *311   -61   -223   -72   .1163 -63.5   -375 -12.6  209.9    -in6 -1035  -1241
6 Other CoWSinw  Can.    313   M7    IS?   163    139   216    136   256    125  3so             102   369     659  36.0   1296  43.4  -49.1         a2    52      4
Snmet Cwrdfor Fun~ding   27        -6     IC   III      601  134   -139   150   All7   247   -120   277        504 -27.5    919  30.6  -155    -106  -96   -lit?
6 IqLalty Centribatiw       66    79      72   121    7M    77        6     66      it    96    124   103       3S7  19.5   143  16.2  -26.1        137   367    40
7 Ion-borrawed fuawJi,g  360    74        62   232       a   211    - 73   236   -160   363        4   380    -147  -6.0   1402  47.0   -110         31  -597   -796.9
A Sorowirw                 616   456    3261  322    264   326    632   369    556   362    397   204    1976 106.0   158   53.0   25. 0            505   101    163 
9       Total Smwcee    77    530    410   554    272   537    360   605    389   ?0S    401   586    1631 100.0   296  100.0  -38.6               537  -495   -613
..  *...fl~*s****e*  a..   ...    ..     ..     ....                ..s* ...              ..    ..      ..... .     ....a....a... .. ..... ....
APPL ICAT ONS
10  irweetmnts              681   516    532   544    614   556    395   619    414   702    374   563    2129 116.3   2965 100.0  -26.7            489   433    347
II met Cling  in WiC. etc.  296    14   -123    10   -142   -20    -35   -15    -25         3     2?    21    -296 -16.3       -I  -0.0  3117        47  -928   -960
12   Total ApplicatIons   77    530    410   554    272   537    360   605    389   15    401   564    1631 100.0   2966 100.0   38.6               537  -695   -613
no                   am .*S. ..S  ..a  .   .   S...  ** a.         a.                                         ...a  ...a.    a* . .   . . .......... **  an    5
Key Fiuwicail Ratit.
13 Debt service Cow. (X) 0.6   6.5    0.6   0.6    0.5   O.?    0.4   0.7    0.4   0.9    0.5   0.9             0.5           0.6         -41.2     0.6   0.2    0.1                              c
14 Seif-fin. Ratio (3)   -6.1  -6.3  -27.7  -0.1  -50.0  -0.2  -69.1  -0.2  -75.2  -0.1  -59.5  -0.1   -54.6                 -0.1           MA      -0.4  -2.4   -3.6                         09  0_
IS Com.mrw Fin. (3)       57.0  -1.1    1.9  20.5  *16.5  24.0  -35.2  24.3  -45.1  35. 1  -32.1  49.1   -23.7               30.6          -1?77  -21.6  -227   -345                           N0
16 lorrowirg/irwoet. (33 666 6.4 M      61.6  59.1   63.6  56.6  109.5  59.5  134.4  51.6  106.1  36.2    92.9               53.0          73.2   103.3  23.4   52.6                            I-
Saures: for the yeer  1961-195, actual dots mme taken from Aimes 3.6.1. of the staff AWreiial Report for the Power Sector Leon (No. 6159.-SI. deted mey 27, 1966).                           -
Data for 1966 mid 19167 wee supplied by ELETROSAS In coeviection with wouscmofwl *ttote to precee. a secod sector ben. The ectiei dots for 1962-1967 moes                                   0
the soe  format an that used at  srelest. and Is therefore coWerebbo with appreasal dote.  Dets for 1968-1969 Lee setpplied by DWAE/ELETIOUIAS mi reflects                              P3  M.
institutiml cinee6 therefore  format cm,nee a           nited by the Constitutien of IM6. given the"e diNig., the dete for 1966-1969 is not fully ceWereble                             OQ -
with that of piro  years.0Q
Wae of 6a'cue:w    M"' a L,fi &A



EULPt AS Iti Sectr Firlist SesuAts: Actual UW Foecat Cst of Service. 162.1-9;
Actut Cast of Service, 191-1w
lin bitilw  of CrS, reflectire  price  of id-w191) -
morisnd Results
1t3          19164                     19S19 lw                      196-1987             195   "SP
*                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~X D1ff.
tle                                     Act. foe.  Act. Foe.  Act. Fre.  Act. Fre.    Act. Foe.  Act.  For. f.m  Fre                  Act.    Act.
. ....... ....... ... .... ........ .. ........ ......... ......  ..... ......  ..... ...... ..... ......   ..... .... ..... .....  ...... .....   . .....    .....
I              Irn.srlnvostm_ntmsnt   2153  203    2371  2226   3122  2N0T  2954  3119   3312  3482             -      --          292    27
2    UtIlity Plant In Service         24   2221   2      2405   3154  2770   2961  32    mA   3681              --     A-             
3    Slr&iq nCapitot                    14   is      15    10      14   l0       2    10   NA      le                              NA       NA
4    its ezhreeltimin (sccu.)          ur   4*S    5U    541    540    24   "42   ?T    IA    622                                   NA I-A
S    Ptwu:  xoes  (def.) In  mun.   *116  -24   -307  -353   -494  -451   -432   545    IA  -*15         -N -          --         IA        IA
4 riw..                505   505    5OD   5                       629   684   464   614   7M2   %5    3161  3556  -11.2             1147     975
........                             ....  ...    ...     ...  ...     ...  ....       .... .. ...........  ...............  ....  .....   ....z
7    Eletricity billing                477  415    49    Al3    570   58    5S 25           le7   791    2722  2906   -4.4          IA       NA                                     I-A
a    Sale ts                            54   S1      50   ff    53    73        37    39     48 10        241   392 -38.5            IA       A                                        
9    CipsAwy tlm                        34           39    42      49    49     42    5      34    69     1     259 -23.4            IA      I 
1o cst  f Service                       371   338    S5S3  344    421   396    405   4       524   S13    2074  2038    1.6          99       99
...............                      ...... ...   ...     ...  ...     ...  ...... ....   ...... ....  .....   .....  ....       ....      .... .
11   Orsting a                          207  1r0    167   174    254   196    243   234    371   274    1n   1042   20.9             "a       693
12    sepeciatinw. etc.                  0     72     9     73    121   91    11    106    129   122    557   471    6.1              103      6
1S    Seroron                            74   85      4     92     44107        24 103        24 11        235   505 -53.5             32 
14  _sm ratln ( I)                      1041   77    139   133    106  163    120   218    177  279        "8   670  -2.5            15S3    -15
ISLgpts         a( 1)                   21524    237  223    312  21   m    312    331   348    1391 1347    3.3                     291     m                                       o
16 Imasem (dwi.1 (14-15)               -10   -124     96   -09   -204   -96  -174   -94   -155   -70    743  -477   55.6            -136    -234                                     0
0
,,,,,,,,,,,,,.............,,,. ........             ...................................................................        .....     ......P
1 Ratse of imaunwtian CS)   (11)   4.9   3.6    5.6   4.0    3.4   4.2    4.1   7.0    5.3   6.0           4.7   6.5  -27.6          5.2    -0.6                                    rt
Is lb rysales(nb)                       132   123    148   141    162   157    180   174    182    9       604   72    1.5          l¶r       16 
19Ave. new. pr L   (Cr) (411)    4.23  39.5   3.92  4.7   3.86  4.36   33.5  4.67   4.31  5.03    3.93  4.s5  -12.S                 3.5S3   2.4
26 Per cent (t) Inc. ro  PrIor Yr.  -14.3 -20.9   -4.4   5       -1.6   5.0  -13.6   6.6  26.5   7.7                                -16.1    25.5
* es: fr, tse            1961-195* actual dt s   taken frm  Arm 3.61. of tho Staff Apprisat Report frw the Pour Sector Leon (i. 6159-M. dated 05.27.n6)
ets for 1964 ard 1967 wss%Wld by ELEIU0I     In cuewtion with umhucceosfut atteta to process a secon               tor lro. The ectuil dots for 1962-lS6  Uw 
the  e  formt a  04et ued et oppira%sia.d tt therefore c*m 4le with appraisal  date. Dots fo  1966-199 ws suppied by DUOWPLETSIAS trd refltes                               0 C
inctittii l  hFg   (S tho"efe   foivet cing   as.*ted by the Ceutitutien f 196. Given those chenub, the date for 19-19-l69 Is net fully crnbloe                                rt
with that ef prior Voes. for  as  19_6-19_9s mf_    revum per kW  is dwriwed from diffrent sances  --  a ses pr prd by ELEI AI3If sidc  Is rat                              0
directlty c_rhate with  date of prior yor. u 
Inte of Encins _ uS1.00: Cr992.4.                                                                                                                                             '
01-'
tQo G
PAcoI



UIITI    A Iis cIeor fi.wicat kNmutat Actual ad Foest rim of F              1p2-_I66:
Actwml Plfu  of Fuw  198-16
(in bitlwe  of C4. reflectimg prlube  of old-1,0)-
ii..                                                   urn         urn           197            1,11-117 P1rcent  1a  19
Kof          1sf  from
11011142B             bet. Fe.  Act. fe.  fct. Foe.  Act. foe.   Act. Fwe.  Act.tetal  foe. Total Fore.  Act. Act.
I Gres. tt. Cub am.   I"  1U    212  215    20   245   22   341    2              436   114  56.3   1374  75.9  .17.0  281   1n
2 Low: Det s ervice      34  21    ur   21    5    337   452  45    47*  445  2343 119.0   17   97.6  32.6  1316   1349
3 Nt  nt. Ca _ Om.   -20r  124  -27S   -5   -311   91   -22 5          4   -11    -9  -1203 .61.5    394 -21.7  205.6 -1035  -1243
4 otherC omur tn         139  155   136  176    1U263    162   216             2248    51429.6         96 .141.5    52            4
S Nt Cot_-r Fwdlu    -6    31  -139   91   -184   112  -120   132  -106  239  -619 -31.6    404  33.4  -202  9    -1197
6 W ty Centributiw        7639        4      25     1    26    124   27   137   27   42221.6           144  0.0 192.5 37    40
7    buh    d Fudlrm       I   70   -73   116  -146   133        4   15      31  246   197 -10.1    749 41.3   126  595   97 M
111o oung                MU   271   432   226 S 6  220   397  215   505  132  2154 110.1  1le  s5.7  102.7  101    13                                                                    0
9       Tetal m.r.    2    341    36   342   36   3n7    "I  374   536  36   MY 16s.6   1611 166.0  o.e  -494   -614
6 igweumnt               413  326    M    321   414  337   3714  353   49   377205106.5    1707 94.2  22.1  434    347
1 MtC. In MC.*fte. -142    21   -35   21    -Z5   21    27   21    47   21   -12  -6.5    10   5.8  -223 -Z2 9                  -960
.............  ......................... ..... ... ...   ...  ...   ...  ...   ...  ...   ...  ...   ...  ... .. ... ..   ... .. ... ..  ... .. ....  ..... .... .. ....... .. .......
12  total Aicatim    2    341    340  342    3           n0 357   401  374   536  3      1Y 160.6    111 160.6   6.6  -494  -613
filelis ftlZf
..................... .... 
13 D    Servie Cow. (X) 6.5  6.5    6.4  6.7    6.4  6.7   6.5   6.6   0.6  1.6   6.5                  0.6        -37.4   6.2   0.1
14 Self-fin. Rtlo 113  -560.0  -0.4  -9.7  -6.3  -7n.2  -6.3  -59.5  -0.2  -6.4  -6.6  -S7.7          -6.2          MA   -2.4  -3.6                                               
15 Cureu.w Fin. (13    -16.   9.6  -35.2  28.3  -45.1  33.2  -32.1  37.3  -21.6  3.5  -29.7           35.4         -168  -227   -345                                              Ob
16 la,wieJlnat. (3) 63.8 84.6  109.5  73.4  134.4 48.3  114.1  40.6  163.3  34.9  103.3               62.2          6.6  23.4  52.6                                            O
SA : Fwr the yVas 1961-1915* act dol dts  m taken frm Anae 3.6.1. of the Staff Appraeal Report fw tie FPoer  ector Lom (No. 619.-N1           . dated 65.27.66).        .       n
gete for 1 l et _d  97 wa  Wlled by EL1T6564  In  omactil with wamm feful attempts to press o snd  etor loen. The actual dte for 1962-1967 we
the ama  forwst *  that oId at appraisal, *d is therefre ca wrle with appreast  eta. bete for 1966-1969 ma supplied br SUAEUER1TRW  endl reflect.                         01  _
Intitutiemt u         - (A the lfer   foet caga) _wAted by the Cautitutien of 19M.  lvn thes dimwa. the dot for I9-16-m  is net fully ct_parale                           *  _
with that of prior y
onte of t       d  u a  111 1.600CrIE.".



PU   satee  Flhwialt Ewlts  Actual ..  fwrst Cast of Srv1ce, 1966-1f"
(in  till     of CrS, rlectino pries of i           d-d-1961) 
UMrIald Eults
1906         "a            iws          19i9            l9s-sse
...... .......... ..... ...................... .................  ........... .................    ..............
X Sift.
Lin                                      Act. Foa.  Act. Fo.   Act. Fae.   Act. fre.    Act. Foe. fra Fore
.....  ...... .....   ....... .....  ....... .....  ..... .. ..... ....... ..... .... .. .... .. ...... .......... ..
I1 m      ae _bl wt_        t         2M6  3060   3314  363   2914  4156   270   3119    -                 -*
2    Utility Pltnt In Servic          2963  3215    VA   3753    MA   4347    NA   322    --       -
3    Working Capital                      2     5    11      9    MA      15    NA    10
4    Last  Dprepl tien  Ccu.)           62   762    MA   $64    NA   1030        A    717
5    Plus: Exces (dof.) in Rom.   -633  -602    NA   -730    NA   .824    MA   -545
6 Ee,,..                               604   669    M      397   1148  1137    975  1423   1991  4147   -52.0
........                             ........     . ...  ....  ...  ....  ...  ....     ... ..   ... .... ...  .... .. ..... ........ .....
7    Electricity bililng               526   576    701   756    NA    95    S2s  119    1752  3486   -49.8
Sole tax                               37 6          4871    NA         91    S3 113    121   333   -63.7
9    Ceapulsoryl tn                     42    55      34    70    NA     69      42  111     1173 25   -63.9
10 Coot of Se"MO                        406   422    530   52    1006    36    990   769   2l  2351    24.7                                                         a
...............                      ........ ... ........ ...    ...    ...    ...    ...   ...  .... ....   ..........    .... ....                            L
11    operatins Eiupanse                263   266    376   310    67    374    393   446   2404  1396    71.9
12   bD reciatitn, etc.                 119   129    129   144    103   167       89   1      440   632    30.5-
13    Reverlon                          24    27      24    69     32   96        8129        68  321   -7Z.5
14 Remuneration (7-11)                  120   1S4    170   233    140   321    -15   429    415  1137   -63.5
15 LegL  (101 x l)                      296   306    331   361    291   416    271   312   1169  1394   -14.7
16 Exces  (def.)  (14-15)              -176  -152   -161  -125   -151   *94   -286   117   -774  -258   200.4                                                        0
................................. ............ ................................................... .......O
17 Eate of Emu.ration t()   (14/1)   4.1   S.0    5.0   6.4    4.8  7.7   -0.6   9.1    3.2   7.1   -54.9                                                           0
10 Enrysp *oles (TI)                    130   178    162   193    18   20        195   223    744   602    -7.2                                                      rt
19 Ave. Rev. par kWh (Crt) (6/18)      3.36  3.67   4.30  4.65   3.53  5.47   2.63  6.38   2.68  5.17   -48.2                                                        1 
20 Per Cant (C) Inc. Over Prior Yr.  -13.6 -20.9   23.2  20.1  -17.9  17.6  -25.5  16.7                                                                             w C
0I-*'
^ Sources                                                                                                                                                      - m
Data for 1966 ax 1967 _m  supptied bV ELETEWEAS in ceematlen with wmnuesful attote  to process a * c *           oetor  om. This data
theam  formt a  that used at  appraslc. and Is therftore tcprwdAe with appraisal data. Date for 1966-1969 was supplied by DNAEE SAo
Inatitutional ehn neee. (  ther fore  formt ehaiqas) *nwdated by the Constitution of 1968. Given the" chengs, the data for 1966-1989
with that of prior Vers. For ye r  1968-1909, aVer9   revenue per kWh is derived tfen ditferert eurces  --  a sries prepared by
ELETEUEA  -- Is not directly ceusrebtae with date for prior years.
R@ late of Euchutme: USS1.00i Cr92.44.



PPt : Sctor Financial Results: Actual & Forecast Flow of Funwd 1966-19e9
(in billions of CrS, reflecting prices of mid-1981) -*
Suinmriged Results
Line                          1966          1967          1968          1969            1963-1967            Percent
...........    ...........    ...........    ...........1---------.__..-----    -  Diff.
X of         X of   from
SW CES                 Act. Fore.   Act. Fore.  Act. Fore.   Act. Fore.    Act.Totel   Fore.Total   Fore.
,........      .      .. .....    ....... .....    ....... .....    ....... .....    ..... .. ..... ..... . . -- -- --  -----................. ... .. ....... ....
1 gross Int. Cesh Cbn.   229   277    282   382    282   538    108   684    900  -526   1881  73.5   -52.1
2 Less: Debt Service      452   593    470   500   131T   539   1349   537   358e -2096   2169  84.8    65.4
3 Net Int. Cesh Gen.    -223  -316   -188   118  -1035    -1  -1241   147  -2687  1570   -288 -11.3   831.6
4 other Conrmur Con.    102   119        82   184      52   243     44   313    281  -164    859  33.6   -67.2
5 Net Ceou .mr Funding  -120  -196   -106    6T   -983   242  -1197   460  -2406  1406    571  22.3    -522
6 Equfty Contributions   124   239    137   175    387    37    400    42   1048  -612    493  19.3   112.4
7 Non-borroued Funding      4    42      31   241   -597   278   -796   502  *1358   794   1064  41.6    -228
8 Borrowing               397   504    505   386    101   379    183   225   1187  -694   1494  58.4   -20.5
9       Total Sources    401   545    537   628   -495   658   -613   727   -171   100   2558 100.0  -106.7
We      maasmagamaaamaaaaa 3333  3333!  name   MU.  3333  Uaem   maw.MMI           a    a      33   U3       3
APPLICATIONS
10 Inves tments            374   505    489   627    433   647    347   711   1643  -960   2490  97.4   -34.0
11 Net Chng. in MC. etc.   27    40       47     1   -928    11   -960    16  -1814  1060       67   2.6   -2808
, ..........................   ... .... ... .... ... ....    ...   ... . . ...   ... .    ...     ... . . ...   ...  ----     ----  ....    .... .  .. ...................
12   Total Apptications   401   545    537   628   -495   657   -613   727   -171   100   2557   100  -106.T
3   * 333333  m   _ar  _33   _33    3_3   mama.............. _am   ma-..  mam   am.  *a    m.  *-3  ms. ...  m.....m. .. ..... .a. ..
Key Fin nclal Ratios
13 Debt Service Cov. (X)  0.5   0.5    0.6   0.8    0.2   1.0    0.1   1.3    0.3              0.9          -71.1                                                      0
it
14 Self-fin. Ratio (X)  -59.5  -0.6  -38.4  -0.2   -239  -0.0   -358   0.2   -164              -0.1           NA                                                     b
15 Consumer Fin. CX)    -32.1 -39.1  -21.6  10.6   -22T  37.4   -345  64.7   -146             22.9           -739                                                       c
16 Iorroming/Inveet. (X)106.1  99.6  103.3  61.7   23.4  58.6   52.8  31.6   72.2             60.0           20.4                                                       La
.......................................................... ............................................................................                              0
C Source:                                                                                                                                                            g
t'3 0
Deta for 1966 and 1987 was supplied by ELETROSRAS In covnectfon with uneuccessful atteqwts to process a second sector loan. This date
the sme format as that used at  appraesl,  nd Is therefore copperable with appraisal data.  Date for 1988-1989 was supptled by DNAEE
institutional chans  (0  therefore  format changes) *nuidated by the Corntitution of 19S8. Given these changes, the date for 1988-1989 
with that of prior yeers.
*  Rate of Exchange: USl1.00: Cr$92.4U.



CiLPAS Actuat NW  Foreat Retult                                                                            Perct (ZI
t_lIrzed   If f erace
amulta*      f roe
1s6            11z3         1964          195           1986        1902-1986   Aprmlise       1961        193    1969    1990
Act. Fo.   Act. Fore.   Act. Fore.   Act. Fore.   Act. Fore.    Act.    Fore.                   Act. Fore.   Act.   Act.    Act.
Oerating ldicater                                                                             nrlized tesultts   d
Five-Tear Averae
I.  ales (VA)          1039  113      1193  125    1275  144      13%  1629    1626  16         6534    7M   -10.5   1813  263    1847        1935    206
2. Ave. Nev. (Cr)e    7."   7.66    5."  7.5z    5.69  7.39    5.6  8..2        5.16  5.71      5.89    6.09  -27.2   6.50  9.15    6.46      5.58    6.17
S. Sltes Rsv.(Cr_ m       z* 73   32    1176  %40    r2s 11397    7899 134      3396 15993    384    59221  -35.1   1160  16870   11925    10790   129
in primc  of  12/81
Financisl Indicators
4. Returtn an W           5     6        4     r       5     7       0    7        3     a         3       7  -51.4       2     3       4        0       0
Assets (5)
S.OebtILTCap.(Z)         31   34       33    37       3     39           39       44 34           38      37   2.6       45    30      39       36      58
6. Debt Ser. Ccv. aX)  2.0   3.7       1.5  3.0      1.5   2.6     0.3   2.6     1.5   2.3       1.1     2.6  -56.5     0.7  2.5      0.8    -0.1   -0.3
7. op. Rtio ()           92    91      9      U       91    85     103   62       9      1         5      85   12.1      95   s0       91      114    113
Insotmnt Level (CIt ., 1V3I priems)
3. Inntts t            6342  6548    3673   12    324  361    r96  6409    9517 6742           30M    3667   -16.5   4762  m6    M2           2261   7316
Nan-lank           6342  652    3673  4182    3274  4635    7762 3455    9450  6742        30501   2546   19.8   3592  7056    7052       2261    7316
Bank                  0    96       0 4130        0  4226      205 2954       67     0       272   11406  -97.6   1170    0         0        0       0
sorces of Inw mnt Finwncing
9. Self ffn. (X)          2    12       9    12       15    16    -20   31         4    32        -1      20-103.7    -33    39    -20        *265    -37
10. LT Sebt(1)           33   39        9    44      71    46       67   44       53    10        49      3   30.7       14    5       36      131      19         I
11. other Cx)             6    4       81    43      15    36       53   25       43    58        52      42  21.9    119   56         83      234     117
Total (i)           100   100     100   100     100   100      100  100      100   100       100     100    NA      100  100      100      100    100
service I,Idlcaters
12. N. of Cum. (th.)   237  299       320   37      3SO   3       378  386       412   419       349     357   -2.1    456   436      487      524    562 
13. No. of Ewtl.Cth.)   2.2   2.4     2.4   2.6     2.6   2.8     2.3  3.0      3.0   3.2        2.6     2.6  -6.8      2.9   3.3     3.0      3.0    3.1          t
14. custmrs per         130   125     134   127     137   128      136  130      136   131       135     128    5.1     15T  132      161      173    181
93w
n
.,
ee-
I.'
C)1



CELPE: Actuit wnd Foreccst Results                                                               Sumr I ted    Percent
Results       (X)
for 1962-1966 DIfference
aNW         fras
196Z          1963          1964           ¶965          1966      5-Yr. Averges  Appraisal    1967         1966    1969    1990
Act. Fore.   Act. Fore.   Act. Fore.   Act. Fore.   Act. Fore.    Act.   Fore.                   Act. Fore.   Act.   Act.   Act.
Oprmting Indilators
1. sgais (M)           3237  3449    3474  3778    4079  4122    4715  450S    4875  4903       20383   20757   -1.5    4216  S327    4367    4657   4707
2. Ave. Rev. (Cr)*    S.53  S.94    4.97  6.25    4.24  6.59    3.93  6.92    3.99  7.27         4.44    6.6S  -33.3    5.30  7.64    5.66    4.61    4.42
3. Sgte sev.(Crt u.)'17906 2049    1720 2327   17305 27173   16532 31165   19441 35650          90473   38120  -34.5  22348 40673   24727   21455   20794
* In price of 1281V
Finwiclet Indictore
4. R.tumC () on           4              3     7       6     7r       o     a       a     a         6        7 -16.3       11     a      12    KEa.       S
Rm. Assets
5. Debt/LT Cap. X)        29    41      31    49      29    51       30    52      27    48        29       48 -39.S       2     45      28      22       40
6. Debt ter. Cov. CX)   1.2   1.9      1.3   1.7     2.0   1.7      1.9   1.5     1.7   1.7        1.6     1.3  -7.2      2.9   1.5     5.6   -6.3       0.4
T. op. Retio (x)         97    91       9     90      92    B7       91    8s      91   e4                  73 27.7        6     83      91     106      100
Imuwstint Levelw (Cr6 a., 12/51 prices)
8.  Iniestmmnts         3048  6494    2028 11127   2155 10193    2144  9252    1915  9682        11291   4749  -75.8   2810 10119    4041    3581    2752
mon-Bank          3048  6494    2023  2945    2155  2990    214   3173    1915  9682       11291   25234  -55.3    2810 10119    4041    3581    2752
OInk 1/              0     0        0  8182       0 70          0 6060         0     0         0    1465 -100.0        0     0       0       0       0
1/ benficiwry did not furnmeh weal dte an project expenditwe. 
Sources of IrwasteeR Firmcing                                                                                                                                                 t
9. s.tf-ffn.  (X)         4      5      11     3      39     T       35    14      35    13         23      9 168.0        91    19      63      -31     -24
10. LT Debt (Z)          53    50      1   70        35    61      55    46       22    42        38      55  -29.8       24    31      23     236      69
11. othC (X)             43    44             27      27    31       10   40       43    45        39      37    5.4      -14    50      14    -105       55
Total CZ)           100   100      100  tOO      100   100      100   100     100   100       100     100   NA        100   100     100     100      100
sr vice Indicatort
12. No. of Cue. (tb.)  821   745       US   802      911   362     958   925    1014   910        912     649    7.4    1105  1059    1151    1218    1268
13. no of EF4. (tbJ)  4.S   4.5        4.5   4.7     4.5   4.9     4.7   5.1      4.9   S.4       4.6     4.9   -5.5      5.1   5.6     5.4     5.6     5.6
14. Cuctomr per
EpF4ee             e182  165       19    171     203   177     204  182       205   170       19T     173  13.7       216   169     214     216     225
a.
m o
Q.
0 0
'3 "



SumerIzed
Results     Percent (Z)
COELCE: Actim  and Forecast  Resulte                                                           for 1982-1986  Difference
and/or        from
1982          1963          1964           1965          1966      S-yr. Averages  Appralial      1967       1968    1969      1990
. ........ ........................ ........... ................. ..............................................  -- -- -- --  --- --- ---  ............  -- -- -- --  - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - ............  ------  -------.. .......  ..
Act.  Fore.   Act.  Fore.   Act.  Fore.   Act.  Fore.   Act.  Fore.      Act.   Fore.             Act.  Fore.  Act.   Act.    Act.
operating Indicators
1. Sals  Gwh)           173  1664    1944  1873    2017  2156    2114  2459    2401  2738      10258   10090    -5.6   2242  2923    3458       3767    3753
2. Ave. Rev.in CrS)   5.76  6.62    5.26  6.97    5.03  7.15    4.95  7.42    4.55  7.76         5.07    7.25   -30.1    5.80  8.36    4.14      3.34    3.45
3. Sales R*v.(Cr$ ..)-10269  11022   10227 13064   10143 15418   10454 18257  10924 21241       52017  79002   -34.2  13011 24433   14303    12575   12939
* In prices of 12/81
Financiol Indicators
4. Return an Rm.           5     7    NEG.     7        7     7      -0     8       6     a         3        7   -53.0       1    8        6     NEC.        8
Assets (X)
S  Debt/ LT Cap. (X)      42    43      59    48      61    49       69    48      70    45        60      47    28.7       53    42      41        28      64
6. Debt Ser. Cow. (X)   0.4   1.5      0.3  1.5      0.8   1.4      0.0  1.5      0.3   1.5        0.3    1.5   -78.3      0.3   1.6     0.5      -0.4     0.4
T. op. tioCt (%)         100    as     103    87      92    85      108   83      101    82        101     84      9.5     101   S1       91       lzo     100
Inver t_ nt Evels (stS n.  reflecting 12/81 prices)
8. Investmnts          4237  4058    2320 10003    1875  o88       2093  8135    2060  7110      12585   38114   -67.0   1672  80       3868      1471    3173
Mon-lank           4237  3946    1992  2591    1605  2838       872  3066    143  7110      10149   19551   -48.1      234   099     708      649    1662
Isnk                  0   112      328  7412     270  5970    1221 5069       617     0      2436   18563   -86.9   1438       0    3160      822    1511
souces of investment Financing
U'
9. self-Fln.  Mx)        -23     5     -58     3     -26      2    -140     6     -92     7       -61       5 -1427.0   -100    11    -244    -1740    -184                    U
10. LT Debt (X)          62    47       83    45     170    52       5o   45       40    35        78      45    72.2        9    33     113      282      8o0
11. Other (X)            61    48       75    52    444      5      182   49      152    58        83      50    64.6    192    56       231     1558      104
Total (X)           100   100      100   100     100   100      100   100     100   100       100     100     MA       100   100     100      100      100
Service Indicators
12. o. Of Cm. (t.)   565   550         618   59      660   632     694   673      739   713       655     632     3.7      788   754     824      869     912
13. No. of Empl. (th.) 4.1   4.1       4.3   4.3     4.3   4.5    4.3   4.6       4.6   4.8       4.3     4.5    -2.7      4.8   4.9     4.9      5.1     5.2
14. cu.utmers  per      13?   133      143   138     155   142     161   146      160   149       151     142     6.6    164   153       169      171      174
OQ m
LDI-
CD
0
?-91
wD .
CD



COSERN: Actual nd Forecast Results
Sua_ rized
Resutts        Percent (S)
for 1982-1986     Differene
and             from
1982          1983           1964           1985          1986    5-Yr. Averages    ApprWisat    1987         1966    1989      1990
Act. Fore.    Act. Fore.    Act. For..    Act. Fore.    Act. Fore.    Act.   Fore.               Act.  Fore.   Act.    Act.       Act.
Operating Indicators
1. Sales (GUh)           694   676     709r   7       783   786      839   866    1018   959       4045    4059   -0.4    1042  1061    1158       1284    1430
2. Ave. Rev.(CrO *      5.81  6.43    5.85  6.35    5.16  7.28    5.11  7.69    4.65  8.13         5.26    7.25  -27.5    5.50  8.57    5.69       4.48    4.88
3. Sates Rev.(CrS w.)* 4037  4346    4149  4907    4043  5716    4289  6657    4739  7716         21256   29421  -27.8    5732  9088    6593       5755    6972
* In prices of 12/01
Flmncnial Ilndcators
4. Return on Im.           2     7        4     7       9      7       4     8       15     8         7       7   -4.8        6     5       10     E        KES
Assets (X)
5. Debt/LT Cap. (2)       35    40      37      6      37    46       35    43      30    37         35      42  -17.8       36    33       25       39      64
6. Debt Ser. Cov.(X)   -1.5  -2.5    -1.2  -2.4    -2.3  -2.5    -1.3  -2.4    -0.9  -2.2          -1.3    -2.4  -44.3    -0.4  -2.7    -0.1        0.5    -0.0
7. Op Ratio (S)                 90      95    8T       87    84       93    83      94    82         94      73  28.0       103    81       97      173     102
Inve tment Levels (CrS a. reflecting 12/81 prices)
8. Investments          1981  3658    1038  3724    1187  3008    1465  3183    1915  2874         7586   16447  -53.9    1404  2926    1965       2166    1534
Non-Bank            1340  3658     106   856      112   935     451  1321      201  2874       2710    9644  -71.9      567  2926     64       2088    1454
*nk                  140     0     932  2868    10T5  2073    1014  1862    1715       0       4876    6803  -28.3      837     0    1319        78      80
Sources of Invstment Financing
9. Setf-fin.  (X)          4    -0        6     3      13     8      -11     9      -12    10        -1       6   -120      -23    18    -194      -568    -228                   ai
10. LT Debt (X)           22    42      28    47       62    21       18    19      20     8         28      29      -4     e8      3     229       210      31                   1
11. Other (2)             73    58      66    50       25    70       94    72      92    82         73      65      12      35    79      65       459     297
Total (2)           100   100     100   100      100   100      100   100     100   100        100     100     NA      100   100     100-      100     100
Service Indicators
12. No. of Cus.(th.)    242   239      272   273      292   311     310   332      343   392        m       309   -5.7      366   411     393       418     440
13. No. of Eapt.(th.)   1.7   1.8      1.8   2.0      1.8   2.3     2.1   2.4      2.2   2.4          2       2  -11.3      2.9   3.3     3.0       3.0     3.1
14. Custemers per        139   131     147   136      160   133      146   140     158   164        150     141    6.8      126   124     130       138     143
OQ m
O 
n
0
0
00 o.
O



ENREES  Actimt eri Forecst ResuLts                                                         Sua rized    Percent
Reul ts       (1)
for 1962-1966 Differwie
and        from
1962         1963          1964          1965          1966   5-Yr. Averes Apprei"t           1967       1966    1969    1990
Act. Fore.   Act. Fore.   Act. Fore.   Act. Fore.   Act. Fore.    Act.  Fore.                Act. Fore.   Act.   Act.    Act.
Operating Indicetors
1. salts (VA)           677   55 7s   T    976    859  1136    1004  1399   1061  15S         4367   5937  -26.1   1222  1m        134      1394    1514
2. Ave. Rev. (CrS)*   6.09  7.11    6.09  7.34    S.63  7.63    S.51  7.57   5.16  6.21       5.76   7.65  -24.7   6.25  6.61    6.59       5.22    5.05
3. Sales Nov.(Cr i)* 45  6076   464  7160   4836  o2    5536 10597   5573 12900    25273  45394  -.3   763 15254                     67    721       7641
* In prices of 12/1
Finmmial Indicators
4. Xeturn  n Am.          6     7       4     7       1     7       2    a        1    a         3       7  -60.6       1    a        a     NEG.    KEa.
Assets (2)
5. Debt/LT Cop. (Z)      27    20      36    27      31    37      32   35      31    39        31      33  -5.2       43   25       36       64      111
6. Debt br. Cow. (X)  25   4.7        1.4  2.4      1.0   1.8     0.7  1.5    0.4   1.4         0.8    1.8  -52.3    0.5   1.8    0.5   nm.    neg.
T. Op. Ratio (X)          6    54      92   82      94    73       93   77      97    76        92      4 40.0         96   76       62      143      144
Inrtnt LeDls (Cr5 m., reflecting prices of 12WM1)
S. lrwestints          4317  5732   2832 3953    1456 6955    1556 637    2822  5178    12962  35196  -63.1   4074 4000   3619              3372    3420
Ncn-Bk             4317U   s732    2832 4122    12   3261    1335 2092   2327 5178       12077  20386  -40.8   3613  3517   3619    3108    3006
B"*                   0     0       0 4131    109 5S694       221 4285    495      0       905  1489 -93.9    461   483           0      264      414
sources of Ivestnt  Finrcming
9. Self-fin. (2)          2    9      -13    3      46      2      53   -2       77   -6       -31       1 -2218    -29    12        78    -195    -164 
10. LT Debt (2)          33   61      51   73       25    71    100   61       150   42         69      t4    8.3      U      0      82       62       37
11. Other (Z)            65    30     63    24    122    2?       54   42       27    6         61      35  76.6       84   U        96      233      227
Totlt 2)           100   100    100   100    100   100    100  100    100   100           100    100   NA        100  100    100        100      100
Servic IrJicatore
12. No of C0.. (th.)   163   109    169  215    206   244    229  273    251   305             20      245  -15.3    276  339    294         320      351
13. No. of EVl. (t)..)  1.4   1.4    1.5  1.6    1.6   1.8       1.6  2.0    1.9  2.2          1.6    1.5  -8.4    2.0  2.5    2.1           2.2      2.2
14. Castemrs per        118  137    129  137    12    137        12   137    130   137         127    137    -O    137  137    139           147      160
0
,.n 0'
t3
Pt ot
10 
P, 0
'Urt
0-
(S .
U



CtAL: Actuet ad Forecast leoultte                                                                                      krlsed
Remitt       P reent
for 1983-1967    (t)
wid       Difference
1963            1984            196s              1966              1967        S-Teer Averagee   from         196           1969    1990    199
Act.   Fore.   Act.   Fore.    Act.    fore.        Act.   Fore.      Act.   Fore.      Act.  fore.  Apprelest   Act. Fore.        Act.   Act.    Act.
....... .................   ....................   . ................. ...................... ................   ......................... ................    ..................... ... ... ..... .......  ...................... .  ....
eratirg Indicetors
1. sates (a^)           o              619  s33    891           933      l9        1013    1143              12        463    5230 -10.9        1034    1424      13   1394    1309
2. Ave. Stee Nev. (Cr1)'   8.89   9.78    9.36  10.4?           8.97    10.00       9.14   12.14    11.09   12.02       9.52   11.01 *13.6    11.54   12.62        9.66   9.85    8.87
3. totes Nov. (CrS b.*          7.9    8.0      7.8    9.3        8.4     10.9       9.3    13.9      11.1   1M.S       44.4    57.6 -23.0       11.9    16.0      11.4   13.7    11.6
In prices of 12182
Finenmlot indlcetors
4. Return an .em.
Assets I)                      0       7      -o0               0         7         S       a     NEG.        a         0       7rA          "EC.        a     UE.       13    KG.
5. Debt/Lt captsl                30      32      31      36        22       41        26      38        37      42        29       38 -22.4        32      39        S1      7n      s6
6. Debt Ser. Cov. (N)           o.7    1.6      0.6    1.6        0.3      2.0       1.1     2.2      -0.0     2.2       0.5      2.0 -??.1      -0.0     1.9      -0.2    0.1    -0.1
T. cp. patio                     O t01    0      10      66       101       8          3       2       IDS      o0       100       63  20.0       105      79       129     96      147
I-)
lnvestewnt Levels (Cr bitlione. reflecting price, of 12/82)
6. ivtnte                       1.6    S.6       1.3    6.1       1.2      7.2       2.5      7.5      3.2     7.3       9.      33.9 -71.3       3.7     6.6       1.9    3.3      4.1               
Senk                       0.0    0.0      0.0    4.4       e.0      6.3       0.4      6.2      0.1      3.2      0.5    20.2 -97.4        0.6      0.0      0.2    1.2       0.6                     1-n
Von-Iw*                    1.6    5.6      1.3    1.6       1.2       0.9      2.1      1.3      3.1      4.1       9.2    13.6 -33.1       3.0      6.6       1.7    2.1      3.3           O.D
S     .xces of Ivestment Fineming
9. Self-Fin (Z)                 .11       9     .48       9      -73        13        -3      20       -4S      24       -33       16  -306      -294      27    -11U    -142    -402              tM
10. L  Debt CZ)                  36     Al       49    5s         17        SS        63      47        49      37        51      4 7 .7           21      22       144     67       s?
11. Other ()                     74     s        9o      33      156        32        20      33        97      39        ST      3 116.8        265       So      1064     ss       1S
total (1)                  100    100      100    100       100       100      100      100      100      100       100     100  -161       100      100       100    100      to0
Sevice Indieatore
12. 3. of Cwt. (t.1)            z30    22       3U     248      2I9        24       280      279      302      29        263     263  -e.0       319      329       310    358      379
13. so. Of ll p1. (5th.         1.5    1.6      1.5    1.6       1.6       1.7      1.6      1.6      1.7      1.9       1.6     1.7  -7.4        1.6     2.0       1.     1.9      1.9 
14. Ceintemr pw                 154    150      160    152       161       154       171     15S      162      156       16      154   6.0        173     162       173    19       200
Eepto5y-
US
god
lsb
lb 1-
Cs
0%
100'
lb )m
UQ



ClSt Actal ovd forecoet Results                                                                              1nr I-sod        Percent
Reoults          CI)
for 1M-1987   IIffere.o
aM            frm
1113              1981              1933             19              1m7      5-Tee  Average    Approieat      Iv6         190      196    1991
....... .......................... .................... ....... ......... .... .....  ..................  ........ ........ .......... .. ....  ... ... ... ..............  ................... ............  ......... .......
Act.   For.       Act.    reo.       Act.  *o.        Act.  fre.      Act.  For.    Act.  fore.                  Act.  Fre.   Act.      Act.    Act.
1. Soles (SM)              lit     663        75     7o7       7n    9          "     1150 e     99    19        416    47m   -12.2       1063   146      1204    1329    139
2. AVI. 30,. (rs)'       11.30   11.59      11.31   12.21    10.4e  12.00      9.59  13.47    11.57  16.00      10.2   13.50  -19.9   1."3  15.21        9.22   16.95   10.00
3. Saem ftev.(CrS *.)*   0123    7666        a"    9610       a2m   12461      6917  154819   11516  19192      45305   64441  -29.7    12100  22294      202    1455   139
* In prices of 12182
Fitstel Indicators
4. letwH an te.
Aoets aO)              WC.        7         2        7        2      7       66.    I        r.       e         -2       r-123.S          1      a     Ns.        e.    NEG.
S. Debt/l capital           27      30         23     2n        20      31       24     33       37      33        27      31  -12.5        34     29       2        51      4e
6. Debt S.e. Cea. (1)      0.3     2.1       6.3      2.1      1.3    1.6       0.5    2.4     -0.2    1.9        0.4     2.0  -00.0       6.1    2.2    -0.1    -0.2   -0.1
T. op. met I* (Z)          104                94     U*         96     I5       106    *1       116      3        104       s n 39.6       96      CT      125     124    14
Invet_nt etstr  (Cr5 a., reflecting price. d  12/82)
S. Invetm_nts             2742    366        2w0     5715     30     99       11930  10724     m2  11201        274     AM *u   *32.3     9505   923      252    140    22914
301*                2742    36"        2003    2102      309    2004    11930   1445      76    2201      2715   1206  124.5    9505   9230          100     71     24491
eNot-Banit             0        6         0    3613         0 6602          09279          342   9000       342   28494 -96.           0       0     1433    7307    3425
Sureo s    lof eItmant  Fir .i nt
9. Sett-fin. (3)           -49       4        -6e       I      -19    -10        .4      4      .44       0       -25      -1 4269.9    -142       10    -1172      *n7   -t?,
10. ebt/lw.(%)             30      Is        20      31        23     4S        21     43       se     42         33      39 -16.6         n      14      28       2n       24
11. Other( )               119      e        139                96      6         2     52       C7     57         93      4250.?          169     17     1024      153     lei
Totat                100      100       100     100       100    100      100    100       100    100        100     100    UA       100    100       100     100      100
Key Service Indlettore
10. II. Of o   t. (tb.)   29       306       328     35        359    410       64   462        521    516        39      410   -3.8       546    52       577     597      614
11. me. of [W. (ti.)    1.3        1.3       2.0      1.9      2.1    2.1       2.2    2.4      2.3    2.3        2.1     2.2   -4.2       2.5    2.3      2.6     2.4        3
12. Cutonrew               166     173       164      131      170    192       206    181      223    184        183     1U3    2.4      220    20        223     229      23
'-I
OQ m
0
0 0
0
Q~ 0
'~j rt
o-
OQ 0
CD-
0



CEtR0: Actumi we forecast Rewuts
Siwrized  Percent (3)
Reti te.  Differnce
1963           196S 1965                     196            19"         1983-87; wd      from         196          M96      19O       199
Act. Fore.    Act. fo.   Act. Fore.    Act.  Fore.   Act.   Fore. 5-.er Averagee Appraisal   Act. Fore.    Act.    Act.                    Act.
Iperetirn     Indicators    ..............  ...... . . .- -- ......................................      ................          .............     ...      ....     . ..
1. Utes (G11)                  96    1"       112    169     135    19      172    221     206    247.4       723     97s  -zs.a      23?    276      27       29         323
2. Ave. Sate  R*v.(Cr$ i)' 33.56  17.3   33.52  18.09   32.66  16.99   27.9  19.96   33.15    23.73    31.97   20.5s  59.6    32.13  Z1.99    24.3    23.47            20.43
3. Sates Rew. (CrS b.)*       3.2    2.5      3.8   3.1      6.4   S.?      4.6    6.4     6.9       5.9    23.1    19.6  16.2        7.6    6.1      6.7      7.o        6.6
i n prices of 12/62
Finnocw l  !ndicators
6. Return (1) en
Remm. Assets              KG.       0        1      7    NEG.      7    NEG.      *    NEG.        e      KG.       6    MA       NEG.      a    NEG.     NEG.      GC.
5. DebtAt cspitat                     21      *?      36      5s      3      9         u   160       Si       16      39  *s.6        -31     69      -50      *19      -56
6. Debt Wr. Coy. (X)         -3.0   3.2       0.6    2.3    0.5    2.0   -S.2    2.2   -6.2         1.5    .2.7       1.9 -242.2    -0.      1.S      0.0    -1.0       -0.1
r. Op. R.te EC)               114    96       101    92      102    89      13S5    66     19        61    1Z2.2   86.5   38.9        109     7S       w       316       162
Inweeta.tt Lets (CrS blitte., reflecting prices of 12/2)
B. OwetwIntJ 1.35    .75    2.14   4.S2    2.64   7.S    Z.4   6..6f    2.33                       6.96    11.30   29.16  -61.3      3.34   6.81   A95.3      39.6     42.6
eank                     1.35   1.7     2.16   2.06    1.76   3.11    2.79   6.0      1.7      1.68     9.79    6.65   13.2    3.34   6.61    4"9.3    2S.4        318.6
IIon-SIA                 6.00   0.00    0.00   2.6    0.86   6.04    6.05   6.60    0.59       7.zz     1.50   20.53  -92.7     0.00   0.00      -0.0     14.3     123.9
Source of twehnt fim neing
9. Self-Fin ()                .49     1 s             2      -11      Z     -8W      a    -142        6      -U        5  -1374      -133      9      -1S      -e        -12
0. LT Dbt S()                  39     11      11    42       27    51        so     45      34       67       32      54 -3.r         1S      38      100       6          0
it. OtIe   IX)                l11     71      95     36      U4    47       160    67      229       29      133      41 226.0       216      52       16      137       IIl
toalt ()               100    100     100    100      10e   100      100    100     100     1e       100     100  IA          100    100      100      100       100         0> b
service Indieators
0
12.  e. of Cute_r s(th.)    41    6S          69     52      s      6       67     67       76       75       5o      60   -3.6              63       112      121       129
13. e. of E .                   7    736     961    750    1037   800    1139    *0    1162                                                                                           CY, f9  rn   25.2    U11  660  156  1500  1 u  00
14. Custwem pr 5WS                    61      52    7e       56    75      s5 oe             5       a        5so     n   -22.5       66      96       71       76        S1
00 0.



ELETMILO: Actuot 1  Flereceet eowAtt                                                                       gamriaed   Percent it)
alite,  Differwwe
1963           19t6           196            1966           197           1983-87; wd      fre          196            "99      1990     1991
Act.  lore.   Act,  lre.   Act,  loro.   Act, fore.   Act,  Fore.  S-Iee  Average Appralt    Act.  For*.                  Act.    Act.    Act.
pwrtig Irdideterts         ..........       -     -    - ..............                                                         ..----
1. Raie (SA)               3424  35333   3642  40062   42326  43017       5 *so 4603   4450  49173.6   204e    213660  .4.1           4690   S262   4000    47   4920    493
2. Ave. 1eit"  OV.(cU   )e  9.67  11.05    I.90  11.0    6.36   2.17    6.50  12.73   16.2    11.3           9.25   11.63  -21.6      10.76   14.06    6.91     6.37     6.21
3. Sates New. (CrS b.)    332.9  390.4   342.7  464.6  354.7  523.6   32.  sss.7  482.4   559.4   1895.6  2526.8  -25.0               50i.9  73.s   426.0   £01.1   403.1
* In priees of 12/32
FInuiciI Indicstor.
4. Return M3) an
xn.a. aet.                  5       r       7      7       I      7       9      a      1s        a          I       7   16.           5 9             4    IaEK.    "EC.
5. DbtLt cptteat               71      o      7      747e            S 7n   6 7            S1 6      67        69      74 -7.1           47              49       21       2a
6. Debt S.r. Cow. (X)        0.5    1.0      0.4    1.6     0.3    1.1     1.0    1.1     0.3       1.2       0.5     1.1  -52.8        1.0     1.2     2.7      2.1      0.1
T. op. Ratio ()               91     90       89    90       6?     90             90      85       110        a       95   -7.4         91      90      91      103       llI
Igweetunt Lewis (Cr1 bUtler., reflecting prices of 12/62)
6. Ivwetumnt                39.4   43.0   60.2  63.9        5.6  69.    96.4   79.3   94.2        88.6      38.1  344.7   12.6         Or.1  101.5    41.6      67 6     5 4.
S"                       0.0    0.0     6.e  16.5    13.3   16.1    11.   19.4        0.6     13.2      34.7   67.2  -18.3          57      0.0     1.o      0.6      0.3
on-60                   39.4   43.0   51.3  47.4    82.5   51.6   56.6  59.9   93.4           75.6    353.3  27.s   27.3           61.3   101.5   39.6      67.1      4. S
Sure of Inw"t lmufInlne
9. Self-fin (1)               .90    .-    .32       -6     -       .3 e11    -2    -59               4       -55      -1 Sa9.1         .61       9      11      -102     *470
10. LT  ebt ()                34    113      56     55      104     53     7M    50        46                 67       63    6.5         62      51      68       26      523                '4
1I. otheri )                 163    -13      127    51       56     so      41   4*5      113       3         a6       38  129.6        100      40      21      17        46
Total (S)             100    100     100    100      100    100     100    100     100      100       100     100   MA           100     100     100      100      100m
(10
Seice Ildicators                                                                                                                                                                              O
0
12. No. of citinr  (M.)    3.6    3.6      4.6   4.6       4.2    4.2     4.9    4.4     4.5      4.6       4.3    4.2    1.1          4.7     4.6     4.6      5.0      5.1             "
13. go. ef Et. (ti.)        19.4    9.7   19.9  20.3   20.5   21.0   21.3  21.7   20.6            22.4      20.3    21.0  -3.4         21.1   23.1    21.7      21.4     21.3           0e 
14. CLatomrs per             196    194    200    19        203    200     22    2        219      206       210     200    4.7         220     206     221      232      Z41            prt
MD.



ELETUO IE: Actumt uW Forec"t Reolt.
Siwirlzd    Percent  ()
1963.67; end       frm
1963             19"4                               1916             1967    Flv-Tee  Average  Approlt            Igo            1969    1990   199
......................  ................   .................... ...... .........  ...  ..................  ................................. ...... ....... .  ........ ........... ............ ...................... ................
Act.   Fore.    Act.   Fr*.        Act.   Foe.       Act.  Fo.        Act.  For.    Act.    Fre.                   Act.   For.       Act.    Act.    Act.
opwatiflg Iindctors
1. Sol" (SI)                   626    776       I5       ml       631      9       995    1048    1121   1136        4523    4607    -.          1211    122       967    1596    1658
2. Ave. Sales low. (Cr%)'  3.61   4.13         4.45    4.62      4.2    6.38    4.16    9.U0    8.27  12.16          5.40    7.82   -31.0       1l.n    14.42    7.4S    4.62    4.45
S. sales RM.(rS b.)           29.3   32.1      33.4    40.7      40.0    61.5    48.3   103.5    92.   138.4        24.3   376.1   -35.1        141.9   1T7.1    72.0    73.7    73.8
* I pries of 12/62
Flnwewla IndIcator.
6. Return on Am.
Aseeto S)                   EC.      7         3        7      NEG.       7     608.       a     NEG.      a      NEG.        7      NA       US.         a     Me.    KE.         SE.
5.  ebt/L Csp.(2)               70      79       el       66        2       91       1       as      69       6         76      66      -11        63       U3      56       47       27
6. Debt br. Coe. (X)           0.0    0.4       0.1      6.5      0.5      0.5     6.9      0.o     0.1    0.9        0.2      0.r   -76.6        0.1      1.2    *0.2      0.1    -0.1
T. Op. 3 tI   ()               116     63        as       ?a      123       59     Ill       53     106      48        109      47   133.9         63       40     245      123      237
Irnvetmnt Lovs. (Cr9 bitIon.. reflecting 12/62 prices)
B. lnve.tmnto                326.4  329.6    306.   44s.0    33S.    301.7   265.6   252.4  105.1   97.0    2312.3  1526.0    51.5    1055.4   218.0   465.5   46.2   439.7
Son-sa                  326.4  329.6    306.4   4O.4    33S5.    295.4   265.1   247.1  1057.1  197.0    2310.6  1509.7    53.1             6S.9   216.0   45.2   46.2   439.7
0.0    0.0      0.0      4.7       0.0     6.3      0.6     5.3      1.0    0.0        1.5    16.3   -90.6       169.5     0.0      0.4      0.0     0.0
souce  of I,wot,t finwicinr
9. Iolf-fln. C)                -48    -12       -S4      -12        -r     -30       6      -17     -21      -6        -24     -IS    52.2         46       22      -89     -23      -34
10. LT Debt  )                   s     91       16       115       62      149       2               34      48        66      102   -35.S         12       56      30        4      26
1. Other ()                     73     21       -10       -3       45      -19      22       37      66      so        so       13   329.4        134       22     159      119      109
Total s)                   100    100       100     100       100     100      100     100      100    100        100      100     NA         1o0      100     100      100     100
Sorvic. Indicators
12. 5.. Of Cu t. (tU.)         121    128       129     136       138      148     147      140     155    172        138      149    -?.s        166      136     l65      213     223
13. no. of Ef    . (tt.)       1.2    1.2       1.1     1.3       1.2      1.4     1.2      1.5     1.2    1.6        1.2      1.4   -17.1        1.2      1.6     1.4      1.3     1.3
14. Cut ws per                 101    10?       113     106       119      105     13       105     131    105        ll       IDS    113.5       136      los     136      167     173
Erpt
0 m
0 m
%OQ
'0
0%.
N)
Mb
C)
e' 0
,d rt
0- 
0  .
o _



LISUT: Actmnt  I  Ftor eot Resultt                                                                            iqiNtIad         Pe, 't
Results          (I)
for 1963-1967    Differee
1903                                                             am~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  from
1963              1964              19e5             1966            1967      5-TeAr Averege    Awrieagl       196M         1969    1990     1991
--.-.-.....-.  ........  .................  -------------  --------------... ....   ................  .................. ..........  ---------------   --- --   -- -- -   -- - -
Act.  Fore.       Act.   Fore.       Act.  Fore.      Act.  Fore.    Act.  Fore.    Act.  Fore.                  Act.  Fore.   Act.   Act.    Act.
Operating Inttleetere
1. Sales (Qwh            15556   14767      16565   15487    16949  16559    16186  17459      16342  15361      85600   82'3    3.3       1B795  19596   19422    19342   19141
2. Ave. Raw. (C*)*        9.72   11.96      8.95   12.55      6.89  13.17      6.39  13.2       10.44  14.51      9.28   13.27  -30.1      10.53  15.22    6.81     8.48    6.45
3. Slto. S v.(CCr m*.)  151174  16613    148230  196929   150681 218133   152583 241342    191509 26634    741? 1099441  -21.6    19790? 29830?  171132   163990  161660
*(CrS n.. 12/62 prices)
Fina nclt indicators
4. Return an Re.
Aseetes l)                9       7         e        7        7      e         5      a        I I                8            4 7         12      8       3       12        7
5. DAbtLT capitol (8)       54      46         53      43       55      40       49     34        50      30        52      39   35.7         49     26      4?        32      29
6. Debt Sor. Cov. (N)      1.1     1.2        1.1     1.3      1.1    1.4       0.9    1.2        1.0    1.5       1.0     1.3  -20.3        1.0    1.5     0.9       1.0    10.4
7. op.  etlio (I)           63      66         84      85       8?      64       91     84        85      63        66      73 1T.6           88     62      94        7r      43
lIreet_nt Letes (Cr1 m., reftectilng pricee of 12/82)
S. irntuanta             15051   26169     16165   32525    26327  41042    21631  50300       2mo  60580    106424  210616  -49.5         28950  T4145   24745    14T7?   1833
15051   26169     16165   23476    26327  26842    20999  37650       25687  52069    104229  166206  -37.3      25954  74145   21220    12727   16833
Nan-sank                0       0         0    9049         0  14200       632  12650      1563   8511       2195   44410  -95.1      2996       0    3525     2050        0                       I
Sources o  Irrnvt_nt Firnanin                                                                                                                                                                           a
9. St.f-fin. (1)            33     -27         33       3       23      1S      -53     -8       -28      16        .3       3 -195.9        -87     12   -146        86      -6S
10. Debt/lvt.(S)           412       2       459       35        2     28       301     28       207     25        243      25  679.4         51     34      21        14      10
II. Other (I)             -345     125      -392       62       75     58      -149     8o       -78     59       -140      73 -292.9        13?     54     225      172      174
Total ()             100     100       100      100      100    100       100    100       100    100        100     100    MA        100    100      100      100      100
Service Indicators
1Z. U.. of Cust. to.)   2.LOS    2.250     2.168   2.394    2.253  2.555    2.326  2.706       2.373  2.86       2.242   2.548 e 12.0      2.390  2.959   2.457    2.494   2.548
13. No. of E ptemwe      14203   14820     14317   15196    14233  15407    14061  15977       14069  16284      141     155??   -9.0      13837  16565   14330    14492   13415
14. Cu tere par            147     152       151      157      158    16        165    169       169    1T4        1se     164   -3.3        173    179     171      172      190
M
m
0~
0
P
0 rt
OQ  _
rd -



- 64 -
Table  10.1:   LOAN  2138-BR: Comgliance with  Loan Conditions
Legal
Documents       Section                       Description                       Cow liince
Execution of the Project
L.A.           3.01      a)  carur  project conpanies to carry out the           yes
project; provide funds; prevent
interferences
b)  (i)  by June 3, 1984 satisfactory                   no
arrangements for additional
financing;
fi)  by Februory 28 each year                      no
beneficiaries financing plan for the
fotloirng year.
ill) by February 28 each year                      no
beneficiaries final financing ptan;
five plan
c)  ltelnd proceeds of loan to beneficiaries           ye
d)  no a     nd-ant to subeidfary loan                 U/A
arements (SA) without Bank agreemnt
W)  SLA subject to presentation of appraisal           yes
report
GA            2.01      Ensure stisfactory financing                             no
LA            3.02      Supervise and provide inform_tion                        no
LA            3.03      Came, beneficiaries to _ploy consultants                yes
LA            3.04      Cauce bwneficiaries to insure and me of goods           yes
and srvices
LA            3.08      To acquire land and rights                              yes
LA            3.09      Reirnvst divid nds                                      yes



Table 10.1 tCont d.A
Pe" 2 of 2 Pae
poe:e  ts      lswtion                       Doecr1rzti0                      Cowol In
Nne8engnt Wnd Operatfons
LA           4.01 O       aintain corporate existece                          yes
LA           4.02       Precticers,  _miaent end staff                        yes
LA           4.03       Naintain satisf0ctory insurance                       yes
FinAncial Covenants
LA            5.01      Appropriate *ceounting practices                      y"
LA            5.02      BY AprWi each year furnish certified financial        ye
statem_nto
LA            5.04      Lubcnge vieu  with Sank on mior policies and          yes
pirocsdu.aes change
GA            3.02      a)  pir wnt lnterfernce                               ye
b)  cause atons on electricity rates                  no
gimrantse furnd nd 1 port permits



- 66       Table 10.2:  LOAN 2364-UR: CouDlwince with Loun Conditiont
Page 1 ef 2 Pages
Legal
Documentt       5tf eon                         cripti                        Cotnc
Execution of the Prolect
L.A.           3.01      C)  ConSO project copanies to carry out the            yes
project; provide funds; prevent
Interferences
b)  0i)  by Jum  30, 1986 satisfactory                N/A
arrangements for additional
fin ncing;
f1)  by October 15  ech year                      no
beneficiaries preliminary pians for
the following year.
fi1) by February 23  each year                    no
beneficiaries final finncing plan;
iv)  by Nay 31 each year furnish a 5-year         no
finncing plan of beneficiaries
c)  Island proceeds of loan to beneficiaries          yes
according to scheduels 1 and 5
d)  no * endcnt to subsidiary loan                    V/A
sgresmnts (SLA) mithout Bank agreemnt
e)  UA subject to presentatfon of appreisl            yes
report
f)  Provide counterpart furds required by             yes
ELETRONORTE and LIGHT
LA            3.02      Starting with sm_ster ending 6/30/84                   Yes
supervi e beneficior Is every 6  enthe  nd
proesnt report
LA            303       Cause ben ficiaries to employ conrultants              yes
LA            3.04      Cause beneficiaries to Irsure con ultants              ye
LA            3.04      Cause beneficiaries to Irmure goods end                yes
smrvices
LA            3.08      Lnd acquisition                                        yes
U             3.09      leinvest dividends                                     yes
CA            2.02      Ensure stisfactory financing                           no
Naaoement and Ocerations



a         X                       2 a     2   
c S   a          - E -    -   t {        
23            "e!           l5 .4 8 S  
5    it    i   §.|  [6   ,i   ai  l B g
g~~~~~~~~- '.9_
:~ ~~~~~ es             U         .4                1



-686
TbLe 11: Use of Bank Peouwca
Page 1 of 2 pages
Staff
Nonth/  Days in   Specialt- Project  Tye of
Stage of Project CycLe    Yrsr     Field     zation   Status  Probl_
,,.,_,............................. ..... . ......  ..... . ... .......... ------  ......................
Loan 2138-R
1. Idantfffcation       07/73        2      FA          MA        MA
Sub-Totrl                   2
2. Prberation           12/78        4      FA; ENG     MA        MA
04/79        4      FA; ENG     MA       MA
09/79        2      FA          MA       MA
11/79        2      EMO         MA       MA
01/80       11      FA          MA       MA
03/80        7      ENI         MA       MA
06/80        a      2 FAr; ENO  MA       MA
3. Appraisal            09/60       21      FA; ENS; LO MA        NA
11/61        3       NO6        MA       MA
01/82       21      FA; ENO     MA       NA
---           ........ ..... ............... .. .
Total      108
Lomn 236-N
1. IdentifIfation       06-07/80     2 *    2 FAs; ENO  MA        MA
2
2. Pr p ration          09-10/82     3      ENO          MA       MA
11/82       21      ENO         MA       MA
29
3. Appraisal            01-02/3    21        ENIs FA     MA       MA
21
4. Post-AppraisaL       07/63       21      3 FA.        MA       MA
21
*  tm_  i"ion.
Total       73



- 69 -
Table 11: Use of Bank Resources (Cont'd.)
Page 2 of 2 pages
Staff
Nonth/  Days In   Specialf- Project  Type of
Stage of Project Cycte    Year      Field     zatfon   Status   Problm
1. Supervision
Loan 2364-BR            02/84        28      FA;ENG        I
Loan 2138-BR            07/84        28      FA;ENG        2    F.M
Loans 2138/2364-BR      03/85        34      FA;ENG        2    F,N
Loans 2138/2364-BR      03/86        34      FA;ENG        3    F,M
Loan 2364-BR            09/86         6 2/   FA;ENG        3    F,N
Loan 2138-BR            03/87        10 3/   2 FAs;ENG    3    F,N
Loan 234-NR             01/88         7      ENG           3    F,N
Loans 2138/2364-lt      03-04/88    45 2/   2 FAm;ENG    3    F,M
Loan 234-NR             01-02V90    28 2/   FA;ENG         3    F.M
Loans 2138/2364-BR       11/82        5 2/   FA           MA
225
1/ Does not Include mission of economist t14 doys)
and fitnncial analyst C2 days) to review, respec-
tivelry planning _thodology of ELETROBEAS and
shortcominghs of DMAEE regulatory  ethods.
Z/ Mission also supervised Loan 2565-3.
3/ NIssion spnt about 45 days in Brazil, moat of
which tino   a spent preparing a sector adjustmnt
loan.



