Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3338b-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
ELETROBRAS I POWIER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
April 19, 1982
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 1/
Currency unit                            Brazilian Cruzeiro (Cr$)
Cr$1.00                                  100 centavos
Cr$1.00                                  US$0.011266
US$1.00                                  Cr$88.76
MEASURES AND EOUIVALENTS
t (metric ton)                           1,000 kgs (2.205 lbs)
keal (kilocalorie)              =         3,968 Btu (British thermal units)
T.o.e. (ton oil equivalent)   =          10.7 million kcal approx.
kW (kilowatt)                            1,000 W (Watts)
MW (Megawatt)                            1,000 kW
kWh (kilowatt hour)             =        1,000 Wh (Watt hours)
GWh (Gigawatt hour)             =        1,000,000 kWh
kV (kilovolt)                             1,000 V  (Volts)
kVA (kilovolt-ampere)           =        1,000 VA (Volt-amperes)
MVA (Megavolt-ampere)           -         1,000 kVA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
1/   Dollar equivalent figures for basic data in this report are based on the
June 1981 rate unless otherwise indicated.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
CAEEB         =     Companhia Auxiliar de Empresas Eletricas Brasileiras
CEEE          =     Companhia Estadual de Energia Eletrica
CELESC        =     Centrais Eletricas de Santa Catarina
CELPA         =     Centrais Eletricas do Para S.A.
CELPE         =     Companhia de Eletricidade de Pernambuco
CEMIG         =     Centrais Eletricas de Minas Gerais S.A.
CEPEL         =     Centro de Pesquisa de Eletricidade
CESP          =     Companhia Energetica de Sao Paulo S.A.
CHESF         =     Companhia Hidro Eletrica do Sao Francisco
COELBA        =     Companhia de Eletricidade do Estado da Bahia
COELCE        =     Companhia de Eletricidade do Ceara
COPEL         =     Companhia Paranaense de Energia Eletrica
COSERN        =     Companhia de Servicos Eletricos do Rio Grande do Norte
DENE          =     Department of Energy Studies
DNAEE         =     Departamento Nacional de Aguas e Energia Eletrica
ELETROBRAS    =     Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras S.A.
ELETROPAULO   =     Eletricidade de Sao Paulo S.A.
ELETRONORTE   =     Centrais Eletricas do Norte do Brasil S.A.
ELETROSUL     =     Centrais Eletricas do Sul do Brasil S.A.
ENERSUL             Empresa de Energia Eletrica de Mato Grosso do Sul S.A.
ESCELSA       =     Espirito Santo Centrais Eletricas S.A.
FURNAS        =     Furnas Centrais Eletricas S.A.
GCOI          =     Grupo Coordenador para Operacao Interligada
GDP           =     Gross Domestic Product
GEER          =     Grupo Executivo de Eletrificacao Rural
GGF           =     Global Guarantee Fund
GRF           =     Global Reversion Fund
ICB           =     International Competitive Bidding
IDB           =     Inter American Development Bank
INCRA         =     Instituto Nacional de Colonizacao e Reforma Agraria
IUEE          =     Imposto Unico de Energia Eletrica
LIGHT         =     LIGHT-Servicos de Eletricidade S.A.
MME           =    Ministerio das Minas e Energia
OPE           =     Orcamento Pluriannual de Eletricidade
ORTN          =     Obrigacoes Reajustaveis do Tesouro  Nacional
SEAP          =     Secretaria de Abastecimentos e Precos
SEPLAN              Secretaria de Planejamento da Presidencia da Republica
SEST          =     Secretaria de Controle de Empresas Estatais
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ELETROBRAS I POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
1.    INTRODUCTION AND  SUMMARY   ..................................                                1
2.    THE  ENERGY AND  POWER  SECTORS  ...............................                              2
The  energy  sector  ......             ...............................               2
Energy demand  ....................................                            2
Energy  supply  ....................................                           3
National  energy  policy  ...........................                          5
The power  sector  ......              ............................ .                 5
Policies  and  objectives  ..........................                          5
Organization  ......           ................  &    ..............           6
Growth  of demand  and supply  ......................                          6
Rural  Electrification  ............................                           7
System  expansion planning  ........................                           8
Electricity  revenues  .............................                           9
Finances  .........................................                           12
Bank  participation  in the power  sector  ....                  .......      14
3.    THE BORROWER  ...............................................                                15
Background  ........ ..............                  ......................          15
Organization  and management  ...........................                            16
ELETROBRAS  as  the Holding  Company  for  the Sector                     ......     17
Financing Role             ....................         ....................         17
Planning  and budgeting  ..............              ..       ................       19
Policies  and procedures  .............              ..       ................       20
Training  and Staff  Relations  ..............                    .............      20
Accounting  and Auditing  .............              ..       ................       21
Appraisal  and  supervision  capability  ....... ..                   .........      21
Finances          .......................           .......................          21
Performance  ...... .............                 ...................        21
Forecast  ....... .............                .....................         23
Performance  indicators  and  reporting  ....... ..                   .........      24
4.    THE PROJECT  ................................................                                24
Description                  ...........................................             24
Objectives                  ............................................             25
Characteristics                    .......................................           25
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Brazil during October 1980. The mission comprised Messrs. F. Ruberl and
J.  M. Bakovic,  and Ms.  K.  Stephenson.    It  is also  based  on  the  findings  of
a reappraisal mission which visited Brazil during January 1982. The
reappraisal mission comprised Messrs. Ruberl and Bakovic.



- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
Selection of Beneficiaries ......     ......................    25
Appraisal criteria .......     .............................    25
Costs     .................................................    26
Implementation        ........................................    27
Procurement .... ...... . .............    .......    27
Disbursement . ........................................ .    28
Environment       ...........................................    29
Social impact    .............................    29
Risks ... ..............................................    29
Financial analysis ........................ .......  .....    29
Economic analysis . ....................................   31
5.   THE BENEFICIARIES ..........................................    32
6.   SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....      ..............   34
ANNEXES
2 - 1          Ministry of Mines and Energy - Organization Chart.    36
2 - 2/1        Power sector - Historical flow of funds  . .37
/2                     - Projected flow of funds.                 38
/3                     - Average cost and revenue per kWh         39
/4                     - Historical cost of service               40
/5                     - Projected cost of service . .41
/6                     - Average monthly price MWh . .42
2 - 3/1                     - Composition of sources of funds          43
/2                     - Composition of revenues  . .44
3 - 1          ELETROBRAS   - Subsidiary and associated companies    45
3 - 2                       - Equity participation       .46
3 - 3                       - Organization Chart .47
3 - 4/1                     - Historical income statements             48
/2                     - Historical flow of funds  . .49
/3                     - Historical balance sheets . .50
/4                     - Historical financial indicators         51
/5                     - Foreign debt....        ..    ....      52
3 - 5/1                     - Projected income statements .......    53
-  /2                     - Projected flow of funds .         .     54
-  /3                     - Projected balance sheet.        ...     55
-  /4                     - Projected financial indicators ....    56
3 - 6|1                     - Composition and distribution
of revenues .57
/2                     - Composition of sources of funds         58
/3                     - Composition of balance sheet            59



- iii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
ANNEXES (Continued)
4 - 1          Project cost estimates ................ ...........   60
4 - 2          Program and project cost estimates  . ...............   61
4 - 3          General data, investments and IBRD resources            62
4 - 4          Investment and financial plan ...... ...............    63
5 - 1          List of selected documents and data available
in the project file......                             64
m - 1          Location of Projects (Map No. 16381) ........






1. INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY
1.01      The Bank has made eight loans to the Brazilian power sector since
1976 of which five have been for power distribution projects (para. 2.35).
Two of these were made to ELETROBRAS (the holding and finance company for the
Brazilian power sector), each for on-lending to three power utility companies.
Both these loans financed sub-projects that were, in effect, portions of
time-slices of the beneficiaries' general investment programs for power
distribution, and in both cases the Bank identified, helped prepare, appraised
and supervised the sub-projects. All these sub-projects emphasized supply to
rural and low-income consumers, and most of them were located in the less-
developed regions of Brazil.
1.02      The loan now proposed will be similar to the previous ones except
that ELETROBRAS is taking over the Bank's identification, preparation, appraisal
and supervisory functions (para. 2.36). This means that the role of the Bank
now consists in assisting ELETROBRAS in developing the required capabilities,
and in assuring that the high technical and financial quality normally expected
in Bank financed projects is maintained.
1.03      There are various advantages in this new modus operandi, both for
ELETROBRAS and for the prospective beneficiaries, and, therefore, for the
whole of the Brazilian power sector. If the Bank were to continue with direct
appraisal and supervision of such sub-projects, our human resource limitations
would make it impossible to appraise and supervise the large number of sub-
projects currently envisaged: ELETROBRAS is proposing to include five sub-
projects in this loan, and has already identified seven or eight further
sub-projects for possible similar future loans. Thus the assumption of the
Bank's appraisal and supervision functions by ELETROBRAS will make the Bank's
resources accessible to a greater number of the smaller state utility companies
in the less developed regions of Brazil.
1.04      However, financial support on a wider scale is not the only advantage:
ELETROBRAS and prospective beneficiaries alike appreciate the benefits of the
application of World Bank techniques to technical, organizational and financial
problems, and are anxious for a wider application of our influence. Also, the
greater involvement of ELETROBRAS in power distribution projects will counter-
balance the natural tendency (in resource allocation decisions) to neglect the
more pedestrian power distribution projects in favor of the more glamorous and
sometimes grandiose generation and transmission projects. We are in this manner
aiming at achieving a healthier balance in the development of the power sector
as a whole.
1.05      The sub-projects to be financed are all similar in that they are
portions of the 1983-85 time-slices of 1982-1986 investment programs that provide
for extension and improvement of power distribution systems in the less-developed
regions of Brazil, with emphasis on providing electricity for rural and low-
income consumers. The programs provide for the use of consultants as appropriate
(para. 4.01), and the appraisal reports of ELETROBRAS contain recommendations for
institutional improvements where needed (para. 4.02). Thus the purposes and
objectives of these investment programs (and the corresponding sub-projects) are
consistent with World Bank policies for lending in the power sector for projects
that are consumer oriented and emphasize institution building (the institutions
being both ELETROBRAS itself and the beneficiaries).



- 2 -
1.06      By January 1982 three appraisal reports were finished, reviewed in
detail and found satisfactory. Two further reports are in preparation and are
scheduled for completion by the middle of 1982, and cost estimates are already
available for these two additional sub-projects, which are to be included in
this loan. The total project cost, including physical and financing contin-
gencies and front-end fee in IBRD loan, is about US$739.3 million. Non-borrowing
sources will provide for about US$428.7 million, local borrowing for about
US$47.9 million, and the proposed IBRD loan for US$182.7 million. This makes
a total of about US$659.3 million and leaves a gap of about US$80.0 million
that should come from foreign commercial banks by way of cofinancing.
1.07      Compared to previous distribution loans to ELETROBRAS for which the
Bank appraised the sub-projects and the beneficiaries, the role of ELETROBRAS
has changed, and it was therefore necessary to make an appraisal of ELETROBRAS
itself with special regard to its financial situation and its capability for
assuming the functions previously carried out by the Bank. In general, the
finances of ELETROBRAS which reflect the sector finances show a continuing trend
of deterioration, which will be reversed during the projection period. The
project, however, is technically, economically, financially, and institutionally
well prepared. The beneficiaries are all in less-developed regions of Brazil
(where market growth is above the sector average and where the social impact of
the project is more relevant), they all have a low indebtedness ratio which allows
them to absorb loans, and they constitute fertile ground for the institution-
building influence of the project (paras. 4.01-4.07). All in all, this means
that the proposed project is fully consistent with present World Bank policies
for lending in the Brazilian power sector.
1.08      As for ELETROBRAS' capability of assuming the Bank's project appraisal
functions, the completed appraisal reports are evidence of a satisfactory situ-
ation. It will, of course, be necessary to monitor project implementation as
usual and to continue providing backup for preparation of further projects and
for supervision of those under implementation, but there is no reason to expect
that implementation will meet with serious problems, and in fact, procurement
preparations are already underway, with a view to ensuring prompt disbursements.
2. THE ENERGY AND POWER SECTORS
The Energy Sector
Energy Demand
2.01      The estimated total gross consumption of energy in Brazil in 1979
was 117.8 million T.o.e. (0.96 T.o.e. per capita, compared to about 0.89
T.o.e. per capita for Costa Rica and 1.6 T.o.e. for Mexico) l/ and it is ex-
pected to grow at about 6.4% per annum during 1980-1986, reaching about 1.19
1/   T.o.e. (tons of oil equivalent), approximately 10.7 x 106 kcal.  Data
source: Modelo Energetico Brasileiro, Versao II, May 1981.



- 3 -
T.o.e. per capita in 1985. Oil products account for about 41% of national
energy consumption; mineral coal, wood products, bagasse, alcohol and wastes for
about 31%; and hydroelectricity for about 28%. In 1980, gross generation of
electric energy from all sources is estimated to have been 137,783 GWh. Its
annual rate of growth since 1975 has been 11.7% while consumption in the public
system has grown at 12.1% yearly over this period with per capita production
growing from 630 kWh in 1975 to 971 kWh in 1980.
Energy Supply
Oil
2.02      Brazil's proven oil reserves are limited.  Present domestic produc-
tion of crude covers only 25% of the country's requirements (leaving a gap of
750,000 bbls/day of imported oil at end of 1981) and is located mainly in the
Northeastern and Southeastern region. To increase domestic production, Govern-
ment accelerated exploration in 1977 by granting risk type contracts to private
firms, ending government monopoly in this field. Petroleum's share of the
energy supply has been reduced somewhat by hydroelectricity under the vast
program of construction of hydro plants. However, a decrease in the use of
traditional sources, especially wood, coupled with the growth in overall
demand, could increase the existing supply gap. Unless satisfactory results
are obtained in the oil exploration program, this gap may need to be covered
through increased petroleum imports. In order to reduce the foreseen gap,
Government is inducing the use of other energy sources, through fiscal incen-
tives for the production of fuel alcohol and exploitation of coal.
Coal
2.03      Total coal reserves are estimated (in 1980) at 22.8 billion tons
(4.3 billion T.o.e.), and most of it is located in the Southern region,
primarily in the states of Santa Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul. Coal repre-
sents about 4% of the country's energy supply. In addition to construction of
coal-fired thermal plants, Government is also encouraging substitution of coal
for other fuels; in industrial boilers; the cement industry is particularly
suitable in this fuel substitution and some of these plants are currently
being converted--coal ashes are also an important ingredient in cement.
Through incentives for higher use of coal, Government expects a 50% increase
by 1987 of coal's share in the energy supply, from 4% to 6%.
Hydro
2.04      Brazil has vast water resources with a potential for hydroelectric
development estimated at about 213,000 MW (end 1979) 1/, of which only about
24,100 MW have been utilized. An additional 23,000 MW of hydro capacity is
scheduled to be in operation by 1990. 2/ Many watersheds could be developed
1/   933,000 GWh/year.
2/   Compared to 4,000 MW of nuclear and oil fired plant.



- 4 -
economically for generating purposes but they are relatively remote from the
demand centers. When there are differences in regional hydrological regimes
in a country, eletrical interconnections result in a reduction both in installed
capacity and in the use of fossil fuels for power generation. This diversity
exists between the Southern and Southeastern regions and the first stage of a
high voltage interconnection is under construction and being financed under
Loan 1343-BR to ELETROSUL. IDB is financing the second stage of this program
while Loan 1895-BR is financing the third stage that should be completed in
June 1984. Other electrical interconnections are being considered by sector
authorities leading towards a least-cost inter-regional program.
Nuclear
2.05      About 2,500 MW of nuclear generating capacity is scheduled for 1990
operation in the Southeastern region, the largest demand center in the country.
The first unit of 625 MW, supplied by Westinghouse (USA) and started in
October 1972, is expected to become operational in 1982. The Brazil-Federal
Republic of Germany agreement of June 27, 1975 provides for the supply of an
additional 2,400 MW in nuclear plants and a Brazilian option for six additional
1,200 MW units.
Alcohol
2.06      In an effort to reduce the consumption of gasoline, the Government,
in 1975, embarked on a program to expand the production of alcohol through
the National Alcohol Program (PROALCOOL). Since 1975, alcohol production has
increased sharply, and the average alcohol content in automative fuel has
risen from 1% in 1975 to about 19% in 1980. Future emphasis will be on pure
(anhydrous) alcohol as an automotive fuel with the objective of meeting all of
Brazil's future incremental gasoline demand with alcohol. The current goal
is to produce 10.7 billion litres of alcohol by 1985 to substitute 39% of
projected gasoline consumption, the equivalent of 4% of forecast 1985 national
energy consumption. A part of the program is being financed by the Bank under
Loan 1989-BR.
Other Energy Sources
2.07      With respect to other energy sources firewood, charcoal and sugarcane
bagasse are also used. Firewood is used only in some small industries and for
cooking in rural and some urban low-income households. Charcoal is also used
for cooking and in blast furnaces. Bagasse is burned to produce steam in sugar
milling and in the distillation of alcohol. These fuels represent about a
quarter of Brazil's energy utilization and their use will probably not increase.
Other resources known to exist in Brazil include natural gas, with small
reserves in Northeastern fields for local supply. There are few sites for
tidal energy development, and geothermal fields have not yet been discovered.
Brazil has been active in exploring alternative energy sources and the largest
endeavor is the use of alcohol as fuel in internal combustion engines. In the
power sector, tests are being conducted on wind-driven generators.



-5-
National Energy Policy
2.08      National energy policy has three basic features:
(a)  conservation and rational use of energy to avoid waste and
encourage maximum efficiency in the utilization of energy
resources;
(b)  substitution of imported by domestic energy sources, especially
"renewables", wherever technically and economically feasible, to
reduce dependence on imported petroleum and coal; and
(c)  exp:Loitation of existing domestic energy resources and intensified
search for new sources.
The Power Sector
Policies and Objectives
2.09      The power sector has a major role to play in achieving the national
energy policy objectives described above. The growing share of electricity in
total commercial energy demand is expected to grow from 39% in 1978 to about
50% by 1987; therefore this sector must be a prime target of an effective
petroleum conservation policy. Pricing is of key importance in conservation,
and in this area some progress is being made through marginal cost tariff
studies financed by Loans 1300-BR and 1939-BR. Recent legislation permits
the implementation of the results of these studies (para. 2.08) and the tariff
increase made in February 1982 is the first step in this process. Through the
application of marginal cost tariffs, the sector will make better use of its
installed capacity and defer investment requirements.
2.10      The energy policies given emphasis in the power sector at present
are the use of indigenous primary energy resources (water, coal, uranium) and
the substitution of oil-based generation by these resources. However, the
scope for substitution of oil in power generation is relatively limited,
because of the overwhelming predominance of hydropower in the present system
(92% of energy generated in 1980 and 86% of installed capacity) and the fact
that a certain amount of oil fired plant is required in the medium-term future
for peaking and cogeneration (process steam) purposes and also for isolated
systems, especially in the North. As to the substitution of electricity
for oil products at the consumer level, this also is limited in scope since
it is based mainly on replacing the widely used liquid petroleum gas (LPG)
fuelled appliances (mainly cookers and water heaters) with electric appli-
ances. This substitution is difficult owing to the intrinsic advantage that
LPG has over electricity: gas can be stored, and electricity cannot be
stored. Even if the prices of gas and electricity could be adjusted so as
to provide an incentive (for this substitution) that would off-set the con-
sumers investmnent costs, there would remain the problems, and the costs,
of strengthening the existing distribution systems and house wiring and
adding peaking capacity in the generating stations, all of which would
require substantial additional investments.



- 6 -
2.11      Present government plans envisage a deliberate pace of substitution
of electricity for petroleum products directed mainly towards the transporta-
tion sector (railways and urban transport) and autoproducers with oil-fired
generating capacity, which is a realistic policy.
Organization
2.12      The institutional development of the Brazilian power sector over the
last 50 years has been characterized by progressive nationalization and growing
centralization, resulting in the consolidation of a few large and hundreds of
small utilities into a relatively compact structure of state and federally-owned
utilities. The power sector is under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Mines
and Energy (MME) (see Annex 2-1), created in 1960, and since then the drive
has been towards increasing sector efficiency and coordination with the creation
of ELETROBRAS in 1962 (para. 3.01) and the strenghtening of DNAEE's regulatory
p wers. The aim has been to combine, as far as possible, regionalization of
operations with country-wide optimization.
2.13      Though complex and one of the largest in the world, the electric
power sector is well organized and policies have in the past generally been
well formulated and applied. Decree 60,824 of June 7, 1967 established the
current sector organization under which the Departamento Nacional de Aguas e
Energia Eletrica (DNAEE) performs regulatory functions, grants licenses for
generating plants, assigns concessions, sets tariffs (after approval by the
Ministry of Planning) and approves expansion plans. Centrais Eletricas
Brasileiras (ELETROBRAS), a utility holding company, administers public funds
for use by its subsidiaries and state-owned utilities and coordinates external
borrowings. ELETROBRAS also analyzes expansion plans for major generating and
transmission facilities submitted to it by its subsidiaries and coordinates
and supervises the public power system (see chapter 3).
2.14      Government guidelines contained in the 1967 decree mentioned above
promote consolidation of public electricity services in the individual states
into single state-owned utilities. This has resulted in the absorption by the
major state-owned companies of many municipal and privately owned utilities.
The main existing state-owned utilities, ranked in value of assets, are:
Centrais Eletricas de Sao Paulo (CESP); Centrais Eletricas de Minas Gerais
(CEMIG); Companhia Paranaense de Energia Eletrica (COPEL); Companhia Estadual
de Energia Eletrica (CEEE) - Rio Grande do Sul; Centrais Eletricas de Santa
Catarina (CELESC); Companhia Eletrica da Bahia (COELBA); Companhia Eletrica de
Pernambuco (CELPE), and Companhia Eletrica do Ceara (COELCE). All these
utilities have been borrowers or beneficiaries under past Bank loans. Despite
this process of consolidation, the sector still comprises 600 concessionaires,
of which 25 are state companies and the rest small municipal and private under-
takings.
Growth of Demand and Supply
2.15      During the 1970-80 period, electricity production by the public
supply system tripled, rising from 41,648 GWh to 124,673 GWh, an average
annual growth rate of 11.6%. The growth rate of total electricity generation



was fractionally lower, reflecting the slower growth of autoproduction (10.9%
p.a.), and a consequent decline in autoproducers' share in the total from 7%
to 6%. During this period there was also a reduction in system losses (from
18% to 13%). All this resulted in electricity sales (public supply system)
rising at a higher rate (12.6% p.a.) than production. In the early part of
the period (1969/73) the growth rate of electricity consumption matched the
growth rate of GDP fairly closely (13% against 11.6%, giving an elasticity of
1.12), but in 1973/78, when the GDP growth rate declined sharply to 7.3% p.a.,
electricity consumption continued to grow at a high rate (12.3% p.a.), with a
corresponding increase in the elasticity to 1.68.
2.16      This increase is probably due to the rising demand from intermediate
goods industries in this period, but it may also be due in part to the substi-
tution of electricity for other forms of energy (particularly petroleum
products), which it has been official policy to foster following the sharp
increases in world oil prices initiated in 1973/74.
2.17      The percentage of the total households with public electricity service
in 1979 was 56%. The 1978 national average per capita production of electricity
was 953 kWh, which compares with 1290 kWh in Argentina,1135 kWh in Uruguay,
965 kWh in Chile, and 906 in Korea and Panama.
2.18      ELETROBRAS has made projections of electricity generation, consump-
tion and peak demand to 1995 in the so-called "Plano 95" (para. 2.21). The
projected growth of the power market, assuming GDP growth of 6% to 7% p.a. and
population growth of 2.8% p.a., is 10.5% p.a. during 1980-90 and implies that
per capita consumption of electricity will more than double by 1990 to 2120
kWh, or rather more than the 1978 level in Greece of 2034 kWh, and will reach
about 2400 kWh in 1995, which would still be below the 1978 level in Spain of
2700 kWh. The projected expansion program implies that, in a ition to the
33,400 MW relating to projects already started, 18,400 MW will be constructed
by 1990 making a total of 52,000 MW of generating capacity to be added to the
system in the 1980s. To this must be added a substantial program of major
transmission projects and a large ongoing program of subtransmission and
distribution reinforcement and expansion. 1/
Rural Electrification
2.19      While there has been good progress in rural electrification in the
more developed states, coverage for the whole country is still poor (19.2%)
as compared with the urban coverage (85%). At the national level, rural
electrification is promoted by the Grupo Executivo de Eletrificacao Rural
(GEER, supervised by the Ministry of Agriculture) and by ELETROBRAS' distribu-
tion department. However, there is no coordination between the activities of
these two entities. This lack of a common national rural electrification
program under a single agency is a major obstacle to progress in this neglected
1/   A preliminary version of "Plano 2000" (a revision, update, and extension
of the previous "Plano 95") was received in the Bank early in February
1982, and is now under review. Based on lower growth assumptions, and
taking into account investment limitations, it appears to provide a
more modest and more realistic expansion program for the power sector.



- 8 -
area of the sector. The Bank has not lent for rural electrification in
Brazil 1/ as no resolution has yet been found to the financing and tariff
issues; current domestic financing of rural electrification investments is
provided at negative real interest rates, and tariffs to all rural consumers
are below those charged to urban consumers, though costs are higher.
System Expansion Planning
2.20      ELETROBRAS has the primary responsibility for the coordination
of planning in the power sector and the preparation of system generation and
transmission expansion plans but distribution planning is the responsibility
of each individual utility company. ELETROBRAS is subject to the supervision
of DNAEE in the preparation of its plans, and the plans themselves are
subject to the formal approval of DNAEE and the Ministry of Mines and Energy.
However, in practice, DNAEE tends to be preoccupied with the annual tariff
planning and the sector budgeting exercise, which provides financial projec-
tions for the ensuing three years (para. 3.11). In the last two years the
responsibility for approving investment programs of public utilities has been
exercised by SEST/SEPLAN (para. 3.12).
2.21      ELETROBRAS' Department of Energy Studies (DENE), which has the
responsibility of analyzing expansion plans for major generation and trans-
mission projects in the interconnected systems, performs the analysis in two
stages. In the first stage the long-term period is considered (20 or more
years) and a large number of alternatives for the optimum development of the
power system are considered; in the second stage, medium and short-term period
studies of a reduced number of alternatives are made to define the optimum
expansion program. A 1980 Bank sector mission reviewed ELETROBRAS' planning
methods in detail and found them acceptable, while suggesting certain technical
improvements. However, there is not a direct relationship between the least
cost expansion plans as derived by DENE's analysis and the plan published in
1979 by ELETROBRAS, called "Plano 95" (para. 2.18). This plan, though derived
in part from DENE's analyses, also takes into consideration certain "fixed"
government policies in the energy sector. These include the nuclear program,
the plan to develop a national capability to construct coal fired steam
generating plants and "priority" projects such as the 4,000 MW Tucurui and the
12,600 MW Itaipu hydro-electric projects. In addition, ELETROBRAS is subject
to pressure from the larger utilities who perform their own planning exercises
and want to maintain a certain level of independent construction activity
within their areas of influence.
2.22       In connection with Loan 1538-BR (South-Southeast Power Distribution
Project, May 1978), ELETROBRAS agreed to prepare and submit to the Bank a long
term master plan (Plano 2000) based on considerations of economy and efficiency;
in connection with Loan 1939-BR (Power System Coordination Project, January
1`"1) ELETROBRAS agreed to continue improving its planning methodology, to
analyze alternative sequences of generation expansion under two assumptions of
load growth, and present the results to the Bank by the end of 1981.
1/   Except for rural electrification components in the Minas Gerais (1976)
and Ceara (1977) rural development projects.



-9-
Electricity Revenues
2.23      The regulation of electricity rates in Brazil is the responsibility
of the Ministry of Mines and Energy which exercises its authority through
DNAEE. The Water Code of 1934, as amended, established the principle of
service-at-cost plus an adequate return upon capital invested. Starting in
February 1957, the power companies were allowed tariffs which would provide
them up to 10% return on historic remunerable assets after covering produc-
tion costs. After 1971, power companies were allowed to earn, at DNAEE's
discretion, a rate of return between 10 and 12% on remunerable investment. 1/
In the same way that ELETROBRAS' responsibility regarding sector investments
has been greatly reduced by transferring the authority for investment approval
to SEST/SEPLAN (see para. 2.20), since 1981 DNAEE's responsibility regarding
sector tariffs has also been greatly reduced by transferring the authority
for tariff approval to SEAP/SEPLAN, which sets limits to tariff increases,
within the general policies aimed at reducing inflation.
2.24      Consumer bills contain the following charges (para. 3.10a):
A.   The tariff, which on a nationwide basis, provides about 83% of
revenues collected from consumers (see Annexes 2-2/3 and 2-3/2).
According to the current legislation, these charges should be
set at levels to cover:
(a) operation, maintenance and administrative expenses;
(b) taxes other than for income (mainly property taxes);
(c) straight line depreciation of average gross revalued
fixed assets in operation;
(d) reversion tax (a federal tax of up to 4% of assets in
in operation) to fund loans to concessionaires for
facility expansion, compensation of private utilities
for acquisition of their assets, and the Global
Guarantee Fund--a tariff equalization facility; and
(e) the legal return on remunerable investment.
B.   The sole tax (IUEE) on residential, commercial and small indus-
trial 2/ consumer bills, which provides about 9% of sector revenues.
Forty percent (40%) from this source goes to federal sector
agencies, fifty percent (50%) to state and federal district
utilities, and ten percent (10%) to municipal utilities; and
C.   The Compulsory Loan (8% of revenues), an obligatory investment
scheme under which industrial consumers using more than 2,000 kWh
per month acquire ELETROBRAS bonds (20-year maturity yielding 6%
annual interest and revalued through monetary adjustments).
1/   Remunerable investment is equal to net revalued assets plus an allowance
for inventory and net working capital, less the difference between the
prior years' actual and allowable return, less contributions and grants.
2/   Industries using less than 2,000 kWh per month.



- 10 -
2.25      Out of an average price of electricity of USi5.43 per kWh in 1981
(expressed in mid-81 USJ) 1/ paid by the consumer, the companies receive
directly approximately 69%. The composition of the total average charge per
kWh is given below:
Cr$/kWh      USj/kWh         %
Operating expenses                                   1.70          1.84          33.0
Depreciation                                         0.64         0.69           12.4
Operating costs                                    2.34         2.53           45.4
Remuneration                                          1.23         1.33          23.9
Concessionaries revenues                           3.57         3.86           69.3
Reversion                                            0.72          0.78          14.0
Electricity bill                                   4.29         4.64           83.3
Sole tax                                             0.45         0.49            8.8
Compulsory loan                                      0.41         0.44            7.9
Total charge to consumers                          5.15         5.57          100.0
Less:  Transfers to other sectors                    0.13          0.14           2.5
Sector revenues                                    5.02         5.43           97.5
2.26      A single tariff structure is applied to all interconnected systems,
with slightly higher tariffs applied in isolated thermal systems. Until 1980,
the Global Guarantee Fund (GGF), financed through a surcharge of up to 2% on
assets in operation of all the utilities, was used in the tariff equalization
process to supplement earnings of eligible utilities. The sector as a whole
has been obtaining lower rates of remuneration than the 10% allowed by law and
in January 1981 the Brazilian government expanded the role of GGF, from a
tariff equalization instrument to a rate of remuneration equalization instrument.
Thus Decree Law No. 1849 of January 13, 1981, establishes that the annual
guarantee quota will be the positive difference, if any, between the conces-
sionary's rate of remuneration and the average rate of remuneration for the
sector. Besides the rate of remuneration equalization purpose of the GGF,
DNAEE can include in the amount to be collected a portion for investments
considered as prioritary by the Federal government, which would be transferred
to the Global Reversion Fund (GRF). This exercise is carried out on an ex-ante
basis, and the companies with a positive difference make monthly deposits in a
special ELETROBRAS account in Banco do Brasil S.A. from which ELETROBRAS makes
the corresponding disbursements according to DNAEE's determination. DNAEE has
used its control over the GGF to encourage improved performance by participating
utilities.
2.27      In recent years DNAEE has (i) redefined "remunerable investment,"
effectively lowering the rate base; (ii) disapproved some operating expenses;
and (iii) used more liberally a Compensation Account (see footnote to para.
1f   Exchange rate:  US$1 = Cr$92.44.



- 11 -
2.23), which has the effect of deferring to future years revenues needed to
cover current expenses. In relation to the recent loan to CEEE (Loan 1824-BR),
Government agreed to (i) require DNAEE to allow the concessionaires a reasonable
period to reduce their operating costs whenever DNAEE proposes not to recognize
such costs in connection with tariff setting; (ii) require DNAEE to exchange
views with the Bank on the foregoing and to inform the Bank of any changes in
the criteria used to determine the acceptability of concessionaires service
costs; and (iii) require DNAEE to inform the Bank within 30 days of any
decision on the levels of electricity rates to be allowed to concessionaires.
With respect to operating expenses, DNAEE agreed, in connection with the CEEE
loan, to complete the sector efficiency study by June 30, 1981. This study
would contain recommendations on the basis to be used by DNAEE in assessing
expenses. The study consists of three components: (i) relationship between
the characteristics of a utility and its operating expenses; (ii) productivity
of various factor inputs; and (iii) formation of audit teams to carry out full
audits (excluding financial audits) of utilities. The report for the first
component has been completed and its results are already being used by DNAEE
in assessing operating costs of utility companies. The other two components
are expected to be completed prior to the end of 1982.
2.28      Electricity tariffs contain generally appropriate features such as
separate demand and energy rates for industrial and commercial consumers, dis-
counts to encourage large industrial consumers to accept supply at higher
voltages, and life-line rates for minimum residential consumption. However,
the tariffs provide a subsidy to all rural customers, and do not provide for
differentiation between peak and off-peak rates or differentiation for regional
cost characteristics; in addition, the tariff equalization feature warrants re-
assessment. Under provisions of Loan 1300-BR, in March 1979 DNAEE and ELETROBRAS
completed a study of marginal costs at high voltage levels in the Brazilian power
system with assistance of consultants from Eletricite de France (EdF). This
study highlighted areas where more analysis and better data were needed. In the
ensuing two years four study groups from DNAEE, ELETROBRAS and other utilities
carried out a deeper analysis in the problem areas identified, again with some
support from EdF. In September 1981, the Bank received the results which
recommended the adoption of the reference tariffs developed in the study for
the three regions considered: North/Northeast, Southeast/Central-West, and
South. A detailed chronogram for implementing the study has been drawn up
covering a four year period. The first step, which is the modification of
Decree No. 62.724 of May 17, 1968 which established general standards of
rate-making for electric power concessionaries, has been taken by the
issuance of Decree No. 86.463 on October 13, 1981. Previously, the legisla-
tion required that the demand (kW) charge cover legal remuneration, the
reversion quota, depreciation, the cost of purchased power and several other
cost components, while the energy (KWh) charge should cover other operating
costs. The new decree says that DNAEE will decide how the cost of service
will be divided between the two charges. The new decree also authorizes
DNAEE to establish seasonal and diurnal differentiations in tariffs and to
change metering and billing practices. The tariff increase of February 1,
1982 (16.5%) is a first step in the process of implementation in that it
included changes in tariff structures as recommended by the study. The time
schedule for the remaining studies includes the following distinct items:
(i) energy and power supply to concessionaries, and interchange between
them; (ii) loan characteristics of 2.3-13.8 kV and low voltage customers;



- 12 -
(iii) marginal costs of supply in each concessionaire; and (iv) development of
tariffs for low voltage customers. Consulting services for these additional
studies are being financed by the Bank through Loan 1939-BR and the studies are
expected to be completed by end of 1982 (para. 2.09).
Finances 1/
2.29      Over the last ten years sector investments increased considerably be-
cause of major electricity generation projects such as Itaipu, nuclear and Tucurui,
while sector revenues did not keep pace with the rate of growth of investment. As
a result, sector finances show a funding composition with increasing reliance on
borrowings. In 1973 total consumer-based contributions (after debt service and net
dividend payments) reached an all-time peak of 56% of total sources of funds, out
of which about 21% came from net internal cash generation. This peak was reached
by means of sound tariff levels which have eroded in real terms since then. Pre-
liminary data for 1981 shows an almost zero participation of consumer-based contri-
butions in the sector expansion program. Government equity contributions, which
had dropped from 15% in 1973 to 9% in 1980, once again reached the 15% level in
1981, thus maintaining the participation of borrowings at the 86% level in the last
two years. This high degree of participation of borrowings in the sector's funding
composition shows the increasing and excessive reliance on this source of funds
which in 1973 constituted only 29% of total sources (see Annexes 2-2/1 and 2-3/1).
2.30      Since the major hydroelectric plants under construction and their trans-
mission systems will be commissioned in the next two years (Itaipu in 1983 and
Tucurui in 1984) and because there will be an excess of installed capacity owing
to a slowdown in market growth, the rate of investment growth will drop in the
coming years, providing the sector with some financial breathing space and
allowing for a reversal in past financial trends. Thus in 1986, consumer-
based contributions are expected to reach about 47% and borrowings are expected
to be reduced to about 35% of total financial requirements.
2.31      Sector operating expenses grew at a faster rate than sector revenues,
and because of the erosion of tariff levels, they took a growing share in
sector revenues (from 25% in 1972 to 33% in 1981). This trend is expected to
continue until 1984 (40%) when it will be reversed (reaching 34% in 1986).
Remuneration of sector investments was 36% of total revenues in 1972, and
it had a decreasing trend until 1981 (24%) and is expected to continue so
until 1984 (14%) when the trend will be reversed, reaching 23% in 1986
(see Annex 2).  The rate of remuneration on investment follows a different
pattern as shown in the following table:
Rate of
Year                      Remuneration (%)
1972                             10.7
1973                             10.0
1974                             10.4
1975                             12.2
1976                             11.4
1977                             11.2
1978                              8.6
1979                              7.7
1980                              4.9
1981 (preliminary)                7.4
1/   For the financial analysis, the sector includes the concessionaires and
ELETROBRAS, and the Global Reversion Fund which represents resources
collected by the concessionaries and administered by ELETROBRAS.



- 13 -
The increase in the rate of remuneration for 1981 reflects the increase in
real terms (about 17%) of electricity revenues during that year. However, the
projected increases in remunerable investments as a result of past investment
which will be commissioned in the near future make for a decreasing rate of
remuneration until 1984 (3.2%) after which it should start recuperating (in 1986
to 5.9%).
2.32      Under previous loans, borrowers were required to maintain their
revenues, including transfers from the GGF, at levels consistent with sound
financial practice and in conformance with Brazilian legislation for the sector,
which allow for a 10% rate of remuneration on revalued remunerable investment.
However, as explained in the above paragraph for the sector, in the 1978-1980
period most of the Bank's beneficiaries had a decreasing rate of remuneration
which was below the 10% allowed by Brazilian law. Because of concern over
deterioration of sector finances, a special agreement was reached with the
Brazilian Government on September 2, 1981, and confirmed in our letter of
December 23, 1981 providing the following:
(a)  An ainual rate of remuneration for the electric power sector
as a whole of 10% of current net value of remunerable investments
in the power sector (as defined by present Brazilian law), and
the recovery of past shortfalls in achieving such rate of remu-
neration since 1978, should be attained as soon as possible;
(b) To that effect, the Brazilian Government has undertaken to carry
out a program of increases in the level of total charges per kWh
to the final consumer to be not less, in real terms, than 3% in 1982
and 5% in each year thereafter, until such 10% rate of remuneration
has been achieved and such shortfalls have been recovered; 1/
(c) The increase will be achieved through a series of quarterly
tariff adjustments;
(d) Each of the Bank borrowers and beneficiaries will maintain each
year a rate of remuneration at least equal to that year's average
rate for the sector;
(e)  The Government of Brazil has also agreed to consult with the World
Bank and to provide periodic reports on the execution of such
prog.ram; and
(f) The World Bank will not enforce the covenants in previous loans
relating to rate of remuneration as long as the Brazilian government
and its agencies and power companies comply with the above provisions.
2.33       In 1964, the Government issued a decree which permitted power companies
to revalue their assets annually with the Fixed Asset Correction Index prepared
by SEPLAN and issued annually by the National Economic Council. Since 1976,
asset values were adjusted monthly in accordance with changes in the ORTN index
1/   Sector projections indicate that the 10% rate of remuneration, under current
Brazilian legislation, will be attained in 1987, and recuperation of short-
falls wil:l be completed in 1991. The government has advised recently that
the increase for 1982 will be 5% (instead of 3%), which will shorten the
recovery period.



- 14 -
which roughly corresponded to general price movements. In 1978 the revaluation
system was changed by eliminating an 18-month lag in the old system, with a
positive result in asset valuation. However, later on, especially in 1980, the
government limited the ORTN corrections, compared with general price movements,
with a negative result in asset valuation. This policy was abandoned in early
1981, the government stating that ORTN corrections are permitted in line with
the national consumer price index. The above mentioned agreement accepted
current asset revaluation practice, but future Bank missions should continue to
review this matter.
Bank Participation in the Power Sector
2.34      Since 1949, the Bank has made 34 loans to the Brazilian power sector
amounting to about US$1.7 billion. Most have been for hydroelectric plants
and associated transmission facilities in the Southeastern and Southern regions.
Bank participation has contributed to sector organization and planning and
facilitated foreign commercial financing of the sector. The Bank also assisted
the Government in its effort to implement a tariff policy which has assisted
sector investments. Project performance audit reports on power-plant 1/ and
distribution-system 2/ projects have been distributed to the Executive Directors.
These reports conclude that, despite construction delays and cost overruns,
the projects were substantially successful.
2.35      The most recent loans have been mainly for transmission and distribu-
tion projects, as shown in the following table:
Loan No.       Date       Borrower            Brief Project Description
1939-BR    Jan.  '81    ELETROBRAS       Electric power system coordination
1839-BR    July  '80    ELETROSUL        Transmission expansion
1824-BR    March '80    CEEE             Distribution expansion
1721-BR    May   '80    COPEL            Distribution expansion
1538-BR    May   '78    ELETROBRAS       3 Distribution expansions
(CEMIG, ESCELSA and CELESC)
1343-BR    Jan.  '77    ELETROSUL        Transmission expansion
1300-BR    May   '76    ELETROBRAS       3 Distribution expansions
(COELCE, CELPE and COELBA)
1257-BR    May   '76    COPEL            Distribution expansion
2.36      The proposed loan would be the fourth loan to ELETROBRAS (after
1300-BR, 1538-BR and 1939-BR), and it would be the first one in which ELETROBRAS
has the responsibility for appraisal and supervision of the beneficiaries.
In general terms, the Bank's strategy for lending to the Brazilian power sector
is tending towards distribution projects which combine significant elements of
institution building (para. 5.03) and have a direct impact on the improvement of
the living conditions of the lower income group of the population (para. 4.19).
1/   Loan 404-BR (Sec. M 77-532 of June 28, 1977); Loans 442-BR and 566-BR
(Sec. M 78-34 of January 13, 1978); Loan 728-BR (Sec. M 79-756 of
October 23, 1979).
2/   Loans 475/476/477 and 478-BR (Sec. M 75-646 of September 4, 1975).



- 15 -
3. THE BORROWER
Background
3.01      ELETROBRAS - Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras S.A. - was created in
1962 by Law No. 3890-A as a vehicle for consolidating existing public utilities,
centralizing management of the sector and encouraging orderly regional expansion
and long-term growth. ELETROBRAS is a mixed economy corporation, operating
under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME) and the
regulatory authority of DNAEE (para. 2.12). Under law, at least 51% of the
company's voting stock must always be owned directly or indirectly by the
Government of Brazil, and currently the Government holds 99.6% of total company
shares and 100% of voting (common) stock. In addition to common stock, company
equity includes Class A preferred shares owned by state, municipal and other
shareholders and Class B shares of which non-governmental shareholders own 20%
(Preferred shares are not convertible and have no voting rights, but have
certain prior rights in the distribution of capital and dividends.)
3.02      Commencing operations in 1962, ELETROBRAS gradually achieved its
current position in the electric power sector by absorbing existing federally
owned utilities and acquiring over time several foreign electric power
companies operating in Brazil, including subsidiaries of the American and
Foreign Power Co., which had a strong presence in Brazil. Among the federal
utilities transferred to ELETROBRAS were two regional generation and
transmission companies -- FURNAS Centrais Eletricas S.A. servicing the
Southeast and CHESF (Companhia Hidroeletrica de Sao Francisco) servicing
the Northeast. Later, two new regional subsidiaries were formed -- in 1968
ELETROSUL (Centrais Eletricas do Sul do Brasil S.A.) responsible for the
Southern regional and Mato Grosso do Sul, and in 1973 ELETRONORTE (Centrais
Eletricas do Norte do Brasil S.A.), responsible for the Northern region.
3.03      In addition to the four regional subsidiaries, ELETROBRAS also owns
ESCELSA (Espirito Santo Centrais Eletricas), the power distributor for the
state of Espirito Santo in the Southeast. In January 1979, ELETROBRAS acquired
an 83% participation in LIGHT - Servicios de Eletricidade S.A. from BRASCAN
Ltd. of Canada. LIGHT was Brazil's largest electricity distribution company
at that time, servicing the area of Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo. Since then
it has sold the Sao Paulo subsystem to ELETROPAULO, a mainly state-owned
company. ELETROBRAS also holds the Brazilian Government's 50% interest
in the Itaipu Binacional, the binational agency set up in April 1973 by
the governments of Brazil and Paraguay to build jointly the 12,600 MW Itaipu
hydroelectric facility on the Parana river.
3.04      ELETROBRAS' regional subsidiaries are responsible primarily for
generation activities and high-voltage transmission systems (above 138 kV)
covering several states. They act as bulk suppliers to state and municipal
utility companies which generally have responsibility for state and local
generation, sub-transmission (69-138 kV) and electricity distribution (up to
69 kV). Since 1967, Government policy has been to consolidate as far as
possible local companies and services at the state level under the state
utility companies. In line with this policy, any existing distribution
activities under ELETROBRAS ownership are gradually being transferred to the
state companies. In addition to its subsidiaries, ELETROBRAS has a minority



- 16 -
participation (usually below 15%) in most of the state and municipal companies
of the electricity sector. A list of the subsidiaries and associated companies
and ELETROBRAS' equity share in each is attached (see Annex 3-1).
Organization and Management
3.05      ELETROBRAS is governed by an Administrative Board of Directors
comprised of the President (appointed by the President of the Republic of
Brazil); five Directors who are elected at the General Shareholders meeting
for a term of 3 years and who head up the various directorates of the company
(Coordination, Operations and Systems, Finance, Planning and Engineering, and
Management Assistance); four Counselors, elected for a term of 3 years, who
are associated with public power companies under federal concession and have
experience in technology, finance or business management; and two Counselors,
again elected for a term of 3 years, one representing public bodies other than
the Federal Government and another representing private shareholders. Both
Directors and Counselors can be reelected.
3.06      The Board of Directors sets business policy for the company and
specifically is responsible for investment and financing of the public
utilities, domestic and international borrowing and approving the annual
budget. It also calls the General Shareholders' Meetings and is, of course,
answerable to its principal shareholder, the Federal Government.  An Executive
Board, comprised of the President and the five Directors, manages the day to
day activities of the company under guidelines set by the Board.  It also has
responsibility for making policy recommendations to the Board.
3.07      The five directorates of the company are its operating arms and
reflect the various services ELETROBRAS provides -- funding and investment,
planning, technical assistance, managerial assistance and regional and inter-
national coordination (see chart at Annex 3-3).
(a)  The Directorate of Economics and Finance has responsibility
for obtaining funds through its Department of Resources; also
for the financial analysis of projects and investments, and
budgeting for the sector through its Department of Investments.
Preparation of medium- and long-term financial planning is
also conducted in this directorate through the Department of
Financial Planning.
(b)  The Directorate of Planning and Engineering is responsible
primarily for the technical planning on a regional and national
basis, as well as analysis of projects and investments from
the technical and economic points of view. During the budget
process, this directorate reviews from a technical standpoint,
the annual budget, proposed projects and general expansion
plans of subsidiary and associated companies. Its Departments
of Market Studies and Energy Studies conduct the technical
long-term planning for system expansion. Another department
within this directorate is assigned responsibilities for
rural electrification.
(c)  The Directorate of Management Assistance helps subsidiaries
and other sector companies to strengthen administrative and
control systems.



- 17 -
(d) The Directorate of Systems Operation is in charge of coordi-
nating inter-regional systems and also supervises the regional
coordinating groups (GCOI's) set-up to plan and achieve the
most: economic operation of interconnected systems. And,
finally,
(e) The Directorate of Coordination is responsible for (i) relations
between sector and industry, (ii) international relations
concerning energy and power, and (iii) conducting and supporting
studies for the development of non-conventional sources of energy,
and maintaining a technological research center, CEPEL (Centro de
Pesquisas de Energia Eletrica).
ELETROBRAS as the Holding Company for the Sector
3.08      ELETROBRAS as the parent company of the regional generating and bulk
transmission companies, and through its minority participation in state utility
companies, acts as a holding company for the sector, providing a variety of
services. It provides financing for the sector, analyzes investment and expan-
sion plans of sector companies, plays an important role in budgeting for the
sector, undertakes technical and financial planning, provides technical and
managerial assistance to sector companies, coordinates regional and inter-
national activities and supports research on technology and energy sources.
Financing Role
3.09      Because of its function as holding company and financial agency
for the Brazilian power sector, ELETROBRAS plays a pivotal role in the
development of the sector and becomes heavily dependent on sector based
resources for its finances. This dependence coupled with its pivotal role
tends to make ELETROBRAS' financial conditions mirror the trends in the
financial state of the sector.
3.10      ELETROBRAS raises funds from four sources -- statutory resources,
government funds, internally generated funds and borrowings.
(a) Statutory Resources
ELETROBRAS receives funds from three statutory resources--the
sole tax, the Compulsory Loan and the Global Reversion Fund
(para. 2.24).
(b) Government Funds
There are two sources of funding from the Federal Government--its
reinvestment of dividends and special appropriations. In the past,
government policy has been to reinvest 95% of dividends it received
from ELETROBRAS by increasing its share capital in the company. For
specific projects, ELETROBRAS also receives special appropriations
from the Federal Budget or in special legislation.



- 18 -
(c) Internally Generated Funds
ELETROBRAS' internal sources of funds are dividends paid on its
investments in subsidiaries and associated companies and payments
of interest and repayments of principal on loans advanced to
those companies. ELETROBRAS determines dividend payments for its
subsidiary companies after review of operating results and other
financial data. From its associated companies, ELETROBRAS
seeks a minimum annuai dividend payment equal to a 10%
return on its share investment. ELETROBRAS frequently
reinvests its dividends in support of capital needs of
sector companies; under several Bank loans, it is obliged to
do this. In some cases, it is also converting debt service
and outstanding loans to equity. In lending from its general
resources, ELETROBRAS requires a period of 10 years with a
3-year grace period and a rate a interest of 10% (plus a tax
of 0.5%) plus monetary correction. Borrowers guarantee their
their loans with their statutory IUEE quotas (sole tax). Domestic
or external borrowings specifically re-lent on to utilities carry
the conditions of the respective financing.
(d) Borrowings
(i)  ELETROBRAS raises both domestic and foreign currency loans,
under its own name in local and international markets, then
passing the funds on to subsidiaries or associated companies in
the form of repasses or loans. In addition to the bulk of
ELETROBRAS' borrowing being passed to the sector, the larger
and more experienced companies have sometimes taken loans in
their own names, especially when related to specific projects.
(ii)  Annual borrowings targets for ELETROBRAS are established on a
yearly basis and in accordance with the sector budget approved
by SEST. Approach to the banks for obtaining offers is
submitted to specific controls by the Central Bank, which has
the responsibility for organizing a queue of borrowers. The
company has become increasingly sophisticated in its funding
program in recent years due to the creation of the Department
of External Resources, later renamed Funding Department,
within the economic and financial directorate. That department
seeks to diversify ELETROBRAS group sources of funding in the
international market, studying potential new markets, new
types of operations, both in the financial and capital
markets, and developing contacts with banks operating in
these new markets or new banks operating in traditional markets
(like the regional banks in the Euromarket). This department
is also responsible for raising local funds from Banco do
Brasil, BNH (Banco Nacional de Habitacao), BNDE (Banco Nacional
do Desenvolvimento Economico), Caixa Economica Federal, and
FINEP (Financiadora de Estudos e Projetos). It also analyzes
conditions of FINLME (Agencia Especial de Financiamento
Industrial) loans for ELETROBRAS subsidiaries, and seeks ways
to familiarize international markets with its lesser-known
companies.



- 19 -
(iii)  During 1980, the limit established for ELETROBRAS by SEST was
US$670 million, and ELETROBRAS undertook only one major syndi-
ation, in the amount of US$400 million. Besides that, one
club loan of US$20 million was obtained from Canadian banks,
and the remaining of its funding--US$250 million--came through
local loans. During 1981, new instruments of funding have
been identified in order to diversify sources and currencies
for funding. The Central Bank guidelines were less restric-
tive, and owing to the growing interest from the banks in
working directly with ELETROBRAS' subsidiaries, an even larger
diversified program was undertaken. As a result, ELETROBRAS
undertook only one major syndication of US$300 million, raising
an additional US$146.5 million through smaller loans in US
dollars and other currencies. Major subsidiaries, assisted by
ELETROBRAS, also tapped the external market, raising a total
amount of over US$500 million. On the whole, a total of
US$1.3 billion was raised in 1981.
(iv)  ELETROBRAS will consolidate its activities in the international
financial market through traditional operations handled by its
subsidiaries and new types of operations handled directly by
the company. Concerning capital markets, foreign bond issues
in new markets are envisaged. Contacts for a US commercial
paper issue by ELETROBRAS are also well advanced. Brazilian
banks may lead some of the group operations abroad in order to
take advantage of their increased presence and potentiality,
especially in the Euromarket. The target for 1982 is a total
of US$1.35 billion.
Planning and Budgeting
3.11      ELETROBRAS has long been at the center of sector planning, both in
the short-term through the budgeting process and associated planning of
financial requirements and in medium and long-term technical and financial
planning. Up until 1980, both subsidiary and state companies submitted
their projected budgets to ELETROBRAS for review by the company's technical
and financial analysts, who then established project and other budgetary
priorities. Once this information was aggregated and financial requirements
identified, ELETROBRAS' recommendations were submitted to the Ministry of
Mines and Energy, and to the Ministry of Planning for review and final approval,
which was generally forthcoming (para. 2.20).
3.12      Since 1981, however, ELETROBRAS' responsibility for the budgetary
process has been reduced with the centralizing of decision-making in SEST
(an agency of the Ministry of Planning). Projected budgets of the state
utility companies for 1981, for example, have been submitted directly to
SEST for review (although ELETROBRAS was asked to comment on them). Pro-
cedures have been streamlined for 1982 with ELETROBRAS taking responsibility
for the budget submissions of its subsidaries and associated companies.
3.13      Besides budgeting and related financial planning ELETROBRAS has
primary responsibility for the coordination of medium and long-term planning
in the power sector and preparation of system expansion plans. Formulation of
plans for system expansion is the responsibility of the Directorate of Planning



- 20 -
and Engineering which has a technical staff comprised of experienced engineers
and economists. Complementary financial planning is conducted within the
Directorate of Economics and Finance. ELETROBRAS relies on the regional
subsidiaries to conduct planning studies in their respective areas, and
state utility companies also undertake independent planning exercises. The
size and complexity of the sector require this division of responsibility, but
it creates problems in coordination of planning. Moreover, there is no clear
division of responsibility between DNAEE and ELETROBRAS with respect to
overall planning.
Policies and Procedures
3.14      ELETROBRAS is regulated by a legal framework within which it has
developed financial policies. The resource allocation process gives highest
priority to large projects considered strategic by the Brazilian government,
and to the generation and transmission projects of ELETROBRAS. No policy
exists within this framework for the allocation of resources for distribution
projects. ELETROBRAS has agreed to discuss with the Bank before making any
major change by modification, addition or deletion of its financial policies
(para. 6.04(a)).
Training and Staff Relations
3.15      Most of ELETROBRAS' top management and some of its professional
staff have had experience in utility operations in the Brazilian power sector
and some have had training in foreign utilities both in Europe and in North
America. In some cases, staff members came to ELETROBRAS from the private
sector where they had specialized training as is the case of members of the
external funding department that came from commercial banks. ELETROBRAS has a
very comprehensive and updated training program for personnel of Brazilian
power utilities that also benefits its own staff members. This training
program has been extended to other South American power companies, members
of the Interregional Electric Commission (CIER).
3.16      ELETROBRAS' professional staff is competent and well trained and
no major difficulties have been encountered in recruiting qualified personnel.
At present time, however, some difficulties in recruiting and maintaining staff
are foreseen because, in order to fight inflation, ceilings for salaries of
top management of government-run entities have been established and salary
increases have not kept up with inflation. This may hamper ELETROBRAS' recruit-
ment ability since the private sector does not have similar constraints. At
the end of 1979 ELETROBRAS had about 2,000 employees, and it is seen from the
following table that the rate of growth in the number of employees has been
declining since 1976.
Number of Employees            % of
Increase         Increase
Year                   Total       (Decrease)        (Decrease)
1976                   1,568           221             16.4
1977                   1,678           110               7.0
1978                   1,825           147               8.8
1979                   1,919             94              5.2
1980                   2,052           133              6.9
1981                   2,036           (16)            (0.8)
3.17      In its fight against inflation, the Federal Government has estab-
lished a zero-growth rate in the number of personnel of ELETROBRAS and with
these constraints, in salary levels and number of personnel, ELETROBRAS



- 21 -
will be obliged to improve the productivity of its staff. During super-
vision, ELETROBRAS' organizational structure and staffing arrangements
should be reviewed with a view to ascertaining if ELETROBRAS handles
adequately the work entrusted to it.
Accounting and Auditing
3.18      The accounting system of ELETROBRAS is satisfactory and well suited
to ELETROBRAS' needs. Internal control functions are vested in the Internal
Auditing Department which reports to the President. Internal Audit carries an
adequate program of financial audits and follow-up on past recommendations.
ELETROBRAS employs as its external auditors the firm Boucinhas, Campos & Claro
S/C which is acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.29(a)). In addition, the Fiscal
Council, appointed by the Shareholders' meeting, carries out external control
duties in accordance with Brazilian legislation.
Appraisal and Supervision Capability
3.19      Over the last three and one-half years, and in collaboration with
numerous preparation missions from the Bank, ELETROBRAS has developed an
adequate capability for appraisal and supervisory work. Special teams from
the engineering, the financial analysis, and the management departments have
worked and are still working with the relevant staff of prospective benefi-
ciaries in identifying and preparing sub-projects (which are portions of time-
slices of overall investment programs) on the same principles that would have
been followed by Bank staff in similar identifications and preparations
(para. 4.02). This capability will enable ELETROBRAS to continue selecting
priority investments in the sector and to arrange for the respective financing
on the basis of sound technical, economic and financial principles. A pipeline
for future similar projects is already in preparation.
3.20      These ELETROBRAS teams have completed the appraisal reports for the
sub-projects and investment programs of three beneficiaries (COELCE, COSERN
and CELPE), and they are currently working on the appraisals of two further
sub-projects (for CELPA and ENERSUL). The three appraisals are considered
satisfactory, and it may be noted that they include recommendations for the
institutional improvements of the beneficiaries identified by ELETROBRAS
during appraisal. Satisfactory project briefs for the other two sub-projects
have been received, including estimates for the respective investment programs
and sub-projects.
Finances 1/
Performance
3.21      ELETROBRAS, as the holding company and development bank for the sector,
handles the funds raised from statutory resources, government funds, internally
generated funds, and borrowings (see para. 3.10). During the 1972-1981 period,
most of ELETROBRAS' revenues originated from interest charges on loans, which
had an increasing participation in total revenues (from 62% in 1972 to 87% in
1981). The remaining revenues came mainly from shareholding profits which had
a diminishing participation in total revenues (from 36% in 1972 to 13% in 1981).
1/   See Annex 3.



- 22 -
The decreasing remuneration on investment (see para. 2.31) and the heavy interest
expenses faced by the operating Brazilian power companies have also affected nega-
tively the net income 1/ of ELETROBRAS' subsidiary and associated companies. The
clearly defined negative trend for revenues from shareholdings was broken tempor-
arily in 1978 and in 1979, basically because of new accounting methods approved
by the Brazilian Government, 2/ but it continued its decline in 1980 and 1981
(Annexes 3-4/1 and 3-6/1). On the expense side, ELETROBRAS' general and
administrative expenses had a very low impact on income (an average of 8% of
total revenues for the period), while interest on debt had a great and increas-
ing impact (from 12% of total revenues in 1972 to 43% in 1981), which seriously
reduced net income (from 81% of total revenues in 1972 to 52% in 1981).
3.22      Because of a decreasing participation of consumer-based contributions
in face of a relatively heavy investment program (para 2.29), ELETROBRAS' funding
composition for the 1972-1981 period shows an increasing reliance on borrowing
(from 6% of total sources in 1972 to 51% in 1981, see Annexes 3-4/2 and 3-6/2).
The result of the increasing borrowing meant also an increasing debt service
burden (exacerbated by harder capital market terms) on ELETROBRAS' finances which,
in turn, diminished substantially its net internal cash generation available for
investment (from 22% of total sources in 1972 to -29% in 1981). ELETROBRAS'
financial autonomy has also been affected during this ten-year period since the
capital service 3/ coverage ratio decreased (from 1.9 times in 1972 to 0.3 in
1981). The negative net internal cash generation of 1981 has been offset by
consumer-based contributions 4/ which help to make up for a positive but de-
creasing total consumer-based contribution to expansion (from 78% in 1972 to 33%
in 1981). In January 1981 the Brazilian Government increased the reversion quota
from 3% to 4% of net assets in operation (see para. 2.24), which resulted in a
substantial increase of participation of the reversion funds in ELETROBRAS
funding (from 20% in 1980 to 40% in 1981). In general, the participation of
government equity contributions has been decreasing from 16% in 1972 to a
low of 2% in 1977, but it increased again at the end of the period (reaching
17% in 1981).
3.23      As a result of decreasing net income, increasing borrowing and
decreasing government contributions, the debt portion in the capital 5/ struc-
ture of ELETROBRAS has been growing (Annex 3-4/3 and 3-6/3) and, therefore,
the debt/equity ratio has been increasing during the period (from 44/56 in
1972 to 60/40 in 1981). The current ratio, 6/ which was greater than 1.0
during all years of the period, became 0.7 in 1980 and recuperated again in
1981 (1.0). Loans had an increasing participation in the assets composition
(from 49% in 1972 to 56% in 1981) and capital stock investments had a decreas-
ing participation (from 40% in 1972 to 34% in 1981).
1/   In this analysis, net income is utilized without taking into account the
monetary correction.
2/   The new law allows the holding company to register as revenues the net
increases in equity derived from operations and not only the dividend
payments.
3/   Capital service includes total debt service and net dividend payments.
4/   Sole tax, compulsory loan and reversion quota.
5/   Capital as the aggregate of debt and equity.
6/   Current ratio:  current assets/current liabilities.



- 23 -
Forecast
3.24      Based on the sales forecast and the investment program under "Plano
2000," and on the tariff increases established in the September 2, 1981 agree-
ment between the Bank and the Brazilian government (para. 2.32), financial
projections for the 1982-1986 period show ELETROBRAS' intention of reversing
the trend of increasing the participation of borrowings in its financing plans
(an average of 43% for the projection period). To achieve this objective, and
because sufficient government equity contributions are not likely to be forth-
coming, ELETROBRAS will have to rely increasingly on the sole tax, the
compulsory loan and the reversion quota for its funding, since the heavy debt
service burden resulting from the high level of borrowing of the last five
years and the low profits from its operating companies make for a negative
net internal cash generation during the projection period (see Annexes 3-5/2
and 3-6/2). According to present Brazilian legislation, the direct apportion-
ment for ELETROBRAS of the sole tax terminates in 1982, and the compulsory
loan will finish at the end of 1983; however, it is expected that these or
equivalent sources will continue to be available, because the Government is
committed to increases in real terms for total sector revenues per kWh according
to the September 2, 1981 agreement with the Bank (para. 2.32). Except for a 1982
equity contribution from the Federal government 1/ no equity contributions are
assumed in the last years of the projections.
3.25      The 1982-1986 projected income statement of ELETROBRAS (see Annexes
3-5/1 and 3-6/1) shows that the heavy interest payments on debt, coupled with
a low rate of remuneration, will make for decreasing revenues from ELETROBRAS'
shareholdings in operating companies, reaching negative values in 1983-1985.
As a result of this, interest receipts from loans will become the basic revenue
for ELETROBRAS during the projection period (in 1983-1985 the interest receipts
will have to compensate for the net losses from shareholdings revenues). On
the expense side of the projected income statement, interest on debt, originated
in heavy borrowing in the past, will absorb increasing portions of revenues
through 1984 w'hen they will become greater than net revenues and make for a net
loss. In 1985-86 this negative trend will be reversed, resulting in a positive
net income.
3.26      The composition of funding sources (see Annex 3-6/2) shows a deferred
effect on ELETROBRAS' income (see Annex 3-6/1). Thus the heavy reliance on
borrowings in the last portion of the historical period shows its negative
effect on incoime of the middle part of the projection period, and the reduction
of borrowings at the beginning of the projection period shows its positive
effect on income at the end of the projection period. The effect of the com-
position of funding sources on the accumulated values of the balance sheet
are less dramatic but clearly evident: ELETROBRAS' loans become a more
significant part in ELETROBRAS' asset composition (from 66% of total assets in
1/   The Federal government has decided that all future nuclear plants will be
transferred to the sector at a price equivalent to that of a hydroelectric
plant of equal capacity. The 1982 equity contribution corresponds to a re-
imbrusement of expenses made by the sector in the Angra II and III nuclear
plants in excess of the price of hydro plant investment costs.



- 24 -
1981 to 85% in 1986) and its capital stock investments become less so (from
24% of total assets in 1981 to 15% in 1986), the participation of debt in the
capital structure of ELETROBRAS has been growing in the past and will continue
to do so in the projection period (the debt/equity ratio will increase from
60/40 in 1981 to 74/26 in 1986).
3.27      Because of increasing participation of loans in asset composition
and interest receipts in total revenues, ELETROBRAS is becoming more of a
bank and less of a holding company for the power sector. There exists a
strong interrelation between these two roles of ELETROBRAS: an increase
in the interest rate it charges to its borrowers means a decrease in the
dividends it gets from its subsidiary or associated companies, which are
basically the same as the borrowers. The financial trends of the past will
be difficult to reverse but ELETROBRAS has pointed out that the projections
show its intention to reverse such trends, and to this end ELETROBRAS has
agreed to use as limits, during the project execution period, specific ratios
relating to spread, new borrowings for debt servicing, indebtedness, and
capital service (para. 6.04(b)).
Performance Indicators and Reporting
3.28      During the appraisal mission some basic financial indicators were
agreed with ELETROBRAS to be considered for supervision purposes as goals
to be attained in the projected period. These are shown in Annex 3-5/4.
3.29      ELETROBRAS has agreed:
(a)  to provide financial statements audited by independent
accountants acceptable to the Bank together with a report on
the audit, not later than four months after the end of each
fiscal year (para. 6.04(c)).
(b) to prepare such other reports as the Bank may reasonably
request, including project completion reports (para. 6.04(d)).
4. THE PROJECT
Description
4.01      The Project consists of five sub-projects, each of which consists
of portions of the 1983-85 slice of the 1982-86 investment programs of the
five state utility companies selected by ELETROBRAS as beneficiaries under
the proposed loan. These 1982-86 investment programs provide for the pur-
chase and installation of sub-transmission lines (up to a voltage of 138 kV,
but mainly at 69 and 34.5 kV), substations and associated transformers, dis-
tribution lines and transformers (primary feeders), low voltage distribution



- 25 -
lines (secondary circuits), consumer connections, general service equipment,
and related auxiliary equipment needed for the appropriate expansion 1/
of the capacity of the respective beneficiaries' systems. These programs
include the use of consultants where needed, and they provide for plans that
give emphasis to the connection of rural and low-income consumers.
Objectives
4.02      The basic objectives of the programs are to meet the needs of the
market efficiently and to remedy unsatisfactory system conditions arising
from inadequate planning and lack of sufficient investment during preceding
years. Other important objectives are strengthening of the beneficiaries'
organizations and improving their technical and financial capability.
Another objective is that of creating within ELETROBRAS the capability for
appraising and supervising projects in accordance with standard World Bank
methods and procedures. This objective has already been achieved in part,
as demonstrated by the appraisals already finished and those still in
preparation; the implementation of this loan will consolidate and further
extend these capabilities (para. 3.19).
Characteristics
4.03      The programs were developed originally by the beneficiaries; how-
ever, there has been considerable input by ELETROBRAS in the course of
identification, preparation, and appraisal that follow closely World Bank
procedures and practices in regard to such matters. The result of all this
is that the programs, as now put forward and appraised, are carefully planned,
and represent optimum solutions in technical and economic terms, based on
conservative market assumptions.
Selection of Beneficiaries
4.04      The selection of the various beneficiaries has been made by
ELETROBRAS on the basis of need and willingness to cooperate in sub-project
preparation on the lines necessary for a World Bank type appraisal by
ELETROBRAS. The needs are of different origins, arising in part from geograph-
ical location in the less-developed regions of the country, and in part from
organizational and structural inadequacies which ELETROBRAS desires to address
with the assistance of our lending techniques.   ELETROBRAS has identified
further potential beneficiaries for possible similar future loans.
Appraisal Criteria
4.05      In appraising the beneficiaries and their respective programs,
ELETROBRAS applied criteria and used methods similar to those that would have
been used by the World Bank in appraising similar programs and sub-projects
1/ Expansion includes extensions, strengthening and improving.



- 26 -
(para. 5.10). ELETROBRAS has developed an instruction manual that provides
orientation for the prospective beneficiaries in project preparation and
provision of information needed for appraisal. Also, ELETROBRAS follows up
with repeated preparation missions and has adopted the project brief approach
used by the World Bank for initial identification of costs and issues, etc.
Before accepting the market assumptions and forecasts made by the beneficiaries,
ELETROBRAS reviewed the market studies, and where needed, caused them to be
revised completely. ELETROBRAS has a department that specializes in market
studies, and experts from this department were brought in to make the necessary
revisions. The resulting market assumptions are sober and conservative, and
are consistent with the currently known Federal and State Government plans for
the development of the various areas concerned. We can, therefore, say that
the market forecasts are reasonable and realistic.
4.06      On the technical side, ELETROBRAS has used the study of alternatives
to determine the least-cost solution for the development and/or rehabilitation
of the systems concerned. This work is being carried out under the direction
of an engineer with great experience in distribution design and planning with
the assistance of various specialists from other parts of the ELETROBRAS
organization. At his initiative, many of the beneficiaries' original proposals
were completely revised. The end result is that the technical proposals now
embodied in the programs constitute adequate and least cost solutions that are
in line with appropriate standards for security of supply in the regions
concerned. ELETROBRAS has also developed a financial analysis manual that
follows the general Bank guidelines for this purpose and has defined a group
of significant financial indicators that are included in the appraisal reports.
4.07      The ELETROBRAS appraisals also deal with institutional (i.e. opera-
tional and managerial) problems of the beneficiaries, and contain appropriate
recommendations regarding these matters that include inter alia technical and
financial planning, data collection and processing, billing and collection,
training, structural adjustments, and so on (para. 5.03).
Costs
4.08      Cost estimates for the programs (and sub-projects) used in the
ELETROBRAS appraisals are based on the estimates prepared by the beneficiaries,
revised and up-dated by ELETROBRAS on the basis of actual recent experience
in procurements for Loan 1538-BR provided by CAEEB (the procurement consul-
tants and agents) from their records, and cross-checked by ELETROBRAS with
their own industrial department. Costs have been adjusted to June 1981 and
include engineering and administration costs as well as applicable taxes and
duties, estimated at about 10% of total base costs. Physical contingencies
have been assumed at 10%, and price contingencies are based on 9% for 1981,
8.5% for 1982 and 7.5% for 1983 and thereafter. The 1983-85 sub-project
costs are shown in Annex 4-1 and summarized as follows (in US$ millions),
including price contingencies:
Local   Foreign   Total
COSERN                            57.0       17.1     74.1
COELCE                           133.0       53.8    186.8
CELPE                            165.4       51.2    216.6
ENERSUL                          111.5       40.0    151.5
CELPA                             79.7       27.9    107.6
Total                       546.6     190.0    736.6
74%       26%      100%



- 27 -
US$190.0 million represents the equivalent of 100% of the estimated foreign
component of the five sub-projects, and includes the cost of inspection at
the factory, assumed at about 1/2% of total foreign costs.
4.09      The relation between 1983-85 sub-project costs and the 1982-86
investment program costs are detailed in Annex 4-2 which shows basic costs
that include physical contingencies but exclude price contingencies. This
comparison may be summarized as follows (in US$ millions):
1983-85   1982-86    Project as %
Project   Program    of Program
COSERN                      59.9      136.1         44.0
COELCE                     149.2      320.6         46.5
CELPE                      172.8      384.3         44.9
ENERSUL                     120.3     291.3         41.3
CELPA,                      84.6      310.8         27.2
586.8   1,443.1         40.6
The 1982-86 program of the beneficiaries include works and constructions that
have been postponed from previous programs.
4.10      ENERSUL and CELPA will be included as beneficiaries, since satisfactory
project briefs were received before negotiations. Each project brief includes an
adequate definition of the project, cost estimates, implementation schedules, and
a statement of the main issues facing the beneficiary and the way ELETROBRAS pro-
poses to deal with these issues.
Implementation
4.11      All beneficiaries have some capability for carrying out engineering
and construction supervision with their existing staff; they would be assisted,
where appropriate and recommended by ELETROBRAS, by Brazilian consultants; the
related costs have been included in the estimates at about 2% of the base costs
of the substations and other installations concerned. 1/ Larger works would be
built under local contracts, and smaller works would be carried out by the
beneficiaries' own staff, as is normal utility practice.
4.12      The construction programs have been reviewed by ELETROBRAS and
revised to ensure realistic timing. The appraisal reports prepared by
ELETROBRAS contain construction schedules that will provide a basis for
monitoring progress during the sub-project construction period.
Procurement
4.13      Equipment and materials financed under the loan would be procured
in accordance with Bank guidelines, through international competitive bidding,
except minor quantities (each item not exceeding 1% and all items totalling
not more than 10% of each sub-loan) where special reasons (such as high degree
of technical sophistication, or standardization, or compatibility with existing
equipment, or urgency of delivery) justify international shopping. Possible
Brazilian suppliers of items included in the sub-projects are reasonably
competitive; as in previous power loans, Brazilian suppliers whose bids contain
components manufactured in Brazil equal to at least 50% of the value of the
bid would be given a margin of preference of 15% or the applicable import
duties, whichever is lower.
1/   Equivalent to about $7,800 per man month.



- 28 -
4.14      The total foreign costs of the project are estimated at about US$190.0
million equivalent. About US$180 million equivalent for equipment and materials
to be financed from the proposed loan will be acquired through ICB in accordance
with Bank Guidelines (except as already noted above); and Brazilian suppliers
would be awarded up to two-thirds of the value of the contracts placed through
such biddings. Equipment and materials not financed under the proposed loan (such
as concrete poles and low voltage equipment) would be procured locally under the
beneficiaries' normal procedures (which are satisfactory), since Brazilian legisla-
tion precludes ICB for items that are produced locally and that are not financed
by long-term foreign loans. However, such locally produced items are reasonably
competitive in price with imported products, and project costs should not increase
significantly over the estimates as a result of this restriction.
4.15      For all the beneficiaries, the procurement would be handled by CAEEB
who over more than 20 years have been procurement agents for beneficiaries under
previous Bank loans; the costs of CAEEB's services have been included in the
estimates at about 1/2% of the cost of the equipment and materials concerned. 1/
In view of CAEEB's experience and satisfactory record in handling Bank-financed
procurement, a prior review of bid award decisions would not be necessary.
However, the Borrower wishes to minimize the mis-procurement risk for his bene-
ficiaries, and has therefore requested a prior review of major bid award proposals.
A $200,000 threshold for prior review has been agreed. This is double the
previous highest threshold agreed with a Borrower in the Brazilian Power Sector,
but should still cover about 80% of the procurement dollars with a prior review.
Disbursement
4.16      Preparations for procurement of goods and services are well advanced
so that bid invitations may be issued without delay once the loan has been
approved. ELETROBRAS expects that disbursements will build up quickly after
the first year and would be completed six months after nominal project completion,
i.e. four years after Loan approval. This target is reasonable, but in view of
the Bank's experience it would be prudent to allow for one additional year of
disbursements, i.e. for a total of five years after loan approval. Compared with
the sector-wide disbursement profile for Brazil, five years would achieve only
64.5% disbursement; however, in view of the advanced state of preparation and the
nature of the project (no large civil works are involved), a 100% disbursement in
that time is considered realistic. The following table shows the disbursement
schedule:
--------In US$ millions--------
IBRD                                              During            Cumulative
Fiscal Year               Semester Ending           Semester         at Semester End
1983                  December 31, 1982              2.7                 2.7
1983                  June 30, 1983                  2                   4.7
1984                  December 31, 1983             16                  20.7
1984                  June 30, 1984                 31                  51.7
1985                  December 31, 1984             37                  88.7
1985                  June 30, 1985                 36                 124.7
1986                  December 31, 1985             25                 149.7
1986                  June 30, 1986                 17                 166.7
1987                  December 31, 1986             10                 176.7
1987                  June 30, 1987                  6                 182.7
f7fEquivalent to about $6,500 per man month.



- 29 -
4.17      Disbursements would be fully documented, and would be made for
100% of foreign expenditures for imported equipment and materials, or the
ex-factory cost: of locally manufactured equipment and materials. The
closing date would be June 30, 1987.
Environment
4.18      The beneficiaries intend to route most of their lines overhead and
to locate their substations so as to minimize their visual impact in a manner
consistent with economic and financial considerations. Environmental impact
will therefore be negligible.
Social Impact
4.19      The expansion programs for 1982-1986 of all beneficiaries include
plans for extending services in rural areas and for low-income consumers.
The total impact of these extensions is not yet fully known, but it is probable
that they will result in connections to about 180,000 (about 10% of existing
number of consumers).  This will be monitored by ELETROBRAS by means of the
usual key indicators included in their appraisal and progress reports.
Risks
4.20      There are no special risks involved in the sub-projects where the
works will follow normal practices and procedures that have been tested and
found practicable. Weaknesses in the beneficiaries' organizations will be
counterbalanced. by consultants, and by the influence of ELETROBRAS who will
monitor closely the beneficiaries' performance. Shortage of counterpart
funding is a minor risk because consumer-based funds depend on tariff levels
regarding which the Bank has reached agreement with the Government, moreover,
ELETROBRAS has adequate plans for and has agreed in assisting the beneficiaries
in obtaining required counterpart funding, involving local state government
resources and federal funding agencies in addition to its own resources. The
sub-projects represent less than 50% of the respective investmeint programs
(see Annex 4.2) and constitute the first priorities of the beneficiaries.
If the government should impose investment ceilings, the resulting reductions
would be applied to the investment programs and not to the sub-projects. The
federal government has provided assurances that the beneficiaries' sub-projects
will be supported by adequate counterpart funding (para. 6.03(a)).
Financial Analysis
4.21      The financial analysis of the beneficiaries' projected financial
statements for 1982-1986 has been carried out by ELETROBRAS on the same basis
as that normally adopted by the World Bank for power utilities. The standard
financial indicators used in Bank appraisals have been included so as to allow
adequate monitoring during supervision. In line with the September 2, 1981,
agreement between the Bank and the Brazilian Government (para. 2.32), the
assumed electricity tariffs include an increase of 3% in 1982 and of 5% p.a.
thereafter until the 10% rate of remuneration on investment is achieved and
shortfalls in remuneration are recuperated (para. 6.03(c)).  Annual rates of



- 30 -
remuneration for each beneficiary are assumed to be the same as for the expected
sector averages 1/, attained not only through tariffs but also through the utili-
zation of GGF resources (see para. 2.24.A(d)). The funds thus generated will be
sufficient for the envisaged investment programs of each beneficiary.
4.22      The 1983-85 project costs for the five beneficiaries are estimated to
come to about US$739.3 million equivalent, including physical and price contin-
gencies, and front-end fee for IBRD loan. The table below shows the costs of
the individual sub-projects and the corresponding financing plan:
------US$ Million-------
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS                       Local   Foreign    Total         %
COSERN                                   42.0      12.5       54.5      7.4
COELCE                                   96.5      39.2      135.7    18.4
CELPE                                   119.7      37.4      157.1    21.2
ENERSUL                                  80.3      29.1      109.4    14.8
CELPA                                    57.2      19.7       76.9    10.4
Base Costs                         395.7    137.9       533.6    72.2
Physical Contingencies                   39.6      13.8       53.4      7.2
Price Contingencies                     111.3      38.3      149.6    20.2
Total Project Costs:               546.6    190.0       736.6    99.6
Front-end fee in IBRD loan                -       _2.7         2.7      0.4
Total financing required                546.6    192.7       739.3   100.0
FINANCING PLAN
Non-borrowing:
Net internal cash generation             51.6       -         51.6      7.0
Sector equity contribution              279.9       -        279.9    37.9
Non-sector equity contribution           97.2       -         97.2    13.1
Sub-total                          428.7                428.7    58.0
Borrowings:
IBRD loan                                 -       182.7      182.7    24.7
Local development banks                  47.9       -         47.9      6.5
Cofinancing                              70.0      10.0       80.0    10.8
Total Financing                    546.6    192.7       739.3   100.0
4.23      A total of about US$80 million will be needed from foreign commercial
banks, and ELETROBRAS will assist the beneficiaries in obtaining the relevant
cofinancing loans.
1/   The September 2, 1981 agreement establishes that power utilities that are
beneficiaries of World Bank loans will maintain a rate of remuneration at
least at the average level for the sector, and for the sector it has been
assumed that the growth in the market will be the same as the growth in
remunerable investment so that the average rate of remuneration would
grow at the same rate as the tariff increases.



- 31 -
4.24      To ensure completion and adequate funding of the beneficiaries'
sub-projects, the loan and guarantee agreements contain the following
conditions:
(a) The Federal Government will permit completion of the beneficiaries'
subprojects (para. 6.03(b)).
(b) ELETROBRAS will discuss in advance with the Bank any modifica-
tions in the beneficiaries' investment programs that are
greater than 15% in real terms in any one year (para. 6.04(e)).
(c) ELETROBRAS will undertake to keep the Bank informed annually
regarding funding commitments for each year and counterpart
financing necessary for satisfactory completion of the bene-
ficiaries' investment programs (para. 6.04(f)).
(d) ELETROBRAS will assist in obtaining the necessary cofinancing or
counterpart funds to ensure adequate completion of the beneficiaries'
sub--projects (para. 6.04(g)).
Economic Analysis
4.25      The economic analysis of the beneficiaries' 1982-1986 investment
programs has also been carried out on the same basis as that normally adopted
by the World Bank in appraising power projects. All project alternatives--
utilizing different voltage levels--have been selected through the method of
least-cost solution, with a discount rate of 11%, taken to be the opportunity
cost of capital in Brazil.
4.26      Since costs and benefits of the sub-projects cannot be segregated
from those of the investment programs, the economic rate of return was
calculated for the programs as a whole. Because the economic benefits of
the programs cannot be properly quantified for this type of project, the
incremental revenues have been used as a proxy for economic benefits. (Since
tariffs are centrally controlled, they probably understate the consumers
willingness to pay. Revenues, which include the sole tax, were calculated
taking as a starting point the tariff levels for December 1981, and adding the
real increases of 3% in 1982 1/ and 5% in 1983 and in subsequent years, as
established in the September 2, 1981 agreement between the Bank and the Brazilian
government, until 1991 when the sector is expected to achieve the 10% rate of
remuneration and complete recuperation of past shortfalls in remuneration (see
para. 2.32). Under these assumptions, the economic rates of return for the
programs are:
PROGRAM RATE
BENEFICIARY                     OF RETURN (%)
COSERN                              10.5
COELCE                               9.6
CELPE                               18.8
ENERSUL                             11.4
CELPA                               12.5
11   The government has advised recently that the 1982 increase will be 5%,
which will improve the rates previously calculated.



- 32 -
Relatively low rates of return for some of the recipients of funds under the
equalization program (see para. 2.26) such as COELCE are to be expected.
Conversely, contributors to the equalization program, such as CELPE, should
be expected to have a higher return. These rates are based on conservative
assumptions, and the social impact of the Project is difficult to measure.
Less conservative assumptions and inclusion of social benefits, not measured
by revenues, would show higher internal rates of return. Sensitivity analyses
were also carried out in the appraisals, as is normal Bank practice.
5. THE BENEFICIARIES
5.01      The prospective beneficiaries are relatively small or medium-sized
utility companies located in the less-developed regions of Brazil. They all
have similar characteristics in that they are joint stock corporations whose
principal owners are the states in which they are located and conduct operations,
with ELETROBRAS having a minority shareholding. These companies generally do
not produce their own electricity, but purchase energy in bulk from one or the
other of the the major generation companies, who are wholly owned subsidiaries
of ELETROBRAS, receiving supply at voltage levels of 220 or 138 kV and having
sub-transmission systems at 138 kV and lower voltage levels, mainly 69 and
34.5 kV. The location of the beneficiaries is shown in Map No. 16381.
5.02      The organizational structures vary from case to case, but
generally there is a Board of Directors headed by a President who acts as
the Chief Executive Officer.  The Board is appointed by the shareholders,
and normally its composition reflects the interests of majority and minority
shareholders in reasonable proportions.
5.03      In the appraisal reports prepared by ELETROBRAS the beneficiary
organizations are described and subject to critical analysis. Recommendations
are made for improving structures, and for obtaining support from consultants
where needed. The ELETROBRAS appraisal team is bringing in specialists from
other departments of ELETROBRAS to come to the assistance of the beneficiaries,
and even at this early stage the interaction between ELETROBRAS and the
beneficiaries is beginning to show improvements in organizational, operational,
technical and financial aspects (para. 4.07).
5.04      Some o-L the proposed beneficiaries have been beneficiaries under
previous loans. For instance, COELCE and CELPE were included in Loan 1300-BR,
and thus appreciate the advantages of the World Bank approach to project
appraisal and implementation. Others are eager to learn these techniques
and are prepared to cooperate with ELETROBRAS in putting into effect the
required modifications to their organizations. Our preparation missions to
prospective beneficiaries have been influential in creating the climate needed
for providing acceptance of the usual sub-project preparation requirements now
put forward by ELETROBRAS.
5.05      The first appraisal to be completed was that for COSERN, the company
that operates in the state of Rio Grande do Norte and includes the city of
Natal. As indicated by the sub-project cost estimates, it is the smallest of
the beneficiaries0  It is typical of the smaller companies that need reorgani-
zation and that have a distribution system in need of extension and rehabilita-
tion. The north-east of Brazil is one of the less developed regions, but its
economic and electricity market growth rates are higher than the average for
Brazil. The lack of proper development of the distribution system (i.e.
under-investment) made itself felt only gradually. However, the point has



- 33 -
now been reached where the inadequacy of the power distribution system is
becoming a brake on economic development, both in Natal and state-wide, and
hence the 82-86 investment program is designed to provide reasonable system
expansion and modest improvements on existing unsatisfactory conditions.
5.06      COELCE is somewhat larger than COSERN.  It supplies electricity
in the capital (Fortaleza) and other areas of the state of Ceara. CELPE
is similar in size to COELCE, and it supplies the capital (Recife) and
other parts of the state of Pernambuco. Both these beneficiaries were
included in Loan 1300-BR, but the work started under that loan is by no means
completed, technically or organizationally.
5.07      CELPA supplies electricity in the capital (Belem) and other areas
of the state of Para. In 1980 its thermal plants (total capacity about 230 MW)
in Belem were transferred to ELETRONORTE. This has made a drastic change in
the character of the company, which is now able to concentrate wholly on sub-
transmission and distribution. The Project Brief (and eventually the appraisal)
addresses the manifold problems arising from the transformation.
5.08      ENERSUL is different from all the other beneficiaries.  It was
created in 1979 when the State of Matto Grosso do Sul was formed. Most of the
energy is purchased in bulk and is distributed in the capital (Campo Grande) and
in other areas of the state, which constitutes a new frontier in the west of the
country, and iis mainly agricultural in character. This is the fastest growing
company, covering an enormous territory that is beginning its development.
5.09      An overview of these beneficiaries in terms of some of indicators
normally used (based on 1980 data) shows the following picture:
COSERN    COELCE    CELPE       CELPA   ENERSUL
Energy Sold (GWh)                   587.4    1,378.5   2,988.2        860.8    534.5
Number of Consumers               203,126    487,393   698,402   248,870  132,632
Number of Employees                 1,491       3,969      4,157      1,676    1,430
5.10      The ELETROBRAS project briefs or appraisal reports go into details for
all these beneficiaries.  It suffices here to say that they all have provided
the required iinformation normally needed for a World Bank style appraisal, and
that the contiLnued willingness to participate in this project indicates the
success of ELETROBRAS in putting over the concepts of our normal appraisal
techniques (para. 4.05).



- 34 -
6. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following:
6.01      As condition for effectiveness, ELETROBRAS will provide the Bank
with the signed onlending agreement for at least one beneficiary.
6.02      As conditions for disbursements, ELETROBRAS will provide the Bank
with the onlending agreements for the other beneficiaries and, in the case
of CELPA and ENERSUL, with satisfactory appraisal reports.
6.03      The Brazilian government will:
(a) ensure that adequate counterpart funding will be available
to the beneficiaries for the timely execution of the
appraised sub-projects (para. 4.20);
(b) permit completion of the appraised sub-projects (para. 4.24(a);
and
(c) provide the beneficiaries with tariff levels that are sufficient
to attain the 10% rate of remuneration, according to Brazilian
legislation and in line with the September 2, 1981 agreement
between the Bank and the government (para. 4.21).
6.04      ELETROBRAS will:
(a) during the life of loan, discuss with the Bank before making
any major modifications in its policies and procedures for
funding and investment (para. 3.14);
(b) during the project execution period, use as limits for its
finances specific ratios relating to spread, new borrowings
for debt servicing, indebtedness, and capital service (para. 3.27);
(c) provide financial statements audited by independent accountants
acceptable to the Bank together with a report of the audit, not
later than four months after the end of each fiscal year (para.
3.29(a));
(d) prepare such other reports as the Bank may reasonably request,
including project completion reports (para. 3.29(b));
(e) discuss in advance with the Bank any modifications in
the beneficiaries' investment programs that are greater
than 15% in real terms in any one year (para. 4.24(b));
(f)  undertake to keep the Bank informed annually regarding
funding commitments for each year, and counterpart
financing necessary for satisfactory completion of the
beneficiaries' investment program (paras. 4.24(c));



- 35 -
(g) assist in obtaining all the necessary cofinancing
or counterpart funds to ensure adequate completion of the
beneficiaries sub-projects (para. 4.24(d));
(h) include in the onlending agreements the standard covenants
of World Bank financed power projects (such as reporting,
access to works and beneficiaries, connections for low-
income consumers, reinvestment of dividends, commitment of
counterpart funding from State governments, accounting
records, independent audits, indebtedness and debt service
coverage ratio, etc.) and the specific recommendations included
in each of its own relevant appraisal reports and;
(i) onlend out of the proceeds of the loan to the beneficiaries
on the same terms and conditions plus a charge of 1% on the
outstanding balance, with the foreign exchange risk to be
borne by the beneficiaries.
Recommendation
6.05      With the above agreements, the project constitutes a suitable basis
for a Bank loan of US$182.7 million equivalent to ELETROBRAS to be repaid
over a period of 15 years including three years of grace.
April 7, 1982



MINISTiRIO DOAS MINAS E EiNERGIA
M II  STRO
CONSULTORIA                                                  _CONSELHO 'Ut:
_JU  .OICA_CJPIOR  CC   MiNAS
.JURIDO CA I CJ I                                                                          
.CA l N  TE                          SECETARIA                                                               CCNSELHO 5UFE-|
00  INISTRO                        OERAL 180)                                                             RIOR OE NESROIA
i {a  |    _                                                                                                   IC3E) 
a .   .                .                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~SECRE TARIA D
DIVI3AO  DE                                                          CONTROL INTR                           RUPO EXECUTIVO
SEOURAN;A E                                                          CO_ TO SC! ITR                        DA INDUSTaIADd
iPFORMAC. D09}1)                                                                                         ; 9NERACAO IGEMI)I
| CONISSAO NACIO-     OEPARTA?WENTO NA-   DEPARTAMENTO             CONSELHO NACI-    DEPARTAtAENTO           OPAR
NAL DE ENERGIA       CIONALCE  AGUA3      NACIO'JAL  DA  |        OAL  DO PETRO              DZ      _             00
E 11P-O EiGAGUAES           NA                                                     IIL00PT
NUCLEAR (CNEN)          C   I DN A ELE) I        0 WNFRAd         LEO  ICNP)           A_MIDiSTRA)AO         PE SSOAL
A    tDNAEE___       ____  _                                    IA)L                  P
F EMPRESAS                                           MCOUPANHIA  DE 
| NUCLEARES                    [._. ......  __ .. . ___. PESQUISA DERE-
9RASILEIRAS                                         CURSOS MlINERAIS
!  lNUtLEBRAS!)                                       .  ICPRM)
COMPANIIIA VALEC                                     PETROLEO
F    DOCE (CVFPO)               'RAS;LEIRO VA
__________    J                                        IPETROBRAS)
ICENTIAIS ELE-        COMPANNIA AUXI-
TRICAS SRtAEl-E         LIAR DE EMPRESA
AS . ELETROPrd!      LET. 3?-ASILEIRA



BRAZIL
ELETROBRAS I POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
POWER SECTOR
HISTORICAL FLOW OF FUNDSb/
(in millions of current Cr$)
Year ending Dec. 31                     1972       1973       1974      1975       1976        1977        1978          1979         1980         1981a/
SOURCES                                7,633     9,966      14,202    23,477    35.499        57,151      91.215      138.451       285.978      529.772
Net internal cash generation           1,631      2,073       2,564     3,754      4,551       2,145       (4,594)     (27,074)     (49,912)   (179,595)
Gross internal cash generation    3,236        4,211       5,601      8,713    11,767       17,191      22,861       31,050       84,365       184,220
Capital service                      1,605     2,138       3,037      4,959      7,216      15,046      27,455       58,124      134,277       363,815       -
Amortization payments                720       949       1,278      2,391      2,885       5,565       9,897       21,799       55,188       159,695      '4
Interest payments                   548        714       1,126      1,797      3,074       5,566      12,337       33,254       76,782       203,012
Dividend payments                    337       475         633        771      1,257       3,915       5,221        3,071         2,307        1,108
Other consumer-based contributions  2,403         3,485      4,667      6,561    10,708       15,518      23,604        33,540       64,723      174,042
Sole tax                               852     1,208       1,613      2,135      3,097       4,863       6,811         9,302       17,656       33,865
Compulsory loan                        793     1,074       1,400      2,021      3,274       4,366        7,363       11,165       21,479       45,263
Reversion                              758     1,203       1,654      2,405      4,337       6,289       9,430        13,073       25,588       94,914
Equity contributions                   1,171      1,498       2,115     3,736      3,025       6,522      11,652        11,700       25,634       79,410
Federal government                     121        257         709     1,302      1,480       2,281       4,676         5,916       11,763       51,699
State governments                      609     1,204       1,241      1,465      1,304       3,861       6,709         5,595       13,289       27,711
Municipalities and others              441         37         165        969        241         380         267          189          582          --
Borrowings                             2,428      2,910       4,856      9,426    17,215      32,972      60,553       120,285      245,533      455,915
Local                                  368        740      1,666      3,737      9,770      11,916      24,818        64,136      139,984      152,358
Foreign                              2,060      2,170       3,190     5,689      7,445      21,056      35,735        56,149      105,549      303,557
APPLICATIONS                           7,633      9,966      14,202    23,477    35,499       57,151       91,215      138,451      285,978      529,772      X
Investments                            6,754      8,847     12,973    20,962    33,026        52,652      82,516       126,515      252,091      515,811      I
Increase in working capital              879      1,119      1,229      2,515      2,473       4,499       8,699        11,936       33,887       13,961
a/ Preliminary
b/ See also Annex 2-3/11
Figures are presented on a cash basis (net payments or receipts).



- 38 -                         ANNEX 2-2/2
BRAZIL
ELETROBRAS I POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
POWER SECTOR
PROJECTED FLOW OF FUNDSkX
(in billions of 1981 Cr$pa/
Year ending Dec. 31                       1982       1983       1984       1985       1986
SOURCES                                  553.7      536.6      604.7       705.3      584.1
Net internal cash generation              (52.0)    (84.2)   (106.1)       (61.1)     (72.0)
Gross internal cash generation         218.4      224.8      272.6      387.6      496.5
Capital service                        270.4      309.0      378.7      448.7      568.5
Amortization payments                 95.2       85.9      113.8      142.8      227.9
Interest payments                    166.5      215.3      258.9      303.8      330.9
Dividend payments                      8.7        7.8        6.0        2.1        9.7
Other consuner-based contributions       163.4      217.8      256.4       307.8      348.8
Sole tax                                 6.4       32.5       36.9       43.1       49.3
Compulsory loan                         56.9       64.7       75.4       97.9      116.1
Reversion                              100.1      120.6      144.1      166.8      183.4
Equity contributions                     120.5        76.9       85.8       96.4      103.4
Federal government                      48.9        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0
State governments                       45.8       52.5       60.8       70.0        75.4
Municipalities and others               25.8        24.4       25.0       26.4       28.0
Borrowings                                321.8     326.1       368.6      362.2      203.9
Local                                   36.6       28.9       13.8         6.4        3.8
Foreign                                194.5       29.7       15.7         3.3       1.2
Future                                  90.7      267.5      339.1      352.5      198.9
APPLICATIONS                              553.7      536.6      604.7      705.3      584.1
Investments                              544.2      556.4      619.2      702.2      563.2
Increase in working capital                9.5      (19.8)    (14.5)         3.1      20.9
a/ US$1 = Cr$92.44
b/ See also Annex 2-3/1.
Figures are presented on a cash basis (net payments or receipts).



BRAZIL
ELETROBRAS I POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
POWER SECTOR
AVERAGE COST AND REVENUE PER KWH-/
(in current prices)
Year ending Dec. 31              1972           1973          1974          1975          1976          1977           1978          1979            1980          1981k1
Cr   %   x Cr   %   xCr   % iCr   % iCr     Cr                                                                          z iCr %
Personnel                      2.6   13      3.1   14      3.8   14       5.3   14      7.3   15    10.2   16    14.6   16    24.2   19          42.2   19    100.4   19
Materials and services         1.8    9      2.1    9      2.6   10       3.1    8      3.8    8      5.7    9       7.6    9    12.1    9       19.4    9       53.7   10
Fuel                           0.5    3      0.5    2      0.7    3      0.7    2       1.1    2      0.9    1      1.9    2       2.6    2      11.0    5       15.6    3
Other                          0.1    1      0.1    1      0.2   --       0.3    1      0.5   _1      1.1    2      0.2   --       0.6   --       0.5   --        --    --
Operating expenses           5.0   26      5.8   26      7.3   27      9.4   25    12.7   26    17.9   28    24.3   27    39.5   30            73.1   33    169.7   32
Depreciationa/                 1.6    8      1.9    8       2.1    8      3.7   10      4.5    9      6.5   10    12.2   14    17.7   14         37.7   17       63.9   13
Operating costs              6.6   34      7.7   34      9.4   35    13.1   35    17.2   35    24.4   38    36.5   41    57.2   44    110.8   50    233.6   45
Remuneration                   7.0   35      7.7   33      9.0   33    14.1   37    15.1   32    21.0   33    26.7   30    37.1   29             43.6   20    123.4   24
Concessionaries revenues  13.6   69    15.4   67    18.4   68    27.7   72    32.3   67    45.4   71    63.2   71    94.3   73    154.4   70    357.0   69
Reversion                      1.4    8      2.0    9       2.4    9      3.2    8      4.8   10      6.4   10       7.7    9    10.4    8       21.1   10       71.8   14
Electricity bill            15.0   77    17.4   76    20.8   77    30.4   80    37.1   77    51.8   81    70.9   80   104.7   81    175.5   80    428.8   83
Social security tax            0.4    2      0.3    1      0.2    1       0.3    1      0.3    1      0.1   --      --    --       --    --       --    --        --    --
Sale tax                       2.4   12      3.1   14       3.5   13      4.3   11      5.8   12      6.9   11    10.4   12    14.1   11         23.9   11       44.9    9
C3mpulsory loan                1.8    9      2.1    9       2.5    9      3.2    8      4.6   10      5.4    8       8.1    8    11.0    8        20.2    9      41.5    8
Total charge to consumers 19.6  100    22.9  100    27.0  100    38.2  100    47.8  100    64.2  100    89.4  100   129.8  100    219.6  100    515.2  100
Transfer to other sectors         c/            c/          0.4    1      0.9    2      1.2    3      1.0    2       2.8    3      4.7    4    _7.1    3         13.4    3
Sector revenues                                         26.6   99    37.3   98    46.6   97    63.2   98    86.6   97   125.1   96    212.5   97    501.8   97
a/  Includes amortization.
b/ Preliminary.
c! Not available.
d/ See also Annex 2-3/2.



8RAZIL
ELETROBRAS I POER DISTRIBUTIOi PROJECT
POWER SECTOR
HISTORICAL COST OF SERVICE AND RE-i.JNERATIONd
(In blillons of current CrS)
Year ending Doaow,Ir 31                      1972          1973         1974          1975          1976          1977           1978           1979           1980             190i  a/
Remunerable in%staent (net)                28,778.2      38,768.3     49,428.5      73,113.8      95,012.7     152,095.5      279,859.8      484,511.6      1,003,687.8      1,921756.4
Gross remunerable Investment             32,333.0      43,539,1     56,440.3      85,942.4    113,269.8      182,340.2      340,209.3      572,412.7      1,134,459.2      2,185,201.4
Utility plant In servlm                28,868.8      39,296.9     51,099.7      81,072.1    109,504.7      177,178.9      334,091.9      561,049.9     1,115,775.4      2,165,186.1
Worklng cwpltal                         3,464.2       4,242.2      5,340.6       4,870.3      3,765.1        5,161.3        6,117.4       11,362.8         18,683.8         20,015.3
Deductions (accumulated)                  3,554.8       4,770.8      7,011.8      12,828.6      18,257.1      30,244.7       60,349.5       87,901.1        130,771.4        263,445.0
Deprecfatlon                          * 3,506.0       4,186.0      6,757.5      10,640.0     14,612.6       22,504.0       44,675.0       78,033.1       146,584.0         304,620.0
Amortization                               -             -            -             -            -              -              -              84,8          6,745.2         26,284.4
Contributions and grants                1,054.6       1,486.2      2,084.8       2,984.1      4,215.4        8,259.2       19,977.7       25,013.7         45,131.6         88,787.7
ExaYss (daficiency) In remuneration   (1,005.8)    (1,501.4)       1,8$0.9)       (195.5)       1510.9)       1518.5)      (4,303.2)    (15,230.5)        (61,689.4)      1156,247.11
Revanuns                                  8,655.4      11,567.0      15,316.1     24,115.9      34,482.5      52,207.9       80,895.4      131,186.4        246,171.3        596,394.1
ElectricIty bililng                     6,610.0      8,791.8      11,899.6      19,119.6     26,188.2       42,20H.0       64,148.6      105,712.5        196,669.2        496,390.1
Soclal swcurity tax                       17H.5         158.3        107.1         172.6        241.1           50.0           -              -                -                -
Sole Tax                                1,013.7       1,543.4      1,969.3       2,742.3      4,179.5        5,584.0        9,384.3       14,248.9         26,800.7         52,000.0
Compulsory loan                           793.2       1,073.5       1,400.1      2,021.4      3,213.7        4,365.9        7,362.5       11,165.0         22,651.4         48,003.9            0
Cost of servie                             6,610.0       8,791.8      11,899.6     19,179.6      26,788.2      42,208.0       64, 148.6     105,772.5        196,669.2        496,390.1
Operating expenses                        2,188.8       2,927.6      4,172.1       5,946.2       9,174.4      14,596.0       21,990.2       39,898.9         81,872.6        196,541.5
Personnel                               1,150.6       1,583.3      2,187.2       3,351.4      5,232.5        8,319.1       13,192.4       24,431.6         47,280.2        116,228.2
Materlal and other                        775.8       1,042.3      1,502.1       1 ,927.9      2,761.7       4,605.8        6,875.1       12,202.3         21,748.6         62,206.1
Fuel                                      213.2         274.9        377.0         465.7         805.0         768.4        1,728.5        2,640.9         12,302.6         18,107.2
Other                                      49.2          27.1        105.8         201.2         375.2         902.7          194.2          624.1            541.2             -
Depreciation and amortizatlon                 725.3         959.1       1,224.1      2,330.0       3,270.3        5,302.3       11,026.7      17,859.6         42,232.1         73,915.6
Reverslon land Guarantee quotas)              604.3       1,034.9       1,367.0      2,006.9       3,466.8        5,216.6       6,930.4       10,490. 1        23,664.7         83,055.9
Remuneratlon (annual)                       3,093.6       3,870.2      5,136.4       8,896.5      10,876.7      17,093.1       24,201.3       37,523.9         48,899,8        142,877.1
Legal                                     3,224.7       4,365.8      5,465.5       7,861.5      10,652.1      17,040.7       27,986.0       48,451.2        100,368.8        192,175.6
Exoass (dticilency)                        (131.1)       (495.6)       (329.1 )    1,035.0         224.6          52.4       (3,784.7)    (10,927.3)        (51 ,469.0)      (49,298.5)
Rait of remuneration (S)                       10.7          10.0          10.4         12.2          11.4           11.2            8.6            7.7              4.9              7.4
Energy Sales WNWh)                         44,057.0      50,544.0     57,039,0      63,112.0      72,071.0      81 ,245.0      90,541.0      101 ,088.0       112,115.0        115,739.0
Increase M1                                    -             14.8          12.9         ('.7          14.1          12.8           11.5           11.6             11.0              3.0
n/ PrelImInary



- 41 -
ANNEX 2-2/5
BRAZIL
POWER SECTOR~J
ELETROBRAS I POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
PROJECTED COST OF SERVICE AND REMUNERATION
(in billions of inid-1981 Cr$)J
Year ending December 31                      1982      1983      1984      1985      1986
Remunerable investment (net)                2,400    3,006    3,710    4,355    4,815
Gross remunerable investment              2,470    2,920    3,420    3,915    4,292
Utility plant in service                2,414    2,868    3,385    3,886    4,256
Working Capital                            56        52        35        29        36
Deductions (accumulated)                     70       (86)    (290)    (440)    (523)
Depreciation                              406       500       610       739       882
Amortization                               -         -         -         -         -
Contribution and grants                    59        75        90       104       119
Excess (deficiency) in remuneration  (395)    (661)          (990)  (1,283)  (1,524)
7evenues                                      606       721       838    1,029    1,205
Electricity billing                         543       623       726       888    1,040
Sole tax                                      6        33        37        43        49
Compulsory loan                              57        65        75        98       116
Cost of Service                               543       623       726       888    1,040
Operating expenses                          217       281       324       349       396
Fuel tax                                     8          8         9         9        10
Depreciation and amortization               91        111       132       153       168
Reversion                                  100        121       144       167       183
Remuneration                                  127       102       117       210       283
Legal                                       240       300       372       436       483
Excess (deficiency)                        (113)    (198)    (255)    (226)    (200)
Rate of remuneration (%)                      5.3       3.4       3.2       4.8       5.9
Energy Sales (GWh)                        120,654  131,703  145,829  169,920  188,959
Increase   (%)                              4.2       9.2      10.7      16.5      11.2
a/ Based on subsidiaries and associated companies of ELETROBRAS.
b/  US$1   Cr$92.44.



BRAZIL
ELETROBRAS I POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
POWER SECTOR
AVERAGE MONTHLY PRICE MWh OF ELECTRIC ENERGY IN BRAZIL
CONSTANT CRUZEIROS OF JANUARY 1977
DEFLATED BY THE GENERAL PRICE
INDEX - IIPIDI
LEGEND
So*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C,56S,u                                                                      AVERAGE ANNUAL PRICE
AVERAGE MONTHLY PRICE
1981 - PROJECTED ON THE
BASIS OF AN
ESTIMATED RATE
4                                                a 0                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INCREASE OF 23Oja
IN 27/09/81
IA I                  4       *  *  *  A                  A   B  0 *  *  *  *  U .  U  a  a  A   S S *  A   .  P  U    U 4  4   e  S e   .  *IS
I.,..,_
Source: DNAEE
x4
I,



BRAZIL
ELETROBRAS I POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
POWER SECTOR
COMPOSITION OF SOlJRCES OF FUNDS a/
HISTORICAL                                 +             PROJECTED
100
E                T        T
R
E
N                   
T  403   CONSUKE-AE
20-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
1972            1974            1976            1978            1980            1-982            1984            1986
YEARS
a! Figures are presented on a cash basis (net payments or receipts).



- 44 -
BRAZ IL
ELETROBRAS I POW'ER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT  EX 2-3/2
POWER SECTOR
COMPOSITION OF REVENUES
HISTORICAL              - PROUECTED
teo
Lu~~~~~~T
4C
o =;=S                            /X/ii9X  //     /       80e 
1__I                         i, /f /  1OPER ATflJGEXpEiRA  / /-/
/t/    7/c           /   /    f       /  c= /_/
68
___________~~~~~~__ =,  =7      1      /==    /..............R...
E G    = =   = =3=____=__ _ __   __          E_
\      X    \    w    r-________  __ __                 N   
YEARS~~~~~~~
-1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
120
1 972   1974   1978    1978   lase   1982   1984   1986l
YEARS



- 45 -
ANNEX 3-1
BRAZIL
ELETROBRAS I POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
ELETROBRAS
SUBSIDIARY AND ASSOCIATED COMPANIES
COMPANIES                             x
CONTROLED COMPANIES
FURNAS                                    98.96
CHESF                                     96.91
ELETROSUL                                99,14
ELETRONORTE                               96.34
ESCELSA                                  90.55
LIGHT                                    82.48
ASSOCIATED COMPANIES
CERON                                      0.27
ELETROACRE                                 7.27
CELETRAMAZON                               0.39
CER                                        1.26
CELPA                                      6.69
CEA                                        0.20
CEMAR                                      9.09
CEPISA                                     6.16
COELCE                                    12.35
COSERN                                     3.76
SAELPA                                     5.58
CELPE                                      2.80
CEAL                                       7.90
ENERGIPE                                   5.60
COELBA                                    15.76
COBER                                      6.28
CEMIG                                     16.69
ERMIG                                     20.00
CERJ                                      33.15
CESP                                      11.45
CPFL                                      22.58
CAEEB                                      3.49
COPEL                                     13.11
CELESC                                     9.83
CEEE                                      12.83
CEB                                        5.85
CELG                                      15.82
CEMAT                                      7.96
ENERSUL                                   10.34
EEB                                        0.15
CELB                                       3.31
SOURCE: DECO/DVCO



BRAZIL
ELETROBRAS I POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
ELETROBRAS
EQUITY PARTICIPATION
1977/1981
(current Cr$ 106)
YEAR              1977        1978       1979        1980        19811
BREAKDOWNO
TOTAL EQUITY PARTICIPATION           4,313       5,936       8,671       4,773       1,954
In Cash                              2,445       3,204       3,832      3,958          328
Dividends Reinvested                   703       1,292       1,561         815       1,286
Short-Term Loans Converted             972       1,118         986*          -         304
Financing Converted                     47         144       1,158           _
Fees & Interest Converted              146         176       1,117           _          36
Other                                                2          17           -
(*) Includes Cr$ 212 million correspondent to the convertion into equity of the amounts equivalent |
to the payments in foreign currencies due by several companies of the sector and made by
ELETROBRAS, under Resolucao nr.479 (BACEN).
(1) Until November 30, 1981 (Preliminary).
SOURCE: DEIN/DVOR.



ELETROBRAS ORGANIZATION CHART
| GNERAL 
ASEMBLY
ECAD INANCm   |          COORDINATION  |PLA|NMANAGEMENT  l                                                               l    SYSTEMS     l
|  DIREClORATE  l    l  DIRECTORATE                  DIRECTORATE                    DIRECTORATE                             DIRECTORATE
World Bank-21397
*19
.x



BRAZIL
ELETROBRAS I POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
ELETROBRAS
HISTORICAI_ INCOME STATEMENTd'
(in millions of current Cr$)
Year ending Dec. 31          1972       1973       1974       1975       1976       1977        1978         1979        1980         198lc-/
Revenues                    1,256      1,774      2,308      4,697      6,296      10,068      20,346      46,780       65,837      193,275
From shareholdings          452        666        759      1,238      1,253       2,316       7,041~'   20,021        10,112       24,739
From loans                  783      1,056      1,463      3,214      4,245       6,830      12,877      24,890       54,331      168,149
Other                        21         52         86        245        798         922         428       1,869        1,394          387
Ex2penses                      89         91        134        416        631         974       1,826        3,606       8,247        9,636    1
Administrative and
general                    65         88        124        222        392         631       1,329       2,898        6,606        7,718   co
Depreciation                  2          3          9         12         16          27           37          51          71            83    1
Taxes                        22         --          1        182        223         316         460          657       1,570        1,835
Income before interest    1,167        1,683      2,174      4,281      5,665       9,094      18,520      43,174      57,590       183,639
Interest on debt              155        209        289        606      1,325       2,687       4,919      16,289       34,488       82,528
Domestic currency           107        158        222        385        806       1,455       3,476        9,255      16,942       49,517
Foreign currency             48         51         67        221        519       1,232       1,443        7,034      1.7,546      33,011
Income before monetary
adjustment              1,012      1,474      1,S85      3,675      4,3/40      6,407      13,601      26,885       23,102      101,111
Monetary adjustment                                                                                524      27,285t-/   10,753       1.2,323
Net income                                                                                     14,125       54,170      33,855      11.3,434
a/  Includes Cr$7.001 million of shares revaluation.
b/  Includes Cr$23,833 million for extraordinary profi.t made in the acquisition of LIGHT - Servicos de Eletricidade S.A.,
between the book value of equity and the actual price paid.
c/  Preliminary.
d/  See also Annex 3-6/1.



BRAZIL
ELETROBRAS I POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
ELETROBRAS
HISTORICAL FLOW OF FUNDSb-/
(in millions of current Cr$)
Year ending Dec. 31                     1972       1973       1974        1975         1976        1977        1978        1979           1980         1981a'
SOURCES                                3,180      4,224      6,071      10,373      17,686        30,665      48,271      84,341        129,450      236,051
Net internal cash generation              702     1,240      1,227       3,529       4,226         8,424      11,171      17,151         13,972      (69,063)
Cross internal cash generation    1,463         2,220      2,621       5,289       7,292       11,425       18,525      36,579         56,673       37,183
Income before interest             1,167      1,683      2,174       4,281       5,665        9,094       18,520      43,174        57,590       183,639
Non-cash expenses                   (146)      (343)      (317)       (144)       (282)         (810)     (3,864)    (12,343)       (11,349)    (164,755)
Amortization receipts                442        880        764       1,152       1,909         3,141       3,869       5,748         10,432       18,299
Capital service                        761        980      1,394       1,760       3,066         3,001       7,354      19,428         42,701      106,246
Amortization payments                170        260        356         311         832           894       1,633       4,463         14,534       49,404
Interest payments                    143        197        285         510         986        1,859        4,212      11,883        27,408        56,321
Dividend payments (net)              448        523        753         939       1,248           248       1,509       3,082            759          521         1
Ot_er conisumer-based contributions  1,779        2,165      3,596       4,310        7,791       12,490      18,639       26,394        50,701      146,822        QD
Sole tax                               392        501        678         848       1,062         1,464       1,846       2,156          3,634        6,645         1
Compulsory toan                        793      1,074      1,400       2,021       3,294         4,366       7,363      11,165         21,479       45,263
Reversion                              594        590      1,518       1,441        3,435        6,660       9,430      13,073         25,588       94,914
Eqtity contributions                     495        657      1,040       1,375        1,369          704       2,249        3,059         8,812       38,300
Borrowing                                204         162       208       1,159        4,300        9,047      16,212       37,737        55,965      119,992
APPLICATIONS                           3,180      4,224      6,071      10,373       17,686       30,665      48,271       84,341       129,450      236,051
Investments                            2,955      3,654      6,494      10,808      16,151        29,814      44,728      74,511        132,040      236,214
Canital stock                          447        612      1,139       1,534        3,193        4,317       5,936       8,671          4,773       11,740
Loans                                2,404      2,897      5,156       8,943      12,702        25,076      38,289      63,169        120,467      156,622
Other                                  104        145        199          331         256          421         503        2,671.        6,800       67,852
Increase in working capital              225         570       (423)       (43k       1,545          851       3,543        9,830        (2,590)         (163)   l
a/ Preliminary
b/ See also Annex 3-6/2.
Figures are presented on a cash basis (net payments or receipts).



BRAZIL
ELETROBRAS I POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
ELETROBRAS
HISTORICAL BALANCE SHEE'r-1
Year endirLg Dec. 31                   1972        1973         1974        1975        1976        1977       1978       1979       1980       1981A/
- -- -- -in mi1liorns of currenft Cr- i-n billions of current CrU - -- - - -
ASSETS                                13,904      19,251      27,378      41,710       67,016      112.1      246.8      508.6      902.9      2,087.8
Current assets                         1,368       2,151       2,199        2,216       4,983       10.9       18.2       22.0       52.0        200.1
Cash and deposits                      361         738         672         290       1,433         1.5        5.6        6.1        3.4          1.3
Loans                                  998       1,273       1,526       1,902       3,528         8.5       12.5       15.0       47.9        199.5
Other                                    9         140            1          24          22        0.9        0.1        0.9        0.7          0.6
Loans                                  6,812       9,730      14,601      25,315       38,800       69.1      136.5      284.9      512.0      1,170.9
Capital stock investments              5,503       7,050       9,986      13,824       22,777       31.6       91.4      200.8      337.7         714.6
Subsidiaries                         3,837       4,541       6,502       8,413      14,428       20.7        57.1      139.8      217.5        460.2
Associated companies                 1,296       1,835       2,299       4,087       5,158         7.4       21.7       34.6       41.6         88.0
Itaipu                                   3           4         376         461         626        0.8         1.1        3.6       19.0         40.2
Other                                  367         670         809         863       2,565         2.7       11.5       22.8       59.6        126.2
t_n
Net fixed assets                          34         151          172         283         333        0.4        0.7        0.9        1.2           2.2          
Gross fixed assets                      39         159         187         309         374         0.5        0.9        1.3        1.8          3.6
Accumulated depreciation                (5)         (8)         (15)        (26)        (41)      (0.1)      (0.2)      (0.4)      (0.6)         (1.4)
Other assets                             187         269          420          72         123        0.1         --                    --            --
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES                13,904      19,351      27,378      41,710      67,016       112.1      246.8      508.6      902.9      2,087.8
Current liabilities                      715       1,079       1,750       2,067        3,295        8.0       14.2       32.5       78.7        203.7
Debt                                   146         194         248         311          402        3.2        7.5       16.8       63.6        194.1
Capital stock subscriptions             12          21         494          95          350        0.7        0.3         --         --            --
Other                                  557         864       1,008       1,661       2,543         4.1        6.5       15.7       15.1           9.6
Long-term debt                         4,508       6,253       9,485      15,067      28,309        51.1      110.7      248.6      435.1      1,047.0
Domestic currency                    3,482       4,982       7,813      12,927      25,102       40.3        81.7      158.9      269.7        608.6       
Foreign cturrency                    1,080       1,271       1,672       2,140       3,207       10.8        29.0       89.7      165.4        438.4    w
Other li bilities                        850       1,093       1,098          302         294        0.4         =          =          __
Eguit_                                 7,831      10,926      15,045      24,274      35,118        52.5      121.8      227.5      389.1        837.1
Share capital                        6,126       8,817      10,980      14,600      22,000       27.5        35.8       48.0       71.7        168.8
Reserves and retained earnings    1,705          2,109       4.065       9,674      13,118       25.0       86.0       178.7      317.4        668.3
a/ Preliminary
b/ See also Annex 3-6/3.



BRAZIL
ELETROBRAS I POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
ELETROBRAS
HISTORICAL FINANCIAL INDICATORSa/
Year ending Dec. 31                              1972       1973       1974       1975       1976        1977       1978       1979       1980       1981-/
Debt/Equity                           (%)        44/56      44/56      45/55      42/58      48/52      53/47      51/49      55/45       57/43      60/40
Income before monetary adjustment/
Equity                              (M)         12.9       13.5       12.5       15.1       12.4       12.2       11.2       11.8         5.9       12.1
Revenues from shareholdings/
Capital stock investments           (%)          8.8       10.4        8.3        9.6        6.2        8.0        7.7       10.0         3.0        3.5
Revenues from loans/Loans             (%)         10.0        9.6        9.1       11.8       10.0        8.8        8.6         8.3        9.7       12.3
Interest on debt/Debt                 (M)          3.3        3.2        3.0        3.9        4.6        4.9        4.2         6.1        6.9        6.6
Spread                                (%)          6.7        6.4        6.1        7.9        5.4        3.9        4.4         2.2        2.8        5.7
Gross internal cash generation/
Capital service                   (times)        1.9        2.3        1.9        3.0        2.4        3.8        2.5         1.9        1.3        0.3
Gross internal cash generation +
Compulsory loan + Reversion/
Capital service                   (times)        3.7        4.0        4.0        5.0        4.6        7.5        4.8         3.1        2.4        1.7
Income before interst/Interest
on Debt                           (times)        7.5        8.1        7.5        7.1        4.3        3.4        3.8         2.7        1.7        2.2
Foreign currency debt/Long-term
debt                                (%)         24.0       20.3       17.6       14.2       11.3       21.1       26.2       36.1        38.0       41.9
a/ Calculated with year-end figures.
b/  Preliminary



-52-
-   52   -  LEThomnA. FORElON DET                     ANNEX   3-4/5
DATE OF CUORENCY    TOTAL         INTEREST      CRACE  ARORTIZATIONP             DE'T                    DEBT
11561E6                 SLCING    (10')   FACILIry   12 * y_mxl    PERIOD          PERIOD        (.m of D-o31.1981)  (.o fl D-c.31,1981
_ _  (-)            (o10)                    (onths)   (mnths)         (origin   cur- ency)         (Crs l,)
Awl,IM/ISEPL                         li. 12.64     0S5        141,930    6-6.5            a          535                 95,562                10,935
hiS                                  10.01.65      01s        16,346    6.0              68          132                   -                    -
AA.,                                 12.01.65      US$         12,036    3.5             108         199                  6.534                   835
Al,                                  10.23.67      US$            702    6.0              72        I1O                      397                   St
so.                                  03.12.69      US         24,819    3.25            48          192                   0*                   1,661
I64                                  03.12.659    CAN          8,556      3.0            94         276                    ..                     691
E8.49T-I4FORT LUM,                   09.22.69      US0          7,166    6.0              36         166                  1,466                   l81
L11,                                 12.17.69      US0         11,962    8.0             46          192                   .82
lDO                                  12.17.69      DM          26.907    3.0             48          192                  .*                    1,007
CBLoDIZTAsTALT F09 WIEDERA0FAAU    06.22.71        DM           9,300    3.0              66         240                  7,044                   402
AID.                                 10.29.71      US9          2,094     2-3.0           66         190                  1,614                   206
C868  WNsHATT6r  uANK               07.24.72      US0         38,671 LIB002R/63          36          72                   _                     _
RXIOT-I9FORT BASE                    07.24.72      Us$         38,671     9.5            108          72                 35,447                 4,530
CISC M7ANATTAN  oSOK                 07.24.72      US0          8,773      -              33          48                   -                     -
lob                                  12.18.72      US0        35,700    4.0              84          168                   0*                  4,216
LWb                                  12.19.72      L           2,000    3.0              16          252                   mm                     316
l1o                                  12.18.72      US0         16,300    8.0             84          169                   ..                  2.1U6
USDCAN 0UARAN7T  TRusT-LONoREs       05.19.76      US0          8,000 LIBOROI 3/4%        1o          54                   -                     -
9A2VA0  EXPORT FF70DIN9  CORP.      05.19.76      US0         21.150    9.25             52          36                 11,215                1.33
LXPOIT-I9PORCT 8ANr                  05.19.76      US0         20.206    8.50            08           49                 25,949                 3,3L6
hSaG4.Y GUARANTY TRUST-N.Y.          05,19.76      USs         14,100 LIsClol 3/64        22          30
%UVFACTVRES l1A."ER TRusT Co.    05.19.76    0US                9,180 LISD90  7/02        29          I4                  2,266                   290
I9ASJFACTLRES N.TRUST-2AhAHAS        05.19.76|   US$            2,040 LIloRl 3/6:         L4          54                   0 
t25RT-LNPORT A8N5                    05.19.76      US0          9,180    9.0              80          54                  8,476                 1,083
id8Y1  CUAURATY TRUST                05.19.76      US$            330 LIBOR1I 3/46         6          53                    -                    -
IV A T?-17LRf 8ANr                   05.19.76    U0I              701    8.25              6          54
71` TATE EXPORT  0U1Ul!;C           05.19.76      LSI            526    9.25              6          54                   _
39w8                                 00.07.76      0S$          o,o000    9.85           42          198                                        4,757
faE*N19   BANK AC                    0R 17.77       M         ISO1.000    7.0            192          60                1SO,0oo                 d,559
i60 or AMEIICA RATIUNAL TRLST    09.12.77          US0        250,000 LIRBROI 7/16%    84             66                250,000                31.950
IW.: oF AMERILA NATIONAL.            12.22.77      US$         54,000 LIPORn22            36          54                 36,000                 6.601
692RSONE  BASE AL:                   03.22.78      Ds         110,OO    6.75             97          -                 150,000                 S.559
TdE MAO  0F TOEYJ                    03.28.78      W      40,000,300      7.8             84          72             lo,ooo0,oo                 5,850
FBNUFACT?EES hA4;J20ER L1MITED      04.24.78      US0        250,000 LIBOR.17/81         48          78                250,0o0                31,950
thT4                                 05.08.78      Us5        130,000    7.45            42          144                                        5,512
ThE 1A6.  OF TORYO LTD.              09.25.78      v       5,000.000    7.3          j   72           79              5,OOD.OOD                 2,925
EWAIT 1N169.1;EST.E 4PANO            10.09.78      KD          10,000    8.25            144          -                   8,800                 6,005
KLUISCHE 8A7K                        10.26.78      USS        250,000 ILISOR1.2%          66          60                250,000                31,950
ONE 0S00 LANK                        02,09.79      55M        100,000    7.0              96          96                100,000                 5,706
DC tiK0                              04.23.79      US$        400,000 L1BOR0.96%          72          78                400,000                51,120
TfLE 0l7.0-TER  CRLDIT 8.OF JAPAN   06.19.79       9      10,O0O,000    7.7              120          64             10,060,000                 5,922
MIA  Of AMERilC                      08.15.79      Us$        100,000 LIBOR-3742          72          72                100,000                12,780
Ci1.,9 ILEf oF SWITZERLAND           08.17.79   S0FR  .    80,0O0    0.0                  96          30                 80,000                 5,700
T 7AEUZA sEcuRITIEs CO.LTD.          08.21.79            '10,000,000    8.3               72          60            10,000,000                  5.s50
lilt 9ASK.00 7OKYO                   08.23.79      i       1o,ooo,ooo    8.5             120          66            1o.,0.0ooo                  5,850
MLAN CERANT8  TRUST CO.             07.28.80      US$        400,000 LIBORmI 3/81        48          69                600,000               51,120
961O8AL tANX OF CA0ADA               11.24.80      US$         20,000 LISORL 1/22       48          4s                  20,000                2,056
C Y.8AYIL VOs4R RsoERLANDSCHE
Ce7ESTEN                             06.28.80      oFL         sD,000   12 7/8            72          48                 50,000                 2,581
06.04.61     US5        151,403 LtBRoR2 1/82        48          40                151,I33                19,353
L    oF A8,94510CA                                 US$        148,567 PRIME(NY)m22       48           48                148.567                18,997
WOAL LAY OF CA.YADA                  07.24.81    CARS          50,000 PRIME(CAN)-22    49             48                 50,000                1,619
11.19.81     us0         32,000 LIBORO2 1/8:        48          48                 32,000                 4,090
CISAE IMA.NHATTAN sANf                             USS         17,00oo pFRO(s21m2         4 48                           17 000                 2,173
DM         80,704  LIBOR.2 1/86       48          48                 80,748                 4,608
1- Klonth/D.y/Y..1.
(1) S.m .t10h0d6 chart.
mIS Mrmlimimary (s-bjrnt to rooioion)
NO2TE  Ohm DIOL 1939-bR Lo.n Agrm..nt of US0  54 million, .ignmA  OD  Ja-14,1981, h.o yo           t hdOE dRO.b-rao -mnt.
IORDIG9 DEBT FF8 CTRRE9CT(DEC 31 19877
pAI   EX9A0  RAT25ODEC 0   95                         T O31J19   NCE   60Am00uhvi')    CrS(IO')
1US                    127.800                                 US0           2,300,988       294,066
I DMN                   57.061                                 DK              568.205        32,472
9                        D.O3Sd503                              V          68 B,d,88267       2d,601
397R                    71 .245                                Z.70            136,807          9,746
ta                     4553 134                                Ku                8,802         4,406
CANS                   108.38O                                 DFL               9,864L        3,037
1                      24S.770                                CANS              56,379         6,110
cDiL                    51.624                                OThER               -               510
SI;E: UEID AM VCP-TOTAL                                                             -          378,698
36o9iCE: 6t9070000 anA iLCO/2800.



- 53 -                        ANNEX 3-5/1
BRAZIL
ELETROBRAS I POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
ELETROBRAS
PROJECTED INCOME STATEMNT b/
(in billions of mid-1981 Cr$)
Year ending Dec. 31        1982        1983        1984        1985        1986
REVENUES                  123.8       118.9       138.2      204.8       267.8
From shareholdings          6.0       (26.8)      (39.8)     (14.8)       11.1
Utilities                 6.0       (26.8)      (40.4)     (15.4)       10.5
Itaipu                    0.0         0.0        0.6         0.6         0.6
From loans                117.8       145.7      178.0       219.6       256.7
Contracted               69.7        66.0       60.9        57.4        48.5
To be contracted          8.9        32.1       64.3       103.9       146.6
Itaipu                   39.2        47.6       52.8        58.3        61.6
INTEREST ON DEBT           79.2       108.1      143.9       184.2       221.7
Contracted               55.1        63.4       60.6        55.5        46.3
To be contracted          0.0        13.5       43.7        79.5       114.5
Compulsory loan          13.0        16.1       19.7        23.8        29.2
Global Reversion Fund   11.1         15.1       19.9        25.4        31.7
NET INCOME                 44.6        10.8        (5.7)      20.6        46.1
Dividends                30.3        25.9        42.3       20.4        20.8
Retained earnings        14.3       (25.1)      (48.0)       0.2        25.3
a/ US$1 = Cr$92.44
b/ See also Annex 3-6/1.



- 54 -                         ANNEX 3-5/2
BRAZIL
ELETROBRAS I POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
ELETROBRAS
PROJECTED FLOW OF FUNDS e/
(in billions of mid-1981 Cr$) -
Year ending Dec. 31                      1982       1983       1984       1985      1986
SOURCES                                 353.3      400.2      442.3      497.6      447.0
Net internal cash generation              22.4      13.4      (23.0)    (48.7)   (100.8)
Gross internal cash generation        120.2      128.4      136.8      163.3      179.6
Dividend receipts                     7.4        9.0        9.0        0.6        1.3
Interest receipts                    43.2       57.9       71.8       80.2      96.4
Amortization receipts                69.6       61.5       56.0       82.5       81.9
Capital service                        97.8      115.0      159.8      212.0      280.4
Amortization payments                28.6       20.5       33.9       51.1       89.4
Interest payments                    68.0       93.0      124.1      158.8     190.0
Dividend payments                     1.2        1.5        1.8        2.1        1.0
Other consumer-based contributions    163.4        217.8      256.5      307.8      348.9
Sole tax                                6.4       32 5       37.0       43.1       49.3
Compulsory loan                        56.9       64:7 d/   75.4        97.9      116.1
Reversion                             100.1      120.6      144.1      166.8     183.5
Equity contributions                     49.0 -/    0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0
Borrowings                               118.5     169.0      208.8      238.5      198.9
APPLICATIONS                            353.3      400.2      442.3      497.6      447.0
Investments                             355.6      400.2      442.3      497.6     434.9
Capital stock                          48.4       29.1       16.1       21.3      10.5
Loans                                 307.2      371.1      426.2      476.3     424.4
Increase in working capital               (2.3)      0.0        0.0        0.0       12.1
a/  Based on investments of  PLANO 2000;  US$1 = Cr$92.44
bJ  Reimbursements of expenses in the Nuclear Program.
cf  Last year of the sole tax.
d/ Last year of the compulsory loan.
e/ See also Annex 3-6/2.
Figures are presented on a cash basis (net payments or receipts).



- 55 -                         ANNEX 3-5/3
BRAZIL
ELETROBRAS I POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
ELETROBRAS
PROJECTED BALANCE SHEET -
(in billions of mid-1981 Cr$) v
Year ending Dec. 31                      1982         1983         1984         1985         1986
ASSETS                                 1,957.7      2,348.5      2,792.2      3,331.3      3,866.6
Current assets IL/                         3.4          3.4          3.4          3.4         15.5
Loans                                  1.353.0      1,750.5      2,226.9      2,760.1      3,263.0
Contracted                             710.9        673.0        634.2        562.6        497.2
To be contracted                       231.8        603.5      1,068.2      1,629.4      2,174.4
Itaipu                                 410.3        474.0        524.5        568.1        591.4
Capital stock investments                601.3        594.6        561.9        567.8        588.1
Contracted                             587.2        581.4        537.0        543.9        564.1
To be contracted                         9.5          8.6         20.3         19.3         19.4
Itaipu                                   4.6          4.6          4.6          4.6          4.6
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES                 1,957.7      2,348.5      2,792.2      3,331.3      3,866.6
Debt                                   1,167.3      1,516.2      1,930.5      2,408.0      2,848.8
Compulsory loan                        268.7        328.1        396.9        486.9        593.3
Global Reversion Fund                  381.6        517.3        681.3        873.6    -1,088.7
Extra-sector, contracted               417.0        501.9        474.7        431.4        351.8
Extra-sector, to be contracted           0.0        168.9        377.6        616.1        815.0
Equity                                   790.4        832.2        861.7        923.3      1,017.7
- Capital stock, contracted               219.1        251.7       288.6        331.7        381.0
Capital stock, to be contracted        118.1        146.9        181.0        221.1        240.5
Capital reserves                        62.3         62.3         62.3         62.3         62.3
Earnings reserve                       270.5        276.4        276.4        287.8        313.1
Retained earnings                       90.0         59.0         11.2          0.0          0.0
Dividends payable                       30.3         35.9         42.2         20.4         20.8
a/ US$1 = Cr$92.44
b/ Projection of current assets includes only cash.
c/ See also Annex 3-6/3.



- 56 -                         ANNEX 3-5/4
BRAZIL
ELETROBRAS I POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
ELETROBRAS
PROJECTED FINANCIAL INDICATORS -A
Year ending Dec. 31                          1982       1983      1984       1985       1986
Debt/Equity                          (X)     60/40     65/35      70/30     72/28      74/26
Net income/Equity                    (X)      5.6       1.3       (0.7)       2.2       4.5
Revenue from shareholdings/Capital
stock investments                 (X)       1.0      (4.5)      (7.1)      (2.6)      1.9
Revenues from loans/Loans hJ         (%)     10.2      10.4       10.5      10.8       10.9
Interest on debt/Debt IJ            (%)       7.6       8.1        8.3       8.5        8.4
Spread 1                            (M)       2.6       2.3        2.2       2.3        2.5
Gross internal cash generation/
Capital service                 (times)    1.2        1.1        0.9       0.8        0.6
Gross internal cash generation +
Compulsory loan + Reversion/
Capital service                 (times)    2.8        2.7        2.2       2.0        1.7
Income before interest/Interest
on Debt                         (times)    1.6        1.1        1.0       1.1        1.2
Foreign currency debt/Debt           (%)     37.5      39.4       40.7      41.0       39.1
a/ Calculated with year-end figures.
/ Interest rate for new loans: 12% p.a. These indicators will be considered targets
to be attained and part of ELETROBRAS policy statement on interest rates.



- 57 -
BRAZIL
ELETROBRAS I POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT      ANNEX 3-6/1
ELETROBRAS
COMPOSITION AND DISTRIBUTION OF REVENUES
I       - -  HISTORICAL                      IZ-     PROJECTED-----
as
0- 
o                                                             ft~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S 
o                                                             E~~~~~~~~~~~~~s
/ZzxMxRSM SARE HO LJN C/ is
C-)
I-s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a 
iso
1 972     1 974;    1 976     19878     1 980     1982Z     1 984     1 988
YEARS
*  BEVORE t4Ot4ElA   AUSTN!T
a! Projections do not include Administrative and General Expenses,
since they become a small portion of revenues.



BRAZIL
ELETROBRAS I POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
ELETROBRAS
COMPOSITION OF SOURCES OF FUNDS al
HISTORICAL                -16       PROJECTED
70-
P  60-
E
R
E
N           OTHER CONSUMER-BASED CONTRIBT p    Ins
T  40
30,
22-
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
1972      1974       1978       1Q78       1982       1Q82       1984       1988
YEARS
a/ Figures are presented on a cash basis (net payments or receipts).



ELETROBRAS   POVY8E4,R D-iS[ flre, J-l-> t   PR   CANNEX 3-6/3
COMPOS: 7I|Stlstf>'ty"' it Ic4N  'i.' rjT"x Nt 4l=
I          ~HISTORICtAL--                     s6- y-          OUECT fED-I
composrricxm,               SHEr,  A f< ,fT~
180~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
/7/, /        '~~e e,                           as/    4
7~~~~~~~~7
Z ............4M.g,<tX,, /                             P
(0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6 
/<>^  'M                         $7'+l                      E   ..S! lg,I>t*N!'MoY0q   1
=o                                                  A   / A
____________  -          *. <a.  ~ ~ ~  .,NVLS   ENTS               18
/ l ' ,,':  ~. ' .;',, . .
77                      7
H                                A,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
CD
/74,               ~~R
''~~~~0  iadd~-               0 
'1972       1974       1  t:16    ,11          ,  .4 ttt7



- 60 -
ANNEX 4-1
B R A Z I L
ELETROBRAS I POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES (1)
(in US$ millions) (2)
1982      1983       1984       1985       TOTAL
COSERN
Foreign                       -         7.5       5.0        4.6       17.1    237
Local                        5.5       19.6       16.1      15.8       57.0    777
Total                   5.5       27.1       21.1       20.4       74.1   100%
COELCE
Foreign                       -        21.3       18.9      13.6       53.8    29%
Local                        1.0       48.4      41.6       42.0      133.0    717
Total                    1.0      69.7       60.5       55.6      186.8   100%
CELPE
Foreign                       -        21.1       15.3      14.8       51.2    24%
Local                        0.2       56.1      58.4       50.7      165.4    76%
-Total                  0.2       77.2       73.7       65.5      216.6   1007
ENERSUL
Foreign                       -        15.5       13.7      10.8       40.0    26%
Local                         -        30.3      44.8       36.4      111.5    74%
Total                    -        45.8       58.5       47.2      151.5   100l
CELPA
Foreign                       -         7.8       8.8       11.3       27.9    26%
Local                        0.9       22.7      20.7       35.4       79.7    74%
Total                   0.9       30.5       29.5       46.7      107.6   1nn0
5 Beneficiaries
Foreign                       -        73.2      61.7       55.1      190.0    267
Local                        7.6      177.1     181.6      180.3      546.6    747
Total                   7.6      250.3      243.3      235,.4     736.6   1007
(1) Including physical and price contingencies
(2) At June 81 prices and exchange rate Cr$ 88,76 - US$1                    3/24/82



- 61 -
ANNIEX Y-2
B R A Z T L
ELETROB,R\S T POWFR PISTRIBrTTIO"T PROJFCT
PROGRAM AND PROJECT COSTS (1)
(in US$ millions) (2)
1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    TOTAL
(3)
COSERN
Program            1.3      30.3    30.2    24.5    26.00   23.8    136.1   1007
Project            -         5.0    23.1    16.7    15.1    -            59.9    44%
COELCE
Program            3.7      40.9    81.0    71.4    66.4    57.2    320.6   10O%
Project            -         0.9    59.5    47.9    40.9    -           149.2   46,57
CEELPE
Progran            0.6      54.4    90.3    83.2    75.5    80.3    384.3   100%
Project            -         0.2    65.8    58.4    48.4    -           172.8   44,9"'
ENERSUL
Program                     48.1    73.5    73.8    52.5    43.4    291.3   100%
Project            -        -        38.9    46.4    35.0    -           120.3   41,37
CELPA
Program           12.8      51.7    63.5    69.9    60 .9    52.0    310.8   1007
Project            -         0.8    25.7    23.5    34.6    -             84.6   27,2%7
5 Beneficiaries
Program           24.0    225.4   338.5   322.8   281.3   256.7  1.1t43.1   1nO
Project           -          6.9   213.0   192.9   174.0   -            586.8   40,6%
(1).  Base cost including physical bult excluding price contingencies.
(2) At June 81 prices and exchange rate Cr$ 88,76 = UJS$1
(3) For works entering service in 1982.
3/24/82



BRA:IL
ELETROBRAS T PO'wEP DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
GENERAL DATA. INVESTMENTS AND IBRD RESOURCES
CO3LCr.     COSE R       CELPE       ENERSUL        CELPA        TOTAL
.GE'N-PAL P,AT ; /-
Energy sold                                GWhl        1378.5          587.4      2,938.2        534.5         860.8
'5i"nS4;U der"a.nd                           Th/h        323           128          655           141          202
u-ber of consumers                                   /8i^9O j26                 d989402      132,634       248L870
of r  c'  -1)orees                              33 9          1,491        4, 157       1.435          9 6 6
-i22. -        6,         168      ,      24 14 j 5
13/~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>
8                  1~~0,
-    s   -  .98,f,i$ v 1O>                       ^' 'Z5.: 17-                                 ,   )'     ;,5Qc3s    5       OS8 
3.. -:I,1RD PTS017eC.ES
t'IoLtt Einancial con6in.gencies-'   US  . ,            4008          13.0         38.8         30.4          21.1        144.1
With finaancial contingencies           US$ x 106          51.0         16.2         48.5          37.9         26.4        180.0
1/ December 1980 data.
2/ Includes physical contingencies (10% of base cost) and excludes financial contingencies.
3/ June 1981 prices.
4/  PGI = Program Global de Investimentos;  POF = Projeto a Financiar.
03/24/82



BRAZIL
ELETROBRAS I POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
BENEFICIARIES
INVESTMENT AND FINANCING PLANS-'
(Decembur 1981 prices)
3 E N . F I C I A R Y                       COSERN                COELCE                CELPE                ENERSUL               CELPA                   Total
us$106                      66_    us$ 106  ,,  uss io6    _    usS 106        .      u   ,o6    _           u    o6       ___
Irvestment Plan                        129.8      100.0      361.3     100.0      465.1      100.0      313.2      100.0      320.9      100.0      1,590.3      100.0
Projects in progress                   --         --        24.1        6.7      24.5        5.3        --         --         --         --          48.6        3.1
Prnposed IBRD project                 53.1       40.9      144.9       40.1     167.5       36.0      115.9       37.0      100.9       31.4        582.3       36.6
Other projects                        98.1       75.6      215.8       59.7     276.3       59.4      190.8       60.9      230.7       71.9      1,011.7       63.6
Working canital                      (21.4)    (16.5)    (23.5)        (6.5)      (3.2)     (0.7)       6.5        2.1      (10.7)      (3.3)       (52.3)      (3-3)
F nan ni Pl_an                         129.8      100.0      361.3      100.0     465.1      100.0      313.2      100.0      320.9      100.0      1,590.3      100.0
Net inlternal cash generation         10.8        8.3        9.2        2.5      45.0        9.7        8.9        2.8       37.2       11.6        111.1        7.0
Gross ijternal cash generation    80.4         61.9      211.7      58.6      267.5       57.5      194.2       62.0      200.0       62.3        953.8       60.0
Net debt sorvice                   (33.0)    (25.4)   (141.9)    (39.3)   (152.1)    (32.7)   (109.9)          (35.1)     (68.3)     (21.3)      (505.2)     (31.8)
Other obligations                  (36.6)    (28.2)    <60.6)    (16.8)    (70.4)    (15.1)    (75.4)          (24.1)     (94.5)     (29.4)      (337-5)     (21.2)
Sector e uity contribultions            64.1       49.4      141.3       39.1     162.7       35.0       90.4       28.9      145.7       45.4        604.2       38.0
Non-sector equiry contributions         17.1       13.2       35.3        9.8       20.8       4.5       85.0       27.1       52.7       16.4        210.9       13.2
Borrowings                              37.8       29.1      175.5       48.6     236.6       50.8      128.9       41.2       85.3       26.6        664.1       41.8
Existing ELETROBRAS loans              --         --         0.9        0.2       2.6        0.6        8.6        2.7        1.9        0.6         14.0        0.9
Other existing loans                   0.3        0.2       24.1        6.7       25.4       5.5       46.3       14.8       22.5        7.0        118.6        7.4
Proposed IBLD loan                    13.6       10.5       42.6       11.8      40.5        8.7       31.7       10.2       22.0        6.9        150.4        9.5
Unidentified sources                  23.9       18.4      107.9       29.9     168.1       36.0       42.3       13.5       38.9       12.1        381.1       24.0
a/ Excluding price contingencies.



- 64 -
ANNEX 5-1
Page 1 of 2
ELETROBRAS I POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
List of Selected Documents and Data Available
in the Project File
A. Energy and Power Sectors
1 - Fontes e Usos de Recursos
2 - Balanco Energetico Nacional
3 - Investimento Remuneravel e rusto do Servico (1968-1978)
4 - Tarifas Medias de Energia Eletrica (1968-1978)
5 - Acompanhamento Estatistico Tarifario, Receita de
Fornecimiento (01-10/81)
6 - Previsao da Receita de Fornecimiento (1982)
7 - Planejamento de Tarifas de Energia Eletrica--PLANTE
(1980-1982)
8 - The Brazilian Power Sector
9 - Plano 2000 (preliminary copy)
B. ELETROBRAS
I - Organizational Structure
2 - Manual de Pessoal
3 - Dados Estatisticos do Pessoal
4 - Politicas de ELETROBRAS na area da Diretoria Economico-
Financeira
5 - Politicas de ELETROBRAS na area da Directoria de Gestao
Empresarial
6 - Estrutura do Departamento de Recursos--DERE
7 - Modelo de Acompanhamento (Emprestimo BIRD-1538)
8 - Modelo Corporativo
9 - Modelo de Simulacao Economico-Financeira (MODSET)
10 - Controle de Moeda Estrangeira
11 - Financial Statements (1976-1980)
12 - Annual Reports (1979 + 1980)
13 - Independent Auditors Report (1980)
14 - Statement of loans
15 - Syndicated loan memo, August 1977, US$250 million
16 - Syndicated loan memo, June 1980, US$400 million
17 - Syndicated loan memo, April 1981, US$300 million
18 - Roteiro para Preparacao de Projeto
19 - Manual de Analise Economico-Financeira
20 - Various ELETROBRAS documents and reports



- 65 -
ANNEX 5-1
Page 2 of 2
C. Beneficiaries
1 - Diagnostico Preliminar - COSERN (12/19/79)
2 - Diagnostico Preliminar - COELCE (06/30/80)
3 - Avaliacao da COSERN (10/10/80)
4 - Avaliacao da COELCE (11/14/80)
5 - Avaliacao da CELPE (04/14/81)
6 - Avaliacao da COSERN (01/22/82)
7 - Avaliacao da COELCE (01/22/82)
8 - Avaliacao da CELPE (01/22/82)
9 - Project Brief - CELPA (03/82)
10 - Project Brief - ENERSUL (03/82)
D. Working Papers
1 - Computer printouts for financial forecasts
2 - Assumptions for the financial forecasts
3 - Worksheets for financial statements






T _ I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRD-16381
7n\  ~        -4 eh                      GEORGETOWN  -62                                                                          M 1
0 e S  ---~ i    S --  -PAr AR IBO
,.             P  ~~~~~V E N E Z U E L A \              S. 
VENEZUELA    \                           B~~~~~~~~~CAYENNE
,Zll-        f-         CENAME  \OUIANA
C O L O M 8 I A   )                  ^ -/          \YttsURNM   \      ANCAH,s
COLOMBA    )      _BOA-VISTA (    V   j                    /
A                                     K                  f~A;;
t) \2R/0RA /i} A               S1  t            ne'rr/. st--'  C1                     5 z -
>   i  \  -f   \    ( .      -r--fXl             NN aAMA APA'
I;io- ,                          I ,< - - C :! .   ;    *g  ~    . g F i     @           ! SAO LSOU
P'E   R                  U                         i  t B  \/      ,   G  Op                                       /        A        RSUt !'SSALEZA
6  ~~,-A-  A 44'tAZO   NAS>  iI     147        TU$           ~      ~      MAA A//,,r
I     I                                              V) /  % C .,_,  !S,-/          x)fr   ,P       US
_1r~~~~ -A                                                       t                            AI                / T CUIBA T SINIAS;i _ 
A C R                                           - --       POTOD ELHO
RIOUPANCG' 
RO/'/CON/A                                                                                                Al0E  A1VLAJU
Projec4 Area            A  T    :         A                IA  H  IA
P ~ ~     ~       ~       ~      ~      o E  R, U3-                                     -   EOFAER
PEEC  LaIo nl E IA t As         5/            CR055 s                        so I                                   % s ._LVADOR
oCUIABA sA E 1-AA     A  1
=-Rwors ~    ~                     ,4 ,2       /,<D          CA        LIAo !4L                                      1           o
I4j (/!  g5g                  FOINPLS,_BRAOIAUNIA'  S                           Z
BRAZIL                                                    4 -                     G5   RA /S
ELETROBRAS I POWER  DISTRIBUTI1ON                                                                                        FSPIRHIIONTOLAV/
PROJECT                   ~                                                                               ]0TORIA 
Project Area  Locations                                                SAC  PAULO   I                 - 
-I I[I p     ,~ AK.                                                         SAO PAULO          RIO DE ?  ?   P(    F   S     
-JANERO
, , ,,,,,, 0C                                             P1 A R A  G,U A Y
0J 4p  W , NCON1.,  .  CURITIB
~-t,r~A--Z'~CA TAR/NA                                               1A
0FLORIANOPOJIS
.                9 7c, s. -flT                          U   3             . A
U R U G U AY\ ~ ~  ~       ~       ~ ~ ~ U 
BUENO5SA RE$40-  MONTEVIDEO



