Document of                  FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Rqp" Nq. F-3271-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
CENTRAIS ELETRICAS BRASILEIRAS S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
April 16, 1982
This dowacm  as a restricted Ql*%lsti.d mky be used by reipiet way h* tbe 
their oeNl duties. IUs contents ma at otwise be diselld witb   World S"ac oaewo5.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS I/
Calendar 1981                 February 28, 1982
Currency Unit                Brazilian Cruzeiro (Cr$)
Cr$1.00              =       US$0.0155                            US$0.00733
US$1.00              =       Cr$94.75                             Cr$136.41
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
t (metric ton)               =         1,000 kgs (2.205 lbs)
kcal (kilocalories)          =         3,968 Btu (British thermal units)
T.o.e. (ton oil equiv.)    =           10 million kcal approx.
kW (kilowatt)                =         1,000 W (Watts)
MW (Megawatt)                          1,000 kW
kWh (kilowatt hour)          =         1,000 Wh (Watt hours)
GWh (Gigawatt hour)          =         1,000,000 kWh
kV (kilovolt)                =         1,000 V (Volts)
kVA (kilovolt-ampere)        =         1,000 VA (Volt-amperes)
MVA (Megavolt-ampere)        =         1,000 kVA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
1/   Dollar equivalent figures for basic data in this report are based on
the June 1981 rate (US$1.00 = Cr$88.76) unless otherwise indicated.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
BNH            =    Banco Nacional de Habitacao
CACEX                Carteira do Comercio Exterior
CAEEB          =    Companhia Auxiliar de Empresas Eletricas Brasileiras
CEEE           -    Companhia Estadual de Energia Eletrica
CELPA          =    Centrais Eletricas do Para S.A.
CELPE          =    Companhia de Eletricidade de Pernambuco
CEMIG          =    Centrais Eletricas de Minas Gerais S.A.
CESP           -    Companhia Energetica de Sao Paulo S.A.
CHESF          =    Companhia Hidro Eletrica do Sao Francisco
COSERN         =    Companhia de Servicos Electricos do Rio Grande do Norte
COELCE               Companhia de Eletricidade do Ceara
DNAEE          =    Departamento Nacional de Aguas e Energia Eletrica
ELETROBRAS     =    Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras S.A.
ELETRONORTE    =    Centrais Eletricas do Norte do Brasil S.A.
ELETROSUL      =    Centrais Eletricas do Sul do Brasil S.A.
ENERSUL        =    Empresa de Energia Eletrica de Mato Grosso do Sul S.A.
FINAME         =    Agencia Especial de Financiamiento Industrial
FURNAS         =    Furnas Centrais Eletricas S.A.
GGF            -    Global Guarantee Fund
ICB            -    International Competitive Bidding
IDB            =    Inter American Development Bank
INCRA          =    Instituto Nacional de Colonizacao e Reforma Agraria
IUEE           =    Imposto Unico de Energia Eletrica
LIGHT          =    LIGHT-Servicos de Eletricidade S.A.
ORTN           =    Obrigacoes Reajustaveis do Tesouro Nacional
SEPLAN         =    Secretaria de Planejamento da Presidencia da Republica
SEST           =    Secretaria de Controle de Empresas Estatais
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






BRAZIL
ELETROBRAS I POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras S.A. (ELETROBRAS)
Guarantor:           Federative Republic of Brazil
Beneficiaries:       Companhia de Servicos Eletricos do Rio Grande
do Norte (COSERN)
Companhia de Eletricidade do Ceara (COELCE)
Companhia de Eletricidade de Pernambuco (CELPE)
Empresa de Energia Eletrica de Mato Grosso do Sul S.A.
(ENERSUL)
Centrais Eletricas do Para (CELPA)
Amount:              US$182.7 million equivalent, including front-end fee
of US$2.7 million.
Terms:               Repayment in 15 years, including three years of grace
at 11.6% interest per annum.
Relending Terms:    Repayment at terms similar to the terms of the Bank
loan plus a charge of 1% annually on the outstanding
balance of the loan. The beneficiaries will bear the
foreign exchange risk.
Project Description
and Objectives:   The project consists of five subprojects.  Each sub-
project consists of portions of the 1982 to 1986
investment program of the five state utility companies
selected by ELETROBRAS as beneficiaries of the proposed
loan. These utilities are small to medium size compa-
nies located in the less developed regions of Brazil.
The objectives of their programs are to meet the needs
of the market efficiently and to remedy unsatisfactory
conditions arising from inadequate planning and lack of
sufficient investment during preceeding years. Their
programs provide for the purchase and installation of
equipment, consultant services and the formulation of
plans that give emphasis to the connection of rural and
low-income consumers. It is expected that their
investment programs will provide connections to about
180,000 low-income consumers. The project would sub-
stantialy strengthen the operations of ELETROBRAS,
especially its project selection, appraisal and super-
vision capability. In addition it will provide insti-
tutional support and strengthening to the benefi-
ciaries.



- ii -
Risks:                The project does not present any special risks.
Estimated Costs:
----US$ Million Equivalent---
Local   Foreign   Total        %
COSERN                                 42.0      12.5      54.5      10
COELCE                                 96.5      39.2    135.7       26
CELPE                                 119.7      37.4    157.1       29
ENERSUL                                80.3      29.1    109.4       21
CELPA                                  57.2      19.7      76.9      14
Base Cost:                            395.7    137.9    533.6    100
Physical Contingency                   39.6      13.8      53.4      10
Price Contingency                     111.3      38.3    149.6       28
Total Contingency:                    150.9      52.1    203.0       38
Total Project Costs:             546.6    190.0    736.6    138
Front-end Fee on Loan                   -         2.7       2.7
Total Financing Required:        546.6    192.7    739.3
Financing Plan:
Consumer Based Contributions          331.5       -       331.5      45
Equity Contributions                   97.2       -        97.2      13
Proposed Bank Loan                       -      182.7    182.7       25
Borrowing from Local
Development Banks                    47.9       -        47.9       6
Co-financing                           70.0      10.0      80.0      11
Total                            546.6    192.7    739.3    100
Estimated Disbursements:
----------US$ Million Equivalent----
Bank FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86  FY87
Annual                      4.7 1/    47       73      42     16
Cumulative                  4.7        51.7  124.7  166.7  182.7
Pate of Return:       13.1% rate of return on the combined investment
programs of the beneficiaries.
Staff Appraisal
Report:            Report No. 3338b-BR dated April 19, 1982.
1/   Includes front-end fee of US$2.7 million.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO CENTRAIS ELETRICAS BRASILEIRAS S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras S.A. (ELETROBRAS) with the
guarantee of the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of
US$182.7 million, including a capitalized front-end fee of US$2.7 million,
to assist in the financing of a power distribution project. The loan would
have a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace with interest at 11.6%
per annum. ELETROBRAS will relend the resources of the Bank loan at terms
similar to the Bank loan plus a charge of 1% annually on the outstanding
balance of the loan.  The beneficiaries will bear the foreign exchange
risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The most recent economic report entitled "Economic Memorandum on
Brazil" (Report No. 3275a-BR dated May 29, 1981) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on June 26, 1981. A mission to prepare a new country
economic memorandum is scheduled for May 1982. Country data are provided
in Annex I.
3.        The present government, headed by President Figueiredo, took
office on March 15, 1979, for a six-year term. Much of its attention has
had to be devoted to grappling with inflation and a difficult balance-of-
payments situation. Major economic priorities of the Government include
the growth of agriculture, reduced dependence on imported petroleum,
continued expansion of manufactured exports, and increasing domestic
savings.  Success on these fronts is crucial to the solution of the infla-
tion and balance-of-payments problems, as well as to the sustained improve-
ment of living standards and better income distribution.
Economic Performance
4.        In the 13 years ending in 1980, Brazil enjoyed a high level of
economic growth, with GDP rising at a rate of about 9% per annum.  During
the 1967-73 period, growth was achieved with no significant deterioration
of the external resource balance, despite considerable trade
liberalization, and there also occurred a decline in the rate of domestic
1/   Parts I and II of the report are reproduced without substantial
changes from the corresponding parts of the President's Report for the
Second Northwest Region Development Project -- Mato Grosso (Report
No. P-3221-BR, dated February 26, 1982).



- 2 -
inflation. However, given the dependence of industry and transport on
petroleum, over 80% of which was imported, the quadrupling of oil prices in
1973 resulted in a sharp deterioration in the nation's terms of trade.
Excess aggregate demand and a succession of bad harvests, along with higher
energy costs, resulted in increasing balance-of-payments difficulties and
the acceleration of inflation.
5.        Coping with these constraints, while responding to pressures to
maintain growth of output and employment and simultaneously establishing
the basis for structural adjustment, has been the central problem of
Brazilian economic management. At the same time that success was achieved
in maintaining growth, an innovative effort was launched to reduce energy
consumption and substitute domestic energy resources for imported
petroleum. Through 1.978, the balance-of-payments pressures were contained
through the rapid expansion of exports (particularly of manufactures),
increased import barriers, import substitution, and heavy external
borrowing. However, the rapid accumulation of external debt, compression
of imports, and intensification of inflationary pressures increased the
economy's vulnerability to further external shock, and that vulnerability
was severely tested by the sharp increases in petroleum prices and interest
rates that occurred in 1979 and 1980.
6.        Measures were taken in 1979 and 1980 to improve control over
public sector spending and monetary expansion. These included increased
central authority over the investments and borrowings of the public enter-
prises, the phasing-out of tax earmarkings, and the reduction of major
consumer and producer subsidies. Nevertheless, aggregate demand continued
to grow strongly, placing severe pressure on prices and the balance of
payments. In 1980, inflation accelerated to 110% (from 41% in 1978), and,
despite a 32% growth of exports and significant reduction in the volume of
petroleum imports, the current account deficit grew to almost US$13 billion
(compared to $6 billion in 1978). At the same time, Brazil's international
reserves fell from US$11.9 billion to $6.9 billion, and terms tightened on
new foreign borrowing.
7.        In response to the deteriorating situation, and strengthened by
the institutional reforms of the previous two years, constraints were
imposed on aggregate demand in 1981, and efforts to correct the trade
balance were increased. The public sector deficit and the monetary aggre-
gates were reduced in real terms. In an effort to encourage private finan-
cial savings and maintain export incentives, monetary correction and
exchange rate adjustments, which were allowed to lag in 1980, were brought
back into line with domestic inflation. Banks were freed from interest
rate controls on their lending, and rates were increased on official
credits. Some tax incentives to exports, which had been eliminated in the
wake of a large devaluation of the cruzeiro at the end of 1979, were
restored, while the foreign exchange transactions tax on imports was raised
from 15% to 25%.
8.        As a consequence of these measures, the economy entered into
recession in 1981. Despite an estimated 8% growth of agricultural output,
GDP declined around 4%. The industrial sector was hard hit by high
interest rates and cutbacks in public expenditures, and unemployment has
increased in the industrial centers. Manufactured exports, however, have



- 3 -
continued to grow rapidly, 32.6% in nominal terms, and a merchandise trade
surplus of some US$1.2 billion was achieved in contrast to deficits of $2.8
billion in both 1979 and 1980. The 1981 surplus also reflected zero growth
of imports, including the further reduction of petroleum imports. Despite
sharply higher interest payments abroad, the current account deficit was
cut by some US$2 billion.  Inflation for the year was reduced to 95% with a
declining trend evident through the second half of the year. No problems
were experienced in obtaining the US$11.5 billion in net external financing
required in 1981.  Contrasting with 1979 and 1980 foreign exchange reserves
increased by US$600 million in 1981. Total M&LT external debt at year-end
was about US$61.4 billion.
Poverty Programs
9.        Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the government has made substantial efforts to relieve
poverty. In addition to efforts to maintain the growth of employment and
prevent the erosion of real wages, special programs for the northeast
region have been continued notwithstanding the tight fiscal and monetary
restraints.  Coverage of the social security program has been expanded and
extended to the rural population. More than 70% of the urban population is
now covered by the social security health care system, and a cash transfer
program has been established for the rural elderly poor. Almost two
million loans have been made for housing by the National Housing Bank (BNH)
since 1964. Improvement and extension of the primary health services to
the urban and rural poor areas is a government priority in the health
sector. A program for grassroots health and sanitation actions for
northeast Brazil was initiated in 1976. A sites and services program was
established in 1975 to benefit the urban poor more directly, and this was
complemented in 1977 by a program to finance home improvement and building
materials. High priority has also been given to the extension and improve-
ment of urban water supply. Consequently, some six million households com-
prising about 30 million people have been connected to public water supply
systems since 1971, increasing the proportion of urban dwellers who receive
such services to 75%. 2/
Future Prospects
10.       Since 1973, Brazil has made major efforts to reduce petroleum
imports. Investments in exploration have been accelerated, and foreign
companies have been invited to drill under risk contracts with PETROBRAS,
the state oil company. Investments have also been undertaken to develop
the nation's hydroelectric potential, to initiate nuclear power production,
to substitute alcohol for gasoline, to expand domestic coal production, and
to exploit Brazil's shale oil deposits.  Efforts are also being made to
induce energy conservation. While results thus far are encouraging,
dependence on imported energy remains formidable. With oil imports
2/   For a more detailed account of these efforts see "The Distribution of
Income in Brazil" (Staff Working Paper No. 356, dated September 1979)
and "Brazil - Human Resources Special Report" (Report No. 2604-BR,
dated July 13, 1979).



- 4 -
constituting an estimated US$10.3 billion (nearly 44% of Brazil's
imports) in 1981, as compared to US$700 million (11% of imports) in 1973,
the trade-off between growth and balance-of-payments viability will
continue to be a principal preoccupation of economic decision-makers.
11.       In view of the balance-of-payments constraint, Brazil must
continue to experience a period of careful demand management. Accelerated
devaluations of the cruzeiro, the removal of import deposit requirements,
the scheduled phasing-out of tax subsidies to export, and the gradual free-
ing of prices and interest rates should help to promote more efficient
resource allocation favorable to both export growth and efficient import
substitution. Public investments may continue to be constrained by reduced
resource availabilities over the next several years, and foreign lenders,
including the Bank, should be prepared to finance a significant proportion
of project costs including, when necessary, a part of local costs. Fur-
thermore, priority attention has to be given to the development of domestic
energy sources, agriculture and the stimulation of domestic savings.
12.       Growth is expected to recover to about 4% in 1982 and to average
about 5% per annum in 1983-85, as compared to 11% in 1967-73 and 7.2% in
1973-80. Such a growth rate should be compatible with a stable current
account deficit through 1983, falling thereafter. The debt service ratio
would decline slowly. These projections are sensitive, however, to
petroleum prices, interest rates, and the rate of growth of manufactured
exports. The combination of high debt service and a high share of petrol-
eum in total imports leaves the economy vulnerable and this may be expected
to persist for several years.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
13.       Brazil's resource balance is expected to become positive in
1982, but interest payments on the growing external debt will increase
throughout the 1982-85 period, even if interest rates should decline. Thus
large service account deficits will contribute to current account deficits
through 1983. As a proportion of GDP, the current account deficit is
projected to fall steadily from its peak of 5.4% in 1980. This projection
assumes that imports grow at a moderate pace through 1985, reflecting
restrained demand and a strengthening of the domestic savings effort.
14.       Net medium- and long-term borrowing requirements are expected to
be around US$11-12 billion in 1982, and to decline thereafter to about US$5
billion by 1985. Gross borrowing would be about US$19 billion this year
and remain in the US$18-20 billion range over the five-year period, with
75-85% obtained as financial credits from private lenders. Consequently,
the net debt service ratio 3/ would decline from about 55% in 1980 to
about 43% in 1985.
15.       In summary, after a period of rapid growth in the late 1960s and
1970s, the increased cost of petroleum imports has forced the nation to
3/   Including both public and private debt.  The figure for public debt
service alone would be substantially lower. For example, in 1980 the
public sector accounted for only 61% of total debt service payments.



moderate its growth expectations and to adapt its economic structure to
the changed terms of trade. This adjustment process was initially eased by
a strong reserve position, a solid image of creditworthiness, the
aggressive expansion of manufactured exports, and the opportunities for
efficient import substitution offered by the large domestic market.
Nevertheless, heavy dependence on petroleum imports, the resurgence of
domestic inflation, and the rapid accumulation of external debt left the
economy vulnerable to further external shocks. The government recognizes
the need for careful demand management and for selectivity in its invest-
ment policies emphasizing efficiency in export expansion, import substitu-
tion, employment creation, and poverty alleviation.
16.       The sensitivity of Brazil's balance of payments to petroleum
prices and interest rates makes projections subject to a wide margin of
error. The present scenario also depends on Brazil's ability to curtail
inflation, expand manufactured exports, and on its continued access to
international capital. A major effort is underway to reduce dependence on
foreign petroleum, but significant results may not be apparent for several
years. On the other hand, the Brazilian economy remains dynamic, divers-
ified, and resilient. The task of economic management will not be easy,
but policymakers have demonstrated their ability to adjust to changing
circumstances, and recent policy measures have strengthened their manage-
ment capacity.  Thus, Brazil remains creditworthy for new borrowing on con-
ventional terms in the amounts indicated above.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
17.       By March 31, 1982 the Bank had made 110 loans to Brazil, amount-
ing to US$6,310.8 million (net of cancellations), of which 58 were not yet
fully disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150 million per
year, reaching US$202 million in FY76, US$267 million in FY77, US$252
million in FY78, US$295 million in FY79, US$318 million in FY80 and US$378
million in FY81. The total undisbursed amount as of March 31, 1982 was
US$3,003.5 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
18.       Over the FY77-81 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from
US$425 million to over US$800 million per year. In FY81, eight loans
totaling US$844 million were approved. So far in FY82, four loans totaling
US$346.4 million for the first and second phases of Bank participation in
the POLONOROESTE program have been approved. Work is relatively advanced
on rural development projects in the states of Maranhao and Bahia, the
third-phase project of the northwest region development program, an
agricultural development project in the state of Amazonas, an urban
development project for the metropolitan region of Recife, an engineering
project for the metropolitan regions of Fortaleza and Salvador, a third
loan for secondary and feeder roads, and a large iron ore mining project in
the Serra dos Carajas.
19.       Brazil's external public and private debt outstanding and dis-
bursed at the end of 1980 amounted to US$55 billion, and is estimated to
have been US$61 billion at the end of 1981. At the end of 1980, the Bank



- 6 -
held 3.9% of the debt, and its share of the service on this debt in 1980
was 2%. In 1981, the Bank's share in total outstanding debt is estimated
to have risen slightly to 4.2% while its share in total debt service
remained constant. These percentages are not expected to rise
significantly in the next five years.
20.       As of March 31, 1982, IFC commitments to Brazil totaled US$819.5
million, of which US$546.2 million had been sold, repaid or cancelled. Of
the balance of US$273.3 million, US$207.6 million represent loans and
US$65.7 million equity. A summary of IFC's investments as of March 31,
1982 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
21.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the
government achieve important development objectives which are
interdependent. One lending objective in Brazil is to help intensify the
efforts of the government to develop projects that will increase the
productivity of the lowest income segments of the population, to broaden
the opportunities open to those groups, and to improve their living
conditions. It is to these ends that the proposed project is directed.
Previous loans for nutrition, primary education, vocational training,
agricultural research, agricultural extension, polder construction in the
lower Sao Francisco river basin, and integrated rural development were
designed to assist low-income groups in rural areas, especially those in
the northeast and the northwest. The Bank is currently reviewing its
experience over the past ten years in the Northeast of Brazil and is
working with the Government to identify possible complementary approaches
to the region to assist the rural poor. Loans for water supply and
sewerage projects in the state of Minas Gerais, in greater Sao Paulo, in
the northeast and in the south, loans for urban transport in several major
cities, a loan for sites and services and low-cost housing, and a loan for
urban development in medium-sized cities are assisting the improvement of
the living conditions of the urban population, particularly of the urban
poor.
22.       Another lending objective in Brazil is to support institutional
development and policy reform, establish adequate coordination and control
within the public sector, and help maximize public savings and ensure that
they are used economically through rational selection of projects. This
institution-building objective is particularly important in the proposed
project which will strengthen the operations of ELETROBRAS, especially its
capability for selection, appraisal and supervision of projects. The
project also provides for the institutional strengthening of the benefi-
ciaries. It is expected that the experience gained from this project would
be applied in suitable projects elsewhere in Brazil. Loans for urban
development, railways, industrial finance, highways, agricultural research
and extension, rural development, water supply and sewerage, and alcohol
and biomass energy development also have important institution-building
objectives.
23.       Another lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange con-
straint on development by supporting projects designed to increase Brazil's



- 7 -
export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic production
for imports.   Lending for the electric power sector supports the
aforementioned objective, since it is based on hydroelectric energy, and
its development lessens the need for petroleum imports. Bank support of
fertilizer and petrochemical projects is assisting Brazil to substitute
large-scale efficient domestic production for imports and thus aid its
balance-of-payments position. The alcohol and biomass energy development
project addresses the need to restrict growth of petroleum imports. Much
of the Bank-assisted investment in the transport sector -- railways, ports
and highways -- is designed to facilitate the economical flow of exports.
24.       A final objective is to provide part of the large medium- and
long-term capital inflows that Brazil needs to sustain satisfactory growth
and achieve its employment creation and regional development objectives.
Continued lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded by the international
financial community as a sign of confidence in Brazil and encourages others
to contribute to the country's development.  In some sectors, especially in
electric power and industry, Bank participation has helped Brazil obtain
additional resources in greater amounts and on more favorable terms from
bilateral credit agencies and private financial institutions than may
otherwise have been provided. Thirteen co-financing operations, for more
than US$500 million, have been concluded since 1976 with private financial
institutions and several others are in preparation, including US$80 million
for the proposed project.
PART III - THE SECTOR
Energy Resources and Utilization
25.       Gross consumption of energy in Brazil in 1979 was 117.8 million
T.o.e. (0.96 T.o.e. per capita) 4/ and it is expected to grow at a rate of
about 6% per annum during 1981-1986, reaching about 1.19 T.o.e. per capita
in 1985. Oil products account for 41% of the national energy consumption,
mineral coal, wood products and wastes 31%, and hydroelectricity 28%. In
1980 electricity generation amounted to 137,783 GWh; its annual growth
since 1975 has been 12% with per capita consumption in the same period
growing from 630 to 971 kWh.
26.       Brazil's oil reserves are limited.  Present domestic production
covers only 15% of requirements. To increase production the Government
accelerated exploration since 1977 by granting risk contracts to private
concerns. There have been no major new discoveries so far as a result of
these efforts.
4/   T.o.e.:  tons of oil equivalent, approximately 10.7 x 106 kcal.  Data
source: Modelo Energetico Brasileiro, Versao II, May 1981.



- 8 -
27.       Brazil has vast water resources with a potential for
hydroelectric development estimated at about 213,000 MW, of which only
about 24,100 MW have been utilized. An additional 23,000 MW are scheduled
to be in operation by 1990. Many of the more promising watersheds are
relatively remote from the demand centers and the economic justification
for their development remains to be demonstrated. By 1980 the power sector
had 28,400 MW of installed generating capacity of which 86% was in
hydroelectric stations and the remainder in thermal plants. The high
voltage transmission system contains about 34,000 circuit-km at voltages
ranging from 230 to 500 kV.
28.       Coal presently accounts for only 4% of Brazil's energy
production, but the Government is counting on coal to supply an increasing
share of Brazil's energy requirements. Most of Brazil's coal is of low
quality and some of it is costly to mine. The Government is, however,
encouraging the economical substitution of coal for other fuels in
industrial boilers. It is projected that coal's share in the national
energy supply will increase to 6% by 1987.
29.       About 2,500 MW of nuclear capacity has been scheduled for
operation by 1990 in the southeastern region, the largest demand center in
the country. The first unit of 625 MW, supplied by Westinghouse (USA) was
recently commissioned. The Brazil/Federal Republic of Germany agreement
provides for the supply of an additional 2,400 MW in nuclear plants.
Completion of this capacity is scheduled by year 2000. Because of
substantial cost increases, the government is, however, reviewing its
nuclear power plans.
30.       Other fuels include firewood, charcoal and sugarcane bagasse.
Firewood is used only in small industries and for cooking in rural and
urban low income households. Charcoal is used for cooking, in blast
furnaces and steel mills. Bagasse is burned to produce steam in sugar
milling. These fuels represent about a quarter of Brazil's energy utiliza-
tion. Among other energy sources of lesser current significance in Brazil
is natural gas, with small deposits in northeastern fields. Brazil has
been exploring alternative energy sources; the largest endeavor has been in
the use of alcohol as fuel in internal combustion engines. In a first
phase of the Government's alcohol production program, started in 1974,
gasoline is being blended with up to 20% alcohol in many states. In a
second phase, 100% alcohol-run cars have been introduced on a commercial
scale since 1980. Annual alcohol production is planned to increase from
about 3.3 billion liters in 1979 to about 11 billion liters by 1985. A
Bank loan of US$250 million in support of the fuel alcohol program was
approved by the Board in May 1981. Pricing plays a key role in the
Government's energy conservation efforts, and in the area of electricity
progress is being made through marginal cost tariff, the studies for which
were financed by Loans 1300-BR and 1939-BR. The tariff increase introduced
by the Government in February 1982 was the first step in this process.
Through the utilization of marginal cost tariffs, the sector is expected to
make better use of its installed capacity and thus realize savings in
investment by deferring investment requirements.



- 9 -
The Role of the Power Sector in the Economy
31.       The growth of reliable electric service is essential for the
development of the country's industries, which in 1977 used 57% of all
electric energy consumed while accounting for about 40% of Brazil's GDP,
contributing about 45% of export earnings and providing for about 33% of
all non-agricultural employment. The rate of growth of electricity
consumption was 1.20 times that of GDP for the period 1962-75 while from
1970-75, it was 1.28 times that of GDP. From 1974 through 1979,
electricity consumption grew at about 12% p.a. while GDP grew at about 7%
p.a., resulting in a rate of growth of electricity consumption with respect
to GDP of about 1.7. This increasing trend in the rate of growth of
electricity utilization with respect to Brazil's GDP reflects an apparent
substitution of electricity for other energy sources.
Sector Organization
32.       Though complex and one of the largest in the world, the sector is
well organized and the policies well formulated and applied. Decree 60,824
of June 7, 1967 established the current sector organization, under which
the Departamento Nacional de Aguas e Energia Eletrica (DNAEE) performs
regulatory functions, grants licenses for generating plants, assigns
concessions, sets tariffs and approves expansion plans; and Centrais
Eletricas Brasileiras, S.A. -- ELETROBRAS, a holding company for those
utilities owned by the federal Government, administers public funds for use
by its subsidiaries and state-owned utilities, and coordinates external
borrowings, expansion plans for major generating and transmission facil-
ities, and operation of interconnected systems in the country's network.
33.       The country is served by ELETROBRAS' subsidiaries (bulk
suppliers), in conjunction with state-owned utilities (principally in
distribution) as follows: Centrais Eletricas do Norte do Brasil
(ELETRONORTE) for the North and part of the Central-West; Companhia Hidro
Eletrica do Sao Francisco (CHESF) for the Northeast; Furnas-Centrais
Eletricas (FURNAS) in the Southeast and part of the Central-West; and
Centrais Eletricas do Sul do Brasil (ELETROSUL) for the South. A joint
Brazil-Paraguay authority (Itaipu Binacional) has responsibility for the
Itaipu hydroelectric project, under construction on the Parana River, where
it defines the border between the two countries.
34.       Government guidelines contained in the 1967 decree promoted con-
centration of public electricity services in the individual states into
single state-owned utilities. This resulted in the absorption by the major
state-owned companies of many municipal and privately owned utilities. The
main existing state-owned utilities are: Companhia Energetica de Sao Paulo
(CESP); Centrais Eletricas de Minas Gerais (CEMIG); Companhia Paranaense de
Energia Eletrica (COPEL); and, Companhia Estadual de Energia Eletrica - Rio
Grande do Sul (CEEE). These utilities are responsible for transmission and
distribution within the respective states and in some cases also operate
generation facilities. All these utilities have been borrowers or
beneficiaries under past Bank loans. Despite this process of
consolidation, the sector still comprises of about 600 concessionaires, of
which 25 are state companies and the rest small municipal and private
undertakings.



- 10 -
Sector Finances
35.        Sector legislation provides for utilities to obtain through
tariffs sufficient funds to cover their operating expenses, depreciation,
reversion quota 5/ and a reasonable return on investment. Since 1966,
annual revaluation of assets used as a basis to calculate tariffs, is
mandatory. Currently, assets are adjusted monthly for monetary correction
in accordance with changes in the ORTN index (the monetary correction index
applied to Government bonds). Previously this index was computed on the
basis of past inflation, and with somewhat less than actual inflation
rates. Beginning in 1981, the Government changed its policy and ORTN is
now adjusted so as to follow closely the movement of the national consumer
price index.
36.       The regulation of electricity rates in Brazil is the responsi-
bility of the Ministry of Mines and Energy which exercises its authority
through DNAEE. DNAEE has made use of tariff policy to mobilize consumer
based financial resources which have provided a major source of financing
for the sector's investment program. After 1971, power companies were
allowed to earn a rate of return between 10 and 12% on remunerable
investment. 6/ Since 1973, DNAEE has pursued the objective of developing
a single tariff structure that may be applied nation-wide.  This objective
has now been achieved with the exception of isolated thermal systems.
Given the differing cost structures and efficiencies of utilities, the
tariff equalization has resulted in a number of utilities not achieving the
minimum 10% statutory rate of return. To remedy this problem, DNAEE
instituted the Global Guarantee Fund, a cross-subsidization mechanism to
compensate utilities earning less than 10%. In addition, in aiming to
achieve the retail tariff equalization objective, sector fuel costs have
been averaged across concessionaires by means of the "Acconint for Fossil
Fuel Consumption" to which concessionaires in the connected systems
contribute, and by using inter-company tariffs for bulk supply of
electricity to transfer resources between companies.
37.       In addition to the tariff, residential, commercial and small
industrial consumers pay the sole tax which, since 1972, has been assessed
at the rate of about 25% and 30% of their respective tariffs (residential
consumers using less than 30 kWh/month and industrial consumers using more
than 2,000 kWh/month are exempted). The sole tax provides about 9% of
sector revenues, 40% of which goes to federal agencies, 50% to the states,
5/   A federal tax assessed at a rate of up to 4% on assets in operation.
ELETROBRAS uses the funds to finance investments in the sector and to
provide compensation to private utilities for acquisition of their
assets.
i,/  Pemunerable investment is equal to net revalued assets plus an allow-
a e 'or inventory and net working capital, less the difference
oe ween the prior years' actual and allowable return, less contribu-
tions and grants.



- 11 -
and 10% to municipalities. Another sector revenue source (about 8% of
sector revenues) is the compulsory loan, an obligatory investment scheme
under which industrial consumers using more than 2,000 kWh/month acquire
ELETROBRAS bonds (20-year maturity yielding 6% and revalued periodically in
accordance with the ORTN index).
38.       Since 1978, the sector finances followed a deteriorating trend
mainly due to erosion of tariff levels. Despite major tariff increases in
1979, 1980 and 1981, the sector as a whole failed to achieve in those years
the 10% rate of return prescribed by the Brazilian legislation (which is
reflected in various previous loan agreements with the Bank). Preliminary
estimates indicate that the rate of return achieved by the sector in 1981
was about 7%.  In the Fall of 1981 the Bank reviewed with the Government
the adequacy of the sector's finances and the Government agreed to take
specific measures for the sectors financial rehabilitation. The Government
agreed to increase the real levels of tariffs by at least 3% in 1982 7/
and at least 5% in 1983 and thereafter until the 10% rate of return on
remunerable investment is achieved and shortfalls that occured in such
remuneration since 1978 have been fully recovered (Section 3.02 of the
draft Guarantee Agreement, Schedule 5 of the draft Loan Agreement, and
accompanying draft Supplemental Letter on the Revenues of the Project
Companies). On the basis of this agreement with the Bank, the 10% rate of
return is expected to be achieved by 1987.
Access to Service
39.       About 85% of Brazil's urban population is receiving electricity
service.  However, the number of people receiving this service in the rural
areas (where about 40% of the population lives) is very low (19%).
40.       Rural electrification was started in 1970 when the Instituto
Nacional de Colonizacao e Reforma Agraria (INCRA), an autonomous agency
attached to the Ministry of Agriculture, was made responsible for the
planning, promotion and control of rural electrification through consumer
cooperatives. Progress, however, was slow, and in 1974, ELETROBRAS created
a rural electrification department to complement the Ministry of
Agriculture's activities. ELETROBRAS' finances distribution networks in
rural areas close to existing lines. It does not finance household wiring
or connection fees. There is no coordination, however, between the
activities of INCRA and ELETROBRAS. This lack of a common national rural
electrification program under a single agency is a major obstacle to
progress in this neglected area of the sector.  The Bank has not yet lent
for rural electrification in Brazil, except for rural electrification
components of rural development projects. To assist the Government in its
efforts to increase electricity service in the rural areas, the Bank is now
studying the rural electrification subsector with a view to identifying a
possible supporting role.
7/   Recently the Government informed the Bank that the 1982 increase in
tariffs would be 5% in real terms.



- 12 -
Sector Development
41.       The high level of investment required in the sector and the
Government's present policy of limiting public sector investments as part
of its efforts to control inflation may affect future sector investment
programs. ELETROBRAS has the primary responsibility for the coordination
of planning in the power sector and the preparation of system generation
and transmission expansion plans. In connection with a 1978 Bank loan for
a power distribution project in the south and southeast (Loan 1538-BR),
ELETROBRAS agreed to prepare a master plan for sector facility expansions
to the year 1995. This plan was to be based upon an integrated perspective
of the country's long term power requirements and was to give due
consideration to economy and efficiency. ELETROBRAS prepared a plan which
Bank staff have reviewed and concluded that it did not fully achieve all
the objectives which had been envisaged by the Bank. In connection with a
1980 Bank loan for the coordination of Brazil's interconnected electric
power system (Loan 1939-BR), ELETROBRAS agreed to revise this plan and to
complement it with analyses of alternative development sequences and to
continue improving the methodology it uses in its planning efforts. In
April 1982, ELETROBRAS delivered to the Bank its "Plano 2000". The
method used has been improved and is satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank is
presently analyzing the investment program. ELETROBRAS and the Bank agreed
to maintain an active dialogue in the planning for the sector.
Bank Participation in the Sector
42.       The Bank has made 34 loans in the Brazilian power sector
amounting to about US$1.7 billion since 1949. They have been for
hydroelectric plants, associated transmission facilities and distribution
systems in the southeastern, southern, and northeastern regions. Bank
participation has contributed to sector organization and planning,
supervision and coordination of Brazil's interconnected electric power
systems and facilitated foreign commercial financing of the sector. The
Bank has also supported government efforts to implement a tariff policy
which has enabled the sector to contribute a considerable proportion of the
funds required in sector investments. Project performance audit reports on
hydroelectric plant 8/ and distribution system / projects have been
distributed to the Executive Directors. These reports conclude that,
despite construction delays and cost overruns, the projects were basically
successful. In the future the Bank, in line with its lending objectives to
assist the government to develop projects that would increase the produc-
tivity and incomes of the low income segments of the population, to broaden
the economic opportunities open to these groups and to improve their living
8/   Loan 404-BR (SecM 77-532 of June 28, 1977); Loans 442-BR and 566-E
(SecM 78-34 of January 13, 1978); and Loan 728-BR (SecM79-756 of
October 23, 1979).
9/   Loans 475/476/477-BR and 478-BR (SecM 75-646 of September 4, 1975).



- 13 -
conditions, will be focussing its lending primarily on the rural electrifi-
cation and the distribution subsectors. In this connection, we would give
emphasis in assisting the government to develop sound policies for the
development of rural electrification, and to create the appropriate insti-
tutional framework for its management and financing of investment. We
would also be supporting institutional development of the weaker companies
serving Brazil's less developed areas and will continue to support programs
to expand electricity connections to low income groups.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.       The project was first appraised in October 1980.  The processing
of the project was then held back pending the reaching of agreement with
the Government on the finances of the sector (para. 38). It was reap-
praised in January 1982. Negotiations took place in Washington from March
22 to March 25, 1982. The Brazilian delegation was headed by Mr. George
Gondim, Assistant Director of the Planning and Engineering Directorate of
ELETROBRAS and included representatives of the Federal Secretariat of Plan-
ning and the Ministry of Finance. A supplemental project data sheet,
including a timetable of key events and a summary of special conditions is
presented in Annex III. A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - Brazil
- ELETROBRAS I Power Distribution Project," No. 3338b-BR, dated April 19,
is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Description and Objectives
44.       The project consists of five sub-projects.  Each one consists of
portions of the 1982-86 investment programs of five state utility companies
selected by ELETROBRAS as beneficiaries of the proposed loan. The benefi-
ciaries are: (a) Companhia de Servicos Eletricos do Rio Grande do Norte
(COSERN); (b) Companhia de Eletricidade do Ceara (COELCE); (c) Companhia de
Eletricidade de Pernambuco (CELPE); (d) Empresa de Energia Eletrica de
Mato Grosso do Sul S.A. (ENERSUL); and (e) Centrais Eletricas do Para S.A.
(CELPA). They are all small or medium size utility companies located in
less developed regions of Brazil. The objectives of their programs sup-
ported by the proposed loan are to meet the needs of the market efficiently
and to remedy unsatisfactory conditions arising from inadequate planning
and lack of sufficient investment during preceding years. Their programs
provide for the purchase and installation of subtransmission lines, substa-
tions, associated transformers, consumer connections, equipment for
required expansions to their capacity systems, consultant services and the
formulation of plans that give emphasis to the connection of rural and
low-income urban consumers. The investment programs of the beneficiary
companies will provide connections to about 180,000 low-income consumers.
The project would also strengthen the operations of ELETROBRAS by estab-
lishing a capability for project appraisal and supervision. By enabling
ELETROBRAS to select priority projects on the basis of the appraisal pro-
cess using sound technical economic and financial principles, the project
would facilitate Bank sub-sector lending for electricity distribution proj-
ects, in particular rural electrification, in Brazil.



- 14 -
The Borrower
45.       The Borrower would be Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras, S.A. -
ELETROBRAS, an autonomous Government institution created in April 1961
(para. 32). Of ELETROBRAS' subscribed capital at December 31, 1978 amount-
ing to US$1.7 billion equivalent, about 99.7% was owned by the Federal
Government and the remaining 0.3% was owned by state and municipal govern-
ments and by private sharehoders. ELETROBRAS operates under the jurisdic-
tion of the Ministry of Mines and Energy.
46.       ELETROBRAS is administered by an Administrative Council which
sets policy and an Executive Board of Directors which manages its oper-
ations. The Executive Board of Directors consists of the President of
ELETROBRAS as chairman and five directors, each of who serves as the execu-
tive head of a functional department in the company. In addition, there is
a five-member Fiscal Council responsible for reviewing its financial
affairs. ELETROBRAS has built up a competent organization, and its organi-
zational structure is well suited to its needs.
Financial History and Prospects
47.       As the holding company for the power sector, ELETROBRAS plays a
pivotal financial role in the development of the sector. It administers
funds to the power sector utilities in the form of loans and equity invest-
ments. ELETROBRAS is heavily dependent on consumer-based resources for its
finances. This dependence coupled with its pivotal role tend to make
trends in ELETROBRAS' financial condition mirror trends in the financial
state of the sector. Over the 1969-77 period when sector tariffs were
generally satisfactory, ELETROBRAS' financial condition remained very
solid. During 1978 to 1981, the power utilities experienced a decline in
their earnings as a result of inadequate tariffs (para. 38) and this
decline was also reflected in an erosion of ELETROBRAS' finances. During
the 1982-86 period, ELETROBRAS requirements for funds would amount to about
US$23.0 billion. These requirements would be financed from consumer-based
resources 54%, from borrowings 44%, and the balance from other sources.
48.       Financial projections for the period of project execution based
on expected sales, real increases in the levels of tariffs and its invest-
ment program show ELETROBRAS reversing its trend of the past 8 years of
increasing reliance on borrowings. ELETROBRAS funding composition for the
period shows borrowings decreasing from 51% in 1981 to 44% in 1986.  In the
context of its financial policies ELETROBRAS has provided to the Bank a
statement of its financial targets for the project execution period
including ratios relating to spread, indebtedness and capital service. 10/
ELETROBRAS' policies and targets are considered acceptable to the Bank.
The forecasts of ELETROBRAS' key financial indicators during the project
execution period indicate that ELETROBRAS' overall financial position will
be improved and will remain sound. ELETROBRAS would discuss in advance
with the Bank any major modifications in its policies and procedures for
funding and investment (Section 5.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
10/ Capital Service: debt service plus net dividend payments.



- 15 -
Appraisal and Supervision Capability
49.       Over the last four years, with assistance from the Bank
especially in connection to this project, ELETROBRAS has developed strong
capability for appraisal and supervision. Special teams from the technical
and financial areas of ELETROBRAS were formed in a group with the function
of selecting priority projects for investment on the basis of project
appraisals using sound technical, economic and financial criteria.  Initial
problems in management and coordination have been overcome. Staffing is
adequate, continuity has been maintained and other directorates of
ELETROBRAS contribute in the work of the group.  The group completed its
appraisal of the investment programs of three of the beneficiaries, COELCE,
COSERN and CELPE, following Bank methodology and principles.  The appraisal
reports have been reviewed by the Bank and found to be satisfactory.  The
group presented to the Bank satisfactory project briefs for the investment
programs of the remaining two beneficiaries, CELPA and ENERSUn, and
appraisal reports are currently in preparation.
The Beneficiaries
50.       The proposed beneficiaries are relatively small or medium-sized
utility companies located in the less-developed regions of Brazil. They
all have similar characteristics in that they are joint stock corporations
whose principal owners are the states in which they are located, with
ELETROBRAS having a minority shareholding. These companies do not produce
their own electricity, but purchase energy in bulk from one of the major
generation companies which are wholly owned subsidiaries of ELETROBRAS.
Two of the proposed beneficiaries, COELCE and CELPE, have also been
beneficiaries under Loan 1300-BR. Although substantial technical,
financial and institutional improvements have been achieved under that
project by both beneficiaries, their participation in the proposed project
would continue the improvement in these areas. The organizational
structures vary, but generally there is a board of directors headed by a
President who acts as Chief Executive Officer. The Board is appointed by
the shareholders.
52.       The reports prepared by ELETROBRAS are adequately detailed.
Recommendations are made for improving structures, and for obtaining
support from consultants where needed. The ELETROBRAS appraisal team is
bringing in specialists from other departments of ELETROBRAS to provide
assistance to beneficiaries, and even at this early stage the interaction
between ELETROBRAS and the beneficiaries is beginning to show improvements
in organizational, operational, technical and financial aspects of the
beneficiaries.
53.       COSERN operates in the state of Rio Grande do Norte, in the
northeast of Brazil. It is typical of the smaller companies that need
reorganization and that have a distribution system in need of expansion and
rehabilitation. The northeast of Brazil is one of the least developed
regionsof Brazil, and its economic growth, and consequently its demand for
electricity, are below average for Brazil. The underdevelopment of the
distribution system of COSERN has reached a level where the inadequacy of
the power distribution is becoming a brake on economic development, both in
the state capital (Natal) and in the state at large. COSERN's investment
program is designed to provide reasonable system expansion.



- 16 -
54.       COELCE, CELPE and CELPA are somewhat larger than COSERN.  They
also serve states in the northeast of Brazil. Their system expansion,
rehabilitation requirements and institutional needs are, however, similar
to COSERN's. COELCE is the supplier of electricity to the state of CEARA
including the capital Fortaleza. CELPE serves the state of Pernambuco and
its capital Recife and CELPA serves the state of Para and its capital
Belem.  ENERSUL is different from the other beneficiaries.  It was created
in 1978 when the State of Mato Grosso do Sul was formed in the Center-West
region of Brazil. Energy purchased in bulk is distributed in the capital
(Campo Grande) and in other areas of the state, which constitutes a new
frontier, and is mainly agricultural in character. This is the fastest
growing company, covering an enormous territory that is now beginning to
develop.
Project Execution
55.       All beneficiaries have some capability for carrying out engineer-
ing and construction supervision with their existing staff; they would be
assisted where appropriate by ELETROBRAS and consultants. Larger works
would be built under local contracts, and smaller works would be carried
out by the beneficiaries' own staff, as is normal utility practice. The
appraisal reports contain appropriate construction schedules that will
provide a basis for monitoring progress during the sub-project construction
period. The subloan agreements between ELETROBRAS and the beneficiaries
would include all the usual covenants of Bank loans for power projects
and the specific recommendations included in each of the appraisal reports
(Schedule 5 of the draft Loan Agreement). Receipt by the Bank of
one signed subloan agreement would be a condition of loan effectiveness
(Section 7.01 of a draft Loan Agreement). Receipt of signed subloan
agreements for the other subloans would be a condition of disbursement for
the subloans (Schedule 1, para. 4 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Costs
56.       The total cost of the project has been estimated at US$739.3 mil-
lion equivalent of which US$192.7 million is the foreign exchange compo-
nent which includes US$2.7 million for capitalized front-end fee assessed
by the Bank. A summary of project costs by beneficiary appears in the
project summary (see page ii). The base costs were estimated by each
utility and ELETROBRAS on the basis of prevailing prices as of June 1981
and are reasonable. The base costs include engineering and administrative
costs as well as applicable taxes and import duties (about 10%). The cost
of consulting services has been estimated at about US$7,800 per man-month,
including subsistence and travel expenses. Physical contingencies average
about 10% of the base costs which is reasonable for this type of project.
Financing Plan
57.       The project accounts for about 40% of the beneficiaries' 1982-86
investment programs. The proposed Bank loan would cover the foreign
exchange cost of equipment, consulting services and the capitalized
front-end fee, i.e., US$182.7 million out of US$192.7 million equivalent
estimated in the project. The sources of financing are shown in the
project summary (see page ii). The Bank would assist ELETROBRAS in



- 17 -
securing funds for the beneficiaries from foreign commercial banks through
appropriate co-financing arrangements (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan
Agreement).   ELETROBRAS would present annually to the Bank a financing
plan for the project with commitments of counterpart funds for at least one
year of the remaining execution period of the project (Section 3.01 of the
draft Loan Agreement). At least until the closing date of the loan, the
States of the beneficiaries, which are the major shareholders of the
beneficiaries would reinvest in capital stock of the beneficiaries the cash
dividends paid to them by the beneficiaries and the amount of the "sole
tax" (para. 36) allocated to them (Schedule 5 of the draft Loan
Agreement). As is usual with Bank power loans, ELETROBRAS and the
Government agreed that should the beneficiaries be unable to raise the
required resources to carry out the project they would make arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank for the provision of these funds (Section 3.01 of
the draft Loan Agreement and Section 2.02 of the draft Guarantee
Agreement).
58.       The proposed US$182.7 million Bank loan would be made to
ELETROBRAS for a term of 15 years including 3 years grace. The interest
rate would be 11.6%. The proceeds of the loan will be relend to the five
beneficiaries on terms similar to the Bank loan plus a charge of 1% per
program on the outstanding amount of the loan. The beneficiaries would
assume the foreign exchange risk (Schedule 5 of the draft Loan Agreement).
59.       The beneficiaries' investment programs for the 1982-86 period
include sizeable expenditures for projects for which financing has not yet
been obtained. The beneficiaries would provide assurances to ELETROBRAS
that they would not undertake any major new investments outside the project
until completion of the project, unless they provide evidence satisfactory
to ELETROBRAS that such investment was economically justified and the
beneficiary has adequate financing resources to carry it out. In addition
ELETROBRAS would discuss in advance with the Bank any changes in the
investment programs of the beneficiaries greater than 15% in real terms in
any one year (Schedule 5 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement
60.       Equipment and materials financed under the loan would be procured
in accordance with Bank guidelines, through international competitive bid-
ding, except minor quantities (not more than 10% of each sub-loan) where
special reasons such as standardization, or compatibility with existing
equipment, justify international shopping. For all the beneficiaries, the
procurement would be handled by Companhia Auxiliar de Empresas Electricas
Brasileras (CAEEB) which over 20 years has been procurement agent for bene-
ficiaries under previous Bank loans. A US$200,000 threshold for prior
review by the Bank has been agreed which would result in prior review of
about 80% of total procurement. As in previous power loans Brazilian
suppliers bidding under ICB whose bids contain components manufactured in
Brazil equal to at least 50% of the value of the bid would be given a
margin of preference of 15% of the value of the CIF price or the applicable
import duties, whichever is lower (Schedule 4 of the draft Loan
Agreement). It is expected that about 60% of the equipment and materials
purchased would be from local firms or Brazilian subsidiaries of foreign
suppliers.



- 18 -
Disbursement
61.       Disbursements from the loan account would be made for 100% of
foreign expenditures for imported equipment and materials or the factory
cost of locally manufactured equipment and materials. An estimated sched-
ule of disbursements appears in project summary on page ii. The closing
date is June 30, 1987.
Economic Benefits and Risks
62.       The economic analysis of the beneficiaries investment programs
has been carried out by ELETROBRAS on the same basis used by the World Bank
in appraising power projects. The project alternatives -- utilizing
different voltage levels -- have been selected through the least-cost solu-
tion method with a discount rate of 11%. Since costs and benefits of the
subprojects cannot be identified separately from those of the overall
investment programs, an incremental rate of return was calculated for each
investment program as a whole. Benefits were measured as the growth of
sales during the 1982-86 period valued at the yearly average tariffs.
However, since tariffs are administratively determined and not established
on the basis of market forces, they are probably lower than what consumers
would be willing to pay and they may be assumed to understate the full
economic return on the investment programs. On this basis the incremental
rates of return for the investment programs of the beneficiaries are:
COSERN 10.5%, COELCE 9,6%, (11.2% without the rural electrifications
component), CELPE 17.9%, CELPA 12.5% and ENERSUL 11.4%. The average rate
of return for all the investment programs combined is estimated at 13.1%.
63.       Because of the country-wide tariff equalization program (para.
36) the tariffs in the least developed regions of the country are lower
than they would have to be without the cross-subsidization received from
the more developed regions. Because of this the rates of return on
investment, as calculated on the above basis, are in general lower in the
least developed regions than the average rate of return on the total power
sector investment program. Relatively low rates of return for some of the
recipients of funds under the equalization program such as COELCE are to be
expected. Conversely, contributors to the equalization program, such as
CELPE have a higher return.
64.       The project would also have an important social impact.  The
expansion programs of all the beneficiaries include plans for extending
services in rural areas and for low-income consumers.  It is expected that
they will provide connections to about 180,000 low income consumers or
about 10% of the total number of consumers in the areas served by the
beneficiaries.
65.       There are no special risks involved in the subprojects as the
works will follow normal practices and procedures that have been tested and
found practicable. Weaknesses in the beneficiaries' organizations will be
counterbalanced by consultants and ELETROBRAS' technical assistance.
ELETROBRAS will monitor closely the beneficiaries' performance.



- 19 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Centrais Electricas
Brasileiras S.A. - ELETROBRAS, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the
Federative Republic of Brazil and the Bank, draft supplemental letter on
the Revenues of the Project Companies and the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. A condition
of loan effectiveness is the execution and receipt by the Bank of one of
the subloan agreements. Execution and delivery of similar agreements would
be a condition of disbursement for the subloans to the other beneficiaries.
67.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
68.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
69.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
by E. Stern
Attachments
April 16, 1982
Washington, D.C.



- 20 -                                                ANNEX I
Page I Of 5
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEtAGES
LANU AREA (THUUSAhU2 SU. RH.)                                                            - MIST RECENT EST IHATE)a
rOUAL            8512.0                                    MUST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
A4RICULTURAL    2U77.2                 1960  /b    1970 Lb ESTIKATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN               EUROPE
hNP PER CAPITA (Us$)                    320.0        570.0    1780.0 *                   1616.2                     2609.1
EhERUY CONSUHPITUN PER LAPIIA
(KILUCKAMS UF CUAL EQUIVALENT)       392.1         565.0    1061.5                     1324.1                     2368.4
PUPULATIUN AND VIIAL SIATISTICS
PUPULATIOh, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 71513.0        95322.0  116539.0 *
URBAN IuPULAITON (PERCENT UF TUTAL) 46.1            55.9       64.1                      64.2                       53.2
POpULATION PRUJECTIUNS
PUPULATION IN YEAR 20U0  (MILLIUNS)                         176.5
SIATIUNARY PUPULATIUh (MILLIUNS)                           281.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2075
PUPULATION UENSITY
PER Sq. KM.                           8.4         11.2       13.7                      34.3                       80.6
PER Sq. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        44.1         50.5       55.1                      94.5                      133.9
P3UPULATIUN AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
U-14 YRS.                           43.6          42.7       41.5                      40.7                       30.1
15-o4 YRS.                           53.8         54.3       55.1                      55.3                        61.5
65 YRS. ANU ABUVE                      2.6          3.0        3.4                       4.0                        8.3
PUPULATIUN GROWTH KATE (PERCENT)
TUIAL                                 3.0          2.9        2.2                       2.4                        1.5
URHAN                                 5.5          4.8        3.8                       3.7                        3.1
CRUDE BIRIH RATE (PER THUUSANU)        42.5         37.0       29.4                      31.4                       22.9
CRUDE DEATH KATE (PER THUUSAND)        12.9         10.5        8.7                       8.4                        9.1
GR0SS REPRUDUCTION RATE                 3.0          2.6        2.0                       2.3                        1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCLPTORS, ANNUAL (THUUSANDS)          ..        111.0     203.6
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             1.6
FU4 AND NUTRIIIUN
LNEJX UF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPIIA (1969-71-100)            89.0         102.0     114.0                     108.3                       119.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
LALORIES (PERCENT UF
REQUIREMENTS)                    101.0        104.0      107.2                     107.6                       125.7
PRUTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            61.U         62.0       62.7                      65.8                        92.5
OF WHILH ANIMAL AND PULSE         34.0         34.0       35.1                      34.0                        39.7
ChILD (AGEb 1-4)  UIRTALITY RATE       17.3         12.0        E.3                       7.6                        3.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    54.7            59.1       62.7                      64.1                       68.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             128.0           ..       92.0                      70.9                       25.2
ACCESS To SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
IUTAL                                 ..          56.3       77.1                     65.7
URBAN                                  ..        77.7       88.8                      79.7
RURAL                                  ..         29.0       56.8                      43.9
AGCESS TO EXGRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
Of POPULATIUN)
iOTAL                                 ..          59.9      64.8                      59.9
URBAN                                 ..          86.1      83.7                       75.7
RURAL                                  ..        26.5        31.7                     30.4
POPULAIION PER PHYSIClAN            2561.2       2123.8    1700.0                     1728.2                      973.3
PUPULATION PER NURSING PERSUN       2772.1       2992.3         ..                     1288.2                      896.6
POPULATIUN PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              307.0        269.0      247.7                     471.2                       262.3
URBAN                              325.6        322.6         ..                     558.0                       191.8
RURAL                                  ..           ..
ADMISSIUNS PER HUSPITAL BED              ..         18.0         ..                        ..                       18.2
H&USING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TUTAL                                 5.1          4.8       4.9
URBAN                                  *-          4.6        4.7
RURAL                                  ..          5.2        5.3
AVERAGE NLUBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
IUTAL                                 ..           1.1        ..                        ..                          .
URBAN                                  ..          1.0
RURAL                                  ..          1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENI
UF UWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                38.7         47.6       63.0
URBAN                                 ..          75.6      84.9
RURAL                                  ..          8.4       19.2



-21                                                 ANNEX I
Page 2  of  5
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA9ES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MEST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN           EUROPE
EDUCAIIQN
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 95.0        125.0      8B.0/c                  101.7                     105.9
MALE                  97.D       125.0      87.o77                   103.0                     109.6
FEMALE               93.0        125.0      88.O7T                   101.5                     102.2
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  11.0        26.0       24.0/c                   35,3                      66.3
MALE                  11.0        26.0      22.07Z                    34.9                      73.2
FEMALE                10.0        26.0      26.D7T                   35.6                       59.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY) 19.0           17.0      47.0/c,d                 30.1                      28.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            33.0        28.0       22.0/e                   29.6                      26.8
SECONDARY                          13.0         13.0      13.07-                   15.7                      23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        61.0         66.2      75.7                     80.0                      75.4
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER T'dOUSAND
POPULATION                          7.0        24.4       53.6                     42.6                      83.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         66.4       123.8      155.0                    215.0                     181.6
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         16.8        64.0       97.9                     89.0                     131.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  54.0         32.0      45-                      62.8                     123.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  5.0           1.9       1.9                      3.2                       5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   22869.1        30078.5   36718.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   17.5        20.4       22.6                     22.6                      32.9
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)              51.9        45.6       39.8                     35.0                      34.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 14.8        18.3       21.8                     23.2                      28.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                32.0         31.6      31.5                     31.8                      42.3
MALE                                 52.7         50.3      48.9                     49.0                      56.5
FEMALE                               11.2         12.8      14.2                     14.6                      28.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.4          1.4       1.4                      1.4                       0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUT1ON
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
IEGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  60.0         63.5       62.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOLSEHOLDS    3.8          3.2        2.8
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEROLDS   10.8          9.0        9.4
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOM1E
LEVEL (US1 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                       .       .    150.0                    187,6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     465.0                    513.9
fERAL                                ..           ..     332.0                    362.2                     385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOMIE LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages tEr each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic  .eans.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniforn.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 19r0 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent E6tiate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   beginning 1973 prneary and secondary educations rover age groups 7-14 and 15-17 instead of 7-10 and 11-17
in earlier years; therefore most recent estimates are not ecoaparable with earlier data;  /d 1974;  Ie 1975.
* The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population estimates shown in the
1981 World Atlas are US$2,050 (at 1978-80 prices) and 119 billion.
April 14, 1982



- 22 -                                                                             ANNEX I
DEFINITION Of SOCIAL INDIlCATORS
Note.   of though tOo oats are drar fret source. generally fud,e  the to..Ibrie   n  telieba., it should alto  be noe   that ty toy not be toe--
re     __ U ceooel  beas  o   h  lack     b   of-euadle   deinotn    en:eoeteedby different... onri. inoletn    he det.-   The d-t a.e  eats....
t    _ms eu   odee-i bs order  of euiltude, iolctstrnd,- ndthaeotee  certIn ejo- difft....                       rbnen  contIe..
Tbs referoegou a          -()  tses   --y5c  grop Of tb  eubleot ...unry aed (1)1 a oo -nry  rou   nihesno   ig                     .       moose than tie  nuft.  grou-p
Of th   ulcocutyInup   o  "Ceptiul Surplusi E1 tporiera  gropthr  "MIddle Lutos   -nh uIa  n  ndb-Se-t .oeeOnee  Of eree
loSa      ee   o  rete   opttglr   rsndtlonte                                                       ra,edrrl   ile  byA h'..       ebeveeenne         -ea  Of hoepftIa  bede
T-gr-oTlfIre      f  - tint  o   gIculura  area ceed fepraty  rplmnotyerlodeI    Iull  sod pbyan  genera  an-                                      pette-beti-en   e
by at least Iote phyetcuae.  is-blebse-t  Sp-i&dlo  princIpally cue-
culened by es  coocef    rhod  We gorl  loo  uIe  (1977-79              i. 1ele;6Ih,edtdcleoeenfproetyeefdh   pyecafutO
190   c  17   ea                                                                           eden a_1 e..et...r ,. nuree   idtfefe  etc    h  olh Offer Ittpehen  ec_
defter end petodeauIiliedrengs Of medIcal factlfti-. Oneat
sod ligefte. petrl-us  -aue   e   o   or- n-ceaIad Inbe Ia .c-adrclbsteglcle   os   eprt d 1-1s1dtoa  endi                                                          ear_ntn
troIt)t  kWlfeg-e  Of cc-Ieutsfn   -e eptf; 1960. 1970, end 1979                            .eo .e.. Ipectatteed hoePfnale ar   -Inclded eolry drof
dote.                                                                   O~~~~~~~~~~~~delsicte Icr  oePiel Sed -  Te-I r -be  of adgletosSco  dfeehorgee
foe,.   etl  dtoided by the rushe  of be..
PPerTIOlN AND 111TAL STATISTICS
fTe-P1    letc  Odfa  (toerdf-u  Of July 1; 1960. 1970. end 1979                             oOL'OSIN
data,.                                                                                       Ore..eas SIre uf HTougodleeo   e   houebLdf -  ra,  uba,-  anldrrl .  -
Irbe  Petulaticr(_ecroftea)-ta  Ic  f ocher cc tota  "poplac-;                                    0 ...u.ehod ceetn ~of e  eupo             -duoeslnoeoellugqutc
dolfffr  er tolOr  of orb:orar..  no  afet y            prelir   fdeead rhetr  oco -.aIe.  A  ced-r erldger top orsy not ihe  Wolded to
INOf.  1970, ard 1910 fats                               Ib  hb.u.ehud foI ee lefce   purpeee
Pouauc  Prerec rIo.                                                                             osAns rusher_of peceon  plarre-ftl  ubnen   ua- 2,neOge tee
Pplto IcoalIlt-Curntppuu te  pole             :oe  br beend -r 1980                  hrcprenpsronin al_ehe.  er   ua  o_rpie orn  os
leerl, tedfenste lIf  enpectart  stablllatg at 77.5Year.  Tbs pen-            Cnntlaldeeft log  uifh e1-scfrlcy In ltrtn ..u...rfere               .        g
onId f-erljcry  -Irde_for p-cjnIt.c    p.roa.                                               ndlue~Ed tor11eo  tontre
Sctlorerouatlc-cats   orr  ppualo  tee  s  egrnt   toePresoecoo                           -Ite   tl  end feal-taett  .  aeadfol
the blef  rete Ifequel t  fhe deah rate,rof elettoe age  rrucrue  re-  eorttssoo  f el 1 erean  thepriserytenet atpsoototgee of repei_tn
tolaeueet.  bl   ee  ocd  cyfeofcl lpcte  eic  I                                       etryeho-aep0felo;neslyInldsobtroegd9I
the  eplcenri  ece  ofuol  neti reroue ton tate  ohret   eee o0e.                              u   dutdTo  lfro   egb   frleyeualn   o
ofceneceofdea  Itslf eoetly   Tyeef-tlo-erypopulan do lifseoe                          -ofrenruletloctoer le dottfenetdlllpron
reotoadnoth  bef  o  te  oceeedohrtlnlel   o  fs  opteyo..lon. on  pup-.d er   af_,lono   br  teofie   etboo  ag...
ect  rol                                                                                        edcaIo   rqureliyta    ouTyar.o  aprrd-rttaranerutln
sIte hue I     -rrtuhod.                                                                       ueu1llrof II to 17 yeare of age; crepoodencecueees eerly
Per ee qh -yl-yes,o ecylatle  co  eq--r  ktles... -1100 h--eelo..Oetoaletlutsfeco of-ecoey      oaIonlIneIuli
,.idI ares; 19ff, 1970 ord 1979 dotd .                                                         ioIetehiet  uueoe ,o   thrpofaoeho   peaeloeed
Pars_    h.ec-uht  I.lad - Conpucetahd               efor  irOotorl  ar                          -noyore  dePartent -Of e-ooderY ina-i.o..te
co le; 1960,  970 so  197  da.                                                                .peil-te... herrto-  trusery. ad eeoodatyn- T-i   tuden-  enrolle  Sr
feue -c   d  StulreIeenef-Chlen(0-f4y yre.sclo-g 15-Prtay and ..at.odeny Sere.leidtlld by rusher  Of reah-r  In the
1 ye-a.)  and cetlod 760 yee.e andI_ntr  eapeeare  Of nod-yea  oper-creendgta e
Iet.r  1960, fIll, and 1979 dsta.                                                              Aduli 1 tterCr rate  loerce-   - L.i-re-edutl-  (able to osed eOd  Ire)
Pcoutnhtoclonthodceloaeatt(-torelolrnualere-h  ceeeo  retalnid-                       pear --etag   of  -raledult   op              .#toafd 15  Ieredorr
Peue L -cbet   at   Orrh        up Ao -ou1 .renh rae   f -rb-cpp                       ClONSUMPTION
Isor   u  It-O   96-0   n 197-59-Oeeeoey   rreloe  tIhoutd.no.u.nir  - .ee.a...r  -eecerleaco
CIcOd  forth tu,  (err nhuearldf - toua  IIr hilrhe per  ho..eend of elf-yea                      creatigIethao e:ight  ae ;eodaesuace   rre   n
populaclo; 1960. 197, end 1979 decs.                                                           elti-ey rebiele..
pC pulnloc  190, 1070,  eo. 1d)  107 -d1e                                                        bredtateopgnerlfuid            prybouen  of pudetOf; se-od-    o-d
Crettryderonfrtterg   ostrofduglct  sto  iS   ea   t                lens   rcenrei cubceead  nper  ohe  rel                        -ra  ooofraI
hercone  ryrooclr  erodIfehenerergeprset  geept fl  fe-         eina  O  sfeo;det  orinen  yar ty  otbecrpaebe fhe
aill orOoy   00rI  eass; agei.$rIup                                                            tul7oolon of9'9daI  genra  inIetteppc'.dfodeepr  dc
IdOof  food        dvi Oro    d-cnec t p CapIt   -lb97ell  -. tIde  ofper ca It                 I.rue..hes   toulbArnat  ptGot  prfa-atdyit uhro
,.e,or calenda, erbss.Cso  te Of             ooer, pror   god  l  -- ag. aIgaoan                and nblanie
re.de  ncudd)   .tfftsitr  roduclao o  oat ch uo-ryl Is batdI 00                           LOSObh ...P0pp505i.                                      Sh
nehlrdlrerge  rodceyprIe sigha;  99169.197, ed 179  ate               brtILabo  Porce-1   Otoeaoe)_   toI. noeteetlyp; ecole preod,  nldlog1
Perca Is  tooy  f  alrIs feter  o  rnuienor)    Cspuedfot               rm d frt.  and--epce    o   nouightete , einyueoa  et-od-
errgrolule  o  nrfedeuylle  relit  i   euIy  areris                   oere         poueoo  of alP   ge.efo        .oeStn oeconre   r
pro daM        csfbetr  o    orled  eteeeuio.IrreIe                                              o  oeTaIabe;N19M    1  1970- and 0979 date.
osporin, acF      hngeo.eoh    Or o lee_ euc6ude-a0lee-   feed. eOede.CPeale                                  ...rco ... fe .ale .labo   forc  e - percrteg   cf loe  lebor  fore
Pro  ucilee.. coe o Ofd ten  (ree  err dayl, 11-1 rotl  cnetofprcpIa                         Poicpe   Sate (OtrF.-       t)       ...e. no11. an-fnue-ec it Ipaio o
oouflytfedoesy    ocapenofcdiof_resafr                               O-                 cnr-rrteeec-rre   end                aonae.odenldebrfrIs
ollcorr  f h  freeof  010  poten pr  ay  re  1  rse  ofartoluo       iOl,  97,- ad- 179deS. l1ee6ae be1970flI  prtd  ip1979ore
..old  ...c succor. 1961-00,     . 197 ,r  0yi7 dae     ,Ifiho the    p-eul labo                                       -cc.1.b,f i890    9M OdI7  d .
elr -foeolol 196    ele1   e   ratpe u6196-O  1970 ced1071 de7. IiC19 70lflOdt1979ld
Chl -sre   --f~ctlie  usLu  rhou-ro_iff  1- e a   -eo-ba  Onf Ihuod  0                  Pcena o P        oSoeIcoe( isruher   id   teerice  b  lobrat
......l oora.to--dr-  -.lorhltdg  gruy I              oendrolpnte--                         0  een.rtchf -10 procod pocont  20 yereIre,sodporre-tuOye -eeo
trt   uuOcoe6l free li.t tsir;d1910            , ,1971 soc 19191du0u of                         970eebcde 17.     ..        h..-b..d.    LO Plcpi                    .
an tre-          Of1 17  see~ 197 0g-.                                                        andeho1dbeiberoerd  tchhe.tfr-.l c.t or
.....r aTe  ate      ..ar ...t.o   .h.ul .....l- ....u. oboe  1and~   h  Thtl    fus    Erc..rL,tnlfrul d-y_aiet plus i          orr Of ePO1  r-Ifee       65oreot  Sd rot
he 1o-000 Sc. l.cbc.    1 aedoco(cl- reeec7 tecodttosf                                     etodeh. .1  .,F-
ouercpyy(10 oreoturdeolo -dee  ruirae  boo ore eoaanae                             fiise   ealePoet   oleOut  ulprefi)-  ra   n   ot
oftercepeirppouin   Iccrhc                            7r,uhl                         pe. N OeeoaISRIUNoafteory.            odOeleetefOIhOut
Chisldorod- I    e-,h.....i drttbluen  of thurl house.   Pe_o1aelftttdPocatcttntefr herrr-d IIesin                                                           foeter bI-I'llaI
oetooo; ourost  ,.- 0led-0cu   o  huceotf  or nebr   foshtebl                             r   oe      rrrno   codln  obcad001  aeae'eel
Ce t. .....   loPr      oprotfrt   lto   h  00                  Otbc   h
__      rro1   so_ amiLooe-er-fo19 .0 siooeOfhl.....euhrldel
HATHnoripPyOVERd,ceso    TdAcRGeEndTrscnG leoslu
orErntu.eefceerot -nocl           A  -cpulut-e Of .    -eee If do iora  top Snelu1do,                         i-
thB-_o_i          _ _e dsceO   hc o.nefuco,bcec ,_fb_  esoeu                                                               forr5  rod_Seetu  let-enit
o7ott-otcO  eso-oo    ylt   rls  t   fptptleedeli                                                                     eenroeoi   odPoetenOprn
h'st  9llsioe.                                                                                                                                Say 1961v
Pefol i to  ott   heelese - '..rueeoerdoe1dd.by.uhbe OfIII .~d Ice Itto  cYa-       E1-           b.I'          !"'           IIS    -VE~2 -.    .
quolIfOod  front neoceebl robepd- ysIr 1coloetelthyh  loon
A,eo.f.lsoeoetuun%         ssc      coaeo     Ie   o oW-hc-o  -ese  - Ong
ealraedfeologb .d..sr.r... Rrelslora,sdeesYtoce



- 23 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population         119.0 milleor  (1980)
GNP Per Capita;  US$2,050 (1980)
Amount                   Average Annual Increase (%)                      Share of GDP at Market Prices (Z)
Indicator                     (Million USS Current)             (at Constant 1970 Prices)                               (at Current Prices).
1980             1965-70   1970-75   1975-80    1980-85           1970       1975      1979      1980 /b       1985
National Accounts
Gross Domestic Product Ia                      248,200                  7.7       10.6        6.9         5.0        100.0    100.0    100.0         100.0       100.0
Agriculture                                   23,365                 1.9         5.7       4.7                       8.2       8.7        9.4        9-4         9.4
Industry                                      71,590                 9.2        11.6       7.6                      29.1      32.6      31.8       28.8         31.8
Services                                     111,365                 8.0        10.7       6.8                      43.0      41.3      42.5       44.4         42.5
Consumption                                    201,040                  7.7        9.8        5.7                     76.9      78.6       79.8       80.5        76.3
Gross tnvestment                                52,460                  9.4       14.6        5.2                     23.5       25.4      22.6       21.1        22.9
Exports of Goods and NFS                        21,305                 8.2        11.2        7.3                      6.6        7.4       8.2        8.6         9.7
Imports of Goods and NFS                        26,575                14.5        17.2        2.8                      7.0      11.4       10.6       10.7         8.9
Grass Domestic Savings                          47,160                  7.9       12.9        6.1                     23.1      21.4       20.2       19.5        23.7
Amount                     Average Annual Increase (%)                     Composition of Merchandise Trade (Z)
(Millien US$ Current)             (at Constant 1970 Prices)                               (at Current Prices)
1980               1965-70           1970-75          1975-80       1966          1970          1975          1980
Merchandise trade
Merchandise Exports                            20,132                   7.8            11.9              5.8         100.0         100.0         100.0          100.0
Primary                                      11,092                  7.3             8.3               1.1          82.9         75.1          61.8           55.1
Maaufactures                                  9,040                  7.9            28.2              18.2          17.1          24.9         38.2           44.9
Merchandise Imports                             22,961                10.0             17.6             -1.4         100.0         100.0         100.0          100.0
Food                                          1,239                 -3.8            -6.7              17.5          11.5           4.5           3.0            5.4
Petroleum                                    10,210                  9.3             7.6               4.3          14.7          11.2         24.5           44.5
Machinery and Equipment                       4,392                 22.1            15.2              -7.5          15.2          21.2          14.0           19.1
Othar                                         7,120                  8.3            28.4             -1.9          58.6          63.1          58.5           31.0
1975        1976          1977           1978          1979          1980/c
Prices and Terms of Trade
GDP Deflator (1970=100)                         305.1       444.3         632.7          892.5        1,399.4        2,724.6
Exchange Rate (Cr$/US$)                          8.1         10.6          14.1           18.1           26.9           53.5
Export Price Index (1970-100)                  176.0        192.0         226.0          228.0          266.0          290.0
Import Price Index (1970-100)                  242.0        255.0         286.0          317.0          389.0          431.0
Terms of Trade Index (1970=100)                 72.0         75.0          79.0           72.0           68.0           67.0
As X of GDP
(at Cur-ent Prices)
1870        1975          1975 /b
Public Finance (Central Government)
Current Revenue                                 16.6         19.8          20.8
Current Expenditure                             14.4         15.8          17.6
Surplus (+) or deficit (-5                       2.2          4.0           3.2
Capital Expenditure                              2.6          3.8           3.7
Financing (Net)                                 -0.4          0.2          -0.5
1965-70     1970-75       1975-79
Other Indicators
GNP Growth Rate (X)                               7.7        10.7           5.8
GNP per Capita Growth Rate (. )                   4.6         7.7           3.0
Energy Consumption Growth Rate (Z)                7.2         7.3           6.5
ICOR                                              2.9         3.0           3.9
Marginal 8svingr Rate                            20.5        25.7          22.7
Import Elasticity                                2.2          1.6           0.3
/a   At market prices; components are net domestic products expressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of depreciation and
indirect taxes less subsidies.
/b    1'reliinLAry
April 10, 1992



- 24 -
_NF7 Y 
0776 S of 17
dALANCE OF PAYMENTS, CXTERNAL CAPITA. ANr D)9T
leillins IIS8 *9 trrrent plr**2
fopuloifr,2n        119  Il lIon (299172
I7  Of  r.p.ix    2             ,97,fln  21461)
ArTbAL                                                                                PROJECTFD
1975         1976           1977          1979         1979          1960           1991              2982           993          1994           995
6o1.ncr of Poyne,,Ce
Ne nenOufon  of food. ond .eovloee                   ~~~~~~~ ~~-i,7172  -6,01P    -4,17 37      -6,06       -117,739       -17,564       -11,127            -9,296        -7,129         -7.27 7         -199
Net   inrtt of  g,ode  and e-                                          9,670      (107,128)    (12,12)    (12,f59)          (15.44) n      12, 132      (23.291)           (29 431)    (35  195)        42,244)      (49,69 7)
[mp      of V-ood.                                                  (12,213)    t12,293) R       17,023)    t 1,683)        ( n1 4)       (22,955)      (22,098)           (25.,42)    (2A,226)        (30,496)      (34,1R2)
Net foctoo  inrtrse                                                  -1,733        -2,19         -2,S56        -3,1257       -4,921        -6,621        -9,549            -17,219       -1 1,284      -22,073       -12,164
(of toh(ch neS  onteceon  poyreet.)                               (-1498)    (-21810)         (-2,103)      2-2.696)      (-4,185)      (-6.311)      (-9,179)          1-7,796)      (-9,646)       (-9,207)       (9.271)
Ne.,    focnr    coocee                                             (-I .429)     (-1,574)       -1 ,576)     (-1.603)      (-2,17A)    (-3,120)        t-2,d37)           62 .654)      (-2,813)      1-2,062)      (-3 ,329)
"rI r,nsteos                                                                  7             1             -           71            IR           168           19i                 5n            5n            5n            S11
Curr)nc -  count 0,oloce                                                -9,700        -6.017        -4.037        -6,0)5       -117,721      -12,396       -10,976            -9,236        -7,079         -3,227          -149
Di2c., 70)00-- i--e-eno    /bh                                             692           059           61n         1,171         1,491         1,125         1,569              1,930         2,68         2,446         2,757
MSLT' (0010 nerS4,830                                                                  5,542         s,650        17,716         9,297         3,475         9,571              9,241         7,517         3,96)         1,55R
Tr....r..2 017400                                                       (655)       1.,47)       2115)                       (I) (1,290)   21,295)       (4,414)            (53,42)       24,90R)       (4,566)       (4,766)
0117000101 oredite                                                   (6,727)       27,713)       (6,22(2      (13.!14)      21, (l47R)     (6,692)    113 111)             (12,369)      (11,331)    1(17077)         (6  6562
Oo     tIz.t.on                                                       (2.152)      12,629)       (3,633)       (5, 46)       (6,430)       (6,61)        27.936)            28,169)       (6,722)      (1n683)       212,164)
3m, illon  loon. ohroomd lien 2                                           -2919         -249          -267          -157         -608           416          -7172
GOSer 00pl7)0   n-.).                                                      -62         1,629        -1,246          -tl8         1,3n59        4,732         1,304            -1,442        -1 ,919       -2,521        -3,336
Cb-ng0t  n  -re--tree  (-i-.re,..) /I                                       2,337       -2,n65          -96         -4,299         2,7R2         3,4Pn           -766              -491          -689          -661          -631
1-i..r. ioool R.e..C0  /d                                                  4,041         6,544         7,256        11,395         9,699         6,913         7,503              7,99g         6,697         9,348       1n,178
9eseroe,oe *- cOe 1 nf ieo)no.Oelo                                              4             6.3           7.2           3.9           6.4           2.6           4.1               1.7            3,7          3.7           1.6
ACTUAL
1975         1976          1977          1978          1979          I             1981
fotrtorl 17040
7T102 debt iut0tn40nf          nd  .bur.e                               23,296       26 433         14,701       46,.36        51,342        54,R65    61,473 /f
ffubiO iod putlirly  Ru7rnO*ed                                       1336          17.349        21,5795       30,I24        35,476        3  26 n
OfIBR   .000                                                      3, 959       '4,4327        4,11727       56,3D         5,699         6,1416-
1r60                                                         2(I n,093)      I 21.7)      (I,413)       72,tni)       (1.827)       (2,069)
1755.0                                                          (22,66)       (3.214)       (36 14)  (304     9)        24,062)       (4 347)             -
Priv_t. *ource                                                      9,747        12,91R        16,679       237 963        29,589       31 844              -
ffi-oie   -- --7u0rt1n6e4d                                            3,592        11.133        23,7D5        16,52         15,f64        1,6 05
!'7,diib--oed debt (public o-ly)                                         3,879        6,62n         8,411         17,209       12,44R        14.n41              _
.r0.. Dih..rbe.enet
7,0t01 oI7 s dlebar,eeen  of M6LT 21-0                                   6,981         R,16          9,292        15, 64        11,728       10.085
PuO.2C 014 publicly guor_nteed                                        2,7R8         4,921         5.422        11,116         9,152         6,a93
Of loiei enporicredine                                                426           4173          169           491           449           467             _
13RD                                                                 250           171           296           27S           312           343             -
Ocher  ulnil1t0r001119                                                            113            92           136           206           192
cclooee sooroe                                                     2,1 q         4,231         4 4,62        9,216        9 197          5,692             -
700 0009 007-fu.orcnOeeo                                             3,294         3,239         3 861         5,046         2 576         3 192
Debi Socoico
Totrl02 debt neovice  moy-nct                                          4,163         4,322)        5,641         6,252 25)     1,247        23,166 
Icoreec  (cool                                    (2,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1677  72423) ( 1651)  2257          3555         (5.412) 
Poyre17ie 00 200 o 000f  0 ,or nd NYS                                      39.6          16.2          39,6          54.2          59.f          54.9
o7y                - .717u '                                               2,9           2.6           3.0           3 .7         4.3           4.8            -
,A--  inter.3st rote or 2          ble pubir debt (1) /I                      6.7           7.6           R.3          9.9          1212           12.3
007(2002   ooro._                                                           7.7           7,            8 0.1         7 .5           .3           9.7
A,r,,,e eteur(0y of flee gt...nteed lon.                                      9,n          11            1            10.1          1125           10.3
Officol coorce                                                             26.4          26.3          16.I          24.5          24.0          23.6 6
foivo)e oourie                                                              7.,n          9.3           6.7           9 3          12 2           9,5
IB0D Enpo.ur,
IBB0 DODIToOt.                                                              4.7           4,3           4.1           3,4           3.6           3.8           -
19RD dI boreenem/toiel got ns disb--r,ee0e. (X)                             3.9           2.1           ).2           2.9           2.6           3.4           -
IdRD debt secoiie(notOl debt 0000)0. (21                                    2.5           3.2           3.7           2.7           2.2           2.1
A. 7 of t0t01 debO o.i-t.ta.dig
_n end of De-ceb-r 1980         /h
OrbO 000000000
MaSon 07 Structure of 4.12 0. outatndi 06
Moooc_tiet  dUt 0t001  5 years                                                                        6)
M-cloi-o d(e olOhin 10 ye-00                                                                          33
/a  17,010000
/b  Etolodig rr-i-rte.d profit .
/c  OE-c2di(,0 doloc vu     ion adj..-.eor -n d   s-etiont ion of d-ertic  Iod.
/d  I-lWdil0   002d  -,d d401100-0-0 - di-o 0100t0600.
/e  r-0d0 only.
/f  D00011l u. _'ilabl_
/g  Pnblo dtht only.
7h  P-ooiolno=d
Sourcens     Balance of P         Dy-nts 7000 - bnoco Control do Ora11i; E-teonl Debt Data - 97D
Sp,tl 14, 1982



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 14
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of March 31, 1982)
Amount less
Loan # Year                Borrower              Purpose       Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
Fifty-two loans fully disbursed                                   1,736.1
923   1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -        Power               125.0           3.3
Itumbiara
1008   1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao         Power                81.0          16.0
Francisco-CHESF
1067   1974  Brazil                             Education            23.5           7.5
1074   1975  Rede Ferroviaria Federal           Railways            175.0           2.1
1075   1975  Brazil                             Roads               110.0          16.7
1151   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry                95.0          13.0
1152   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry                60.0          21.7
1153   1975  Brazil                             Agriculture          23.0           3.2
1171   1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista         Railways             75.0          14.1
1195   1976  Brazil                             Rural Development  12.0             7.6
1207   1976  Brazil                             Feeder Roads         55.0          32.0
1249   1976  Brazil                             Agriculture          40.0           9.7
1300   1976  Eletrobras                         Power                50.0           0.8
1302   1976  Brazil                             Nutrition            19.0           2.0
1309   1976  Banco Nacional da Habitacao        Water Supply         40.0           0.1
1317   1976  Brazil                             Agro-Industry        83.0          59.6
1343   1977  ELETROSUL                          Power                82.0          17.5
1362   1977  State of Minas Gerais              Rural Development  42.0            10.5
1406   1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes            Fertilizer           52.0          11.7
1411   1977  Fertilizantes Vale do              Fertilizer           55.0           1.9
Rio Grande S.A.-VALEFERTIL
1452   1977  Brazil                             Education            32.0          22.7
1488   1977  Brazil                             Rural Development  17.0            12.1
1525   1978  Banco Nacional da Habitacao        Sewerage            110.0          75.9
1537   1978  Brazil                             Rural Development  24.0            19.5
1538   1978  ELETROBRAS                         Power               130.0          64.9
1557   1978  Brazil                             Roads               114.0          88.5
1562   1978  COPESUL                            Petrochemicals       85.0          14.1
1563   1978  Brazil                             Urban Transport    88.0            36.4
1568   1978  Brazil                             Agric. Extension  100.0            76.5



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 14
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of March 31, 1982)
Amount less
Loan #  Year               Borrower               Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
1589    1978  Brazil                           Rural Development   37.0            28.5
1654    1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Sites & Services    93.0               65.9
1656    1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water & Sewerage   100.0               85.7
1660    1979  Valesul Aluminio S.A.            Aluminum              78.8          11.5
1714    1979  Brazil                           Rural Development   26.0            23.7
1720    1979  Brazil                           Urban Development   70.0            61.5
1721    1979  COPEL                            Power                109.0          84.9
1728    1979  Brazil                           Rural Development   40.0            35.2
1729    1979  Brazil                           Irrigation            28.0          18.6
1730    1979  Brazil                           Roads                110.0         100.6
1822    1980  Brazil/BNDE                      Pollution Control   58.0            58.0
1823    1980  Banco Nacional
da Habitacao                  Water Supply         130.0         115.0
1824    1980  CEEE                             Power                114.0         114.0
1839    1980  Brazil                           Urban Transport    159.0           155.8
1850    1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply            139.0         120.1
1867    1980  Brazil                           Education             32.0          30.8
1877    1980  State of Minas Gerais            Rural Development   63.0            61.3
1895    1980  ELETROSUL                        Power                125.0         124.7
1924    1981  Brazil                           Rural Development   56.0            53.0
1939    1981  ELETROBRAS                       Power                 54.0          52.6
1965    1981  EBTU                             Urban Transport       90.0          90.0
1970    1981  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply            180.0         168.1
1989    1981  Brazil                           Alcohol Devt.        250.0         250.0
2015    1981  Brazil                           Agriculture           29.0          29.0
2016    1981  Brazil                           Agriculture           60.0          57.0
2060 /1 1982  Brazil                           Agriculture           67.0          67.0
2061 /1 1982  Brazil                           Health                13.0          13.0
2062 /1 1982  Brazil                           Highways             240.0         240.0
2116 /1 13 1982 Brazil                         Agriculture           26.4          26.4
Total                                               6,310.8 /2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                  883.4
Total now outstanding                               5,427.4
Amount sold                            45.8
of which has been repaid            45.3              0.5
Total now held by Bank                              5,426.9
Total undisbursed                                                 3,003.5
/1   Not yet effective.
/2   No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.
/3   Not yet signed.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Pg3of14
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1982)
Fiscal                                                                                                                                         Amount in US$ million
Year                                            0 b 1 1 g o r                                       Type of Business                       Loans       Equity     Total
1957                    Siemens do Brasil Cia. de Electricidade                                  Electrical Equipment                         2.00         -        2.00
1958                    Olinkraft, S. A. Celulose e Papel                                        Pulp and Paper                               1.20         -        1.20
1958                    D. L. R. Plasticos do Brasil, S. A.                                      Automotive Parts                             0.45         -        0.45
1958                    Willys-Overland do Brasil, S. A. - Industria e Comercio                  Motor Vehicles                               2.45         -        2.45
1959                    Companhia Mineira de Cimento Portland, S. A.                             Cement                                       1.20         -        1.20
1959                    Champion Celulose, S. A.                                                 Pulp                                         4.00         -        4.00
1966/1968/1972          Acon Villares, S. A.                                                     Steel                                        8.00        1.93      9.93
1966/1969               Papel e Celalose Catarinense, S. A.                                      Pulp and Paper                               3.78       3.41       7.19
1967/1972               Ultrafertil, S. A. - Industria e Comerclo do Fertilixantes               Pertilizers                                  8.22        3.03     11.25
1969                    Petroquimica Uniao, S. A.                                                Petrochemicals                               5.50       2.88       8.38
1970                    Poliolefinas, S. A. Industria e Comercio                                 Petrochemicals                               5.50       2.88       8.38
1971                    Oxiteno, S. A. Industria e Cowercio                                      Petrochemicals                               4.60        1.44      6.04
1971                    Rio Grande - Compashia de Celulose do Sal                                Pulp                                         4.90        -         4.90
1972/1975/1981          Companhia do Cinesto Nacional de Minas                                   Cement                                     169.14       6.70    175.84
1973/1974/1977/1981    Companhia Siderurgina da Guanabara - COSIGUA                              Steel                                       76.97      11.22      88.19
1973                    Capital Market Development Fund - FUMCAP                                 Capital Market Development                   5.00        -         5.00
1973/1978               Empresa de Desenvolvi,ento do Recursos Minerais - CODEMIN, S. A.    Nickel Mining and Refining                       85.00       8.34       93.34
1974                    Iodustrias Villares, S. A.                                               Elevators and Industrial Equipment           6.00        -         6.00
1974                    Fabrica de Tecido Tatuape, S. A.                                         Textiles                                    31.00        -        31.00
1975/1979               Capuava Carbonos Industrias Ltd.                                         Carbon Black                                 6.18       1.19       7.37
1975                    Omiteno Nordeste, S. A.                                                  Petrochemicalo                             10.00         -        10.00
1976                    Santista Isdustria - Textil do Nordeste, S. A.                           Textiles                                     6.45       1.00       7.45
1976/1980               Tecanor S. A. - Tootil Catarinense do Nordaste                          Textiles                                    16.20         -        16.20
1977                    FMB S. A. Prodoctos Metalurgicos                                         Iron and Aluminum Castings                 20.00         -        20.00
1977                    Mineracao Rio do Norte S. A.                                             Mining                                     15.00         -        15.00
1978                    Cimetal Siderurgia S. A.                                                 Iron and Steel                               7.00       3.00      10.00
1979                    Volvo do Brasil Motores e Veicules, S. A.                               Motor Vehicles                              60.00        5.00      65.00
1980                    Hering do Nordeste S. A. - Malbas                                        Ready-made Garments                          2.00        -         2.00
1980                    Sende do Para S/A - Denpasa - Agricultura., Industria
e Comercio de Oleagisosas                                            Palm-Oil                                     3.50       1.00       4.50
1980                    Villares Industrias de Base S. A. - VIBASA                               Iron and Steel                               5.00        -         5.00
1980                    PPH - Compashia Industrial de Polipropileno                              Chemicals and Petrochemicals                15.00       2.00      17.00
1980                    Dnstilaria Ciasorte S. A.                                                Chemicals and Petrochemicalo                  -         0.25       0.25
1980                    Sotave A.aconia Qoimica e Mineral S/A                                    Fertilizers                                16.00        4.00      20.00
1980                    Polisul Petroquimica                                                     Chemicals and Petrochemicals               43.00        5.00      48.00
1981                    Brasilpar                                                                Money and Capital Market.                     -         1.50       1.50
1981                    Companhia Brasileira de Agrapecuaria - COBRAPE                           Food and Food Processing                     5.50       3.00       8.50
1981                    Triunfo                                                                  Chemicals and Petrochenicals               46.00        4.00      50.00
1982                    Cimento CAUE                                                             Cevnt and Coastruction Materials           40.00        5.00      45.00
Total Gross Co-iments                                                                                   741.74       77.77    819.51
Less Cancellations, Traminations, Repaymento and Sales                                                  534.19       12.02    546.21
Total Cotitents Now Held by IFC                                                                         207.55       65.75    273.30
Total Undisbursed                                                                                       219.01       21.47    240.48



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 14
C.   Status of Projects in Execution
As of March 31, 1982 1/
As of March 31, 1982, there were 54 effective Bank loans under
disbursement:
Loan No.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:  US$125.0 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. The project is about 90% completed. Major procurement has
been completed. Four of the six generating units have been in
service since late 1980; the other two were commissioned in 1981.
A cost overrun of about 57% is forecast due mainly to a substantial
increase in the size of the transmission works and to an increase
in the cost of civil works.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:  US$81.0 million loan
of June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982. Resettlement of the 9,700 families displaced by
the Sobradinho reservoir has been satisfactorily completed, and new
towns and villages to house the displaced population have been con-
structed. The construction of the underground power station and
Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on schedule. Construction of the
transmission lines and sub-stations is about 12 months behind
schedule. The Closing date was postponed to June 30, 1982 to
allow additional time for equipment deliveries extending into the
latter half of 1981, and thereafter to meet retention payments
on equipment contracts.
1067      Second Education Project:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Project execution is about two years behind schedule mainly because
of delays during the early stages. Forty-four of the 51 facilities
to be constructed are now operating or just completed. Progress in
implementation of the enlarged project is satisfactory. Overall costs
are within reviewed estimates. A local project completion team should
send a draft PCR to the Bank for comments by September 1982.
1074      Second Railway Project:  US$175.0 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project has been completed and no further disbursements will
be made. About US$1.0 million is being cancelled. A project
completion report will be issued before the end of 1982.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 14
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110.0 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Roadworks, detailed engineering studies for road construction
and road rehabilitation have been completed.  Implementation of
the maintenance program in the states of Minas Gerais and Rio Grande
do Sul is progressing well. Installation of the 73 weighing stations
(Phase I) suffered delays because of financial constraints imposed
by the federal government. Additional counterpart funds for 1981
have been provided recently and works have been reactivated. The
weighing station program is being reformulated; the closing date
will have to be extended further to allow completion of the works.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
June 9, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Due to lack of funds in 1981 and further
constraints on 1982 spending, project completion is now scheduled
for November 1983. The company's financial position is inadequate
with a year-end 1981 current ratio of 0.54, debt equity ratio of
52:48 and debt service coverage of 0.6 times. A supervision
mission visited Brazil in March 1982, and strongly reiterated the
Bank's request that the Government provide additional funds (or
allow CSN to increase its long-term borrowings) to complete the
project by May 1983 (the earliest now possible) and to restore
the company's current ratio to 1.0 times by year-end 1982 (with
full compliance on all financial covenants to be met by end-1984).
The Government and the Bank are discussing possible measures to
accelerate project completion and restore the company to a
viable financial position.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976; Closing Date:
December 30, 1983. Government approved budgets for the company
indicate that spending on the project in 1982 will be cut by 40%
in real terms below last year's levels. As a result, work on the
project is expected to stop by July 1982. The company also remains
in a poor financial situation, with a year-end 1981 current ratio of
0.45, debt-equity ratio of 55:45, and debt service coverage of 0.6
times. A supervision mission visited Brazil in March and strongly
reiterated the Bank's request that the Government provide additional
funds (or allow COSIPA to increase its long-term borrowings) to
complete the project by October 1984 (the earliest now possible) and
to restore the company's current ratio to 1.0 times by year-end 1982
with full compliance on all financial covenants to be met by end-1984).
The Government and the Bank are discussing possible measures to
accelerate project completion and restore the company to a viable
financial position.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 14
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:  US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The Bank agreed to a CODEVASF proposal to
replace works previously planned for certain areas with the
rehabilitation of works in several flood plain areas which
suffered heavily from floods in 1979. With respect to the
project works, construction of the irrigation and drainage
system and settlement in the Betume flood plain has been
delayed by the unexpected need to construct a new small dam
to control floods in a tributary river. Roads recently
constructed by the Government in the area of Brejo Grande flood
plain are acting as control dikes for irrigation purposes, so
previously planned project works may be excluded from the project.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):  US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: September 30,
1983. The implementation of the project, as redefined to take into
account FEPASA's weak financial position in 1976-78, is improving.
Completion is estimated for mid-1983. FEPASA's operations continue
to improve significantly. The railway has reduced its operating
cost in the past year mainly due to reduction in staff and improve-
ment of train operations.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:  US$12.0 million loan
of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982. Phase I of this project ended satisfactorily
in the areas of extension, credit, applied research, and health,
although one year behind the original schedule. The design of
Phase II, extended project activities to new municipalities,
sharpened the project's focus on the lowest income farmers, and
included new components in the areas of marketing, storage, support
to cooperatives, land services, seed production, and inland fisheries.
Serious droughts in the last three years, coupled with delays in the
release of funds, have slowed down the implementation of Phase II,
but activities related to land, inland fisheries, and to increasing
small farmers' resistance to drought through small-scale irrigation
methods, have recently shown good progress.
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:  US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982. The loan was fully committed by mid-1980 for
16 subprojects in 12 states. Because of implementation delays
and constant devaluation of the ORTN, the monetary unit in which
subloans are denominated, a major reformulation was necessary to
restore BNDE/DNER/IBRD participation to its initial level. Under-
taken by mid-1981, the reformulation of the project is now complete,
resulting in a reduction of its scope to improvement or construction
of 5,420 km of roads and 62 bridges, and in the provision of about
US$23 million from the second Loan (1730-BR) for additional financing
of 10 subprojects under the first project. Physical implementation
of the project, which had reached 47% at the end of 1981, is now
progressing well. Disbursements under the first loan are expected to
be completed by the end of 1983.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 14
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:  US$40.0 million loan of June 23,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. With the removal of constraints on the levels
of incremental staff, imports of project related equipment and
controls on the training programs (abroad) for research technicians,
the project progressed satisfactorily during 1981 and the rate of
disbursements rose sharply. Provided the current levels of
counterpart funding and project implementation are sustained during
1982, the project should be completed by about end-1982.
1300      Northeast Power Distribution:  US$50.0 million loan of August 27,
1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project implementation is about 6 months behind schedule because of
initial difficulties in obtaining a Government definition regarding
participation by Brazilian suppliers. Procurement is now progressing
satisfactorily. The agreed targets for connection of low income
households have been widely exceeded. Substantial improvements in
the management of the project companies have been achieved, partic-
ularly in the areas of financial control and planning of COELBA and
CELPE.
1302      Nutrition Research and Development:  US$19.0 million loan of
October 1, 1976; Effective Date:  December 30, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983. An amending Agreement to the Loan and
Project Agreements was signed on January 14, 1981. The major
changes in the project involved the elimination of a credit program
for nutritious foods industries and the incorporation of a program
for the distribution of basic foods to low-income urban families.
The reformulated project responds better to the Government's
institutional priorities. Since this reformulation, project
operations have improved substantially. Problems still remain
with the quality of evaluation studies presently carried out and
counterpart funding for these studies. The rate of disbursements
has risen sharply. About 90% of the loan is now disbursed.
1309      Second Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$40.0
million loan of August 27, 1976; Effective Date: January 18, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982. This loan has been fully
committed for the financing of subprojects in the metropolitan
area of Belo Horizonte, 38 subprojects for medium sized cities in
the interior, and 138 subprojects for small communities mostly in
rural areas of the state. The physical works financed under the
project are about 80% complete. The closing Date was postponed
to September 30, 1982.
1317      Second Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$83.0 million loan of
September 22, 1976; Effective Date: March 25, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Because of commitment delays under the First
Agro-Industries Credit Project (Loan No. 924-BR of August 1, 1973,
the undisbursed balance of which was cancelled as of December 31,
1980), disbursements for the second loan began only in 1981. The
existence of competing credit lines at subsidized rates and a
temporary Government policy of prefixing monetary correction unrelated



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 14
to the actual inflation rate have ended. The Government is now follow-
ing a revised monetary correction system under which the level of
indexing more nearly reflects the level of inflation, in line with
the conditions of the Loan Agreement. Arrangements for monitoring
the adequacy of monetary correction were agreed with the Government.
The loan is expected to be fully committed shortly.
1343      ELETROSUL Transmission Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982. The project is about 95% complete and 100% of the
contracts for supply of equipment and materials to be financed
under the loan have been awarded. Project execution is on schedule.
The Loan is expected to be fully disbursed by the closing date of
June 30, 1982.
1362      Minas Gerais Rural Development Project I:  US$42.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. This project is progressing satisfactorily
after initial delays. Participation in this project by landless
producers was initially lower than originally envisaged, but
concerted efforts by the state government and the participating
banks have improved this situation markedly. A postponement of
the closing date by 18 months, and a reallocation of loan
proceeds to incorporate marketing, road improvement, and water
supply activities, has been agreed.
1406      Sergipe Fertilizer Project:  US$64.0 million loan of April 29, 1977;
Effective Date: August 31, 1977; Closing Date: May 31, 1982.
Construction of plant buildings and erection of equipment are well
advanced, but some delays have been experienced in delivery of
locally ordered equipment which may delay the project completion
date by about eighteen months. Commercial production is now
expected to begin in October 1982. The costs to complete the
project are expected to be about 15% below the appraisal estimate.
1411      VALEFERTIL Phosphate Fertilizer Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
April 29, 1977; Effective Date: July 29, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982. The project has been in operation from August 1980.
During this period it achieved an average capacity utilization of
81% for sulfuric acid, 55% for MAP and 37% for TSP. Several plant
modifications have been carried out to improve performance of MAP
and TSP plants. Market constraints following revised credit
policies and fertilizer price increases in early 1981 have affected
production of finished products by about 20%.
1452      Vocational Training Project:  US$32.0 million loan of September 7,
1977; Effective Date: April 5, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The loan was amended on March 26, 1982, subsequent to a project
reformulation required by: (a) reduction in counterpart funds
affecting one component, and (b) difficulties encountered in
acquiring suitable sites for a number of centers. The presidential
decree approving the legal and financial definition of SENAR was
signed, which now permits this component to be fully implemented.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 14
1488      Ceara Rural Development Project:  US$17.0 million loan of
November 17, 1977; Effective Date: March 28, 1978, Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Agricultural extension has been particularly successful in reach-
ing target farmers, and initial land purchases for a first small
group of farmers have been made. Agricultural credit has suffered
from shortages of local bank funds. Physical and social infra-
structure is proceeding well, although there are some difficulties
in administering the health component and delays in carrying out the
water supply program. A state proposal to reformulate certain re-
maining aspects of the project and to extend the Closing Date is
under consideration.
1525      Greater Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and Treatment Project:  US$110.0
million loan of March 10, 1970- Effective Date: Ai11Qlst 7, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984. Physical execution of the
project components financed by the Bank is on schedule; however,
because of financial constraints the pace of execution is slow for
those project components not financed by the Bank. Three important
municipalities whose facilities are not operated by the executing
agency are not building the necessary sewage collectors to connect
to one of the treatment plants being built under the project. This
problem has been raised with the Brazilian authorities and is
expected to be solved soon. Project completion is expected to be
delayed by about two years.
1537      Paraiba Rural Development Project:  US$24.0 million of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 19, 1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983.
While financial and managerial problems created significant delays
in project implementation over the past two years, the situation
has improved since the recent reorganization of the project adminis-
tration. Several components, such as land tenure services, non-
farm rural enterprises, and agricultural credit, show encouraging
progress. Preliminary plans are currently developed toward modify-
ing the land, marketing and health components, and to expand the
project area for selected project activities.
1538      South-Southeast Power Distribution Project:  US$130.0 million loan
of May 8, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.  Disbursements were initially delayed by about
one year due to necessary revisions of the beneficiaries' construc-
tion programs caused by changes in the power market, reluctance by
two of the beneficiaries to contract consultants as agreed, and
procurement delays. Initially there were also delays in project
execution due to low tariff levels and insufficient counterpart
funds. In July 1981, ELETROBRAS arranged for the required counter-
part funds to be provided and in September 1981 the Government
agreed with the Bank to increase tariffs to appropriate levels so
that these projects can now proceed satisfactorily.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 14
1557      Sixth Highway Project:  US$114.0 million loan of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 19&2.
Rehabilitation of highways foreseen under the project proceeded
satisfactorily to mid-1980, when works were suspended because
of financial constraints imposed by the federal government. However,
these problems have been recently corrected and project execution
has been resumed. The maintenance program in the state of Parana
is progressing well. The second phase of the weighing station
program will not begin until the first phase (under Loan 1075-BR)
has been completed and the effects monitored. The Project is being
reformulated to reflect current priorities. Project completion
could be delayed by two years.
1562      COPESUL Petrochemical Project:  US$85.0 million loan of July 6, 1978;
Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project implementation is proceeding well with an overall completion
ratio approaching 75%. Commencement of commercial operations is
expected in October 1982. The anticipated cost to complete the
project is presently running about 7% below the original estimate.
1563      Urban Transport Project:  US$88.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 1, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
This project is progressing satisfactorily although progress
initially varied widely among the five cities involved. The
project has been partially reformulated to delete certain items
whose implementation was no longer justified as originally envisaged
at appraisal, or could not be physically completed by the revised
project completion date, December 31, 1982. At the same time, some
new items have been included to achieve the project's objective, which
is improvement of the delivery of urban transport services in several
cities. The Closing Date has also been postponed to June 30, 1983.
1568      Agricultural Extension Project:  US$100.0 million loan of May 22,
1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1984. The executing agency, EMBRATER, continues to work closely
with state/territory agencies to achieve adequate project implementa-
tion. The Project Coordination Unit has been effective, and project
execution proceeded satisfactorily during 1981. The Closing Date
has been postponed from December 31, 1982 to June 30, 1984, in
part to allow additional time to achieve planned levels of incre-
mental staffing, fellowships for staff training, and use of
consultants. However, at least a partial exemption to recently
re-imposed Government hiring restrictions will need to be arranged
by EMBRATER to prevent a serious slow-down in project development.
Overall, the remaining project activities appear to be proceeding
reasonably well.
1589      Bahia Rural Development Project:  US$37.0 million loan of July 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1983. The pace of project execution is now satisfactory, and delays
in funding have been reduced. Extension and land titling services
have been improved, but lack of land purchase credit is hampering
the balanced progress of the project. The quality of feeder road



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 14
construction has been uneven, but supervision of construction is
being strengthened. The health component is proceeding smoothly;
however, the education and water supply components are far behind
schedule.
1654      Sites and Services and Low-Cost Housing Project:  US$93.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 9, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983. Housing targets are being met and
difficulties which had been encountered in meeting the sites and
services targets have been overcome. The Bank has approved a
proposal that will offer a solution to the problems which have
caused slow progress in this project and an amendment to the Loan
Agreement has recently been signed.
1656      Northeast Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$100.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 10, 1979, Closing
Date: June 30, 1983. The National Housing Bank has approved the
five year investment program of the project water companies for the
period 1980-1984. The first subprojects for the capital cities have
also been approved and construction is underway. Due to inherent
weaknesses in the State Water Company, the project may be completed
with about a one-year delay.
1660      Valesul Aluminum Project:  US$98.0 million loan of March 7, 1979;
Effective Date: August 6, 1979; Closing Date: July 31, 1982.
The Loan Agreement has been amended to cancel US$19.2 million of
the loan which will not be utilized. Construction is 99% complete,
and training pots were started in January 1982. There is a cost
overrun of about 8%. The shareholders are preparing an action
plan to finance project completion and start-up losses during 1982,
which are expected due to very low aluminum prices.
1714      Sergipe Rural Development Project:  US$26.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984. Reasonable progress is being made with
most project components. Extension services achieved very
close to first year targets and exceeded second year targets.
The land titling and colonization components are progressing
more slowly, but remedial action is beginning to show results.
The management of the project has become quite effective, and
the monitoring and evaluation of project results is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1720      Medium-Sized Cities Project:  US$70.0 million loan of June 20, 1979;
Effective Date: May 2, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
After a slow start, the project is now proceeding satisfactorily.
1721      COPEL Second Power Distribution Project:  US$109.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: November 21, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. Project implementation is about six months behind
schedule because the Borrower postponed procurement pending loan
effectiveness. The Borrower is, however, accelerating procure-
ment and the project is expected to be completed on schedule.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 14
1728      Pernambuco Rural Development Project:  US$40.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984. The project's start-up period was longer
than expected, in part due to delays in the release of federal
funds. Project administration has improved but further improve-
ments in coordination among the entities involved in execution is
still needed. The agency responsible for the village water supply
component has not performed adequately and is being replaced by
another entity. The recommendations of the land tenure study are
still under review in the state.
1729      Sao Francisco Second Irrigation Project:  US$28.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: January 23, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986. While previously initiated civil works have
proceeded satisfactorily, local funding shortfalls and technical
problems emerging in the detailed design of project works for the
Boacica sub-area have slowed project progress. The infrastructure
being developed by the Government outside the project in the
Brejo Grande sub-area may lead to the dropping from the project of
previously planned irrigation and drainage investments there. The
monitoring unit has been installed and is now operational.
1730      Second Feeder Roads Project:  US$110.0 million loan of June 20,
1979; Effective Date: December 17, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986. The Second Feeder Roads Project provides
continuity to the program started under Loan 1207-BR. The loan
is now fully committed for 16 subprojects in 15 states, totalling
improvement or construction of 4,790 km of roads and 239 bridges.
Physical implementation is on schedule. Disbursements have
reached US$10 million by the end of March 1982, which is in line
with appraisal estimate. Completion is scheduled for June 30, 1986.
1822      Sao Paulo Industrial Pollution Control Project:  US$58.0 million
loan of April 14, 1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984. The project is experiencing some initial
delays, due mainly to long lead times in developing specific engi-
neering solutions to the pollution problems of individual industrial
concerns, but the first subprojects have begun to reach the Bank.
1823      Southern States Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$130.0
million loan of April 14, 1980; Effective Date: October 8, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983. After initial delays, the project
is now advancing at a good pace and is expected to be completed by
the end of 1984.
1824      CEEE Power Distribution Project:  US$114.0 million loan of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: July 15, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1984. After some initial delays, project implementation is now
proceeding satisfactorily.
1839      Second Urban Transport - Porto Alegre Project: US$159.0 million
loan of June 2, 1980; Effective Date: December 9, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Some problems concerning procurement have somewhat delayed the
implementation and procurement schedule.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 14
1850      Third Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project: US$139.0 million
loan of July 18, 1980; Effective Date: May 28, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985. This project is proceeding satisfactorily. Most
works are already committed, and physical execution is progressing
on schedule.
1867      Northeast Basic Education Project:  US$32.0 million loan of July 18,
1980; Effective Date:  May 12, 1981; Closing Date:  September 1, 1985.
Project implementation is delayed by about nine months due to delay
in effectiveness and in transferring resources to project states
during Calendar year 80. The delay is expected to be made up for
during the remaining period of project implementation. To this
end, the PIU is preparing a reprogramming of the remaining project
implementation schedule. A substantial impact evaluation effort
being mounted as part of this project is proceeding satisfactorily
and vital information should be obtained within the next few months.
1877      Minas Gerais Second Rural Development Project:  US$63.0 million
loan of September 15, 1980; Effective Date: December 16, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding
satisfactorily. However previous plans for co-financing have
fallen through and the availability of local counterpart funds has
slowed project implementation.
1895      ELETROSUL Second Power Transmission Project:  US$125.0 million
loan of October 6, 1980; Effective Date: December 16, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984. The project is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1924      Ceara Second Rural Development Project:  US$56.0 million loan of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: July 7, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
1939      Electric Power System Coordination:  US$54.0 million loan of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: August 5, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Procurement is in progress.
1965      Third Urban Transport Project:  US$90.0 million loan of June 5, 1981;
Effective Date:  October 20, 1981; Closing Date:  June 30, 1985.
Some dalys have occurred in the appraising of the remaining AGLURB
cities. Corrective measures have been taken to bring this component
back to its original schedule during the recent supervision mission.
The pavement program in low-income areas (PROPAV), and the institu-
tional component are progressing satisfactorily.
1970      Multi-State Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$180.0 million
loan of May 18, 1981; Effective Date: December 15, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985. Project execution is advancing satisfactorily
and no major delays are envisaged.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 14
1989      Alcohol and Biomass Energy Development Project:  US$250.0 million
loan of June 12, 1981; Effective Date: November 10, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985. All ports of the program are
progressing satisfactorily, although the production component
may suffer temporary delays due to financial stringency at the
national level.
2015      Piaui Rural Development Project:  US$29.0 million loan of August 10,
1981; Effective Date: February 5, 1982; Closing Date: December 31,
1986. Although project start-up has been somewhat delayed because
of the late arrival of funds for the first quarter, implementation
is thus far proceeding satisfactorily. Good progress has been
achieved in hiring staff and consultants, and in the land redis-
tribution program. Overall, project administration is function-
ing well. Start-up difficulties have slowed progress in small-scale
irrigation, water supply, and the establishment of the State Land
Institute; design and procurement procedures employed for rural
roads need strengthening.
2016      Second Agricultural Research Project:  US$60.0 million loan of
July 8, 1981; Effective Date: December 8, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987. Minor start-up delays have occurred as a
result of less than optimal counterpart funding. Also, recent
Government restrictions on hiring are necessitating special
arrangement by EMBRAPA of exceptions.



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
ELETROBRAS I POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:        Approximately 42 months
(b)  Project prepared by:                  The beneficiaries with the
assistance of ELETROBRAS
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:    January 1980
(d)  Appraisal Mission:                    October 1980
(e)  Re-appraisal Mission:                 January 1982
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:           March 25, 1982
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:        September 30, 1982
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) Real levels of tariffs to be increased at least by 3% in 1982 and
5% in 1983 and thereafter until a 10% rate of return on remuner-
able assets is achieved and shortfalls that occurred in such
remuneration since 1978 have been fully recovered (para. 38).
(b) ELETROBRAS to discuss in advance with the Bank any major
modifications in its policies and procedures for funding and
investment (para. 48).
(c) Execution and delivery to the Bank of one subloan agreement
acceptable to the Bank would be a condition of loan effective-
ness. Execution and delivery of similar agreements would be
a condition of disbursement for the subloans to the other
beneficiaries (para. 55).



- 40 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) The onlending agreements with the beneficiaries to include the
usual covenants for power projects (such as reporting, access
to works and accounting records of the beneficiaries, independent
audits, indebtedness and debt service coverage ratios, etc.) and
the specific recommendations included in each of its own
appraisal reports (para. 55).
(e) ELETROBRAS and the Government to make arrangements satisfactory
to the Bank for the provision of funds to the beneficiaries to
enable them of carry out their projects in the event resources
available to the beneficiaries are insufficient (para. 57).
(f) ELETROBRAS to review annually with the Bank the financing plan
for the project. Such financing plan to include commitments of
counterpart financing for at least one year of project costs
(para. 57).
(g) At least until the closing date of the loan, the States of the
beneficiaries would reinvest in capital stock of the
beneficiaries all cash dividends paid to them by the
beneficiaries and the amount of the sole tax allocated to them
(para. 57).
(h) Beneficiaries not to undertake major investments outside the
project without adequate technical and economic justification and
available financing. ELETROBRAS to discuss in advance with the
Bank any change in the investment program of the beneficiaries'
greater than 15% in any one year in real terms (para. 59).



IRRD-16381
VENEZV E N E Z U E L A  \  C  t          A     A
K,        c-<..--   >       zV L SURINAME  FRE, NA C Hu l
C          0 L 0 M B I A                                          N  /ISTA(   V'    /
\yx x-.Xt2nRRA /1;AS              -.s-- \S~ v-----~ i                Al// a    i?t,c      C cadqp
|[--  L        ,-.                                'NAt AIAP4W
AIVCA PA'
/fi                    xi        7                        ACRTALEZA <L E M  XBL
Al A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I \
B B   ~~~~~~~~l't,ATiR&  /  C                                        A~~~~~~~~EAA    ICGRMX`
i~~~~~ZN X ~            ~            YTT /i                                            HAOt '$>      STT  N      ,ou
' 4   /iX    ('   X  -t  \  A  14' A  Rto0MA x /TERESINAS CAA   T
TI 'O                             N  P 4 T  R   /  A  /   P--x   H A P YAiA N R E  0A
A C P FR EORTOVELH                      HO7                                                        A t-__2_) 3 NA/BVC0tIFE
-   jR O RRANCOr'                                                              < _         ,.             9  agt   ,
.ONDONIA                                    I             /                               ACAJI
5 i 1  K   (  5 t" A                                      / 9  A H    A
P E R U      |-I                                                     (oSo/A-s<          |G R O 5 5 O  G O   A s  SALVADOR
C'                  -V      V            CUIAA             BRASILIA4 )  _j
GOIANIC  pA       .e
HATO GROSS/                      GEPAIL 
BRAZIL                                  CAMPO GRANDE      MINHO GFRCONT    )E5P 
ELETROBRAS I POWER  DISTRIBUTION                                                      BELOHORiZONTE J  sz
PROJECT                               D 0  SU/   YAORIA
Project Area Locations                                     S >   SAO PAUZO   I       _     /
TAATCTAEA ATSAS         -\  <       / 25A0=t\    PALOQ    -PRO JCE
'    Lo:o-on i                         -RI
CA  TA RIN-;1PSS
---SAATS ATSATcrES                   A/A/UC ON A'r        CURICIBA0                          AS5.b  _e ,        e
=   Rlvers             Z      L     S ~~~~~~~~~~~NA CA/AR/NT/                                        C  O  
fLORIANOPOLIS                         B R A Z  IL
A r   T 4 / I a at AZ L C
0                 T A LEGRE j T A  e o r  -
_A T+       A,C          A_C 30TT$T                 'C                  vi__



