o1WleI        LOAN NUMBER    /$ BR
Loan Agreement
(ELETROBRAS I Power Distribution Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CENTRAIS ELETRICAS BRASILEIRAS S.A. - ELETROBRAS
Dated                                , 1982


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       /                      , 1982, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRVTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and CENTRAIS ELETRICAS BRASILEIRAS S.A. -
ELETROBRAS (hereinaf':er called the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of tle Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making he Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by Companhia de
Servigos E16tricos do Rio Grande do Norte (hereinafter called
COSERN), Companhia de Eletricidade do Ceara (hereinafter called
COELCE), Companhia de Eletricidade de Pernambuco (hereinafter
called CELPE), Empresa de Energia E16trica de Mato Grosso do Sul
S.A. (hereinafter called ENERSUL) and Centrais E16tricas do Para
S.A. (hereinafter called CELPA), with the assistance of the
Borrower and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available  to them   the proceeds of the Loan      as hereinafter
provided; and
(C) the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foreg-,ng, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth hereinafter;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a) "Project Companies" means collectively 0OSERN, 0OELCE,
CELPE, ENERSUL and CELPA and "Project Company" means any one of
them;
(b)  "States" means collectivelly the States of Ceara, Rio
Grande do Norte, Pernambuco, Mato Grosso do Sul and Para of the
Guarantor, or any successo, or successors thereto, and "State"
means any one of them;
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any of the agreements
to be entered into between the Borrower and each of the Project
Companies and the respective State pursuant to Section 3.01 (c)
of this Agreement (hereinafter sometimes collectively called the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements), as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to such Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(d)  "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan provided for under a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(e)  "Project  Companies   Investment  Programs" means    the
1982-1986 investment programs of the Project Companies;
(f) "Estatutos" means the by-laws of the Borrower, as
approved by Decretos No. 81,531, of April 10, 1978 and No. 85,525
of December 16, 1980 of the Guarantor; and
(g) "Global Guarantee Fund" means the Reserva Global de
Garantia established by Article 4 of Lei No. 5,655 of May 20,
1971, as amended by Decreto Lei No. 1,383 of December 26, 1974
and Decreto-Lei 1,849 of January 13, 1981, all of the Guarantor,
to supplement when necessary the revenues from the sale of
electricity obtained by electric power companies in Brazil, in
order to ensure their economic and financial equilibrium.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one
hundred and eighty-two million seven hundred thousand dollars
($182,700,000).


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provi-
sions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1987 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish.      The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. Not later than the Effective Date, the
Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee equivalent to two million
seven hundred thousand dollars. The fee shall be payable in such
currency or currencies as the Bank shall specify. In the event
that the Bank shall not have received full payment of the fee by
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount
required for the full payment of the fee in currency or
currencies specified for the purpose.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eleven and three fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1st and December 1st in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower
shall: (i) cause the Project Companies to carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial, public utility and engineering
practices; (ii) cause the Project Companies and the States to
take all action, including the provision of funds under adequate
financial arrangements, technical services, facilities and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the Project
Companies to carry out the Project; and (iii) not take or permit
the Project Companies and the States to take any action which
would prevent or interfere with the timely execution of the
Project by the Project Companies.
(b) As part of the foregoing, the Borrower shall: (i) not
later than June 30, 1984, cause and assist the Project Companies
in making arrangements satisfactory to the Bank in order to
secure the additional financing required for the timely execution
of the Project; (ii) prepare and furnish to the Bank not later
than October 15 each year, a preliminary financing plan for the
next fiscal year which will include all financial requirements
for the Project Companies Investment Programs; and (iii) prepare
and furnish to the Bank not later than February 28, each year, a
final financing plan including commitment of counterpart funds
and borrowings for financing the execution of the Project in such
fiscal year together with a five-year financing plan which will
include all financial requirements for carrying out the Project
Companies' programs of investment during such five-year period.
(c) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to
the Project Companies, in accordance with the allocation set
forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement under Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreements to be entered into between the Borrower
and each of the Project Companies and the respective State, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including those
set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such a manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise


﻿-5-
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or
fail to enforce the Subsidiary Loin Agreements or any provisions
thereof.
(e) The Borroo -r shall not enter into a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement with any ?roject Company until the Bank shall have
received a satisfactory appraisal report on the respective
Project Company and the part of the Project to be carried out by
such Company.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall supervise the execution
of the Project by the Project Companies and shall, at least every
six months, starting with a report corresponding to the semester
ending on June 30, 1983, prepare and furnish to the Bank reports,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on such execution and on the performance by the Project
Companies of their obligations under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank any additional
information that the Bank may reasonably request wi'h regard to
the execution of the Project and the Project Companies,
Section 3.03. Whenever required for the adequate execution
of the Project, the Borrower shall cause the Project Companies to
employ consultants whose selection, qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Borrower.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to cause the
Project Companies to insure, or make adequate provision for the
insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such     insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by the Project Companies to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the Project Companies to use
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.05. Upon the award by the Project Companies of any
contract for goods, works or services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof,


﻿-6-
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project
Companies to enable the Bank's representatives to examine all
plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment and any records and documents of such Companies
relevant to the execution of the Project and the financial
condition of such Companies.
(b) The Bank's representatives shall not visit a Project
Company without previously having informed the Borrower of such
visit.
Section 3.07. Promptly after completion of the Project, but
in any event not later than six months after the Closing Date or
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall piepare and furnish to
the Bank a report, of such scope and in suci detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation
of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be
derived from it, the performance by the Borrower, the Project
Companies and the Bank of their respective obligations under the
Loan Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan 'greements and the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause the Project Companies
to take all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and
when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for carrying out the Project.
Section 3.09. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall, at least until the Closing Date, reinvest in
capital stock of each Project Company all cash dividends paid to
the Borrower by such Project Company.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times maintain its
corporate existence and right to carry out its operations, and
shall take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all
rights, powers and privileges which are necessary or useful in
the conduct of its business.


﻿-7-
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs, maintain its financial position and plan its
future expansion, all in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, and publi utility practices and under the supervision
of qualified and e :perience-d management assisted by competent
staff in adequate numbers.
Section 4.03. 7he Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank
or stated in writing.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally
and ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such


﻿-8-
lien express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to
the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satis-
factory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however,
that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply
to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time      of purchase
thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase price
of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. The Borrower shall discuss in advance with the
Bank before making any major changes, additions or deletions in
its policies and procedures for funding and investments, as
furnished to the Bank.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General. Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof; provided, however, that if any
ev.nt referred to in paragraphc (b), (c). (d), (e) or (f) of this
Section shall have occurred anC be contiauiLLg, the, suspension o*
the Borrower's right to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
shall be limited to the amounts relent to the Project Company
concerned by such event:
(a) a change in the Borrower's Estatutos shall have been
made, which shall materially and adversely affect the operations
or the financial condition of the Borrower;
(b) any of the Project Companies shall have failed to
perform any covenant, agreement or obligation of such Project
Company under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c) any of the States shall have failed to perform any
covenant, agreement or obligation of such State under its
respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d) the Guarantor, the States or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or


﻿-9-
disestablishment of the Borrower or any of the Project Companies
or for the suspension of its operations;
(e)  (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of any of the Project Companies to
withdraw the proceeds of loan made to such
Project Company for the financing of the
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled
or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the agreement providing
therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become       due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower or the respective Project Company
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Project Company to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement, and (B) idequate funds for
the Project are available to :he Project Company
from   other  sources  on   terms  and  conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement and the obligations of such
Project Company under the respective Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and
(f) a change in the legislation of the Guarantor shall have
occurred which shall materially and adversely alter the carrying
on of any of the Project Companies' business or the setting or
adjustment of any of the Project Companies' rates for the sale of
electricity at such levels as shall be necessary to provide such
Project Company with revenues sufficient to ensure the continued
operation of its business in accordance with appropriate finan-
cial and public utility practices; provided, however, that to the
extent that such revenues shall not be sufficient for that pur-
pose, transfer of funds from the Global Guarantee Fund may be
made by the Guarantor to such Project Company in order to supple-
ment such revenues.
For the purpose of this paragraph, the term "change in the
legislation of the Guarantor" shall mean any change (including,


﻿- 10 -
but without limitation, any amendment or repeal of, or failure to
carry out or enforce, any such legislation) in the entire body of
legislation of the Guarantor (including, but without limitation,
all constitutional provisions, statutes, laws, decree-laws, of a
similar nature) directly or indirectly relating to the carrying
on of any of the Project Companies' business and the deter-
mination and adjustment of any of the Project Companies' rates
for the sale of electricity.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the events specified in paragraphs (b) or (c) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Bank -o the Borrower;
(b) any event specified in paragraph (e) (i) (B) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
subparagraph (ii) of that paragraph; and
(c) any event specified in paragraphs (a), (d) or (f) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General
Conditions:
(a) that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by
Banco Central do Brasil; and
(b) that the Borrower has entered into at least one
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with a
Project Company and the respective State.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:


﻿- 11 -
(a) that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by
Banco Central do Brasil;
(b) that the Project Company or Companies referred to in
Section 7.01 (b) of this Ag:eement have full power and authority
to carry out and operate their respective parts of the Project
and that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be
performed or given by the Guarantor, its political subdivisions
or agencies to authorize the carrying out of the Project and to
enable the Borrower and such Project Company or Companies to
perform all of their respective obligations in this Agreement and
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements contained have been duly and
validly performed or given and that no other such acts, consents
or approvals by the Guarantor are required in order to authorize
the carrying out of the Project and to enable the Borrower and
such Project Company or Companies to perform all of their
obligations in this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan kgreements
contained; and
(c) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or Agreements
referred to in Section 7.01 (b) of this Agreement has or have
been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the
corresponding State and Project Company, and is or are legally
binding upon the Borrower and such States and Project Companies.
Section 7.03. The date         *//       d 2, is hereby speci-
fied for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 12 -
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Centrais E16tricas Brasileiras S.A. - ELETROBRAS
Av. Presidente Vargas 642, 100 Andar
Caixa Postal 1639-ZC-00
20079 Rio de Janeiro, R.J.
Brazil
Cable address:                      Telex:
ELETROBRAS                         2122395 CELB or
Rio de Janeiro                     22122034 CELB
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
CENTRAIS   ELETRICAS   BRASILEIRAS   S.A.   -
ELETROBRAS
By7/A
Authorized Representative
Authorizc Representative


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amount of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be financed
(1) Equipment and mate-                          100% of foreign
rials for subtrans-                         expenditures
mission, substation,                        (including,
distribution, control                      where applicable,
and miscellaneoua                           expenditures for
items:                                      erection and in-
stallation) and
100% of the ex-
factory cost if
locally produced
(a) Expenditures           16,200,000
incurred by
COSERN:.
(b) Expenditures           51,000,000
incurred by
COELCE
(c) Expenditures           48,500,000
incurred by
CELPE
(d) Expenditures           37,900,000
incurred by
ENERSUL


﻿-14-
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Cat.gory             Dollar Equivalent)     to be financed
(e) Expenditures             26,400,000
incurred by
CELPA
(2) Front end fee                   2,700,000     Amount due
TOTAL            182,700,000
2.   For  the   purposes  of  this  Schedule   the  term  "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied fror.
the territory of any country other than the Guarantor.
3.   The  disbursement   percentages  have   been  calculated   in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the ruarantor on goods or services or
on the importation, manutacture, procurement or supply thereot;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for:
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b) expenditures by any of the Project Companies, except
those referred in paragraphs (b) of Sections 7.01 and 7.02 of
this Agreement until the Bank has received duly certified copy of
the respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement together with an opinion
or opinions satisfactory to the Bank of counsel acceptable to the
Bank showing, on behalf of the Borrower and the respective State


﻿- 15 -
and Project Company, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement Las been
duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and deliverd on
behalf of, the Borrower and the respective State and Project
Company and is legally binding upon the parties thereto in
accordance with its terms.
5.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred      to in   this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower and the respective
Project Company, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
1.   The Projec: consists of portions of the 1983-1985 slice of
the Project Companies Investment Programs, which provide for the
purchase and installation of sub-transmission lines (up to a
voltage of 138 kilo-Volt, but mainly at 69 and 34.5 kilo-Volt),
substations and associated transformers, distribution lines and
transformers (primary feeders), low voltage distribution lines
(secondary circuits), consumer connections, general service
equipment, and related auxiliary equipment needed for the
appropriate expansion of the capacity of the respective Project
Companies' systems.
2.   Details of   the transmission and distribution facilities
included in the Project, such as their type, location and
capacity will be determined in the respective Subsidiary Loan
Agreements.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1986.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment   of  Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 1 and December 1
beginning December 1, 1985
through   December 1, 1996                  7,610,000
On June 1, 1997                                   7,670,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 18 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                          Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                               2.30%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                      4.65%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                               8.50%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                              10.05%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                              11.60%


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international comp. 'itive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the respective Project Company
shall prepare and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in
any event -not later than 60 days prior to the date of avail-
ability to the public of the first tender documents relating
thereto, a general procurement notice, in such form and detail
and containing such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of such notice
in order to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of
the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in question. The
respective Project Company shall provide the necessary informa-
tion to update such notice annually so long as any goods or works
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿- 20 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Brazil may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following two groups:
(1) Group A: bids     offering   goods manufactured   in
Brazil if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
such goods contain components manufactured in
Brazil equal to at least 50% of the value of the
complete goods.
(2) Group B: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding (i) to the c.i.f. bid price of goods to be
imported in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of
(A) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a
non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation of
goods offered in such group B bid, or (B) 15% of the c.t.f. bid
price of such goods, and (ii) to the ex-factory bid price of
goods supplied domestically offered in each group B bid an amount


﻿- 21 -
equal to the smaller of (A) the amount of customs duties and
other import taxes which would be levied on the goods offered in
such group B bid if they originated from the same foreign country
as the bid included in group B which enjoys the lowest customs
duties and other import taxes, or (B) 15% of the ex-factory bid
price of such goods. If, as a result of this comparison, the bid
from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group B, as determined
under paragraph 3 above, shall be selected for the award.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Subject to the Bank's prior approval, each Project Company
may procure equipment and materials by international shopping
when special reasons such as high degree of technical sophisti-
cation, standardization, compatibility with existing equipment or
urgency of delivery justify such method of procurement, provided,
however, that (i) the cost of each item so procured does not
exceed 1% and (ii) the total cost of the items so procured shall
not exceed 10% of the amount of the Loan relent by the Borrower
to such Project Company.
For purposes of this paragraph "international shopping"
means that contracts shall be awarded after obtaining quotations
from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines.
Quotations shall be compared and evaluated in accordance with the
Guidelines and no supplier shall be asked or allowed to change
the substance or price of the quotation after it has been made.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $200,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the respective Project Company
shall furnish to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the
invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding docu-
ments, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications
in the said documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably


﻿- 22 -
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the pros-
pective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the res-
pective Project Company siall, before a final decision on the
award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which
it intends to rward the contract and shall furnish to the Bank,
in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall,
if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Bor-
rower and the Project Company and state the reasc2s for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly a'ter its execution and prior to the deli-
very to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the respective Project Company shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to
the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the res-
pective bids, recommendations for award and such other informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
the respective Project Company and state the reasons for such
determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Project Company shall
inform the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension


﻿- 23 -
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it deter-
mines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions
of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and the
ProJect Company and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿-24-
SCHEDULE 5
Terms and Conditions of Subsidiary Loan Agreements
I.   Terms
1.   Interest rate: eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan with-
drawn and outstanding from time to time.
2.   Fees:
(a) Commitment fee: 0.75% per annum on the principal amount
of the Subsidiary Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
(b) Service fee: 1% per annum on the principal amount of
the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
(c) Front End fee: 1.5% of the amount of the respective
Subsidiary Loan.
3.   Repayment period: 15 years, including a grace period of up
to three years.
4.   Foreign exchange risk: to be borne by the Project Companies.
II. Special Provisions for Project Companies
The Subsidiary Loan Agreement will include covenants ade-
quate to protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower,
which will provide, inter alia, that:
1.   The Project Company will carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate
technical, financial and public utility practices.
2.   The Project Company will carry out its 1982-86 Investment
Program and will not make any modifications to such program that
are greater than 15% in real terms in any one year without the
previous concurrence of the Bank and the Borrower.
3.   The Project Company will maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it) to
identify the goods and services financed under the proceeds of


﻿- 25 -
the Subsidiary Loan and to disclose their use in the execution of
the Project.
4.   The Project Company will enable authorized representatives
of the Bank and the Borrower to visit the facilities and con-
struction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any records
and documents in respect of the Project and the financial and
administrative condition of such Project Company.
5.   The Project Company will from time to time furnish to the
Borrower progress reports containing all such information as the
Borrower shall reasonably request.
6.   The Project Company will at all times manage its affairs,
maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion and
conduct its business and undertakings, all in accordance with
sound business, financial and public utility practices, and under
the supervision of experienced and competent management, assisted
by adequate and competent staff.
7.   The Project Company will at all times take all necessary
steps to maintain its existence and its rights to carry on opera-
tions, and to acquire and retain all rights, powers, privileges
and franchises which are necessary or useful for the purposes of
complying with its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment or for the efficient conduct of its business and under-
takings.
8.   The  Project Company   will maintain    records adequate   to
reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices consis-
tently applied, its operations and financial conditions and will
have its accounts and financial statements for each year audited,
in accordance with sound audit principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to --ie Borrower.
9.   The Project Company will take all such action (including, in
such cases where automatic rate adjustments are not permitted,
expeditious action with respect to the filing of appropriate
applications in respect of rates) as shall be necessary or advis-
able: (a) to cause the Project Company's rates for the sale of
electricity to be set and maintained at such levels as will
produce revenues, as provided by the legislation of the Guarantor
sufficient to ensure the continued operation of the Project
Company's business in accordance with appropriate financial and


﻿- 26 -
public utility practices, using straight-line depreciation which
shall be not less than that based on the useful lives of depre-
ciable assets in operation; and (b) to enable the agency or
agencies of the Guarantor responsible for the setting and adjust-
ment of such rates to act promptly in respect thereof.
10. The Project Company shall, as provided by the legislation of
the Guarantor revalue its assets at least once every calendar
year and apply for the corresponding rate adjustments.
11. Whenever it shall be necessary or advisable for the Project
Company to receive transfers of funds from the Global Guarantee
Fund to supplement its revenues in order to achieve the objective
set forth in paragraph 11.9 of this Schedule, the Project Company
shall take all necessary steps to maintain its eligibility to
such transfers of funds.
12. The Project Company will have indebtedness and debt service
coverage ratios and billing days for accounts receivables, satis-
factory to the Bank and the Borrower.
13. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of
goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be made by the Project Company in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
14. The Project Company will engage consultants satisfactory to
the Borrower to act as procurement agents.
15. The Project Company will prepare and furnish to the Borrower
all of the information required by the Borrower to prepare the
plans referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (ii) and (iii) of this
Agreement.
16. The Project Company shall take or cause to be taken all
reasonable measures to ensure that its part of the Project is
carried out with due regard to ecological and environmental
factors.


﻿- 27 -
17. During the execution of the Project, the Project Company
shall offer to finance electrical connections to        low-income
consumers as recommended in the appraisal report referred to in
Section 3.01 (e) of this Agreement.
III. Special Provisions for the States
The Subsidiary Loan Agreement will include covenants ade-
quate to protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower,
which will provide, inter alia, that:
1.   The State will not take or cause or permit any of its
agencies to take any action which would prevent or interfere with
the performance by the respective Project Company of its cove-
nants, agreements and obligations contained in the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
2.   The State will unconditionally guarantee the due and punc-
tual payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Subsidiary Loan and the timely performance of all other
obligations of the Project Company under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
3.   The State will make or cause to be made all necessary
arrangements to provide the counterpart funds required by the
Project Company to finance the timely execution of the Project.
4.   Except as the Bank and the Borrower will otherwise agree,
the State will, at least until the Closing Date: (a) reinvest in
capital stock of the respective Project Company all cash divi-
dends paid to the State by such Project Company; and (b) invest
in capital stock of the Project Company the proceeds of the
imposto unico allocated to the State.
For purposes of this paragraph, imposto unico, means the tax
on electricity consumption established by Law 2308 of 1954 and
Law 4676 of 1964, both of the Guarantor, as amended to the date
of this Agreement.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this i4*XtL   day of Aym v, 198 at.
FOR SECRETARY


