REPO    =-~RESTRICTED
|  WL b L-il¢SX3  1    FILE     COPY              Report No. DB-19a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORPORATION
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
RE-APPRAISAL OF
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION
OF INDIA LIMITED
May 19, 1965
Development Finance Companies



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
U.S. $1.00       = 4. 7619. Rupees
I Rupee          = U.S. $0. 21
1,000,000 Rupees = U.S. $210,000



RE-AP'PRAISAL OF THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AID INVESTICENT
CORPORATION OF INDIA I.i-ITI,0
Table of Contents
Paragraph     Page
Summary and Conclusions
I.   THE EVTWIRONMENT                              1 - 13      1 - 5
Industrial Growth                         1 - 3       1
Policy Setting                            h -  8      1 - 3
Industrial Financing Institutions
and Capital Market                       9 - 13      3 - 5
II,   THE CORPORATION                              14 - 1       5 - 10
Introduction                            1J            5
Shareholders                             15           5
Resources                                16 - 19      5 -  7
Business Policies                        20 - 22      7
Loan Terms                               23 - 25      7 - 8
Org anization                            26 - 27      8
Staff                                    28 - 31      8 -  9
Training                                 32           9
Assistance to Other Development
Finance Companies                       33 - 34      9
Processing of Applications               35           9
Evaluation of ICICIts Appraisal and
Follow-Up of Projects                   36 - 41      9 - 10
III.   OPIRATIOMS TO DATE                            2 - 54     11 - 13
Financial Assistance                      2          11
Loans                                    43 - 4      11
Undenrriting Operations and Direct
Investments                             5           11
Joint Operations                         h6          11
ICICI's Contribution to Industry         47 - 52     12 - 13
Geographical Distribution                53 - 54     13
IV.   FINANCIAL POSITION AMD RESULTS               55 - 64     13 - 16
Balance Sheet                            55          13 - 14
Short-Term Assets                        56          1
Portf'olio                               57 - 59     14 - 15
Profitability                            60          15
Capital Gains                            61          15
Reserves                                 62          15 - 16
Dividends and Share Yield                63 - 64     16



V.   FIUTURE PROSPECTS                            65 - 75     16 - 19
The Setting                              65 - 66     i6 - 17
ICTCI's Prospective Operations           67 - 69     17 - 18
Resources Needed                          70 - 73    18 - 19
Financial Prospects                       74 - 75
VI.   CONCLUISIONS AMD RECONIENMDATIO0NS            76 - 82    19 - 21
Evaluation                                76 - 78    19 - 20
Need for Resources                       79          20
Recommendations                           80 - 82    20 - 21



THE I.JDUSTRIAL CREDIT AVID LVTV.ST-'[ENT CORPORATON OF IMDIA LIi41TED
Annexes
1. Production in Delected Industries.
2. Certain Aspects of the Licensing Process for Industrial
Investment in India.
3.  Industrial Financing Institutions in India.
l4  Certain Aspects of the Stock Iiarket in India.
5. Distribution of Share Capital on December 31, 1964.
6. Details of Foreign Loans concluded up to December 31, 1964.
7.  Board of Directors as at iMy 1, 1965^
8. Organization Chart.
9. Delay in Project Execution.
10. Analysis of Investments by Annual Approvals, Commitments and
Disbursements during the Decade 1955-1964.
11.  Distribution ty Industry of ICICI Approvals, 1955 to 1964.
12.  ICICIts Foreign Exchange Loans to Meet Clientst Foreign
Exchange rather than Financing Needs.
13.  Output of ICICI Clients Producing over Two Years.
14  Regional Distribution of Operations.
15.  Comparative Summary Balance Sheets as at December 31, 1959-64.
16.  Comparative Summary Income and Expenditure Statements for the
Years ending December 31, 1959 to 196h.
17.  Statement of Capital Gains, 1959 to 196h.
18.  Cash Flow Estimates from 19614 to 1967.
19.  Proforma Balance Sheets as at December 31, 1964 to 1967.
20. Estimated Summary Income and Expenditure Statements for the
Years ending December 31, 196h to 1967.
21.  Analysis of Borrowing Capacity, 1961-1967.



RE-APPRAIS.L OF THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND ENVESTIaNT
CORPORATION OF, INDIA LDITfED
Summary and Concelsions
1.        The Industrial Credit and Investnent Corporation of India Limited
(ICICI) has requested a Bank loan of US$50 million to augment its foreign
currency resources. This would follow five previous Bank loans totalling
US$90 million, three loans from Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau (KI'W)
totalling DM 35 million, and a loan of US$5 million fro.n AID.
2.        ICICI was established ten years ago to assist in the development of
private industry and to secure local and foreign participation in its
financing.  It is the largest development finance corporation -with w. '. the
Bank is associated. The principal shareholders are commercial banks and in-
surance conpanies located in India and abroad, the foreign holdings being
maintained at about 3010.  The Board of Directors is composed of distinguished
men from industry, finance and law. A well-trained and comrietent staff of 131
is headed by capable and experienced management. Project appraisals are
generally good and recently improved nroject follow-uip assures adequate super-
vision of investments.
3.        ICICI's total resources are about Rs. 840 million, almost all of
which have been comnitted. The figure includes share capital of Rs. 50 million;
.eserves and surplus of Rs. 22 million, rupee borrowings from the Government,
both committed and uncommitted of Rs. 275 million; and foreign exchange
borrowJings, committed and uncom)itted, of Rs. 495 million (US$104 million).
1X.       In its decade of operatiors ICICI approved assistance amounting to
Rs. 1,023 million, extended to 328 industrial projects, 209 of which were new
enterprises.  This assistance took the form of foreign exchange loans (Rs. L90
million), rupee loans (Rs. 255 million), underwriting (Rs. 223 million) and
direct subscriptions (Rs. 55 million). A lull in the stock market since 1962
resulted in ICICIT?s having to take up a considerable pronortion of securities
which it underwrote in the past two years. Demand for financial assistance
from ICICI has been consistently strong and ICICI expects the vollume of opera-
tions to ircrease.
5.        ICICI-assisted projects will contribute substantially to India's
economic votential and are well diversified as to industrial categories.
Jnder the system of controls of economic activities in India, ICICI is limited
in selection of its investments, particularly as to foreign exchange loans,
but is not ocliged to make any investment which it considers unsound. In
recent years investments increased in machinery and other metal products and
machinery industries, which now account for about 35% of ICICI's business.
The loan and investment portfolio of ICICI is generally good. The proportion
of projects encountering difficulties is no greater than could be expected in
an investment institution operating in a developing economy undergoing great
strains. In addition to acting as a catalyst for many new ventures, ICI has
contributed substantially to the growth of the capital market through its
numerous underw4riting activities.



- ii -
6.        After 10 years of expansion, ICICI has emerged as a seasoned develop-
ment finance institution and has started to pass its skill and experience to
other institultions. A regular internship for two trainees from foreign
development finance companies is planned, and senior officers of ICICI have
been made available to assist newly established development finance companies.
7.        Indian planning authorities expect that private industrv will, in
the next five years, invest annually imore than in the recent past, and. on
this basis ICICI estimates that its operations will gradually increase to a
level of Rs. 290 million a year by 1970. Foreign exchange loans in the six
years 1965-70 are expected to be the equivalent of $165 million.   These fore-
casts are reasonable.  In view of ICICITs satisfactory past performance and
prospects, it would be appropriate for the Bank to make the proposed loan of
US650 million.  This should meet most of ICICIts requirements in foreign ex-
change up to mid-1967. India's industry will continue to expand and the
availability of long-term finance through ICTCI will make an important further
contribution to the development of the private industrial sector.
8.        ICICI proposes to increase its share capital by Rs. 25 million and
the Bank has encouraged ICICI to proceed with the proposed issue.   However,
it is not yet clear howq soon the proposed issue will be feasible. In view of
the generally good quality of ICICI's portfolio and the institution's good
performance, the Bank has worked out with ICICI a revised debt limitation
which will permit the institution to borrow enough to expand its operations
as pLanned up to 1967, even if the proposed share issue has to be postponed.
9.        An amendment made in 1963 to the Indian Comcanies Act gives the
Government of India the option to convert any loan which it extends to a
private company into government-held equity, and if this option -vere exercised
in respect of the Government's three loans to ICICI, the Government could
acquire control of the institution.  The Government has recently advised ICICI
in a formal letter that so long as ICICI abides by the terms arranged for its
government loans, the Government of India would not seek conversion of the
loans.



RE-APPRAISAL OF TIHE 1NDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INIVESTiAENT
CORPORATION OF INDIA LTAITED
I. THE EI01IRONNENT
Industrial Growth
1.        ICICI was established ten years ago.  During the first decade of the
institution's existence, Indian industry has experienced remarkable growth,
especially in the late fifties. This has been achieved through governiment
measures favoring industrial investment, the increasing willingness of Indian
entrepreneurs to venture into new industrial lines, and a considerable resource
mobilizattbn effort supplemented by foreign assistance. For most of the same
period, however, India has also suffered from a chronic shortage of foreign
exchange principally as a result of the rising import requirements of a growing
economy vhich have exceeded receipts from exports and foreign aid.
2.        Shortages of resources, managers and engineers continue to be major
problems, but as a result of the expansion during the last ten years, Indian
industry now produces a wide variety of goods.   Iost of the recent advances,
which have been especially notable in the private sector, have occurred in
machinery, steel, electrical equipment, chemicals and paper products.  Output
in these lines practically doubled during the Second Five-Year Plan.l/ During
the same period the general industrial production index rose by about 4O0O with
very modest expansion in the output of the important textile industry. The
Third Plan ./ provided for an annual gro-jth in industrial output of 11%.  Per-
formance to date has amounted to an average of only 7l%. Data on output of
selected industries are shown in Annex 1. Scarcities of current inputs and the
long gestation periods of large-scale projects, especially in the public sector,
have been principally responsible for the shortfalls. Total industrial invest-
ment will probably fall somewhat short of the Third Plan target of about Rs. 26
billion (Rs. 5.2 billion per year), divided almost equally between the private
and public sectors. Due to cost increases, the monetary outlays may not be
much less than planned, but shortfall in the real additions to capacity will
probably be greater.
3.        Production costs in Indian industry are generally higher than in more
advanced industrial countries. There are a number of reasons for this, not all
of a lasting nature, including uncertainties in raw material supply; the great
number of small and medium-size enterprises, in part established with official
encouragement, precluding the advantages of economies of scale; and the high
capital cost of a number of plants, especially those in which investments in
social overheads are required.
Policy Setting
4.        There is widespread government involvement in industry:  successive
Five-Year Plans set the framework for industrial expansion; the establishment
of new undertakings in specified basic industries, such as steel, is reserved
to the public sector; the Government affords protection to industry through
quota restrictions and tariffs on imports.  In addition, the Government has
felt it necessary to direct the flow of scarce resources, especially foreign
exchange, through administrative controls. These manifest themselves in re-
quirements for a series. of governmental approvals and licenses, discussed in
1/ April 1, 1956 - March 31, 1961.
2/ April 1, 1961 - March 31, 1966.



greater detail in Annex 2. Approvals are needed for the establishmient or expan-
sion of industrial capacity, the issue of share carMLtal, the imnrort of capital
goods or rawJ materials and the purchase of foreign exchange.  The distribution
of scarce domestic materials is regulated, and for some industries the Govern-
ment also exercises price controls.
5.       INo industrial investment in fixed assets of above Rs. 2a5 million may
be made without an industrial license,l/ one of the main government tools to
steer industrial development along the lines set out in the Five-Year Plans,
to promote geographical dispersal of indust;ry and to prevent the concentration
of economic pmoer in a few groups. Industrial licenses are granted by an
Industrial Licensing Committee composed of representatives of the l4inistry of
Industry,2  the Planning Comm,ission, the Controller of Capital Issues, the Com-
pany Law Administration, the Directorate General of Technical Development (DGTD),
the Finance 1linistry and interested State Governments.  The principal criteria
by -which this Committee judges applications for approval of new investments are
the desirability of the project within the Five-Year Plan framewjork, the extent
to which capacity in the same line already exists or has been licensed, the
present and prospective availability of indigenous equipment and current inputs,
and the foreign exchange implications. Since data available to the Government,
and often in the applications themselves are of varying quality or not system-
atically collected, and since furthermore numerous interests have to find a
common denominator, the industrial licensing process has often depended on ad
hoc judgments rather than being based on the careful preparation of decisions.
As a result, there have been numerous instances in which industrial licenses
have been issued to applicants who have aimed at pre-empting licenses for
specific fields but have not pursued their stated proposals; projects have gone
ahead on uneconomic scales or in disadvantageous locations. The industrial
licensing process has also been time consuming, but during the past year the
process has been considerably speeded up.   Now a promoter is issued a "letter
of intent"., in advance of the license itself, allowing him to prepare a project,
to contact suppliers or possible foreign partners and to explore the avail-
ability of financing, both domestic and foreign. As regards the foreign exchange
comp)onent of the proposed investment, the Government, when it issues the "letter
of intent", steers the applicant to one or more specified financing sources in-
cluding ICICI.
6.        When a project requires the import of capital goods, the sponsor must
obtain the approval of the Capital Goods Committee (the composition of which is
practically identical to that of the Industrial Licensing Committee). Its
permission is needed to make definitive arrangements for foreign exchange finan-
cing as a preliminary to the issuance of an import license - notwithstanding
any informal contacts which the applicant may have had with potential sources.3/
1/ The establishment of undertakings with fixed assets below that figure
requires approval at State Government level.
2/  The Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals or the 1'1inistry of Steel and Mines
would be represented if the case fell in their respective jurisdictions.
3/  If foreign investment is involved, the approval of the Foreign Agreements
Committee is also required; this committee passes particularly on the
allocation of equity interests as between foreigners and Indians.



When imports are involved, the anproval of the Capital Goods Committee is neces-
sary even for industries not requIring an industrial licenEe.   If it is estab-
lished that the desired equipment is available in India, the item has to be
procured there even if it costs substantially more than a similar im-lported item.
The possible cost distortions resulting from enforced local procurement and
delays in obtaining delivery of Indian equipment are subjects of considerable
and time-consuming discussion between promoters and the 1icensing authorities.
7.        The approval of an import proposal by the Capital Goods Committee also
provides for the earmarking of a specific foreign exchange source.    All invest-
ments are taFged against one of the various streams of foreign aid or against
offers of private foreign capital; in other words, "free" foreign exchange
arising from Indials own earnings may not in principle be used for purposes
other than buying current inputs from abroad.   In turn, each foreign aid stream
has its own restrictions as to use, and there are preferences of the aid-givers
wJhich have to be considered.  In most instances, procurement is tied to the aid-
giving country. This gives very little leeway to the Government in accommodating
promoters who wish to obtain the most suitable equipment in the most favorable
markets and makes IFRD funds relent by ICICI, and those credits, such as those
from the German Kreditanstalt fUr WJiederaufbau (KfW), which offer access to
favorably priced markets, extremely popular with Indian industrialists. However,
the Government of India - in part responding to the sentiments of the aid-givers -
is also keen to use all available foreign aid. As a resu].t, there have been
frequent problems in reconciling the interests of the Government and industrial
entrepreneurs.
8.        The understandable desire to use all available foreign aid also leads
at times to the launching of industrial investments without reasonable assurance
that the maintenance import requirements of the enterprises will be met in the
future.  Although there is some unsystematic knowiledge of future current import
requirements for specific industries in the files or minds of individual offi-
cials, the Government does not at this time have a collated picture of future
needs for maintenance imports resulting from industrial capacity already avail-
able and from investments under way or approved from time to time; or - on a
dif'ferent level - of future needs as between industry and other economic sectors.
Industrial Financing Institutions and Capital MWIarket
9.        Institutions.  The large size of the Indian economy and the magnitude
of the industrial development effort have led to the creation of a number of
industrial financing institutions. The widespread network of commercial banks
has contributed to industry mainly by financing of working capital and not
medium and long-term investment; term loans are however becoming increasingly
important in the commercial banks' activities.   Small industries look to the
National Small Industries Corporation and the State Financial Corporations, set
up successively in the 15 Indian states.   The financing needs for investment of
larger industries, except for giants like Tatals, have until recently been met
mainly by ICICI in Bombay, the Industrial Finance Corporation of India (IFCI) in
Delhi, and the Life Insurance Corporation (LI).    IFCI and LIC are public sector
institutions. The picture was broadened significantly by the creation in 1964
of the Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI) and the Unit Trust of India
(UTI), which are also public sector institutions. Direct subscriptions and
underwriting of equity and debentures are the principal forms of LICts and UTI's
assistance to industry, whereas lending activities take the largest share of
ICICI's, IFCI1s, and IDBI's activities. (Further details on the resources and



operations of these institutions are given in Annex 3.) Assistance to industry,
approved recently by the five institutions, is summarized below:(in Rs million)
ICICI    IFCI        IDBI              LIC          UTI
(T1977  (T963/67T   (July 196)4      773-7o7JT  (July-Nov. t6L1
- Jan. 1965)        Ffresh assistance7
Loans             133        251          5
Refinance           -          -        664
Investments
(equity and
debenture)        4          -          -            1501'        18L/
Underlwriting
(equity and
debenture)       54         54         26             70
Guaranitees          -        78         10                           -
191       383        705             22011        1841!
1/ Including securities purcnased in the Stock Market.
10.       Of all these institutions, IDBI is likely to have the largest resources
in view of expected further contributions from the Government and the Rleserve
Bank.  The funds so far at its disposal are all in rupees.   Only ICCI and IPCI
(which is now half owned by DBI but operating separately frormi it) have signifi-
cant foreign exchange resources. The activities of these three large institu-
tions have different emplhasis.  ICICI leans towards the newer industries such as
machine tools, machinery, chemicals, etc. and invests only in privately-
controlled enterprises. IFCI has favored traditional industries such as textiles
and sugar and also lends to cooperatives. IDBI's terms of reference are very
broad. It will continue the operation of the Refinance Corporation of India
(which it absorbed) in discounting term loans of commercial banks and State
Financial Corporations, and intends to offer the same facilities to ICICI and
IFCI. It may also purchase the debentures of other financial institutions. Its
direct financing (through loans, equity or underwriting) is expected to be con-
centrated on large operations in both the public and private sectors, often in
partnership with ICICI and IFCI. Through the operations of an associated
'!Development Assistance Fund"?, it can take up industrial projects which would
not meet the stricter criteria of ICICI and IFCI. IDBI is also intended to co-
ordinate the activities of the industrial financing institutions, but it is not
yet clear exactly how it will operate in this direction.
11.       In view of the large demand for industrial finance and the limitations
on the resources of ICICI and IFCI, there has been ample business for both insti-
tutions. As to foreign exchange financing, competition is practically eliminated
by the approval and referral procedures of the Government. IFCI and ICICI have
joined in lending to some enterprises and they have worked together even more
prominently in underwriting.   Both have begun to enter into joint operations w;Tith
IDBI, and both intend, in the future, to replenish their rupee funds from IDBI.
Relations among the three institutions are cordial.
12.       Capital Market.   Until 1962, the issue market for equity and debentures
was very lively. The psychological effects of rapid industrial growth in the
late fifties w.Tere largely responsible for this.  The turning points were disap-
pointments in profit expectations due to publicized delays in building certair.



-5-
new plants, and, more seriously, the discouragirp-f effect of the Chinese incursion
in the autumn of 1962. Sizeable losses in equity and debenture values were
experienced and the confidence of the investing public has been greatly reduced.
A principal deterring factor has been additional taxation imposed as a sequel tc
the invasion although some relief has been provided in the meanwhile. Others
are the uncertain availabilities of industrial raw; materials, especially if
imported, and the unremunerative level of controlled prices in certain indus-
tries, for instance, cement. Despite the dullness of the market, fixed interest
securities of attractive companies paying 7 to 8% can still be placed, scmetirnes,
hoT..ever, only with institutional support.  The issue of equity is much more pro-
blematical and new issues have to meet the increasingly discriminating standards
of buyers. Generally, the owners of equity face difficulty in selling their
holdings, and underwriters have the same problem in disposing of issues which
they have taken up.
13.       Although since 1961 the amounts placed directly by the public in
equity and debenture investments have been small, there has been a considerable
indirect flow, about Rs. 200-220 million in recent years, through LIC which has
to invest its rising income from premiums. In addition, UTI succeeded in 1964
in placing units of Rs. 182 million (nearly all of which have meanwhile been
invested) mainly with the middle class, particularly salalry earners,   UTI's
units provide certain tax advantages to the holder and an implied assurance by
the Governrnent of a 6% return. UTI should continue to mobilize funds, though
probably on a more modest scale, possibly Rs. 40-60 million annually over the
next few. years.  Further details on the stock market are given in Annex 4.
II. THE CORPORATTOOIl
Introduction
14.       ICICI was incorporated on January 5, 1955, and commenced operations on
Mlarch 1 of the same year. At first it started slowly with difficulties in
finding suitable pro,ects and in assembling a suitable staff, but after these
initial growing pains progress has been steady.   In its first decade ICICI has
succeeded in making a considerable contribution to the development of private
industry in India. It has assisted in the creation, expansion and modernization
of numerous enterprises and in the securing of local and foreign participation in
their financing. ICICI has also helped in expanding the Indian capital market
and acted as a leader in many industrial underwritings.
Shareholders
15.       The authorized capital of ICICI is Rs. 250 million divided into
2,500,000 shares of Rs. 100 each, of which 500,000 are ordinary and 2,000,000
unclassified shares. Rs. 50 million (500,000 ordinary shares) was issued and
paid up in full when ICICI was floated, and so far there has been no further
issue. On December 31, 1964, the Corporation had 1,787 shareholders, as detailed
in Annex 5; about 30% of the shares are held abroad, and ICICI seeks to maintain
about that proportion of foreign holdings.
Resources
16.       As at December 31, 1964, resources totalling Rs. 842 million were
available to ICICI as follows:



-6-
% of Total
Rupee  - Share Capital      Rs.  500,00,000                      6%
Reserves                22,134,923                      3%
Government Loans       275,000,000   Rs. 347,134,923   32%    41%
Forei_n - IBRD Loans        US$  90,000,000 = Rs. l428,6oo,ooo  51%l%
AID Loan         US$    5,000,000 = Rs.  23,800,000    3%
Kreditanstalt
fufr T,Ziederaufbau
Loans           DM   35,000,000 = Rs.   42,600,000   5%      9
Rs. 802,13L,923          100%
ICICITs Articles of Association place a limit on its borrowings, which was
originally Rs. 425 million excluding the first Governmrent loan of Rs. 75 million,
and was subsequently raised twice to Rs. I1,250 million. ICICI's loans from the
IFRD provide that borrowings (including commitiments) shall not exceed four times
the sum of the share capital, reserves and first Government loan.   These three
items totalled Rs. 1J7 million on December 31, 1964, so that the limit on borrow-
ings (not including the first Government loan) was Rs. 588 million.
17.        Three loans have been made to ICICI by the Government of Indi2.    The
first, for Rs. 75 million, was granted when the corDoration was formed in 1955.
It is free of interest and is repayable over 30 years (including 15 years of'
grace; hence repayments will commence in 1970). It is subo-rdinated to all debt
and paid-up share capital.   The other two Government loans are for Rs. 100
million each.  One was concluded on October 26, 1959, with interest at 4-1/2%.
and repayment in 20 years (including 10 years of grace) dating from the first
withdrawal; repayments will commence in 1972.   The other was agreed informally
in 1964, but has not yet been formalized in a loan agreement.   It will be fully
drawn down by mid-1965 on the basis of interest at 5%% and a tern of 15 years in-
cluding five years of grace; it becomes repayab'e in instalments from 1969.
Doth the second and third Government loans are subordinated to foreign debt only
and not to share capital. All three loans are drawn in lump sums as 1CICI re-
quires then and not in respect of specific projects as in the cases of all of
-the foreign loans.
18.        In December 1963, the Indian Companies Act was amended, giving the
Government the option to convert any loan extended to a company into shares.    The
three government loans to ICTCI, which total Rs. 275 million, have thus become
liable to conversion.   If the Government exercised this option it could acquire
virtually complete control of the institution.   Since the Bank attaches great
importance to ICICI's freedom to conduct its affairs on business principles, CICII
lhas obtained a formal statement from the Government that the aforementiored option
will not be exercised with respect to ICICI so long as ICICI abides by the term's
of the government loans.
19.        Details of the foreign loans are summarized in Annex 6, and the status
of each at December 31, 1964, is shown. The first IBRD loan was made when ICICI
was founded, and tihere have been four more since then for a total of US$90
nillion. The AID loan was obtained in 1961, and repayments began in 1963.
ICICI clients bear the exchange risk. Any allocation of over US$100, 000 from



this loan is tied to procurement in the United States; no comritment fee is
charged.  KfW has so far extended three lcans and a four½h loan for D`4 5 million
is under consideration.   There is no restriction on procurement but the loans
are in fact used only for purchases from Germany as the demand for procuremnent
in Germany is heavy.
Business Policies
20.       ICICIts operations are governed by broad guidelines formulated over
the years by the Board of Directors. Policies are now well established, though
rio definitive statement of them has ever been adopted. Thus it has been decided
t;hat ICICI will direct its assistance mainly to the newer sectors of industry,
keeping to a minimum the financing of those long existing in India such as jute
and other textiles,   At December 31, 1964, ICICI's equity pcrtfolio
amounted to Rs. 75 million, a little more than its own net worth.   It has been
ICICI's practice in general to relate its total equity investments to the net
wzorth. The policy has been applied flexibly, however, bearing in mind the
existence of the first Government loan which, being subordinated to equity and
repayable over a very long term, has been an added element of cushion in the
capital structure.  In practice, large underwritings have been carefully timed
and the prospects of disposing of them taken into account in order that the
total equity portfolio should not become excessive.   ICICI recognizes that if the
present difficult conditions in the capital market continue, it would have to
define the policy with respect to the size of the equity portfolio rather more
precisely and will be giving further thought to this matter.   This is one of the
main reasons why ICICI is anxious soon to increase its share capital,
21.       ICICI endeavors to diversify the investment of its resources and has
set limits for accommodation in all forms, amounting to Rs. 10 million for all
types of finance to any one company, and Rs. 30 million (increased from Rs. 15
million in January 1965) for foreign currency loans to any group of companies.
22.       ICICI generally discourages rupee loans belowi Rs. 500,000 and foreign
exchange loans below sRs. 100,000 (US5;21,000) since loans below these levels are
not deemed to be remunerative. As a general policy, ICICI tries to keep its
loans well above the minimum limits and by the end of 1964 only 7% were below
Rs. 1 million,while average assistance was Rs. 2.7 million to each project and
Rs. 3.1 million to each company. On occasion, loans outside the limits set by
the Board are approved when it is felt that departure from the general practice
is justified. The largest loan made by ICICI to date was a foreign currency loan
of Rs. 21.6 million (US$4.5 million) to Scindia Steam Navigation Co.
Loan Terms
23.      lwhen the Corporation commenced business, it charged 7% on foreign cur-
rency loans and 6% on rupee loans, and there was a commitment charge on undrawn
amounts of 1%. The commitment charge has remained unchanged, but interest rates
have been raised successively, rnaintaining a differential of 1% between foreign
and local currency loans, until in 1962 they reached 8% and 7/ respectively.
When the Reserve Bank raised the Bank Rate from 4'1v to 5% on September 26, 196a,
and commercial bank rates were increased in unison, the long-term credit insti-
tutions did not follow suit, but the Bank- Rnate was further increased to 6% on
February 17, 1965, and ICICI subsequently raised its rates for local currency
loans to 8%, and for foreign currency loans to 82%. IFCI and IDBI charge the
same rates, and have increased them similarly.



- 8 -
24.       ICICI invests by direct subscription in companies whose shares are
listed, and its loans to such companies occasionally contain provision for con-
version rights.  When lending to private limited companiies whlose shares are not
listed on the stock exchange, ICICI charges so-called "contingent" interest 2.t
1% payable when profits of the borrowers exceed specified amounts. This is a
partial substitute for the equity rights which are not obtainable in private
companies.
25.       The terms of ICICI's loan agreements have reit,ained substantially con-
stant. A usual covenant requires prior approval by ICICI of any expansions
needing additional term loans. In projects involving foreign collaborators, the
right is reserved to insist on continuation of the collaboration until the loan
is repaid.  In order to safeguard against undue distribution of profits, ICICI's
approval for dividends beyond a certain percentage has to be sought; only in one
case so far has ICICI invoked this clause to stop payment of a dividend. Clients
are required to assume the exchange risk and generally have to adhere to a 1:1
debt/equity ratio. The right is reserved to appoint a director on a borrower's
board, and ICICI has done so in twenty cases,
Organ :iz at ion
26.       The Board of Directors of ICICI consists of 12 persons (9 Indians and
3 foreigners) listed in Annex 7. Three of them have been members since inception,
including Sir A. Ramaswami Mudaliar, who was Chairman from 1955 to 1958, and
several of the principal shareholding institutions have been represented on the
Board since the beginning although by different individuals. The directors are
all distinguished in fields such as industry, finance and law.   One is appointed
by the Indian Govermnent so long as a G'overnnient loan is outstanding.  The pres-
ent Chairman and chief executive officer took office in 1958. He is lvir. G.L.
i4ehta, a distinguished public figure, who was previously Indian Ambassador to
the United States.
27.       The Board formulates the policies of the Corporation and reviews its
over-all operationi, and must approve all loans and other investments. The Board
has an Investment Committee, consisting of the Chairman and two other directors,
which is concerned with the management of ICICI's short-term investments, pending
their use for long-term transactions.
Staff
28.       Two senior positions were held by foreigners in the early years of
ICICI's existence, but since they were replaced in 1958, the entire management
and staff has been Indian.   Mr. H.T. Parekh, the General Manager since 1958,
guides the daily activities of the Corporation.
29.       ICICI is organized into eight departments and sections as shown in Annex
8. There is easy access to Management, which keeps a firm grasp on daily opera-
tions.
30.       Engineering, financial and market appraisals of applications are carried
out by the Project Department whose professional staff has been doubled since
1963 and now numbers 16.   In 1962, a small, separate, Follow-Up Section was estab-
lished to review periodic production and financial statements receiv-ed from
clients, examine problem cases, and make follow-up visits. Thle considerable



- 9 -
expansion of ICICI's operations in the past few years has necessitated a 75%
increase in personnel since 1960. It numbered 131 at the end of 1964.
31.       I'ith the planned addition of one or two engineers in the next year,
the Management considers   that the staff will be sufficient to cope with the
work load. ICICI continues to attract and retain skilled and competent employees.
It is a well-integrated and smoothly-run organization and morale is high.
Training
32.       In 1960, the Corporation instituted a training program to build up its
cadre of professionals, and the program was augmented in 1963 to provide a reser-
voir of expertise on which others might draw. A graduate engineer and a graduate
accountant have so far been engaged under the latter program. Professional per-
sonnel of ICICI continue to attend management training courses offered by
various institutions in India, and seven staff members have participated in
training programas held in Wiashington under Bank and IFC auspices.
Assistance to Other Development Finance Companies
33.       The experience gained by ICICI over a decade of operations is being
made available to other development finance institutions.   Officers of ICICI have
visited other development finance corporations in India, and assisted in training
courses organized by the Reserve Bank of India. Advice and assistance of various
kinds has also been given to development finance companies abroad. The Deputy
General Manager of ICICI was seconded at the end of 1963 to act for about two
years as General Manager of the Nigerian Industrial Development Bank. In 1962
one of the senior staff advised the Govermnent of Mauritius on a development
financing institution, and in early 1965 ICICI sent one of its officers to the
National Investment Bank in Ghana and the Niigerian Industrial Development Bank
Ltd. to advise each for a few weeks on appraisal procedures.
34.       ICICI has also welcomed numerous officers from other development fi-
nance companies to study its operational procedures in Bombay - seven in the
past two years. ICICI is now instituting a regular training program under which
two foreign trainees will undergo training each year at ICICI at the Corporation's
expense. Four trainees have also been accepted for three weeks each from IDBI.
Processing of Applications
35.       There has always been a considerable time lag between ICICI's approval
of a loan and its commitment of funds in a formal loan agreement. In the past
two years this time lag has decreased from 18 months to 15 months on the average.
Another time lag between commitment and disbursement of funds, has also been re-
duced from 18 to 15 months. These improvements have resulted principally from
the quicker processing of the various Government approvals needed in connection
with equipment imports, but there are still a number of cases where Government
procedures account for delays. (Cases of this type are described in Annex 9.)
There are also factors delaying disbursement which arise directly from projects
themselves, such as problems in raising rupee capital, in land acquisition, in
completing security formalities, and in finalizing arrangements with foreign
collaborators.
Evaluation of ICICI's Appraisal and Follow-Up of Projects
36.       ICICI's project appraisals are generally sound.   Analysis of project
cost estimates, and investigations of project technology, collaboration, know-how



- 10 -
etc. are particularly strong. There is some indication that the projects
financed by ICICI have not always had adequate management arrarigements, but tlhe
provision of sound management is always difficult for a country i-jhich is
expanding its industrial sector rapidly.
37.       ICICI's relatively weak point in project appraisal is market analysis.
Many Indian entrepreneurs appear to trust to luck as to marketing when they es-
tablish newi capacity, and the size of the economy and perennial shortages ac-
count for this feeling. Promoters may be aware of the output targets in the
Five-Year Plan documents and use them instead of their owmn market analysis.
ICICI is more sophisticated, taking into account the actual progress of produc-
tion in specific industrial lines, contrasting them with Plan targets and intro-
ducing its empirical knowledge of the specific industry. To the extent that
ICICI checks the market for a client, it focuses on the specific product of the
applicant.  Ilhere ICICI could do more, is in the analysis of related industries,
especially when it considers the financing of manufacturers of intermediate pro-
ducts, such as -ire glass or hardboard needed for construction purposes.
(Manufacturers of these products have encountered serious marketing problems due
to a slowr-down in construction activities caused by a cement shortage which has
existed for some time.)   The recent appraisal mission raised this point with
ICICI and the institution has indicated that it will pay closer attention to out.-
put in industries on which ICICI?s clients wTill depend for supplies or sales.
38.       ICICI now has a well-conceived system for wTatching projects carefully
after they have been launched. It requires yearly financial and production
statements from all borrowers, and these are supplemented by quarterly and even
monthly statements in those cases considered necessary. Apparently, some com-
panies are lax in submitting the necessary returns, and as there are over 300
companies involved, considerable time is spent in urging delinquents to comply.
About 90o of cases give little or no trouble and are subject to routine checkting
only, and these cases are rarely visited.
39.       The remaining 10% of cases have real difficulties and a close watch is
kept on both their financial situation and the general economic background in
w.hich they operate. It is these cases which are required to give regular and
frequent returns, and they and their problems are -well known to ICICI.   In a
fewl instances, ICICI could devote even more time than it does nowi, analysing
present and possible future problerms, particularly those of a financial nature.
40.       The staff makes about sixty follow-up visits per year.   There should
be more, as such visits are the best *-ay for the Follow-up Section to become
acquainted with a company and its operations.
41.       The management of ICICI is keenly interested in problems faced by its
clients and endeavors to assist them in every possible -way. In furtherance of
this policy, a conference of clients was convened in Novexrber 1964, attended by
425 persons representing 246 companies out of a total of 270 companies that had
been invited.  ICICI is presently reviewting some of its internal procedures in
the light of comments made by the conferees.



III.  OPERATIOiIS TO DATE
Financial Assistance
42.       The demand for financial assistance from ICICI has remained strong
over the years. In its decade of operations, ICICI approved assistance to 328
companies for a total of Rs. 1,023 million and by the end of 1964 Rs. 543 million
had been disbursed.  An analysis of loans and other investments by annual appro-
vals, commitments and disbursements for the years 1955-64 is contained in
Annex 10.
Loans
43.       Rupee loans amounting to Rs. 255 million were approved by ICICI up to
December 1964 and as of that date Rs 165 million had been disbursed. Loans in
rupees accounted for roughly half of the total rupee activities and were mostly
made in conjunction with foreign currency loans or underwriting by ICICI.
4.        Foreign currency loans accounted for nearly half of ICICI's total
transactions in its decade of operations. Total approvals for foreign currency
loans amounted to Rs. 490 million equivalent and by the end of 1964 Rs. 2L8
million had been disbursed. For the past three years, ICICI has been approving
about Rs. 100 million ($21 million) of foreign currency loans each year.
Underwriting Operations and Direct Investments
45.       Since it started operations, ICICI has approved undervTriting of public
offerings of shares and debentures in 87 companies involving a total contingent
commitment of Rs. 222 million. Of the total, 12 issues for Rs. 36 million were
over-subscribed, while 52 issues for Rs. 130 million required ICICI to take up
for its own account Rs. 84 million.  ICICI charges a commission of 21< on amounts
underwritten, and an additional brokerage fee of 1% on shares which it has to
-take up. In order to revolve its funds, ICICI endeavors to dispose of its invest-
ments in the market once the project has moved out of the construction stage,
and in 1960-62 it made substantial capital gains from such transactions. Although
market conditions over the past three years have not been favorable, ICICI has
continued to underwrite shares and debenture issues of companies wJhich it con-
siders as sound prospects, even companies not well known to the market. Over the
past three years ICICI has underi-ritten about 10% of all shares issued to the
public in Lndia, about the same percentage as IFCI but less than half the amount
underriitten by LICo  Depressed market conditions resulted in ICICI's having to
take up 47% of the issues underwritten in 1963 (Rs. B.3 million) and 62, (Rs.18.8
million) in 1964.
Joint Operations
46.       ICICI cooperates writh private as well as public finance institutions
and during 1963 and 1964, 21 operations were undertaken jointly with one or more
participants. Many of these transacticns involved IFCI, which participated in 12
projects, and the Life Insurance Corporation of India which joined in 10 ventures.
During the past twJo years ICICI also concluded three joint operations with IFC
and one wTith the Commonwealth Development Finance Company Ltd.  ICICI's manage-
ment expects increasing cooperation with IDBI, particularly in the field of
underwriting.



- 12 -
ICICI's Contribution to Industry
47.       ICICI endeavors to avoid a disproportionate commitment to any one sec-
tor of industry, and since 1959, the share of any one sector in ICICITs total
operations has not exceeded 20%.   The number of sectors that accounted for over
10% decreased from five in 1959 to three in 1964.    Chemicals and metals have
continuously accounted for over 10G% of operations each but the share of other
industries has fluctuated widely.   Paper and paper products which accounted for
18% in 1959 accounted in 1964 for only 7% of ICICI'Is total operations, whereas
machinery increased from 2% in 1959 to 125 in 1964.    ICICI's total approvals
classified by industry appear in Annex 11.
48.       Although foreign currency loans must be made writhin the limits of
Capital Goods Comaittee approvals, ICICI applies its oim judgmient as to which of
the cases referred to it by the Comnittee it will accommodate, thus correcting
to some extent the shortcomings of the governmental "allocation" process.    Since
ICICI has to live with the system and the problems of the Indian economy, the
institution has consented to help some of the difficulties of both the Goirern-ment
and industry arising from the shortage of "desirable" foreign exchange and has
made foreign exchange loans to enterprises with no real need to borrow.    Further
details are given in -nnex 12.
49.       In the kind of industry assisted by ICICI there is often an important
role for foreign collaboration, both technical and financial.    The Indian Invest-
ment Centre, under the Chairmanship of Mr. G. L. Mehta, has zade a considerable
contribution in bringing Indian industrialists together with foreign partners.
Roughly one-half of the enterprises assisted by ICICI involve technical collabora-
tion agreements (152) and over one-quarter, foreign equity investments (102).
Foreign associates are present especially in iron and steel, chemical and elec-
trical equipment industries.   ICICI has helped to resolve various complications
inherent in bringing foreign and domestic investors together.    ICICI's role has
been particularly notable considering the generally slow progress of the coumtry
as a whole in attracting foreign investors in recent years.
50.       Of the 374 projects assisted by ICICI, about 125 were producing at
the end of 1964;  about one-third of these are projects sponsored by entrepreneurs
entering industry for the first time.   There are 22 projects which have been
producing for over two years, while most of the others started operating late in
1963 or in 1964.   The 22 projects producing for some years include five paper
mills, four sugar mills, three cement plants, four chemical plants, the output
of' the balance being scattered over a variety of metal and machinery products.
Details are shown in Annex 13.
51.       If licensed capacity among the "older" producers is any criterion,
output has been either at or above the licensed capacity levels in the cement
plants, as well as among the producers of steel forgings, super phosphate, rods
and wire ropes and steel pipes.   Except for wire ropes, steel pipes and forgings,
these units appear to have had favorable production costs on the whole.    At the
other end of the spectrum are producers of hardboard, regenerated rubber, steel
wires, sanitary ware, and particularly the cable manufacturers, where capacity
utilization is well below rated levels and production costs (and consequently
prices) are well above the prices of imports.    Limited data do not permit an
analysis of the cost situation of machinery producers, but conments made by
ICICI representatives would indicate much room for improvement.



- 13 -
52.       Under-utilization of capacity and high costs appear to be due not only
to the dearth of' imported components and scarce donestic materials, which have
affected ICICI clients producing electrical equipment, iron and steel processing
units and machinery manufacturers, but also to selling difficulties encountered
by some ICICI clients, despite the suction of the large, and allegedly "easy",
Indian market. This is particularly the case with producers of items used in
construction vwhere, as previously stated, progress has been slow as a result of
a cement shortage.  Other instances are the plastics industry and the production
of a variety of machinery components, which feed inputs for further processing
into other industries where supply shortages in other items have occurred.
Geographical Distribution
53.       Although ICICI has financed projects in all the 15 Indian states and
territories, a large share continues to be located in the states of Maharashtra
and Gujerat, near Bombay, where the institution's office is located (Annex 14).
This regional emphasis increased from 41% of total investments in 1960 to 4L% at
the end of 1964 and the number of companies located in the tlTo states now account
for 55% of all of ICI]CI's clients. The apparent concentration of ICICI's opera-
tions in Western India is in part the result of the referrals of clients for
foreign exchange assistance to ICICI by the government authorities, and of the
fact that the sectors of industry in which ICICI has been particularly active
are strongly represented in the west.
54.       At the Bank's suggestion, ICICI has at various times considered how to
make itself more accessible to entrepreneurs in other parts of India. For some
time active consideration was given to opening an office in Calcutta, but ICICI
has now abandoned this idea.   The present intention is to maintain contact with
entrepreneurs outside Bombay by regularly scheduled visits of senior officers
to industrial centers throughout the country, and the number of such visits has
already been increased.   In discussions wTith the mission, ICICI's management
urged this approach as better suited to investors than the opening of branch
offices, since potential clients would be assured of access to officials at
management level.
IV. FINANCIAL POSITION AND RZSULTS
Balance Sheet
55.       ICICI's comparative summary balance sheets for December 31, 1959
through 1964, are shown in Annex 15. For easier reference, the balance sheet
for December 31, 1964 is condensed in the following table:
Rs. million         L
Assets
Liquid Assets:
Cash                                       45.6
Govt. Securities, etc.                     28.7
Advance Payments, etc.                     10.3       84.6      165



Rs. million        Ci
Loans:
Rupees                        139.6
Foreign Currency -
IBRD             191.7
AID                5-0
KfW               11.5     208.2       347.8                65%
Securities:
Ordinary Shares                53.5
Preference Shares              21.6
Debentures                     24.0
Unit Trust of India             1.3       loo.4      448.2     195
Fixed Assets                                              2.1
Total Assets                                     534.9    100%
Capital and Liabilities
Current Liabilities                                      15.4      3%
Foreign Ecchange Loans                                  197.4     375
Government Loans                                        250.0     47
Share Capital                                            50.0      9'%
Reserves:
General                       5.4
Special                       6.6
Capital                      10.1                     22.1    4_0
Total Capital & Liabilities                      53L.9   lo00
ICICI's accounts are audited jointly by N.H. Raiji & Co. and Ray & Ray, who
are well-known firras of independent public accountants in India, and their
reports have always been unqualified.
Short-Term Assets
56.       ICICI has felt it necessary to hold substantial liquid assets, in
time deposits and readily marketable government securities, in order to meet its
disbursement cammitments vis-a-vis borrowers and other clients. Since Bank Rate
was raised in February 1965, time deposits earn 6% for one year deposits and 5%
for three months.  Up to last September, these rates were h1J and 31 , respec-
tively; and it was costly for ICICI to maintain this liquidity, since, in effect,
to do so meant drawing on the !Q5 and 5% Government loans somewhat in advance
of requirements for long-term operations. Now, howe-ver, it is making a small
profit on short-term funds.
Portfolio
57.       The general quality of the portfolio is good and ICICI does not con-
sider that any of its present loans will have to be written off. All loans are
adequately secured against assets or by bank guarantee. Up to December 31, 196h,
cnly one loan of Rs. 1.4 million was in default, in respect of which provision
had been made out of profits for overdue interest amounting to Rs. 325,461; no



- 15 -
provision was thought necessary for loss of principal, as the loan ras well
secured.  It has not been considered necessary to build up a reserve specifically
designated for bad debts, especially as ICICI's over-all reserve position is
very strong.
58.       Shares and debentures are carried at cost, and there has been some
depreciation in the value of the shares: at the end of 1964, the market value
of quoted shares in ICICI's portfolio was Rs. 3 million less than book value,
and if unquoted shares were proportionally over-valued, the share portfolio
would be over-valued by Rs. 3.3 million.   These figures allow for a Rs. 54h,500
equity investment in a bicycle factory (still carried on the books at cost),
which ICICT considers to be a total loss.
59.       ICICI estimates that of Rs. 53.5 million invested in ordinary shares
at the end of 196a, it could have disposed quickly of only about Rs. 15 million
without loss. There is no reason to doubt, however, that in the long run most
of the remainder are basically sound. There are a number of companies in which
ICICI has a financial stake which are encountering more or less serious diffi-
culties; while such cases inadicate that ICICI's objectives are not alv-ays met,
they do not constitute a serious threat to the value of the portfolio.
Profitability
60.       Annex 16 contains a comparative Income and Expenditure statement from
1959 to 196h. ICICI's profits (before taking into account capital gains) have
risen slowly but steadily: before-tax profits increased from 9.L% of net worth
to 17.2% in the five year period, and after-tax profits from 5.2% to 9.5%. The
garowth reflects mainly the gradual increase in leverage:  borrowings were only
twice the equity in 1959, but had growTn to six times equity in 1964.  The spread
between ICICI's borrowing and lending rates has usually been 2% cn rupee lonns and
2Va on foreign currency. Income from dividends on the share portfolio has
averaged around 3-3/l;% during the last four years. Administrative expenses have
been well controlled; in 1959 they were almost 1% of portfolio, and in 1964 less
than it%.
Capital Gains
61.       Before the stock market broke in 1962, ICICI had made substantial
capital gains through sales of shares from its portfolio Thich are not counted
in the above profit figures. ICICI credits such gains to a Capital Reserve, and
obtains a more favorable tax rate than on ordinary profits. By the end of 1964,
this reserve amounted to Rs. 10 million, and after-tax profits Lncluding these
gains reached a high of 11.3% of net worth in 1961, easing off thereafter.
Annex 17 shows the details of ICICI's capital gains.
Reserves
62.       In addition to the Capital Reserve, ICICI maintains a Special and a
General Reserve.  The Special Reserve is being built up to cover the outstanding
balance of the Government's subordinated advance, firstly, by annual transfers
of 10% of total income which may be deducted from profits before assessing tax.
Additionally, in order to comply wjith ICICI's Articles, the total annual trans-
fer to the Special Reserve must be raised to equal 25p of distributable profits.
This has had to be done since the sixth year after incorporation. General Re-
serve is managed entirely at ICICI's discretion and recently substantial amounts
have been transferred to it out of annual profits - last year, for example, 20%



- 16 -
of ret profit.  In the early years a generous proportion of net profit (excluding
capital gains) was distributed as dividend, but since then an increasing propor-
tion of earnings hlas been allocated to reserves: whereas in 1959, 89% of net
profits was paid out in dividends and only 11% went in to reserves, the alloca-
tions for 1964 were 5S% to dividends and 4i6% to reserves.
Dividends and Share Yield
63.        Dividends have been paid every year since ICICI commenced operations
and have increased steadily from 31,% for 1956 to 712% for 1964.  The recent in-
crease to 712% on 1964 earnings brought the cumn-dividend price up to about 99,
giving a dividend yield of about 7.6%.   In comparison, the current dividend
yield on other large financial institutions in India is about 9,. Only a few
small transactions have taken place since the shares went ex-dividerid; the most
recent quotation available is 92.30, listed on i5ay 10.
64.        The book value of ICICI's shares is Rs. 1i4 each, but if allowance is
made for the over-valuation of the securities portfolio amounting to Rs. 3.3
million already referred to, the true value would be about Rs. 138 per share.
The fact that the market quotation for ICICI shares, at slightly below par, is
only 72% of estimated true book value, indicates the depressed state of the
Indian capital market. Nevertheless, the marKet shows some interest in ICICI
shares even though trading does not take place in a steady volume.   During 196a,
for example, 22,235 shares changed hands, whereas only 11,396 were traded
during 1963.
V. FUTURE PROSPECTS
The Setting
65.        The Fourth Five-Year Plan will commence on April 1, 1966. 'A.hile
considerable planning work has still to be done, the prospective target for gross
private industrial investment will undoubtedly exceed the Third Plan target
figure of about Rs. 13 billion. Although the Fourth Plan targets for the volume
and pattern of industrial investment may still change as a rnatter of degree, it
mayr be worthwhile to illustrate the orders of magnitude which are under dis-
cussion.
Distribution of Fixed Industrial Investment Out'ay: 1966-71
(Rs. billion)
Private Sector    Public Sector     Total
Metals                                     2.5              12.5          15.0
Fertilizers and pesticides                 1.5                3.0          L-5
Mining, mineral oil and related
developments                              2.5                8.0         10.5
Machinery & engineering industries         3.0               5.0           8.0
Consumer goods                             6.5               1.5           8.0
Intermediate goods                         6.5               1.5           8.0
Miscellaneous                              1.5                .5           2.0
Total                   24.0              32.0         56.0
Source:  1Iemorandum on Fourth Five-Year Plan, Government of India, October 196)4.



-17-
66.       The average annual investment in the private sector is thus expected
to be around Rs. 5 billion a year.    Tentatively, 60-70% is expected to be
financed by enterprises internally and through the issue of new share capital.
In fact, it may not be possible to raise as much equity in the market as the
planning authorities now hope, considering that the 1965/66 budget proposals,
which are to set the stage for financial policy during the Fourth Plan, have
instilled little enthusiasm in the stock market.    Howiever, even if as much
turns out to be available from internally generated funds and new share capital
as is hoped, there would still be a need for Rs. 1.4 billion a year, or more,
in loan funds for private industry.
_ICIC's Prospective Operations
67.       ICICI has forecast its total business at about Rs. 200 million in
i965, rising to Rs. 290 million in 1970.    This appears reasonable inasmuch
as during the last three years ICICI's approvals have averaged Rs. 200m. annually
and some expansion can be expected in line with the increased activity provided
for in the Fourth Plan.   These forecasts, compared with recent experience, Pre
as follows:
Underwriting
Foreign           Rupee       (shares and        Direct
Year      Currency Loans      Loans        debentures)   Subscriptions  Total
Actual
1962         90.1               43.5          31.1            9.8        174.5
1963        110.4               81.8          35.3            3.0       230.5
l964         95.0               38.0          53.9            3.9       190.8
Forecast
1965         110                 50            36              4          200
1966         116                 52            38              4          210
1967         126                 58            41              5          230
1968         138                 62            45              5          250
1969         148                 68            49              5          270
1970         160                 72            52              6          290
68.       ICICI expects that the distribution of its operations as between loans
(foreign currency and rupee), underwriting, and equity investment will follow
roughly the same patterns as the average of the past few years.    This seems to
be a reasonable assumption.    The level of foreign exchange lending is closely
related to the number of projects referred to ICICI under the government control
system.   Under present economic conditions, the Government could find plenty
of additional willing takers for ICICI funds and ICICI could, without relaxing
its standards, probably find even more suitable borrowers for foreign exchange
loans than it has projected.    Thus the level of its foreign exchange business
in present circumstances is very much a function of the volume of untied foreign
exchange resources at its disposal.    However, if there were dislocations in the
econory, or new cost-price relationships, the projected foreign exchange lending
rate might slow down, but such a decline would be unlikely to last because the
size of Indian industry and its undoubtedly good long-run growth projects, are



- 18 -
bound to offer a considerable number of efficient industrial clients for ICICI.
69.       In estimating future busirness, ICICI has allowed for provision of
working capital finance in cases where it is warranted.   ICICI has not financed
working capital requirements in the past, but the foreign exchange component
of initial working capital required by a new enterprise, or of a permanent
increase in working capital associated with an expansion, may be financed from
IBRD loans, and ICICI expects to do this in future.
Resources lieeded
70.       ICICI thus expects to need a total of US$165 million in foreign
currency resources by 1970, of which some US$60 million will be needed by the
middle of 1967.   Owing to the slow utilization of the AID loan, ICICI does
not intend to seek further U.S. dollar assistance, but expects that about
DM15 million will be raised annually from KfrT.  It continues to look to the
IBRD as its principal source of foreign currency resources, and thus has now
requested a loan of US$50 million to cover the balance of foreign currency
approvals from the beginning of 1965 to mid-1967.   A loan of US$50 million
wiould be larger than any previous IBRD loan to ICICI, and would be the largest
made so far by the IBRD to any development finance company.   But ICICI is well
able to process foreign exchange assistance of this magnitude and its record
indicates that it would put scarce foreign exchange resources to judicious use.
The Bank should therefore be willing to make a loan of this size.
71.       It will also be necessary for ICICI to replenish its rupee resources -
some Rs. 650 million up to 1970.   The three Government loans are almost exhausted
and whilst repayments of past loans will meet some Rs. 190 million of the require-
ments, another Rs. 460 million will be needed.   Sales of investments will con-
tinue but will not be an important source while the stock market remains depressed.
72.       Various alternative sources of new rupee funds have been considered.
The first step which ICICI hopes to take, in the next few months, is an increase
in share capital, which has stood at Rs. 50 million without change throughout
the ten years of its existence.   A Rs. 25 million rights issue is planned,
bringing total share capital to Rs. 75 million.   The recent increase in dividend
to 7Vt4 has been timed to prepare the market for such an issue and ICICI is now
actively engaged in preparing the ground with its principal shareholders for an
issue in the very near future.   However, in the present state of the market and
because ICICI shares do not have a particularly attractive yield, it is not yet
clear how soon a new issue will be feasible.   The Bank has encouraged ICICI to
make the new issue as soon as practicable (without increasing the proportionate
shareholdings of Indian public sector institutions), because, inter alia, the
larger equity base would allow ICICI to expand its portfolio of equity investments
more rapidly.
73.       The proposed increase in share capital would, by itself, be far from
sufficient to cover expected rupee commitments and ICICI has approached the
Government regarding a fourth government advance of Rs. 100 million.   ICICI
should also be able to tap the newly available refinance facilities offered by
IDBI.    ICICI has been designated as an authorized borrower of IDBI.   At
present, IDBI charges 6&,, which would leave ICICI with a margin (at its present
8% rupee lending rate) of 11§1, if ICICI used IDBI's refinancing facilities.



- 19 -
Later on, ICICI may be able to obtain additional resources by floating rupee
debentures, possibly taking advantage of IDBI's power to underwfrite such issues.
Financial Prospects
74.       ICICI's financial projections for the coming three years are contained
in Annexes 18 to 21.   These projections were calculated before lending rates
were raised recently, and to this extent are conservative.    They also assume
that the new share issue will be made soon.   Net profits after tax are expected
to rise from Rs. 6.9 million in 1964 to Rs. 10.5 million projected for 1967,
maintaining net profits at about 9W3 of net worth (with a dip in 1966 after the
expected share capital increase).   Bv budgeting for a constant dividend of
7r-% (and despite the enlarged capital), it is hoped to increase reserves from
Rs. 22 million to Rs. 37 million, keeping a roughly constant relationship with
the growing portfolio.   The expected profitability picture is thus consistent
iith a reasonable (though not outstanding) dividend and an adequate build-up of
reserves.
75.       If operations grow as ICICI expects, its indebtedness would, by the
end of 1967, exceed the limitation at present agreed between the Bank and ICICI.
The present limitation is now expressed as four times ICICI's net worth and first
government loan.   ICICI has requested the Bank to agree to a revised limitation
that will permit it to expand its operations as planned, even if the proposed
increase in share capital is not possible in the immediate future.    A moderate
increase in ICICI's borrowing lir,mitation is justified.  The maturities of ICICI's
lendings are well matched with those of its borrowings, leaving a margin of
liquidity as a cushion in case there are delays in collections.    Moreover, the
quality of ICICI's portfolio is generally good and the institution's good per-
formance provides assurance that it will continue to be of high quality.    Con-
sequently, during negotiations a revised borrowing limitation has been worked out,
which is incorporated in the proposed Loan Agreement.    ICICI would henceforth
be permitted to borrow an amount not exceeding four times its net worth and
first government loan, but, contrary to the previous limitation, the second and
third government loans, which are subordinated to the Bank's loans in the event
of liquidation, would be omitted from the calculation of indebtedness for this
purpose.   Under this limitation, ICICI would be able to draw the entire proposed
loan of $50 million, and to enter into other borrowings planned between now and
the end of 1967, as show~m in the projections.
VI.   CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMlMMATIONS
Evaluation
76.       After ten years of operation, ICICI has become a well-established
development finance institution, with a sound organization, competent management
and staff, and a satisfactory financial position.   It has become an efficient
operating unit, and is already assisting in the development of similar institutions
both in India and elsewhere.   It has followed sound operational policies and has
demonstrated prudent standards in its appraisal and follow-up procedures.    Its
portfolio of loans and investments is of generally good quality, a compliment to
an institution operating in an economy where industry still has far to go.



- 20 -
77.       Through its operations, ICICI has made a significant contribution to
the growth of the private industrial sector in the economny of India.   ICICI has
estimated that the enterprises in which it has so far invested represent a
capital mobilization of over Rs. 6 billion.    w2Then they are all conpleted, they
should add about Rs. 4 billion a year to gross domestic product and create over
100,000 additional jobs.    In addition, ICICI has made a number of intangible
contributions, not measurable in quantitative terms.    Because it is the only
Indian investment ins.itution possessing substantial amounts of untied foreign
currency resources, iit has cons (I3rable leverage to require standards which are
relatively hiih in Ind-;a, in the upeparation of prco -cts.  As a result of the
data requested and criteria emph,:sized by ICICT, a d1scipline has been imposed
on the preparation and evaluation of industrial projects Thi:;ch is unlikely to
be 'Lost once the enterprise ceases its association t>ith 1CIO.    This discipline
has already had a denonstration effect in Indian fil_Mnce and industry.   ICICI
has also been a useful catalyst between Indian and foreign investors, and has
assisted the develo--ment of the Indian capital market.
78.       The contributions that ICICI is making do not mean that its performance
cannot further -.qprove.  One linitation on ICICI's ncrfo7.mance arises from the
economic systWi under which ICIC cannot promote much business on its own, but
has to rely r:ainly on referrals from the Government of industrialists seeking
scarce foreign exchange resources. But ICICI cotu', thlrough its increasing
knowledge of hie Indian industrial scene, advise a g:eat -cuiber cf its clients
on general industrial problems, such as the effects Gf Go ;re;nmnental planning
decisions, and the shortage of maintenance imports and cel;&ain domestic materials.
Difficulties of this kind have been largely respons:ible for projects which have.
failed to meet expectations.    ICICI could also exercise more care to avoid
investments which may add to the existing imbalances in the economy.    By strength-
ening these aspects of its operation, ICICI would perform still better its role
as a development institution.
Need for Resources
79.       ICICI rill need to replenish both its foreign and local currency
resources this year.   Local currency requirements should be covered by the
proposed increase in share capital from Rs. 50 million to Rs. 75 million, by
further loans from the Government, or by finance from IDBI.    ICICI will continue
to turn to the IBRD for most of its foreign currency needs.
Recommendations
80.       ICICI continues to be a suitable borrower, and the proposed Sixth
Loan of US$50 million is justified by ICICI's record and by its operational
prospects over the next few years.    It should meet the greater part of ICTCI's
foreign currency lending requirements until mid-1967.
81.       ICICI has reached a stage in its life where it contemplates broadening
its equity base, and proposes to increase its share capital by Rs. 25 million
in the very near future.    The Bank has encouraged ICICI to proceed with this
issue.   However, in view of present capital market conditions, it is not clear
how soon the proposed issue will be feasible.    In view of ICICI's generally
good portfolio and the institution's good performance, the proposed loan agreement
contains a revised debt limitation, which would permit ICICI to expand its



- 21 -
operations as planned up to 1967, even if the capital increase has to be
postponed.
82.       The terms of the proposed loan would in gener,al follow those of the
Bank's Fourth and Fifth Loans.   The proceeds of the loan would be used for
specific projects submitted by ICICI from time to time.    As hitherto, the Bankts
prior approval of projects would be required only for those using US$2 million
or more of the proposed loan.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
THE IODUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTIE\NT CORPORATION'I OF INDIA LIMITED
Produ.ction in Selected Ind.ustries
Product                          Unit      1951   1956   1961   1962  l      1st m196 st
19614
MIMING
Coal                          mn.tons        314    39     55     62      67     32
Iron ore                                    3.7    L.2   119   13.1    14.8     7.3
I [ETALS
Pig iron                       '000 tons  1,719  1,807  14,888  ,700  6,600   3,000/
Finished steel                    "1082          1,338  2,807  3,800   14,275  2,168a/
Aluminium                                   3,8    6.5   18.,0  35.1L     53     27
Copper                                      7.1    7.6    8o6    9.8     9.6    h.6
ILECHANICAL ETIIu1 TG
Machine tools                  mn.rupees    4.7   12.0   76.1     108    166   n.a.
Sugar machinery                   "          -     3.    145.2  6365    57?.   30.6
Power-driven pumps             'O0Os         L1     L7    126    128     156     78
Automobiles                       "          22     32     514    58      56     36
Bicycles                          "         114    661  1,0149  13117  1.182    693
Sewing machines                   "41              130    317    314     346     66
Railway wagons                    "          -      16     11     14 /    19     12
Motor cycles                      "-               l6     4.7   22,6,z    2      I4/  14DW
Typewriters                       "          -    1314   31.1   37.2     )42     22
ELECTRIC L ENCi-DEERING
Power transformers             '0CC 1(VA    195    919  1,775  2,360    2,629 1,807
Electric motors                tCOO IIP     1L3   359    821L   980   1,179    592
Radio receivers                'cOOs         83    151    326    351      IL18  209
House service meters                         -     230    623     878   1,19h   909
Electric lamps                 millions-/    15     30     15     59     66.7  34.5
Electric fans                  'cOOs        213    339  1,07L   1,1Ll   1,140   93B
Bare copper wire               '000 tons      3     10       8      5     4.4   3.3
Aluminium conductors           'COO tons     -      11     22      27    32.14  20.3
CHEIPTICALS
Ammonium sulphate             t000 tons      52    389    389     419     1443  100
Superphosphate                   if          61     81    365    4LL5     530   136
Sulphuric acid                    "         107    165    407    468      563   275
Soda ash                          "          17     84    171    222      267   138
Caustic soda                      "          15     39    118    127      152    87
Cement                         mn.tons      3.2    4.9    8.1     8.6     9.3     5
Refractories                   '000 tons    239    318    589    650      600   322
Paper and paper board             "         132    193    358    388      4614  247
Auto tyres and tubes           millions     1.7    1.8    3.1     3.3)      I4  2.2
Bicycle tyres and tubes           "         8.8   12,7   24.2    23.5)   27.5  14.9
Footwear (rubber and leather) mn,pairs     28.7    42.6  55.7   61.6     63.2  28.8
Soap                           '000 tons     714   101    147     150     159    86
Petroleum products                "         2L5  3,829  6,00o  6,600    7,458 4,097



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Product                          Unit      1951   1956   1961   1962   1963   1964
TEXTILES
Cotton yarn                   mn. pounds  1,303  1,671  1,901  1,894   1,963  1,017
Rayon yarn d/                 '000 tons     2.0   17.3   48.7   60.1    65.4   37.5
Cotton cloth (mill sector)    mn. yards   4,077  5,307  5,142  4,900   4,h28  2,265
Cotton cloth (decentralised) mn. yards    1,006  1,819  2,589  2,635   2,880  1,485
Jute products                 '000 tons     876  1,093    954  1,187   1,236    627
Woollen fabrics               mn. yards    12.1   16,3   13.3    20.1   20.4    5.8
FOOD PRODUCTS
Sugar                         '000 tons   1,210  1,854  2,981  2,280   2,316  1,714
Tea                          mn. lbs.       628    668    767    756     745    215
Coffee                        t00 tons    18.1   34.4   65.6   46.7   58.4      51
Vanaspati                        "          172    256    334    369     384    211
a/ Provisional.                              Source:  Central Statistical Organization
b/ Including scooters.
c/ Excluding fluorescent lamps.
d/ Staple fibre, viscose yarn and acetate yarn.
n.a. not available.
April 23, 1965



A 'IYX 2
TTE DT'OUSTRIAL CREDIT AMD PATESTTENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LDIETED
Certain Aspects of the Licensing Process for
Industrial Investment -n India
1.        The approvals needed for a private industrial project (new
capacity or expansion) are as follows, if it involves additional fixed
assets of Rs. 2.5 million:
(a)  Approval of project by the Industrial Licence Committee
in terms of capacity and location, given through the
issue of a license under the Industries (Development
and Regulation) Act, 1951.
(b) Approval by the Capital Goods Committee of foreign ex-
change expenditures or the import of plant and machinery,
and the issue of an import license therefor by the Chief
Controller of Imports and Exports (CCIE).
(c) Approval by the Government of the terris of foreign
collaboration, if any, on the recommendation of the
Foreign Agreements Committee,
(d) Consent for the issue of shares and debentures, if any,
by the Controller of Capital Issues.
(e)  Registration of a new company under the Companies Act,
1956.
2.        As a result of numerous complaints about the long time taken for pro-
cessing industrial licenses,and the fact that a great number of industrial
licenses remained unutilized, the government-appointed SFwaminathan Com-
mittee reviewed late in 1963 the possibilities of streamlining the process.
The Government accepted most of the Committee's recomnendations for simpli-
fication, the principal one being the issue of a letter of intent prior to
the formal issuance of an industrial license. The letter of intent re-
quires the promoter to present, within four to six months, a definitive
proposal regarding the issue of capital, the value and nature of imported
capital equipment and the terms of foreign collaboration, if envisaged.
If the promoter does not present such a proposal, the letter of intent
lapses. 1,1ith the proposal, the promoter is also expected to make appli-
cation for the approval of the Capital Goods Commnittee (on the basis of a
detailed list of needed machinery imports), approval of foreign collabora-
tion terms and the consent of the Controller of Capital Issues (the latter
would, as a rule, not allow a debt/equity ratio in excess of 2:1).    Pro-
cessing of each of the various approvals takes its separate course. The
industrial license is issued after all approvals have been obtained.



ANNTEX 2
Tn respect of semi-annually listed "key industries", such as
fertilizers, industrial machinery and alloy atool., whieh the Gove-imment wishes
to promote with urgency,l the various approvals, needed after an invest-
ment proposal is worked out, are to be given simultaneously; these in-
clude even the import license. "Key industries" are of sigrificance to
ICICT and IFCI because both institutions can seriously consider foreign
exchange assistance only to projects thus classified before the final
approval of the Capital Goods Committee is obtained.
4s.       Another simplification is aimed at the foreign investor who can,
since J'anuary 1965, obtain a letter of intent before he has arranged for
an Indian partner. Previously only an Indian party could obtain a letter
of intent.  W;vhile this enables the foreign investor to work out a project,
the terms of foreign collaboration still need, as previously, to be
approved. As a rule, the Government prefers foreign participation to be
in a minority, but exceptions have been allowed when the Government wanted
to attract a specific foreign firm, or when the bargaining and staying
power of the foreign firm which wanted a majority was strong. Other
major aspects covered by the approval of the terms are royalty payments
for know-how and a phased build-up,, if possible, of the indigenous component
of materials in production. (These are matters of considerable discussion
between the Government and the interested parties.)
5.        Once definitive arrangements for foreign exchange financing are
made, either with a foreign aid source or with a private foreign investor,
an import license has in most cases to be obtained from the CCIE. (Other
authorities license machine tool and textile machinery imports.) The
license application has to go into great detail regarding the desired
equipment, its origin and possible alternative sources if the foreign
currency preferred is not available at the time of the issue of the
license.  On the basis of the license, the Reserve Bank of India authorizes
the actual payments for imports.
1/ In turn, there is also a periodic listing of industries for which
license applications will be automatically rejected, and a third
list of industries for which applications will be considered "on
merit".
April 26, 1965



ANNEX 3
Page 1
THE ITDUSTRIAL CREDIT ,UD PThST^ENT CORPORAT TON OF INDLA LIaTED
Industrial Financing Institutions in India
1.        Almost all industrial financing institutions in India other than
ICICI are in the public sector.
Small and Medium-Scale Industry
2,        Small industry in the private sector looks to the National Small
Industries Corporation which focuses principally on the financing of
machinery under deferred payment arrangements, and technical assistance in
establishing units and marketing. The 15 State Financial Corporations,
established since l951 under a Central Act, cater to somewhat larger
private units.  They make medium to long-term loans up to Rs. 2 million
to public limited companies and cooperatives, and up to Rs. 1 million to
private limited companies. They can also underwrite equity and guarantee
loans contracted elsewhere by their clients.   The bulk of their resources
come from equity subscriptions by the State governments and the Reserve Bank
as well as from bonds issued with the guarantee of the State governments
concerned. The Miadras Industrial Investment Corporation was established in
1949, outside the framework of the State Financial Cornorations, although
it serves a similar clientele; it has been particularly active in under-
writing operations. There is also the National Industrial Development Cor-
poration, a Central Government institution, which has made loans to public
and private enterprises, especially textile, machine tool and aluminum manu-
facturers; its activity has increasingly centered on the provision of
technical consulting and engineering services to public sector enterprises.
Larger Induistries
3.        As in the case of ICICI, the institutions reviewed below operate on
a national basis. There are also similarities in the size of the assisted
enterprises, and in many instances in the nature and scale of individual
transactions.
4.        Industrial Finance Corporation of India (IFCI):   It is the oldest
industrial financing institution serving medium and large enterprises, having
been established in 1948 under a Central Act. IFCI maintains offices in
Delhi (its headquarters), Bombay, Calcutta and 14adras.  It has a paid-up
capital of Rs. 83.4 million, one half of which is owned by the newly created
Industrial Development Bank, and the remaining half by commercial and co-
operative banks and insurance companies. Other resources, available to IFCI
by mid-196a, were derived from market borrowings placed with Government
guarantees (Rs. 390 million), Central Government loans (Rs. 356 million),
and loans of US$30 million from AID, DM 40 million from the Kreditanstalt
fM r Wiederaufbau, and Ffrs. 50 million from the Banque Francaise du Commerce
Exterieur.  IFCI's reserves amounted to Rs. L1 million on June 30, 1964.
Through that date, the net amount of assistance approved by IFCI was
Rs. 1,968 million in the following operations:



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Ar-.rn s         A)j U.4.f'2lt
(Rs.mi1llion)
Loans
Foreign Currency            169               41
Rupees                    1,313    1,512     9112      983
Guarantees for Deferred
Paymlnents and Foreign Loans          315
Uinderwritings and direct
subscriptions                         141                75
1,968             1,058
Sugar cooperatives accounted for about 17 percent of total assistance. Other
major fields were textiles (12%), chemicals (11%), engineering (11%) and non-
ferrous metals (11%)o About 65 percent of IFCI's assistance benefited new
enterprises. IFCI has been particularly active in rupee lending, but it has
been much less active than ICICI in underwritingv.
5.        IFCI mounts project appraisals similarly to ICICI.   Proposals for
specific operations have to be passed through an Advisory Committee, com-
posed of Government, industry and trade union representatives, before IFCI's
Board of Directors acts on them. The Board comprises two representatives of
commercial banks, two of cooperative banks, two appointed by the Government
and four by the Industrial Development Bank. It is to act on business
principles, but on questions of policy it is to be guided by the Industrial
Developraent Bank.
6.        Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI):   This institution was
estab:Lished on July 1,9T79L, as a wholly-ow,ned subsidiary of the Reserve Bank
of India. The Government of India advanced several reasons for IDBI's
creation 
- the relatively small resources, in relation to needs, of
the existing industrial financing institutions;
- the absence of underwriting facilities on a sufficiently
large scale;
- the traditional (and thus relatively strict) bank_ng
practices of the existing institutions, especially regard-
ing security requirements;
- the limitation of the ac-tivities of the Refinance Corpora-
tion for Industry Ltd., a public sector institution created
in 1958, to refinance medium and long-term loans made by
comrmercia'l banks and State Financial Corporations to small
and medium-scale private enterprises;



ANNEX 3
Page 3
- the lack of institu;tional financial ascistance for industrial
projects, private or public, which are considered to be in
the national interest but do not meet the standards applied
by the existing institutions.
7.       1DBI's resources are all in rupees.    Its paid-up capital amounts
to Rs. 100 million.   Its authorized capital, now at Rs. 500 million, can
be increased to Rs. 1 billion with Government approval. IDBI has obtained
an interest-free loan of Rs. 100 million from the Government, repayable
over 15 years after a 15 year grace period. IDBI can also borrow from the
Reserve Bank's National Industrial Credit (Long-Term Operations) Fund whlich
obtained an initial Rs. 100 million contribution from the Reserve Bank's
profits, wvith Rs. 50 million to follow in each of the next five years. IDBI
absorbed the Refinance Corporation (RFC), and will continue the latter's
activities; it took over about Rs. 360 million of RFC's funds - principally
PL 480 counterpart funds borrowed from the Government - in the form of re-
discounted loans at commercial banks and State Financial Corporations. So far,
this has been a most important part of IDBI's business. IDBI established on
Mqarch 27, 1965, a Development Assistance Fund which will be fed by Governmrent
contributions including PL 480 counterpart funds; this Fund is to provide
assistance to such industries, in the public or private sector, which may not
be able to obtain assistance from other financial institutions operating on
stricter business considerations, and yet need assistance " as a matter of
priority in tne interests of the industrial development of the Country".1/
IDBI can accept "benefactions" and borrow additional amlounts wzithout specified
limits but subject to Governmental approval.
8.        IDBI's headquarters are in Bombay.   The management and staff have so
far been drawn from the Reserve Bank. IDBIts Board consists of members of the
Central Board of the Reserve Bank.
9.        IDBI can lend, buy and underwrite equity, refinance, guarantee
obligations of other institutions and industrial concerns; it can also lend
to other financial institutions.   IDBI is intended to be an apex institution
concerned with industrial planning, promotion of industrial development, and
the coordination of the activities of all institutiorsproviding finance for
industrial development.
10.       By January 30, 1965, IDBI had approved underwriting operations
totaling Es. 26 million, loans of Rs. 5 million and guarantees of Rs. 10
million. The largest share of its business, however, w¢as refinancing with
approvals amounting to Rs. 664 million.
11.       Unit Trust of India (UTI):   The Trust was established on February 1,
1964, under a Central Act. Its head office is in Bombay and there are
branches in Calcutta and Madras. UTI is managed by a Board of Trustees in-
cluding representatives of the Reserve Ban]-, industry and other financial
1/ Quotations from The Industrial Development Bank of India Act, 1964.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
institutions.  (The General NIanager of ICIdC  is one of them.)
12.    Fifty percent of its initial capital of Rs. 50 million was subscribed
by the Reserve Bank, the balance having been teken up by the Life Insurance
Corporation, the State Bank and other financial institutions. In the summer
of 1964, UTI sold units of rupees 10 each for a total of Rs. 182 million,
11 million of which at a slight premium. Nearly Rs. 170 million were bought
by a great number of individuals and the balance by institutions.   Re-
purchases of units have been negligible since then, UTI is exemptu from
income tax and unit holders also enjoy tax advantages.
130    A further major sale of units is contemplated for July/August 1965
after the Trust has completed a full year of operations and if, as is hoped,
a dividend can be declared. It is however not expected that sales will
mobilize amounts of the order raised through the initial sales last year.
li.    By November 30, 1964, UTI had invested Rs. 184 million, over one-third of
which wasin shares, about 25 percent in Government securities and about 16
percen. in debentures. UTI aims at maintaining not less than 10 percent of
its investment in Government securities. Otherwise it only invests in
securities, principally "blue chips", of existing private industrial enter-
prises. As a matter of policy, investment in any one company shoulcl not
involve more than 5 percent of UTI's funds or more than 10 percent of the
value of securities issued by the company. So far, U1I has invested in
securities of about 150 companies.
15.    Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC):   Following the national-
ization of life insurance in India, LIC was established in September 1956 as
a public sector institution. It took over the business of 245 existing life
insurers.  Since LIC's existence, life insurance in force about tripled,
reaching nearly Rs. 35 billion in March 1964 and the corporation's life insur-
ance flund nearly doubled over the same period to somewhat over Rs. 8 billion.
16.    Statutorily, LIC must invest at least 50 percent of its funds in
Government and other "approved" securities. The other half can be invested
in a variety of transactions, including shares and debentures of private
enterprise. In recent years, IIC net additions to investments in private
companies has risen significantly from about Rs. 100 million in 1960 to about
Rs. 200 million in 1962/63, the year when the major break in the stock mar-
kets occurred following the Chinese invasion. The net additions to investment
in private companies   rose   to about Rs.220 million in 1963/64 (including
underwriting operationsof about Rs. 70 million). It was about the same in
1964/65. With LIC's increasing income, this rate is expected to rise
slightly in the next few years.
*c * * * *
17.    There are a few small private investment institutions working with
larger industries, such as the Investment Corporation of India which serves
principally the financing requirements of some of the companies in the Tata
group.
April 23, 1965



ANINEX h
THE DTDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTPET CORPORATION CF INDIA LIEITED
Cert,a.-n A.soects of the `oct- arI--  ir T_jd-a
1o        There are seven stock exchanges in India, namely in Bombay, Calcutta,
Madras, Ahmedabad, Delhi, Hyderabad and Indore. The Bombay stock exchange is
the oldest, the mnost important, and in :'.any ways a bellwether  for the others.
2.        The following summarizes the movements of new issues in the period
1960-1963. They are based on data of the Reserve Bank of India.
NTew Issues
Of which:
Of which through:      Ordinary   Preference
Amount    Prospectus   Rights      Shares      Shares      Debentures
el
No.   Rs.mil.    Rs, mil.    Rs. mil.      %            %            /0
19'360  115    561          350      211         83            9            8
1961   180     601          350      251          91           7            2
1962   174     976          654      322         58            3           39
1963   139     510          328      182         88            6            6
The figures below indicate the role of underwriting (excluding rights issues
and offers taken up by promotersX.
Net amt.                              Amt. Devolved on Underwriters
Offered     Of which:Amt.   % of      due to lack in Public Response
to Public    Underwritten    Net amt.                     % of aounts
Rs. mil,      Rs. nil.      Offered   Rs. il.           underwritten
19?60             175           103           59         21                  20
1961              169           123           73         29                  2L4
1962             280            234           8L4        581/                261/
1963             172            140           81        n.a.2/              n.a7.2/
3.        The depressed state of the stock market since 1962 is reflected in the
index of equity prices which is compared with the wholesale orice index.
Reserve Bank        Wlholesale P-rice Index
E1ui¢ n53ice T   ex       (1952-53 = 100)
1962 - Nlay                          195                     126
November                      171                     130
1963 - August                        161                     136
November                      174                     135
1964 - June                          161                     146
September                     169                     157
1965 - March                         159                     153
May 1962 - March 1965
% Rise (+) or Fall (-)              -18%                     +21/%
77 This relates to only Rs. 222 million offered.
2/ According to the Reserve Bank, "a large proportion of the amount undenrritten
reportedly devolved on the underwsriters owing to the unsatisfactory response
to a large number of issues."
April 23, 1965



AiHN4X 5
Page 1
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND ITVESTMIJTT CORPO1UMON OF INlDbiA LIM¢TED
Distribution of Share Capit3l on Decciibicr 31, ,L
No. of        No. of        % of
In India                                     Shareholders    Shares        Total
L-fe Insurance Corporation of India                           83,087
Bank of India Ltd.                                            24,249
Punjab National Bank Ltd.                                     23,932
Bank of Baroda Limited                                        19,020
United Commercial Bank Ltd.                                   18,932
Central Bank of India Ltd.                                    18,285
New India Assurance Co. Ltd.                                  13,982
Indian Overseas Bank Limited                                  10,000
United Bank of India Ltd.                                     10,000
Unit Trust of India                                            9,280
Century Spg & Ifg Co. Ltd.                                     6,339
Central Bank of India Ltd. (A/c H.E.H. the
Nizam's Charitable Trust)                                    5,000
Jalanath Insurance Ltd.                                        5,000
Andrew Yule & Co. Ltd.                                         3,814
Indo-Burma Petroleum Co. Ltd.                                  3,814
Jayajeerao Cotton H11ills Ltd.                                 3,144
Indian Iron & Steel Co. Ltd.                                   3,051
Universal Bank of India Ltd.                                   2,526
Tata Sons Private Limited                                      2,500
1,719 others holding less than 2,500 shares each              82,769
1,738        348,72L,     69.755a
In U.K.
National & Grindlays Bank Ltd.                                21,000
Commonwealth Development FinancE Co. Ltd.                     14,999
The Chartered Bank                                             9,500
Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation                        5,000
Mercantile Bank Ltd.                                           3,000
Eastern Bank Ltd.                                              3,000
Royal Insurance Co. Ltd.                                       2,650
British Bank of the Riddle East                                2,500
28 others holding less than 2,500 shares each                 23,116
36         84,765      16.95,
Carried Forward             1,774        433,489      86.705



ATNEX 5
Page 2
1io. of         Go. of       , of
Shareholders      Shares       Total
Brought Fonrward                       1,774        433,489       86.770
In U.S.A.
Olin lHathieson Chemical Corp.                                  12,500
Bank of America                                                 12,450
First National City- Bank                                        1 ,coo
Boston Overseas Financial Corporation                            5,000
Morgan Guarantee International                                   3,000
American Express Co. Inc.                                        2,501
2 others holding 50 shares or less each                             60
8         40,511        8.101
In West Germanfy
Dresdner Bank                                                   12,500
Deutsche Bank                                                    7,500
2         20,0CO 0.0
In Japan
Bank of Tokyo Ltd.                                               2, ¢0O
Mitsui Bank Ltd.                                                 2,500
2           5,000       1.001
In France
Comptoir National d'Escompte de Paris                1           1,000         .20ej
lTotal Number of Shares & Shareholders           1,787        500,000      100.00%
4larch 1, 1965



ANI\E 6
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LDIITED
Details of 7o:h'-rnn Lcans cor\cu.nc2ed uLp -.o 71--`r .J -
Maximum Draw-
Date of                                                   ing without
Agree-                                       Rate of      Creditor's
Loan No,.       ment        Amount           Term            Interest     Approval
IBRD
109      IMar. 1l h  1955  US$ 10 mil.  15 yrs. including
5 yrs. of grace      4-5/8%       None
232       July 15, 1959  US$ 10 milO    10 yrs. including)
3 yrs. of grace )              $  100,000
) Varies
269       Oct. 28, 1960  US$ 20 mil.    10 yrs. including)   accord-
3 yrs. of grace ) ing to       $  500,000
) project
312       Feb. 28, 1962  UL$ 20 mil. ) 15 yrs. maximum    )              $  5(00,000
)                   )
340       June 5, 1963   US$ 30 mil   )                   )              $2,000,000
US$ 90 milu
AID
DLF 155   Mar. 23, 1961  US$  5 mil'    15 yrs. including
1 yr. of grace      5%         $  250o000
KfW
AL  83    Apr. 26, 1963  DM 20 rdil. )                    )              DM 500,000
AL 146    July 27, 1964      5        ) 20 yrs. miiaximum  )  51%%     )
AL 150    Nov. 23, 1964     10        )                   )            ) DM 2 mill.
DM 35 mil.
Status of Foreign Loans at December 31, 1961)
All figures in millions of U.S. Dollars)
Projects        Projects          Amounts
Amounts        Approved         Committed        Disbursed
Loan No,        of Loans     No.     Amt.     No.     Amt.     No.      Amt,
IBRD 109              100        15      9.9       15      9.9      15      9.9
232              10.0        24      9.9       24      9.8      24      9c5
269              20.0        37     19.9       37     19.8      36     16.4
312              20.0        35     20.0       31     18.8      2)4     8.3
340              30.0        74     30.0       31     13.1      11      4.5
Proposed Sixth Loan* 50.0          6       1.4      -       -        -        -
$)L0.0       191    $91.l     175     $71T.)    112    _____
AID  DLF 155        $  5.0         18    $ 4.3       9    $ 2.6       8    $1; l.o
KfW AL 83              5.0        37       5.0      34      L.5      26      2.4
AL 146            1.2         8       1.2       2      0.h      -        -
AL 150            2.5          8      1.2       -       -       -        -
Equiv. of      $   8o7        53    $ 7.4      36    $ 4.9      26    $2.-4
Total      US$153.6       262    $102.8     183    $78.9     1L6    $52.0
March 1, 1965     *Approvals subject to conclusion of Loan Agreement.



Ai 7EX 7
Page 1
THE INDUSTRIAL CIRDTT AND INVESTINT CORPORATIOIT OF INDIA LIITED
_o rX! of          - 19 6 5
Nlame                  Age          Principal Present Positions
-1.   Mr. G.L. Mehta              64   Chairman of ICICI (iwith executive powjers);
Chairman, Indian Investment Centre; Chairman,
Capital Issues Advisory Committee; Director,
Air India.
*2.    Sir A. Ramaswami IMudaliar  76   Chairman, India Steamship Co. Ltd and eleven
other companies; Director of several other
companies.
*3,   Mr. Kasturbhai Lalbhai       69   Chairman, Atul Products Ltd.; Chairman,
National Rayon Corporation Ltd.; Director
of several other companies.
4.   liHr. D.M. Khatau           63   Chairman, Scindia Steam IJavigation Co. Ltd.;
Chairman, Associated Cement Cc. Ltd.;
Chairman, Cable Corporation of India Ltd.;
Director of several other companies.
5.   Mr. W.G. Pullen             61   Chief General Manager, The Chartered Bank,
London; Chairman. The Chartered Bpnk of
London, San Francisco; Director of five
other companies.
6.   Mr. K.K. Birla              45   Managing Director, Birla Bros. Pvt. Ltd.,
Calcutta (M1anaging Agents for jute, cotton
and other mills); Director of several other
companies.
7.  H-lr. D.P. Goenka            49   Partner, Messrs. Ramdutt Ramkissendas,
Calcutta (Managing Agents and Secretaries
and Treasurers of jute, tea and investment
companies); Director of several other
companies.
8.   Kr. N.A. Palkhivala         44   Advocate, Supreme Court of India - authority
on company law and taxation; Director, Tata
Industries Private Ltd. and several other
companies.
9.   Mr. B.K. Datta              54   Managing Director, United Bank of India Ltd.,
Calcutta; Director of five other companies.
* Members of Investment Committee - see para. 27.



ANNEX 7
P-age 7-
Name                     1\e        &r:n:;2a. fr,-ser . P^si+o>s
10.   Hr. L.J. Mulkern             44    Vice President, Bank of America,
N.T. &: S.A., San Francisco; Director,
Indian Investment Centre, New Delhi.
/111.  Seat vacated by Ir. D.C.B.         Managing Director, Bird & Co. (?vte.)
Pilkington (vacancr not yet        Ltd., Calcutta,7
filled)
12    Mrc S. Ranganathan           55    Secretary to the Ministry of Industry and
Supply, Government of India, New Delhi;
Director of Indian Investmnt Centre;
Director, Industrial Finance Corporation
of India.
Mr. J. Russell               48    (AlteInate for IIr. W.G. Pullen); Manager
The Chartered Bank, Calcutta; Director,
The Allahabad Eank Ltd., Calcutta.
Ktr. C.B. Thomas             53    (Alternate for Mr. L.J. Hiulkern); Director,
Esso Standard Refining Company of India
Ltd. and twfo other companies.



THF. INDUSThIAL CIltIFIT AND INVESTMENT CORPOR!TION OF INDIA LTMITED
ORGANIZATION CHART
CHAIRFAN - G.L. MEHTA
GENERAL MANAGER - H-T. PAREKH
DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER - J.S. RAJ
(Seconded to NIDB in Nigeria)
DFPUTY GENERAL MANAGER - S.S. MEITA
(Officiating in absence of J.S. Rai. normally i/c Project Dept.)
SECRFTARY & CHIEF ACCOUNTANT                                                                                                        ECOINCIST
(R.C  D0ODFMAL)                                                                                                         (DR. P.B. IEDHORA)
ACCOUNTS AND DISPURSFFNT DEPARTMENT                SECRETARIAL AND SHARES DEPARTMFNT            PROJECT DEPARTMENT       LEGAL DEPARTMENT         ECONOMICS & STATISTICS          FOLLOW-UP
(S. Kumarasundaram      (V.V. Divecha i/c)               S".TION                   SECTION
i/c - acting)
ACCOUNTS SECTION       DISPURSEMENT SFCTION       SECRETARIAL SECTION       SHARES SECTION
(P.B. Bugwadia i/c)        (P.K. Doshi i/c)           (Mrs. Dalal i/c)      (D.M.R. Shroff i/c)
Maintenance of            Disbursement of          Work connected with      Maintenance of           Engineering, finan-       Legal matters           Economic analyais of            Checking
accounts, attend-         loans.                   Board and share-         share registers:         cial and market           relating to             problems of interest            progress of
ing to tax matters.                                holders' meetings        dividends on             appraisal of pro-         the Corpora-            to ICICI. Compilation           projects after
and company law;         shares, etc.             posals received, and      tion's finan-           and presentation of             Board sanction
general administra-                               preparation of rec-       cial operations.        overall statistical             and analyzing
tion.                                             onsendations to the                               data on ICICI opera-            post-approval
Board.                                            tions.                          problems.
Staff Analysis by Departments                       Staff Analysis by Grade
Management                      4                    Senior Officers          4
Accounts Section                8                    Other Officers          42
Disbursement Section            7                    Assistants & Trainees    7
Secretarial Section            17                    Clerks                  16
Shares Section                  3                    Stenographers, etc.     23
Project Department             16                    Subordinates            39
Legal Department                4                                           131
Fconomics Section               3
Follow-Up Section               4
Trainees                        2
Secretaries A Stenographers    24
Subordinate Staff              39
131
March 1, 1965



;:m 9
THE INDIJSTR-AL CREDIT AND 11WEVTEENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LlIPTED
Delay in Project Execution
1.   A significant measure of the time needed to start the execution of an
ICICI project is the time lag between the dates of the ICICI sanction and
the issuance of an import licence, a principal prerequisite for the commence-
ment of foreign exchange disbursements.    On the average, a period of 6-8
months elapses in the case of projects presenting no particular problems.
Cases during the period 1962-64, in which the issuance of the licence was
significantly more delayed, are reviewed below.
2.   In 1962, there were 16 sanctioned cases with import licence delays
ranging from 11 to 23 months and in 3 cases no licence has as yet been
obtained: three projects were held up in view of the rearrangement of
priorities after the Chinese invasion; nine due to governmental approval
problems, either stemming from the reallocation of foreign aid funds or
the difficulty in increasing the amounts of licences; five due to changes
in the projects (one on account of land acquisition); two due to
differences with the foreign collaborators. The situation improved
materially in respect of sanctions in 1963 and 1964 when import licences
in only seven and two cases respectively were held up (sanctions made in
the second half of 1964 can obviously not yet be considered); three of
these delays are attributable to project reasons, i.e., two due to diffi-
culties in raising share capital, and one due to a delay in defining the
equipment list;  the others are attributable to problems arising from the
licensing process, particularly differing views regarding the availability
of indigenous material.
3.   No case-by-case analysis was undertaken of the reason for disbursement
delays following the issuance of import licences. The experience of ICICI
indicates, however, that negotiations with foreign collaborators on project
details, and the time needed for security arrangements in respect of ICICI
loans, are leading factors.
April 23, 1965



ANN3EX 10
TI-E IlIDUSTRLAL CREDIT AND INVESTMETIT COY'PORATION OF INDIA LIPEITED
Analysis of Investments by Annual Approvals,
Commitments and Disbursements during_ tle Decede 1955-1964
(All figures in millions of rupees
Approvals
Foreign      Rupee       Underwriting
Currency    Loans &       (shares and  Direct Equity
Loans     Guarantees     debentures)  Subscriptions     Total
1955                    -            1.8            18.7          14.9          35.4
1956                    -           17.7             5e2           1.9          24.8
1957                   22.2          2.8            27A1           4.3          564
1958                    9.2           2.5            1.5           327          16o9
;959                   36.0          0.2            30.6           8,8          75.6
1960                   58.9         30.5           13.6            2.0         105.0
1961                   67.9         36.6             5.5           3,0         113.0
1962                   90.1         43.5            31.1           9.8         174.5
1963                  l0o.4         81.8            35.3           3.0         230.5
1964                   95.0         38.0            53c9           3 r9        190.8
Total       489,7        255.4          222.5           55.3       1,022.9
Commitments
Foreign      Rupee       Underwriting
Currency    Loans &       (shares and  Direct Equity
Loans     Guarantees     debentures}  Subscriptions     Total
1955                                 1 l.4         10.0            4.3          15.7
1956                                 4.-             7.7          12.0          23.7
1957                    -           14.5           11.5            1.9          27.9
1958                   13.4          3.6            20.8           3.2          h1.0
1959                   22.1          1.1            27.9           5.5          56.6
1960                   31.0         20.8             7.2           3.9          62.9
1961                   59,5         21.1             7.8           6.0          94j.4
1962                   61.3         26.2            24.3           9.1         120,9
1963                   70.6         31.1            29.7           3.5         134.9
1964                  110.1         63.8            29.5           h.7         208.1
Total       368.0        187.6          176.4           5h.1         786.1
Disbursements
Foreign                  Underwriting
Currency                  (shares and  Direct Equity
Loans     Rupee Loans    debentures)   Subscriptions    Total
1955                                 1.0             2.3           4.3           7.6
1956                    -            3.4             3.1           2.8           9.3
1957                    -           11.3             7.9           4.5          23.7
1958                    2.2          5.h             4.5           8.8          20.9
1959                   2o.6          3.5             2.3           5.7          32.1
1960                   12.6           5.1            9.5           3.8          31.0
1961                   282          i6.4             8.4           6.5          59.5
1962                   49.4         30.9            12.8           5.4          98.5
1963                   61.4         27.1            12.5           6.6         107.6
1964                   73.4         61.0           13.9            4.6         152.9
Total       247.8        165.1           77.2           53.0         543.1
March 1, 1965



AITNEX 11
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Distributiwii    Indb  u   of TCT.T Tr-ro,rl.s, 195C to 196)4
J 1 1 f      it ir m..- I.  o i'll e .)
No. of     Total   % of
Industry                   Companies Approvals Total Largest   Smallest Average
Automobiles & Cycles            17       60.0     5.7    13.0     0.3      3.5
Cement                           7       68.0     6.7    26.2     3.0      9.7
Chemicals & Chemical Products   43      147.9    1405    20.3     023      3-h
Electrical Equipment            34       8,O9     7.9   10.h        23     2.4
Electricity, Gas & Steam         7       33.2    3.3    12.6      1.5      h.7
Food Products (other than sugar) 9      12.1    12      5.0      0.2      ae3
Glass, Pottery etc.             15       41.4    401    12.2      0.2      2.8
Iron and Steel                  33     141.0    13.8     9.5      o.h      h.3
M4etal Products, ferrous &
non-ferrous                  41        97.2     9.5   16.5      0.3      2.h
Machinery Manufacture (other
than electrical)              36     118.0    11.5    11.8      0.3      3,3
Paper, Pulp & Paper Products    17      69.2     6.8    14.2      0.3      h.1
Rubber Products                  5       13.5    1.3     5.0      0.5      2.7
Sugar                           10       21.9     2.1    5.7      0.3      2.2
Textile                         36       58.4     5.7    6.6      0.2      1.6
Wood, Cork & Hardboard           6       13.6     1.3     6.0     0.5       2.3
Miscellaneous                   12       46.6     h.6    21.5     o.4      3.9
Total                328    1,022.9   100.0%
March 1, 1965



ATNEX 12
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND IJVTEST1ER?!T CORPORATION OF IN;DIA Lr'ITED
ICICT's Foreicyn Exc!an'e Lcor.s to N;teet C.n;s- Foreign Lx-
change rather than Financin_ Njeeds
1.        During the period October 1963 to January 1965, the Capital
Goods Committee referred 251 projects to ICICI (123 of them jointly
to IFCI). From among these referrals ICICI approved foreign exchange
assistance for 29 projects:  24 were under consideration, 23 "under en-
quiry" and 5 were rejected by early February 1965.  The othershave not
come to ICICI's attention. Ten of the projects for which foreign ex-
change assistance was approved are cases - according to comments of
ICICI representatives - in which the principal purpose of the trans-
action was the provision of foreign exchange rather than of credit.
Eight of these cases involved foreign exchange assistance for amounts
equivalent to less than Rs. 1 million (05210,000), one was a loan for
Rs. 1.L million and another for Rs. 2.7 million.   The total amount of
cases of this nature represented 34%' of the total amount approved ($5.1
millicn) by ICICI out of the referrals during the indicated period,
2.        The experience of IFCI is simi:Lar.  Of the 22 projects
approved, there were six cases in which the main purpose wias to provide
foreign exchange (also for only serall amounts).
April 26, 1965



TRF ilOC]iTRTAL A.P'       TT r IV'.ST:ENT CnrP) ATTON CF r0DIA LIITMD                                                     AtNFI 13
Ostout of TCICT Client- 0roduccr.T o'er two rears
PROPORTION OF OUTPUT FROM~ 20IC1
TOTAL INDIAM PRODUCTION               CLIENTS IN TOTAL INDIAN
MCICi CLIENTS                               (in tons unless otherwise qwifi-d)                                                (thousand tons vae   sther-  e               PDOUCToON (9)
Froduot   CorgBny                           3 io~~~~~~~~Lle=erd            2jMt     -9                              2       rpu    _                             rr5w)                          92               9
Csarolty/Yeur           lYOZ      19'.3    i9bh.    r190196                        962      19                  1962        1963
rper                 Seshasayve Paper                   18,002                   2,500   1h,359    13,202        A11  aper   3,0hol       66,0L8    67,094                 388         502                     8.9             13.1
Straw Produots                     18iM00                     998   15,937    15,099
Titrghur Paper 1                   12,000                   5,;x)    8,502     .36)
sest Coast Paper                   18,o00                  25,603   27,252    30,213
Surar                Cannery Sugars                     1.000 tonW/day         130,907  117,960   210,a882      All Sugar    8l4,919      653,225   841,292              2.280       2,310                    35.7             20.2
Sree Sarraryay Sugars              1,016 tons/day         102,755   57,955   116D979
Thimu Arooran Sugars               1,220 tons/day        11,1,73   98e,96    86,966
Upper bosh Sugara                  3,060 tons/day         .39,664  378,306   L28,465
ln,*nt             tMy.ore Ceowata                     lo00,00                 14,800   28 ,00    73,ODO       All C-t      222,(00      254,030   155,5C0              8,600       9,Xt                      2.6              2.7
Fanysmn Cemnts                     67,000                  65,600   77,030    82,5CC
talyanpur the & CAem3nt1 40,00b to 140,                 00 12,C    L19,0       n.a.
tlze-ns          Ad.r.h Chesioals                   36,000                   o,300   31 OtO    16,200      All                                                          '           /                        /               a/
Dh-rasi Msorarji                   40,OOo                   1 p,3O  31,0(0    43,450      Fertilierss   24,600       62,600      91,650
-3inm Carbide       Atnedabad tanu_acturing            7,200                    6,100    6,8(0     8,C00                                                                 26.h        26.9                    23.1             25.3
'y3rog.r -eraocie    National Peroxide                  2,600                    1,805    2,280     2,81r                                                                  1.8         2.7                   100.0             82.3
0crdcoard            An-i hardbsurds                    6,000                    6,053    5,700     5,825                                                            28,52h)k,"Yt. 27^68b).''t                n.al             o1.a.
3ccnoed hoc-assern   Carhorn-dus Universal              600 t- 1,000               868    1,071     1,139                                                                  ..a.        u.s.                    n.a.             n.a.
.erro-nu.gaoese      Ferno Allop Corporation            30,100                  30,012   35,928    38,000                                                                109.1        122.0                    27.5             29.5
Steel Castings       D.ohis Iron & Steel                1,500                    l,o6O    2 060     2,b57                                                                 43.5         49.6                     2.h              h.2
Cant Iron Spt-      DPlaia IrOn & Steel                  1400                   18,129   13,695    17                                                                     n.18
Pip-r
Steel ware           Special Steels                     30,000                    3,6831  17,804   12,222                                                                 n.n.
Rubber Insulated     Asian Cable Corporation             24 a. core yards         3.3 -.  11.8 a.    11.3 a.                                                              8,486       4,537                    n.a.              .a.
CabIe                                                                                                                                                                  (100,000 mOte.)
a/  L-,k or breakdown of o-iodlty output of 11I1 olients does not pencit co-poari-on.
April 2i, 19o5



THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT ANID INVESTIVIENT CORPORATION OF INDIA rurITED
Regional Distribution of Operations
(All amounts in millicns of-rupees)
State of           As at the end of 1560             As at the end of 1962                 As at the end of 1964
Territory     'No, of    Amounts     7I Of          No. of     Amounts      CI'        No. of    Aroimts       Of
Projects   lpproved   Apprcvals      Projects    Aproved   Approvals    Proofects  Aont       ICIC  s
________                   ~~~~~~~Approvals  Poct  AprvdApprovals
Western Tndia
Gujarat               12        30,3         9            36          61.5       10           61     130.3        13
Maharashtra           35       101.6        32            69        191.3        32          120     363.7        35
M4adhya Pradesh        2         2.0         1             4           7.0        1            5      12,9         1
South India
Ifs:zre              10         40.7        13            14         57.3        70           16      78c5         8
Madras                10        34,o        11            17          62.5       10           28     108A8        11
Kerala                 _          -          -             1          5,0         1            8      14.l         1
East India
Andhra Pradesh         3         6,8         2            10          39.5        7           11      62.2         6
Orissa                 2        15.0         5             3         25,0o        4            6      34.14        3
ilorth India
Rajasthan l                       _          _             1          6eO         1            3       9.7         1
'u.njab                5         9v5         3             7         11.7         2           12      18.9         2
UJttar Pradesh         6        28.0         9             9         32.5         5           12      37.4         4
1'ortheast Tn-dia
tihar                  4        15.8         5             7         3Y14         5           10      43.2          4
1lest Bengal           8        30.4        10            18          53     ?    9           33       89.8         9
Assam                             -          -             3     _   19v          3            3      19.0          2
97       314.1       100            199        601.7      10D          328     1022.9       iCO
24arch 1, 1965



ANNEX 15
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND TNIJESTtEEfIT CORPORATION OF INDIA LThTiTFD
Comparative 5v-i;mary al ce 3   'e> '- as at Decem!ber 31, 1Q-9 tzo 19(,
k 11 fgurSs in millions of rupees)
1959     1960     1961     1962     1963    1964
ASSETS
Tenporary Investments             17.3     16.9     15.0     28.9     28.8    30.0
Industrial Securities
Shares                            30.2     38.5     49.2     50.8     57.2    75.1
Debentures                        12.0     12.4     12.4     25.1     35.1    24,0
Loans in rupees                   17.8     20.7     35.2     63.3     85.5   139M6
Total Rupee Investments           77.3     88.5    111.8    168.1    206.6   268.7
Loans in Foreign Currencies       22.8     35.L     60.0    103.2    152.7   208.2
Fixed Assets                       1.2      2,L      2.4      2.3      2.2     2.1
Current Assets & Advances
Cash and bank balances            53.7    146.7     L1.5     L0.4     31.2    45.6
Other assets and advances          4.6      147      6.7      L.8      8.3    10.3
58.3     51,4     51.2     45.2     39.5    55.9
Total                159.6    177-7    225.4    3188     1401.0  534.9
LIABILTTIES
Share Capital                     50.0     50.0     50.0     50,0     50.0    50M0
Reserves and Surplus               4.0      7.6     12.4     15.8     18.6    22.1
54.0     57.6     62.4     65.8     68.6    72.1
Rupee Loans
Govt. of India Loans              75.0     75.0     95.0    145.0    175.0   250.0
Foreign Currency Loans
IBRD                              22.8     35.4     58.9     99.5    144.2   181.6
AID                                 -       -        -        1.4      2.2     4.4
Kreditanstalt                       -       -        -        -        -      11.5
22.8     35.U     58.9    100.9    146.4   197.5
Current Liabilities and
Provrisions                       7.8      9.7      9.1      7.1     11.0    15.3
Total                159.6    177.7    225,4    318.8    401.0   534.9
March 1, 1965



ANNEX 16
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTINIJT CORPORATION OF D.TDTA LITNTED
Co-rarative SuEmmary Trcome and Expendit`re Stateriments
for the Ye    -:ar-snd  December 31, 1959 to9t7
T.All figures in millions of Rupees)
1959    1960    1961    1962    1963    1964
INCOIIE
Interest on Temporarv Investments
and Deposits                      2.91    2.61    2.24    2.95    2.90    2.45
Interest on Rupee Loans            1.74    1.81    2.49    4.10    7.05   10.06
Interest on Foreign Exchange
Loans                             0.77    2.26    4.14    6.89   LO91   15.62
Dividends                          0.149   1D27    2.24    1.95    20o6    1e93
Underwriting Commission and
Brokerage                         0.32    0.68    0.21    0.55    0.42    o.86
Other Income                       0.02    0.17    0,26    0.30    0.27    0.26
Total Income      6.25    8.80   11.58   16074   23.61   31.18
EXPENSES
Salaries, etc.                     0.41    0,54    0.59    0.74    0A83    1.18
Other Administration Expenses      0.33    0.52    0.67    1.13    0.77   O069
Interest paid and other Financial
Expenses                          0.145   1.48    2.90    6.98   11.86   16.85
Provision for Doubtful Debts        -       -       -       -      0,22    0.10
Total Expenses    1.19    2.54    4.16    8.85   13.68   18.82
Profit before Income Tax             5.06    6.26    7.L2    7.89    9.93   1203G
Less Income Tax                      2,214   2.49    2o77    3.25   )j.14    5.145
Net Profit                           2.82    3.77    1.65    4.64    5.79    6.91
Allocated to:
Special Reserve                     -      0.81    1.07    0.77    1.45    1.75
General Reserve and Surplus        0.32    0.08    0.33    0.62    0.84    1141
Dividend                           2.50    2.88    3.25    3.25    3.50    3.75
2.82    3 77   14.65    4.64    5.79    6.91
Dividend as % of Share Capital     5.0%    5.75%   6.50%   6.50%   7.0%    7.50%0
Ratios:
-Net Profit/Net Worth               5.2%    6.6%    714%    7.1%    8.5%    9.5%0
Dividends to Net Worth             4.6%    5.0%    5.2%    5-0OS   5.2%    5.0%
*Profits before Tax/Net Worth       9.L%   10.8%   11.8%   12.0%   14.5%   17.2/o
Net Profit + Capital Gains/Net
Worth                             7.7%   10.9%   11.3%    9.7%    9.3%    9.5%
-Excluding Capital Gains
March 1, 1965



ANNFEX 17
TI- INDrTS,PTAL CRIMIT A>D '1TS-2-.iENT COFPORATIONT OF TT T-hA -INITED
Staterinnt cf Capital Gainsl 1959 to 196L, realized in respect
of sales of Shares and Debentures
{All figures in millions of Rupees)
No. of                         Capital
a
Issues              Sale        Gains         %        Tax       Net
Year     Sold     Cost    Proceeds     Before Tax    Profit    at 30%    Gain
Up to
1959       8       3.8       6.5          2.7          66%       0.8      1.9
1960       2       4.7       9.2           4.5         97%       123      3.2
1961       3       h.0       7.3          3.3          82/o      0.9      2.4
1962       5       3.9       6.2          2.3          59%       0.6      1.7
1963      16       2.8       3.6          0.8          29%       0.2      0.6
1964      19      12.6      12 O          O0.          3%        0.1      0.3
Total    53      30.8      4L.8         1,O0         45%        3.9     10.1*
* Credited to Capital Reserve Account
April 23, 1965



ANNEX 18
Page 1
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND IN1ESTME'JT CORPORATION OF INDIA Lfl4ITED
Cash F.ow Estimates from 1964 .,o 1967
(All f£igures in m4llions of raFees)
A - FOREIGIN'T CTJRRENCY OPERATIOiTS
1964     1965      1966      1967
(Actual)
RELQUIR 74ETS
Disbursements
Loans - IBRD I - V                         59.2       59.9      66.6      49.0
IBRD VI (Proposeda                   -        4.5      25.0      46,.6
AID                                 2.7       19.0        -         -
Kf '1 I - IV                       11.5      17.5      11.0        6.9
Other DiHI creditsL/                 -         -         2.0       8.0
73.4     100.9     1o4.6     110.5
Maturi ng Debt
IBRD I - V                         21.8      26.3      38.1      42.2
IBRD VI (Proposed)                   -         -         -         8.0
AID                                 0.5        0.5       1.0       1.5
KfW I - IV                           -        1.1        2.4       3.0
22.3      27.9      41.5      54.7
Total Disbursements & Maturing Debt        95.7      128.8     146.1     165.2
RESOURCES
Loans
IBRD I - V                         59.2      59.9      66.6       49.0
IBRD VI (Proposed)                   -        4.5      25.0      L6.6
AID                                 2.7      19.0         -         -
KfW I - IV                         11.5      17.5       11.0       6.9
Other DM credits                     -         -         2.0       8.0
.0
73.4     100.9     104.6     110.5
Repayments from Borrowersb/
IBRD I - V                         17.9      26.2      38.1       43.3
IBRD VI (Proposed)                   -         -         -         8.0
AID                                  -         0.5       1.5       2.1
Kf'W I - IV                          -        1.1        2.4       3.0
17.9      27.8      42.0      56.4
Total                                      91.3     128.7      146.6     166.9
Net balance for the year (A)                -4.4      -0.1      0.5        1.7



ANNEX 18
Page 2
B - RUPEE OPERATIONS
1964      1965     1966      1967
(Actual)
REQUIREI,ENTS
Industrial securities
Shares                                      12.4      20.0     18.0      2h.0
Debentures                                   6.1      10.2      8.1      11.8
Rupee loan disbursement                       61.0      53.5     46.9      52.8
Purchase of Unit Trusts                        1.3       -        -         -
Dividends                                      3.8       4.2      5.1       5.6
Total                             84.6      87.9     78.1     9h.2
RESOURCES
Share capital c/                               -        12.5     12.5       -
Government of India loans II & III            75.0      25.0      -         -
Other rupee loans d/                           -         -       30.0     40.0
Repayment of rupee loans from borrowers b/     6.9      13.8     20.7      29.9
Sale of securities at cost                    11.6       L.0      4.o       h.o
Natured securities                             -         1.9      -         -
Sundry accruals                                2.7       -        -         -
Surplus (after tax)
From operations e/                          6.9       8.1      9.2      10.5
From sale of investmtents fl                0.3       0.7      0.7       0.7
Total                            103.4      66.0     77.1      85.1
Net balance for the year (B)                  18.8     -21.9     -1.0      -9.1
Net balance for the year (A + B)              14.4     -22.0     -0.5      -7.4
Cash and bank balances -
Beginning of the year                      31.2      45.6     23.6     23.1
End of the year                            45.6      23.6     23.1      15.7
March 1, 1965



ANNEX 18
Page 3
Assumptions Regarding Cash Flow Estimates from 1964 to 1967
a/   Additional Foreign Currency Loans
It is assumed that the proposed Sixth Loan will be available
on the same terms as Loan 340-IN. It is also assumed that
additional loans of DM 15 million will be available each year
from 1965 onwards.
b/   Repayments from Borrowers
Repayment of loans sanctioned from 1964 onwards is assumed on
an average based on past experience.
c/   Share Capital
It is assumed that further share capital of Rs. 25 million will
be raised, half in 1965 and half in 1966. The whole amount is
taken as an addition to rupee resources.
d/   Other Rupee Loans
It is assumed that ICICI will need to borrow, either from the
Government, DBI or by bond issues, Rs. 30 million in 1966 and
Rs. 40 million in 1967. The rate of interest payable has been
assumed at 5% per annum - the same as for the third Government
loan.
e/   Surplus from Operations
This includes surplus from foreign currency operations also.
f/   Surplus from Sale of Investments
Profit on sale of investments is assumed at Rs. 1 million in
1965 and thereafter. Tax on profit is assumed at 30%.
March 1, 1965



AMNEX 19
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Proforma Balance Sheets as at December 31, 196)4 to 1967
(All figures in millions of Rupees)
1964      1965      1966       1967
(Actual)
ASSETS
Temporary Investments                         30.0      28.0      28.0       28.0
Industrial Securities
Shares                                     75.1      8L.0     100.0      120.0
Debentures                                 24.0      L2.8      !48.9     60.7
Loans in rupees                              139.6     184.4     210.6      233.5
Total Rupee Investments                      268.7     339.2     387.5     )4h2.2
Loans in Foreign Currencies
IBRD Loans I - V                             191.6     225.9     254.4     260.1
IBRD Loan VI (Proposed)                        -         4.5      29.5      68.1
AID Loan                                       5.1      22.2      20.7       18.6
KfT Loans I - IV                              11.5      26.2      314.8      38.7
Other DMI credits                              -         -         2.0       10.0
Total Loans in Foreign Currencies            208.2     278.8     341.)4     395.5
Fixed Assets                                   2.1       2.0       1.9        1.8
Current Assets & Advances
Cash and bank balances                        45.6      23.6      23c1       15.7
Other assets and advances                     10.3       3.9       6.5       1.3
58.0      29.5      31.5       26.4
Total                              534.9     6)47.5    76n.4     864.1
LIABILITIES
Share Capital                                 50.0      62.5      75.0       75.0
Reserves and Surplus                          22.1      27.1      31.5       37.)4
72.1      89.6     106.9      112.)4
Rupee Loans
Govt. of India Loans I - III                 250.0     275.0      275.0     275.0
Other loans                                    -         -        30.0       70.0
250.0     275.0     305.0      3)45.0
Foreign Currency Loans
IBRD Loans I - V                             181.6     216.7     245.2     252.0
IBRD Loan VI (Proposed)                        -         4.5      29.5      68.1
AID Loan                                       4.4      21.8      20.8       19.3
KfWl Loans I - IV                             11.5      26.2      3)4.8     38.7
Other DlAl credits                             -         -         2.0       10.0
-         -         -          2.0
197.5     269.2     332.3      388.1
Current liabilities and provisions            15.3      13.7      16.2       18.6
Total                              534.9     6)47.5    760.)4    86)4.1
March 1, 1965



ANNEX 20
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA IM,ITED
Estimated Summary Income and Expenditure Statemenits
for the Years ending December 31, 1964 to 1967
(All figures in millions of Rupees)
1964     1965    1966     1967
(Actual)
INCCME
Interest on Securities and Bank Deposits       2.4     2.8      1.9      2.0
Interest on Rupee Loans                       10.1    11.4     13.7     15.5
Interest on Foreign Currency Loans           15.6     20.7     26.2     31.0
Dividends (Gross)                              1.9     2.5      3.0      3.6
Underwriting Commission and Brokerage          0.9     1.1      1.0      1.1
Miscellaneous Receipts                         0.3     0.3      0.3      0.3
Total Income                         31.2     38.8    46.1     53.5
EDCPENSES
Salaries, etc.                                 1.0     1.1      1.2      1.4
Other Expenses                                 0.9     0.7      0.8      o.8
Interest paid and other Financial Expenses   16.8     22.9     28.0     33.1
Provision for Doubtful Debts                   0.1      -        -        -
Total Expenses                        18.8     24.7    30.0     35.3
Profit before Income Tax                      12.4    14.1     16.1     18.2
Less Income Tax                                5.5     6.0      6.9      7.7
Net Profit                             6.9      8.1     9.2     10.5
Allocated to:
Special Reserve                                1.7     2.0      2.3      2.6
General Reserve & Surplus                      1.4     1.9      1.8      2.3
Dividend                                       3.8     4.2      5.1      5.6
6.9      8.1      9.2    10.5
Dividend as % of Share Capital                 7.5%    7.5%     7.5%     7.5%
Net Profit/Net Worth                           9.5%    9.1%     8.6%     9.3%
March 1, 1965



THE INDUSTRIAL CREIT AND IMVESTMFNT CORPORATION OFT? LI M TiITTR
Analysis of Borrowing Capacity, 1961 - 1967
(All figures in millions of Rupees)
1961     1962     1963      1964        1965            1966              1967
A       B       A        B        A       B
A. BORROWING BASE
Capital                      50.0     50.0     50.0     50.0      62.5    50.0    75.0    50.0     75.0    50.0
Government Advance           75rO     75.0     75.0      75.0     75,0    75.0    75,0    75-0     75.0     75.0
Reserves and Surplus         12.4     15.8     18,6      22.1     27.1    27,1    3.o9    31.9     37.4     37.4
137 44   14O,8    1)43,6    1)47.1   1.61) 46 c .50 L_ C ,   _,   /_   187.4   162.)4
B.(1) DEBT* (including second and third government loans as required in e.risting borrow-jng limitation)
Rupee Borrowing              20.0     70.0    100,0    175,0     200o0   200,0   23fn.0  2300    270.0   270.0
Foreign Currency            121.3    175.1    229,9    322.0    h0Wm3   h4oo3    )4689   )34609   531.9   531.9
141.3    245c,l   329.9    [97.0     600.3   600.3   698 9   65-8 9    801.9   801.9
Ratio of B.(l) to A               1.0      1.7      2.3       344      3.6     4.1     3.8     4.h       4.3     4.9
B.(2) DEBT* (excl-ad.i.ng goveinment loans, as permi.tted in prooosed sxth_luau anrec-ma:-t)
Rupee Borrowing                --                          -       -              30~     30.0     70.0     70.0
Foreign Cu:'rency           121,3    1?7,7o   2_9 9     322,0    I0033   V)0.3 )     )   B   9    531.9   531.9
121.3   17c,1    229.9     322rO    400,3   400C3   4989 9  453 9    601.9    601.9
Ratio of B.(2) to A               0.9     12        1.6      2.2      2.5     2.6     2.7     3.2       3.2     3.7
N.B.  A - On assumption of Rs. 25 million share capital increase in 1965 and 1966.
B - On asswiuption share capital increase postponed.
*  Including debt committed but not yet drawn.
May 7, 1965



