RESTRICTED
...>>-,  ,'t,          Report No. P-433
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION
OF INDIA LIMITED
May 19, 1965



REPORT AND RECC6D!1ENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMIITED
1.     I submit herewith the following report and recommendation on a
proposed loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $50 million
to The Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India Limited (here-
inafter called ICICI). The loan would help ICICI to continue its foreign
exchange assistance to private industrial enterprises in India.
PART I - INTRODUCTION
2.     The proposed loan would be the Bank's sixth loan to ICICI. If this
loan is made, as well as two pending loans totalling $84 million to India
for a Power Transmission project and the Kothagudem Power project, the Bank
would have made 34 loans for Indian projects. These three loans, totalling
$134 million, would increase the total of Bank loans to India (net of
cancellations) from $847.1 million to $981.1 million.
3.     The proposed loan and the two power loans would be the first Bank
loans made to India since June 1963. Pledges made by the Bank within the
framework of the Indian consortium for India's Third Five-Year Plan total
$515 million, of which $175.5 million has so far been committed in loans
as follows:
Year                    Purpose                   Amount
TF mn
1961         Coal mining (private sector)          35.0
1961         Calcutta port                         21.0
1961         Railways                              50.0
1961         Coal mining (IISCO)                   19.5
1962         Industrial development                20.0
(Fourth ICICI project)
1963         Industrial development                30.0
(Fifth ICICI project)
Total      175.5
The uncommitted balance of Bank pledges, at present $339.5 million, will
be reduced to $205.5 million if the proposed loans are made.



4.     The status of all of the Bank's previous loans for Indian projects
as of April 30, 1965, is as follows:
($ million)
Total loans, net of cancellations              847.1
of which has been repaid                   210.4
Total now outstanding                         636.7
Amount sold                      97.3
of which has been repaid     76.3           20.7
Net amount held by Bank                       616.0
The Association has now made 16 credits to India totalling $435 million.
As of April 30, 1965, $259.1 million had been disbursed on these credits.
5.     The total of outstanding Bank loans on April 30, 1965, included an
undisbursed balance of $91.6 million. For the majority of the loans dis-
bursements have been proceeding regularly.  There are four loans, howHever,
which have been affected by difficulties of various kinds:
(a)  Disbursements under the $35 million loan made in 1961 for the
Private Sector Coal project were initially held up due to delays
in processing import licences for the participating mining
enterprises. Subsequently, many enterprises have been reluctant
to proceed with investment due to flagging demand for coal in
India, the maintenance of price controls and consequently un-
attractive profit prospects. Up to April 30, 1965, only ~17.2
million had been disbursed out of the loan.
(b)  The $19.5 million loan for the Indian Iron and Steel Company's
coal mining project did not become effective for about two years
because of problems of land acquisition and uncertainty about
government price policies. The project is nowi proceeding satis-
factorily.
(c) Disbursements have been slow on two loans, made in 1958 and 1961
respectively, for the development of Calcuttals..porzt.PBaciiities
because of delays in the preparation of tender documenits by the
Calcutta Port Comnmissioners and in the processing of required
government approvals.
The undisbursed balances under the above loans account for nearly 60 percent
of the undisbursed amounts under all loans for Indian projects.



PAIRT II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
6.     Borrower:                 The Industrial Credit and Investment
Corporation of India Limited.
Guarantor:                India, acting by its President.
Amount:                   The equivalent in various currencies
of $50 million.
Term and Amortization:    18 years, with payments beginning on Febru-
ary 1, 1968, and ending on August 1, 1983.
The Bank and ICICI will agree from time to
time to change the amiortization schedule to
cornform substantially to the aggregate of
the repayment schedules applicable to
ICICI's loans, out of the proceeds of the
proposed loan, for individual investment
projects.
Interest Rate:            5-l/2 percent per annum.
Commitment Charge:        3/8 of 1 percent per annum accruing from
the time the Loan Account is credited with
parts of the loan for individual invest-
ment projects.
PART III - APPRAISAL OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
7.     A detailed re-appraisal of ICICI (DB-19a) is attached (No. 1).
ICICI is the largest development finance company associated with the Bank.
Since 1955, when it was established, the Bank has made five loans to it
totalling $90 million. ICICI's total resources of share capital, surpluses,
reserves and long-term borrowings amounted at the end of 1964 to the
equivalent of about $177 million, including borrowings in foreign exchange
of $104 million.
8.     In its first decade of operations, ICICI approved assistance to 374
projects for a total of $215 million equivalent, nearly half of it in the
form of foreign exchange loans, and by the end of 1964 $115 million had
been disbursed. 125 projects have come into production, about one third
of them sponsored by entrepreneurs entering industry for the first time.
ICICI's assistance has benefited particularly the newer Indian industries,
such as the manufacture of machinery and chemicals, in which the private
sector has registered notable advances. Though the system of controls in
India limits ICICI's freedom to select its customers, especially for
foreign exchange loans, it is free to reject any investment which it con-
siders unsound. The loan and investment portfolio of ICICI is generally



- 4 -
good and the proportion of ICICI's projects encountering difficulties is
no greater than would be expected in a developing economy undergoing great
strains. Because it is the only Indian investment institution possessing
substantial amounts of untied foreign exchange, ICICI has been able to
require high standards in the preparation of projects. This discipline
has already had a "demonstration effect" in Indian finance and industry.
ICICI has also been a successful catalyst between Indian and foreign
investors, and has contributed substantially to the growth of the Indian
capital market through its numerous underwriting activities.
9.     With the continued growth expected in the private industrial sector
in India, ICICI's prospects of rendering increased foreign exchange assis-
tance depend largely on the volume of untied foreign exchange resources at
its disposal. ICICI's record of putting scarce foreign exchange to judicious
use would justify a Bank loan of $50 million, which is intended to cover
the bulk of the foreign exchange lending ICICI expects to approve to mid-1967.
As in the previous loan, ICICI would have the freedom to request credits
to the Loan Account of up to $2 million for any investment project without
the Bank's prior approval. The proposed loan would be larger than any
previous Bank loan to ICICI, and would be the largest made so far by the
Bank to any development finance company.
10.    ICICI's financial position is sound and its prospects are good.  It
should be able to meet debt service payments on the proposed loan and other
borrowings, as well as to maintain satisfactory dividend payments and allo-
cations to reserves.  ICICI has now reached a stage where an increase in
its share capital would be advisable and it proposes to make this increase
in 1965 by a share issue of Rs. 25 million, equal to one half of its present
capital. However, in the present unfavorable conditions of the Indian
capital market it is not yet certain whether the new issue will be possible
in 1965. ICICI's permissible borrowing limit now amounts to four times its
net worth plus a government loan of Rs.75 million which is subordinated to
other debt and paid-in share capital. ICICI's proposed borrowing program
for the next two years would, however, exceed the limit on the present
definition of debt which includes two other loans received by ICICI from the
Government of India. As these loans are subordinated to the Bank's loans,
and because of the quality of ICICI's performance and portfolio, I consider
it appropriate that ICICI's present borrowing limit be relaxed somewhat,
and the proposed Loan Agreement contains a new definition of the borrowing
limit which excludes the subordinated government loans from indebtedness.
ICICI will, however, continue its efforts to make the new share issue as
soon as possible.
11.    An amendment, made in 1963 to the Indian Companies Act, gives the
Government of India the right, if the Government considers it necessary in
the public interest, to convert government loans made to companies into
§Kares in such companies. ICICI has received government loans totalling
Rs. 265 million (including Rs. 90 million out of the loan of Rs. 100 million
referred to in paragraph 12(d) below), and another Rs. 10 million remain to
be drawn. These loans, if converted, would give the Government of India
majority control over ICICI.  The Government has, however, indicated to
ICICI in a formal letter that, so long as ICICI abides by the terms arranged



for each government loan, the Government of India would "regard that no
question of public interest would arise" and would therefore not seek con-
version of these loans. I consider it appropriate, however, that, if any
conversion pursuant to the Companies Act amendment should occur at a time
when ICICI was fulfilling all its obligations under its agreements with the
Government providing for these loans, the Bank should have the power to
suspend withdrawals and premature amounts withdrawn under the proposed loan
and any of the previous Bank loans to ICICI.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS
12.    A draft Loan Agreement (Sixth Industrial Credit and Investment
Project)between the Bank and ICICI and a draft Guarantee Agreement (Sixth
Industrial Credit and Investment Project) between India and the Bank have
been distributed separately to the Executive Directors. The Agreements
follow substantially the pattern of the Bank's recent loans to development
finance companies. I would, however, draw attention to the following
Sections of the draft Loan Agreement:
(a) Section 2.08 provides that ICICI shall repay the proposed loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in a
schedule to the agreement, with the proviso that the amorti-
zation schedule shall be amended from timeato conform sub-
stantially to the aggregate of the amortization schedules            to
applicable to ICICI's investment projects for which parts of the
proposed loan have been credited to the Loan Account. The
amortization schedules applicable to those investment projects
shall be satisfactory to the Bank and, except as otherwise agreed,
shall not extend beyond 15 years from the date when the corres-
ponding amounts are credited to the Loan Account.
(b) For the purpose of establishing ICICI's debt limit at four times
capital and surplus, indebtedness is defined in Section 5.06 so
as to exclude certain government loans to ICICI. ICICI's capital
and surplus is defined in the same section to include the first
government loan to ICICI, made in 1955, which is subordinated to
other debt and to paid-in share capital. For purposes of the
section indebtedness is deemed to be incurred when ICICI contracts
with a third party to re-lend the proceeds of such indebtedness.
(c) Section 6.01(b)(iii), when read with other sections of the Loan
Agreement and the Loan Regulations, permits the Bank, in case of
conversion of government loans to ICICI into shares at a time when
ICICI is duly performing its obligations under agreements with the
Government providing for borrowings (see paragraph 11), to suspend
withdrawals or declare the loan immediately repayable. Section
6.02 extends this right to prior loans to ICICI; and
(d) Section 7.01 requires as additional conditions of effectiveness of
the Loan Agreement that ICICI shall have entered into agreements
with the Government for a loan of Rs. 100 million and with the
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau for a loan of DI 5 million.



PART V - ECONOMIC SITUATION
13.    The last report on the Indian economic situation was distributed to
the Executive Directors on May 12, 1964 (R6L4-55). A mission from the Bank is
at present engaged on a special study of the economy, and no further economic
report will be prepared until after this study has been completed.   A short
memorandum on economic developments during the past twelve months is
attached (No. 2).
14.    At the end of 1964 India's outstanding external public debt, exclud±ng
consortium pledges not yet translated into commitments, was in the region of
$5 billion. The service payments due on this debt during the Fourth Five-
Year Plan (April 1966 - March 1971) range between $350 million and $400 million
a year, representing close to 20 percent of India's present foreign exchange
earnings on current account. The total service due over the five year period
is estimated at about $1,900 million, of which almost two thirds would be on
account of amortization and one third on account of interest.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEIENT
15.    I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to The Industrial Credit and
Investment Corporation of India Limited, to be guaranteed by India,
in an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty million
United States dollars (U.S. $50,000,000), to mature on and prior to
August 1, 1983, to bear interest at the rate of five and one-half
per cent (5-1/2%) per annum, and to be upon such other terms and
conditions as shall be substantially in accordance with the terms
and conditions set forth in the form of Loan Agreement (Sixth
Industrial Credit and Investment Project) between the Bank and the
Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India Limited and
the form of Guarantee Agreement (Sixth Industrial Credit and
Investment Project) between India and the Bank, which have been
presented to this meeting.
George D. Woods
President
By J. Burke Knapp
Washington, D. C.
May 19, 1965



