Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10677
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1251-ZA)
MAY 28, 1992
'4. ~    A'
Population and Human Resources Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDF               - African Development Fund
JGAP               - Japanese Grant Aid Program
JSS                - Junior Secondary Schools
MGEC               - Ministry of Education and Culture
MWS                - Ministry of Works and Supply
NORAD              - Norwegian Agency for Intemational Development
PIU                - Project Implementation Unit
SIDA               - Swedish Intemational Development Authority
TNDP               - Third National Development Plan
UNZA               - University of Zambia



THE WORLD BANK                FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of DirectarCer.i.-
Opsiathm Evaluaw  m
May 28, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on ZAMBIA
Fifth Education Project (Credit 1251-ZA)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on ZAMBIA - Fifth Education Project (Credit 1251-ZA)" prepared
by the Africa Regional Office. No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without WVorld Bank authorization.



FOR OMCAL4 USE ONLY
PROJECr CC)MPLMRPR
ZAMBIA
FIFTH EDUCA4TION PROJECI
(CREDIT 1251-ZA)
TABLE OF COS
Page No.
PREFACE  ..................................................                          i
EVALUATION SUMMARY                     ....................................        iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity....                                   . .1
B. Project Background....                                                     1
1.  Economic Situation   .        .......................                1
2.   PolicyContext ..........                                            1
3.   Bank Involvement   ............................ .                   2
C    Project Objectives and Dscription ....        ....................      2
4.   Project Objectives  ............................... .               2
5.  Project Cmponents .............................. .                   2
D.  Project Design and organization ....          ......................      3
6.  Identiica ion and -Peparation .......an.................             3
7. Appraisal ......................   3
10. Negotiations ..                   ...................................  4
F.  Project Implementation  ..........       ......................           4
11. Start-up and Project Duation .......       .................         4
12  ConstructionGroup 1 ..............................                   4
13.  Construction Group 2 . . . . . ...... ...................           5
14. Furniture and Equipment            ...........................       5
15. Senitary System        ...................................           5
16. Maintenance Program ...............................                  5
17. Reform Implementation Study .          ......................        5
18. Project Risks and Unforeseen Factors
Affecting mplementao           ..........................           6
19. Decisions Affecting Implementadon .................. .               6
F. ProjectResults                         ......  6
20. Junior Secondary Schools ....        ........................        6
21. Maintenance Program ......... .....................                  6
22. Reform lmplementa ion Study .          ......................        7
G.  Project Impact and Sustainabifity ....................       .....        7
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwie be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Table of Contents (cont.)
H.  Performance of Participants          .............................       8
26.  DA Performance           .................................         8
30. BorrowerPerformance              ............................       8
31. Project Relationships .........         .....................       9
32. ConsultingServices ...............  ................                9
33. Project Docwmentation and Data.                                     9
L Conclusions and Lessons learned           ..                               9
35. LeonssLLearned.                                                    10
PART IL PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE..  13
PART IE STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A.  Related Bank Loans          ...................................         15
B.  Project Tumetable .....................................                 16
36. Comments on Project Tumetable ......................               17
C    CreditDisbursements    ................. .................             18
D.  Project Implementation       ............... .................          19
37. Comments on Project Implementation  .....          ............    19
E.  Project Costs and Fmancing ... : ..........        ...............      20
38  Comment on Project Fnancing .......................                20
F.  Project Results .......................................                 22
39. Comment on Student Enrollments ......            ..............    22
40. Comment on Project Studies .........................               22
G.  Status of Credit Covenants .........         .....................      23
H.  Use of Bank Resources        ............... .................          25
TABLES
Table 1  IBRD Loans Relevant to the Project .......................               15
Table 2  Planned, Revised and Actual Dates of Project Timetable .... ....    16
Table 3  Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements .....          .........    18
Table 4  Planned and Actual Completion Dates of Components .....         .....    19
Table 5  P:.-ject Costs and Fnancing ..............................               20
Table 6  Allocation of Credit Proceeds .............................              20
Table 7  Cost Analysis of Schoos .................................                21
Table 8 Comparison of Appraisal Estimates and Actual Student Enrollments
(1991) for Tbree Junior Secondary Schools .....        ..............   22
Table 9  Project Studies ...............                                          22
Table 10 Compliance with Credit Covenants .......... ..          .............    23
Table 11   Staff Inputs by Stage of Project Cycle in Staff Weeks ....    .....    25
Table 12    Mission Data by Stages of Project .......... ..       ............    26
ANNEX
Annexc I  Exchange Rate Fluctuations ..........................................   27



PROJECr COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
2-'FJ7H EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT  j1-A),
PREFACE
This is the Pro)c-t Completion Report (PCR) for the Fifth Education Project in
Zambia, for which Credit 1251-ZA in the sum of US$25.0 million (SDR 22.2 million) was
approved by the Executive Directors on May 20, 1982. The Government of Norway,
through the Norwegian Agency for International Development (NORAD), provided 25
man years of technical assistance. The Credit came under suspension on May 1 1987 as
part of the genertl suspension of disbursements to Zambia. The last payment was made
in August 1987 under the limited list of exemptions to the suspension of disbursements.
The Credit Account was closed on March 31, 1988, and an undisbursed balance of SDR
13,292,331.59 was canceled.
The PCR was prepared by the Population and Human Resources Division of the
Southern Africa Department (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and m). The
Borrower assisted in con cributing cost and enrollment data, but since the project has been
closed for more than four years and the original team involved in implementation is no
longer attached to the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), Part II could not be
completed.
Preparation of the report was, inter alia based on the Staff Appraisal Report and
related Working Papers, the President's Report, the Development Credit Agreement,
supervision reports, correspondence between the Borrower and the Association, the
Project Implementation Monitoring System and PIU progress reports. Comments were
also obtained from IDA project staff, who identified, prepared, appraised and supervised
the project.



PROJECF COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
FIfTH EDUCATION PROJECI
(CREDIT 1251-ZA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives and Content:
(i)   The project objectives were to assist the Government in carrying out high-priority items of
the Education Reform as contained in the Third National Deve!opment Plan. Specifically, the
project would address the equW'y of the basic education system by expanding education access in
the rural areas wnd assist in improving the efficiency of the education system by introducing,
within the firSt phase of the Education Reform, junior secondary schools, which would become an
integral part of basic education. The project would also continue to develop and improve the
maintenance of schools begun under earlier projects and complement ongoing efforts of other
donor agencies. The African Development Bank would finance the construction and equipping of
three Junior Secondary Schools during the same period.
(ii)   The project included the following components:
(a)   construction, furnishing and equipping of eight junior secondary schools;
(b)   renovation of facilities and the establishment of maintenance programs for existing
secondary schools;
(c)   provision of technical assistance to the Project Implementation Unit through
parallel financing by NORAD;
(d)   a study on implications and costs of the transition from the existing education
structure to a new system.
Implementation Experience:
(iii)  Project preparation from identification to Board presentation took five years (1977-1982)
due to a lengthy approval process within the Government of the Education Reform and its
integration into the Third National Development Plan. The project became effective in
September 1982 and came to a sudden stop in May 1987 with the general suspension of
Bank/IDA disbursements to Zambia (para vii). Implementation of the schools started well but
construction was soon slowed down by the lack of foreign exchange available to the Government
and delays in providing counterpart funds. Despite sereral measures and amendments to the
Credit Agreement to alleviate the situation, construction schedules suffered directly from the
difficult financial situation. At the time of suspension, three junior secondary schools had been
built, furnished and partly equipped, while a second group consisting of five schools had only
reached about 15% completion. The Maintenance Program achieved rehabilitation of 47 out of
69 schools and provided a full complement of training, while the Reform Implementation Study
was carried out and completed. About 40% of the Credit was disbursed (paras 11-17).



-iv-
Project Results:
(iv)   Tbree junior secondary schools with a planned enrollment of 1,200 students and 840
boarding places were fully financed under the credit. Actual numbers have exceeded these by
about 40% because incre3sed social demand for secondary educatiou coupled with demographic
pressure has outsoipped the limited supply of classroom space. Out of 17 Junior Secondary
Schools requested by Government &. Negotiations, 10 were eventually constructed using resources
from vario .s agencies as follows. Three were constructed using IDA funds, one school was
completed using Government funds, three schools were constructed with the support of AfDF
and another three were funded by JGAP. Due to NORAD's financial and technical assistance,
the maintenance component was completed in 1989 and a continued plan of action for
maintenance of all education bu&'2Ings developed between the Government and NORAD. The
Reform Implenmentation Study, successfully carried out by the University of Zambia, analyzed the
implications of atta..ng universal basic education by the year 2000 and underlined the importance
of giving priority, in resource allocation, to primary education (paras 20-23).
Project Sustainability:
(v)    The project focused rather narrowly on a single aspect of the Education Reform,
admittedly of high prierity to the Government. The financing of a very limited number of junior
secondary schools with boarding facilities has proved unsustainable in the light of the
deteriorating economic and social conditions in the country. The impact of the Maintenance
Program, on the other hand, has proved to be an extremely worthwhile investment (paras 24 &
25).
Conclusions and  .essons Ljarned:
(vi)   The project came at a time of profound change in the Zambian economy - per capita
incomes fell by about 50 per cent in the ten years between project identification and its closure in
1988 The economic downturn made it impossible to attain the 3oal of nine years of universal
basic education and put into question the feasibility of expanding junior secondary schools, while
resources remained inadequate to finance the first seven years of primary education. To date
many of the Education Reform recommendations remain unimplemented, with the result that the
education system remains in the same transitional state it was in during the appraisal of this
project.
(vii) Towards the end of the project ycle implementation was greatly slowed down by the
suspension in disbursements and by the 1987 World Bank reorganization, which brought about a
hiatus in supervision at a critical time in the life of the project. The impact of the Educational
Reform with respect to the new junior secondary structure will require a separate evaluation
which would look into the qualitative aspects of the system including relevance, replicability and
financial sustainability. The Maintenance Program was successful due, in great part, to NORAD's
technical and financial assistance, while the Education Reform Study constitutes an important
framework for future policy and planning in education (para 34).
(viii) Notwithstanding the unique set of circumstances that bedevilled this project, there are
some lessons leamed from this project that may be of value in future projects. These are:
(a)  the painful experiences of this project indicate that when a country is undergoing major
economic or political upheaval, the project identification process needs to be very



vv -
circumspect in order to reconcile priorities of the moment with the anticipated needs of
the emerging scenario;
(b)  if a project is going to ta'ke five years to prepare, as this one did, it is necessary to
allow for sufficient flexibility to make design changes in the project. Even before
the project became effective, concerns were raised within the Bank about issues it
had failed to address (parn 9). It is these issues which later tuumed out to be
critical during implementation and which undermined the overall impact of the
project;
(c)   planned and sustained maintenance of physical plant and equipment fR a major
form of investment. A costed maintenance schedule should be an intet * t of
project design in projects comprising construction of physical facillties (ps  21);
(d)   bmreaucratic decisions carried out to the letter without consideration for mitigating
circumstances generate unnecessary burdens (para 28). Even within the rules
governing suspension of disbursements, there were several actions that could have
been taken to make the suspension and final closure of this project less abrupt and
less costly to the Government;
(e)  supervision mission teams should contain a skills mix that ensures a technically
sound review of the project (para 26). A technically sound mid-term review of this
project would have indicated the need to recast the project in light of the dramatic
changes in the economy and the consequent revisi"-i of priorities;
(f)   where more than one Government ministry is involved in project implementation,
communication delays are likely to slow down implementation unless Bank
supervision missions focused more closely on ministerial coordination (paras 19 &
27);
(g)   gaps in the continuity of supervision can have serious consequences in project
outcome (para 29);
(h)   firm financing commitments on the part of bilateral agencies should be included in
credit agreements (para 17);
(i)  implementation progress reports prepared by Borrowers should be designed to
yield information that is operationally useful including explanations for actions
taken and general implementation difficulties (para 33).



PROJECr COMXPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
FIPTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDRIT 1251-ZA)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity
Project name      : Fifth Education Project
Credit No.        : 1251-ZA
RVP Unit          : Africa Region, Country Department VI
County            : Zambia
Sector            : Population and Human Resources
Subsector         : Education
B. Project Backgrund
1.          Economic Situation. An assessment of the project must take into account
the difficult economic period during which the project cycle took place, from the initial
identification in May 1977, up to the sudden and premature arrest of the project in May
1987, due to the suspension of all Bank disbursements to Zambia, which particularly
affected the later stages of implementation. Economic difficulties were triggered by a
40% fall in the price of copper in 1975, setting off a balance of payments and public
finance crisis, and throwing the economy into a deep recession from which it has yet to
recover. These problems were compounded by a decline in copper production and ore
grade and by agricultural stagnation from several years of drought. During the 10-year
span of the project, per capita incomes fell by about 50 per cent. The Government tried
several times to restructure the economy, but none of these efforts was sufficiently
comprehensive to bring about the structural changes required. Of these, the most
ambitious was the Bank/Fund supported program in 1985-1987, which the Government
abandoned in May 1987 on the groun.,,, that it generated excessive economic and political
instability.
2.          Policy Context At Independence in 1964, very few Zambians had
completed secondary or higher education or received skills training, with the result that
development programs had to rely almost entirely on expatriates for their implementation.
National development could, therefore, be pursued only through a rigorous emphasis on
education and training in the various development plans from Independence up to 1976.
A general feeling that education was not producing the skills conducive to self-reliance
and national development precipitated a government review of the sector and the
publishing, in 1978, of a draft Education Reform to be implemented in phases, starting
with the Third National Development Plan (1979-83). The Plan aimed at modifying the



2-
existing education structure into 3 stages: (i) a basic education cycle covering the first n;ne
yeas of school; (ii) the three-year senior secondary cycle and; (iii) the higher education
cycle. Pwvisions we.e also to be made for continuing education in' Uding adult literacy
and other aspects of non-formal education. However, implementation of the Plan was
delayed, due in largo part to the inability -if the Government to provide adequate
recurrent and capital funds to carry out the program.
3.          Balkl Invkhwment. The Bank Group has had a lor.g and extensive
involvement with the education sector in Zambia. Since 196Q, a total of USS69.0 million
has been disbursed under four education loan agre3ments. The First and Second
Education Projects placed particular emphasis on the expapsion and improvement of
secondary, technical, higher education, and teacher training, in line with the need to
alleviate the acute shortage of trained high. and middle-level manpower in the years
following independence. With the Third and Fourth Projects, a shift in ervIhasis gave
increased attention to farmer and health training, adult education and improvement of
suppcrdtve educational services such as curriculum development and school broadcasting.
The Bank also financea an education component in an urban project and project-related
training as part of various infrastructure projects.
C Project Objctives and Description
4.            ect            The project assisted the Government in carrying out
high priority items of the Educhtion Reform as contained in the Third National
Development Plan (TNDP). Specifically, it addressed the equity of the Basic Education
System by expanding education opportunity in the rural areas and assisted in improving
the efficiency of the existing education system by introducing, within the firt phase of the
Education Reform, junior secondary schools, which would become an integral part of
Basic Education. The project also fostered further efforts to develop and improve the
maintenance of schools instituted under earlier Bank education projects and
complemented ongoing quality improvement efforts of other donors.
5.          Prject  Omponen. The project included the following components:
a)   Junor S a   Schools Construction, furnishing and equipping of 8
new junior secondary schools to be located in rural areas, p,oviding 3,120 additional
student places Construction of staff houses for all the schools and hostel facilities to
accommodate 1,920 boarders at 7 of the schools.
b)     ntenace Pm: Renovation of facilities and provision of repair
mate rials, spare parts, equipment and vehicles for maintenance of existing secondary
schcx is;
)    mTech    Asce: Provision of about 35 man-years of technical services
to the P. oject Implementation Unit, financed by the Norwegian Agency for International
Development (NORAD), for the implementation of the project; and



-3-
d)    Refom Implmoct          So*. A comprehensive study to produce a
detailed plan for the structural transition of the education system according to the
recommendations of the government Education Reform. The Swedish International
Development Agency (SIDA) would assist in the financing of the study and provide the
necessary specialists to the Ministry of Education.
D. Poject Desiei and Oanization
6.          Identiaition ad Prenar1M!n  Preparation covered a period of 5 years,
from the initial identification of the project in May 1977 up to Board presentation it May
1982. The first project brief of September 1977, based on a draft of the Education
Reform, recommended broad sectoral support rather than project-specific lending.
Possibilities of assistance were identified in the areas of upper primary education
(academic facilities, currirulum development, teacher trAning, radio services); continuing
education and quality improvement (production-orientee; training, distance learning); and
higher education (agricultural university). At the time, this approach was considered
particularly suitable; the reform document articulated the government's overall educational
strategy and priorities and provided an appropriate framework for broad sectoral support.
Release of the final Education Reform document in June, 1978 coLncided with the early
stages of preparation of the Third Nationa! Development r; n (INDP). The launch of
the plan was delayed by nearly two years, during which period questions were raised
regarding the reform proposals and its cost implications. Based on the findiags of a re-
identification mission in November 1980, a second project brief was drafted in February
1981, by which time it was felt that reverting to a project-specific lending policy would be
more appropriate.
7.               L   The project appraisal, carried out in March 1981, retained the
government's highest priority component described in the project ',riefE namely the
expansion of basic education facilities at the junior secondary levei The report included
the continuation of the secondary school maintenance program with the technical
assistance of NORAD, which was initiated under the Third Education Project. It
provided for a study on the implementation of the Education Reform to determine the
most economic and efficient method to implement the Govemment's future education
plan (the Government requested that the study be financed out of the Technical
Assistance credit 873-ZA). The provision of additional places in the junior secondary
schools was in line with the general impetus of the Reform, which proposed the,
establishment of a nine-year basic education cycle in v,hich junior secondary schools would
constitute the final two grades.
&           Following appraisal, processing of the project met with another delay
because the Government had omitted to include the project in the three-year investment
program for 1981-83, which replaced the TNDP and which had been reviewed by the
Bank and agreed on with the IMF in February 1981. Confirmation from the Ministry of
Fnance that the project had been included in the 1982 budget finally came in December
1981. Once past this hurdle, processing of the project through negotiations and Board
approval went smoothly.



-4-
9.          Durng the period that the project was held up awaiting inclusion in the
budget, considerable debate continued within the Bank on several issues: (i) whether it
would not be prudent to delay the project and await the findings of the proposed studv in
order 'o develop a plan for implementing the Government's ambitious Educational
Reform Program; (ii) due to the severely constrained Government finances, whether
there was not a considerable risk in assuming counterpart funds for the combined
IDA/AfDF project; (iii) the justification of expanding junior secondary education while
leaving the senior secondary level unchanged (the issue being that the situation would
cause further constriction of the bottleneck between junior and senior levels and of adding
significantly to the nuwater of 16-year-olds who may be unemployable in a skills-oriented
market); and (iv) whether the project addressed adequately the failure of the education
system to provide properly trained technical and professional cadres (the appraisal report
which raised the problem did not propose any direct intervention in this respect).
10.         Nepfliatiow  Negotiations which were held in March 1982 centered on
the number of school- to be included in the project Initially, 17 schools were included in
the second project brief, but a combination of escalating construction costs and
deteriorating country economic conditions made it necessary to reduce this number to 11,
since the IDA crndit was fixed at US$25.0 million. Once the African Development Fund
confirmed its intention of financing three of the schools in a separate project, it was
agreed that IDA would finance the remaining eight schools. As the Government had
obtained financing from SIDA for the Educatiun Reform study, IDA Technical Assistance
Credit (873-ZA) funds would no longer be used to finance the study. As it turned out,
however, SIDA financing for the study did not materialize, and after a delay of about one
year, IDA resources were used to finance it
E. Project Implementation
11.          t-n  and    eDtion. The early stages of implementation were
relatively problem free. Following signature of the Credit in June 1982, the project was
made effective three months laer, the Government having fulfilled the main condition of
opening a special account According to the appraisal report, implementation was
scheduled over six years, with project completion set for September 30, 1987 and closing
on March 30, 1988. Actual implementation covered only 56 months because the project
came under suspension with the general freezing of disbursements to Zambia in May
1987.
12.         Construction Group 1: Cbibombo. Lubwe and Mwen. At appraisal,
tendering and construction of the eight schools was planned in two stages staggered by a
six- month intervaL The first group of three schools was tendered essentially as
anticipated in April/May 1983, with the corresponding sites selected and designs based on
Public Works and Supply (PWS) standards. Following contract awards, construction
started quite well, but progress soon slowed down, reflecting the deteriorating economic
situation. With repeated and drastic devaluation of the Kwacha starting from 1983,
combined with a lack of foreign exchange, construction time planned for 15 months almost
doubled to an actual 29 months. Despite several measures proposed to alleviate the
situation, such as an increase in the reimbursement percentage of the civil works category
from 60 percent to 75 percent (approved in June 1985) and an increase of funds deposited



-5-
by IDA in the special account (approved in November 1986), the Government was unable
to keep up the replenishment of counterpart funds in the account. Construction of Group
1 was finally completed in January 1986.
13.         Construction Group 2: Chiwa Lumezi  Mooye Sioma and Sohvw   The
second group of schools originally scheduled for tendering in September/October 1983
suffered directly from the consequences of currency devaluation and foreign exchange
constraints described above. The tendering process for this group began in 1986, three
years behind schedule, the delay having been caused by a lack of resolution on the foreign
exchange issue. After an agreement was reached between the Borrower and IDA on a
procedure to provide required foreign currencies to contractors, tenders were finally
received in August/September 1986 and contracts awarded in Januaty 1987. With only a
few months to go prior to suspension, construction reached about 15% completion in the
case of four schools, while work never commenced on the fifth school (Miooye).
14.         Furniture and Equipment Tendering for both furniture and equipment
took place early in 1986, with awards made in March of the same year. Procurement was
also affected by the recurrent problem of foreign exchange availability and by local
difficulties in the supply of materials. Security-related problems also affected the
distribution of supplies to schools with thefts occurring at warehouses and school sites.
The three completed schools were adequately furnished and provided with some
equipment. The premature closing of the project prevented the PIU from completing the
equipment procurement process. As a result, laboratory equipment is lackdng, and the
schools do not have functional laboratories.
15.          n0i= SRstenm A system of waste disposal referred to as "soakaway",
which was selected for the three completed IDA schools, proved almost immediately after
occupation, to be inadequate for the capacities of the schools and, in addition, presented a
health hazard for the school population. New plans were developed to convert or ease
the pressure on the system by excavating coidation ponds. Before these revisions could be
implemented, the Credit was stopped, and this serious problem remains unresolved to date
through lack of funds.
16.         Maintenance Program  This was a continuation of a program started under
the Third Education Project (Loan 900-ZA) and was designed to rehabilitate 69
secondary schools through renovation of facilities and procurement of needed repair
materials, spare parts, equipment and essential transport. The program also included the
trmining of technical teachers in self-reliance by providing them with special maintenance
and repair courses. In turn, the teachers would be able to organize maintenance in the
schools using existing workshop tools and machinery and utilizing the students for the
worlk At the time of credit suspension, 47 schools had been rehabilitated, with the
remaining 22 schools in the Copperbelt region scheduled to start in 198& Headmasters
and teachers/caretakers from all 69 secondary schools had completed their training in
school maintenance.
17.         Reform Implementation Study. In order to determine the most economic
and efficient method to implement the Government's Education Reform, this
comprehensive study was designed to produce a detailed plan for she fuil transition from
the exdsting education structure into the new structure. At negotiations, the Zambian
representatives stated that the Swedish International Development Agency would finance



- 6 -
the study. This assistance did not materialize, however, and more than one year was lost
in starting the study. The Government then requested that a team from the University of
Zambia's School of Education be given the assignment, with fees and expenses paid out of
IDAMs Technical Assistance Credit (873-ZA). A four member team of the University
started work in July 1984 and largely completed its task by January 1986. They issued an
interim report for Government approvaL The contract was extended in December 1985
for the team to carry out a tracer study of graduates of two secondary technical schools.
Partly because of the suspension of disbursements, the tracer study was not completed,
nor was the implementation report formally approved by Government.
18.        fProect Risks and Unforeseen Factors Affecnlg JInnIementation. The
appraisal mission did not foresee major risks affecting the project. It would have been
difficult at the time to prediLt an economic downturn of such proportions as actually
occurred, although at appraisal, there were evidently apprehensions of adequate
counterpart financing. The critical foreign exchange issue, which affected the project so
dramatically, did not emerge in full force until the end of 1983 and, consequently, could
not have been anticipated by the appraisal mission in March 1981.
19.         Decidsions Affectny Imnlementation. The foreign exchange issue and the
request to the Association for an increase in the reimbursement percentage of civil works
took a considerable time to be resolved. The tendering of the second group of schools,
initially scheduled for November 1983, went through several abortive exercises and was
not completed until the end of 1986. Better inter-Ministerial coordination between Public
Works (which had to rewrite the bidding documents), Fnance (which had to give its
approval) and the Association would have allowed construction to begin at a much earlier
date. Not until IDA's March 1985 supervision mission were these problems fully brought
ouL The Association responded favorably to the increase in reimbursement in June 1985,
yet it took another year to have this reflected adequately in the tender forms. These
schools would have been near completion in May 1987 had these problems been resolved
in a timely fashion.
F. jectg Rm:uls
20.         Junmor Seondad  Schools The proceeds of the Credit directly financed
the three schools in the first group, providing physical infrastructure and additional student
places for a planned enrollment of 1,200 day-student and 840 boarding places. Actual
numbers in both classroom and boarding facilities have greatly exceeded these numbers
(Table 8) due to the heavy demand generated by a rapidly increasing population growth
(3.4%o in 1985) and by a strong social demand for secondary education. Within the group
of schools financed by the project, Mwenzo is a girls' boarding school in line with the
Government's policy of providing equal educational opportunities for boys and girls. Of
the schools left uncompleted as a result of the disbursements suspension, the Government
completed Solwezi JSS with its own funds in May 1990. Meanwhile, the African
Development Fund completed three JSS as planned (Kasempa, Maamba and Mpongwe)
by 1988, and the Japanese Grant Aid Program completed three more schools (Chilubi
Jumbe and Kaputa) in 1991. The number of Junior Secondary Schools built stands
presently at 10.



-7-
21.         Maintenance Profr'm'  This is one of the most positive outcomes of the
project. Due in great part to NORAD's sustained assistance, financial as well as technical,
the objectives established at appraisal were well on the way to being achieved by mid-
1987. The continued assistance on the part of NORAD during all the difficulties
experienced by the country up to the present speaks highly for this Agency's commitment.
By the end of 1989, all 69 schools had been rehabilitated and the preventive maintenance
training completed. A bilateral agreement was made between the Government and
NORAD for a continued plan of action to establish preventive maintenance through
committees at the national, provincial and school levels, with the objective of including all
secondary schools in Zambia in the maintenance program. The development of a
comprehensive approach to maintenance deserves high praise and could serve as a model
for other education systems where enormous resources have been wasted through
negligence of physical facilities and a lack of adequate financial provision for maintenance
of physical facilities.
22.         Reform Imiementation Study. The study subtitled 'Towards the
Implementation of Zambia's Educational Reforms under Demographic and Economic
Constraints 1986-2000" was never formally adopted by Government mainly because of the
national economic crisis that had gripped the country by 1986. It nevertheless still remains
the most comprehensive analysis of the Education Reform and its implications. The
financial implications of achieving both the qualitative and quantitative targets of the
reform and many of the options the report proposes are as pertinent today as they were
then. Now that the country is on its way to recovery, the report will no doubt become an
important guide in future policy development and investment policies. The central finding
of the report is that priority in the allocation of resources should be given to the
implementation of the first phase of the Educational Reform, namely to the development
of the primary sector and of the necessary support areas, so that every child of primary
school age can be assured of seven years of quality education.
23.         Key proposals of the report include: (a) improvements in educational
quality and relevance for the majority, who will not proceed beyond the first seven years
in schooL This entails improvements in (i) teacher education, (ii) teaching materials, and
(iii) science and mathematics education; (iv) increased emphasis on practical, production
and service activities, with more community involvement in all aspects of school activities;
and (v) reforms in the examination systems. (b) resource mobilization measures including
the need to (i) allocate a larger share of the education budget to the primary sector, (ii)
phase out spending on student allowances and bursaries; and (iii) share education costs
across central government, local governments and consumers. (c) the need for improved
management and supervision within the system; for a greater and more structured
involvement of the non-government sector; and for better coordination and clearer
setting of priorities of foreign aid.
G. Project Iupact and Stbilit
24.         With respect to the Junior Secondary Schools, project impact would be
related to an assessment of the impact of the Educational Reform on basic and secondary
education, including results related to the quality of education and graduates produced by
the new structure. Such an evaluation has not yet been done but should be undertaken in



-8-
order to evaluate the financial sustainability and replicability of this project in the
dramatically changed economic and demographic scenario. In quantitative terms, the IDA
credit achieved only three-eighths of its target, and the increased enrollment figures for
the three schools must be seen as a diminution in quality output. In total, the 10 JSS
completed to date fall short by a wide margin of the 17 requested by the Government at
negotiations in 1982.
25.         Impact and sustainability of the Maintenance component, on the other
hand, have left tangible results. Having reached not only a very satisfactory level of
physical maintenance in many schools but also having secured the Government's
commitment and cost sharing of preventive maintenance at the national level, continuation
and inclusion of such a component in future projects would be highly desirable.
IL Performance of Participants
26.          IDA Performance. In general, IDA staff contribution to the -project was
professional as well as supportive. The delays in project preparation and appraisal were
clearly beyond staff controL As soon as circumstances permitted, the various steps of
document preparation leading to credit effectiveness were handled efficiently.
Reservations described earlier (para 9) notwithstanding, project design was simple, with
few components, which, under the circumstances, was particularly appropriate.
Supervision missions were fielded at regular intervals and became more frequent as the
problems of implementation developed. Since the uppermost issue of implementation was
the lack of foreign exchange and its effect on tendering and construction, the sustained
assistance by IDA technical missions was the appropriate approach. However, it is
puzzling that during the whole period of implementation and 11 supervision missions,
specialists in general education never reviewed the project from a pedagogical standpoint.
It is clear that the team responsible for the preparation of the Reform Implementation
Study would have benefitted from interaction, particularly at the early stages of the study,
with such specialists. It is also clear that such a review would have indicated a need to
recast the project to reflect the fast changing situation.
27.         IDA showed great flexibility in approving measures proposed to alleviate
the financial difficulties of the project, through increasing the reimbursement percentage
for civil works, increasing deposits in the special account (para 12) and revising tender
procedures to provide foreign currencies to contractors (para 13). These measures,
unfortunately, came too late to have a significant impact on implementation but the delay
seems to have been due to the lack of coordination between the Ministries of Education
and Public Works, which caused communications delays with IDA.
28          In retrospect, the one area where performance of the Association could be
faulted is in the way the suspension of disbursement was handled. Too little time was
allowed for the settlement of contracts after May 1, 1987, the date of suspension of
disbursements. A deadline for the receipt of commitments and eligible withdrawal
applications in Washington was set at June 30, 1987. Before the message filtered down
from Finance to Education and the PIU, to be passed on to contractors and suppliers, the
deadline had passed, leaving many of those involved in the lurch. No flexibility was shown
in this case. In imposing sanctions on the Government, many suppliers were punished in



-9-
the process through broken contracts, and the consequences created by this strict
bureaucratic decision have yet to be fully assessed.
29.         There were no supervision missions between October 1986 and the final
visit from a Bank architect in November 1987, due most probably to staff constraints
related to the reorganization of the Bank. This was particularly unfortunate in the period
just prior to and following suspension, since many financial difficulties described above
could have been resolved through active IDA field participation.
30.         BorowPerformance. The Project Implementation Unit established in
the Ministry of Works and Supply (MWS) for the Third and Fourth Education Projects
continued its responsibility under this project. At the time of effectiveness, the Director
of MWS Buildings Branch was also PIU Director. The Unit was staffed through
NORAD's technical assistance program with an assistant director, financial controller,
procurement specialist and maintenance specialists. In October 1984, the PIU was
transferred from MWS to MGEC and the assistant PS of MGEC was named Project
Director, to replace the former Director, who returned to the Buildings Branch.
Government was prompted to make this personnel change by irregularities in the 1983
audit report, which were later resolved. Efforts to localize PIU technical posts as they fell
vacant when the NORAD experts completed their contracts were not always successful,
and the procurement section, in particular, suffered considerably. These problems were at
their peak in 1987 and did not, therefore, directly affect this project except in the general
sense of constraining the capacity of the PIU. This capacity was further reduced by the
loss, through theft or accidents, of a sizeable number of vehcles, which were eventually
replaced but which left the PIU with severely diminished supervision capacity over a
period of nearly two years. All in all, the performance of the PIU could be qualified as
satisfactory.
31.         Proiect RelationshipsL The qualified success achieved by the project was
the result of the amiable working relationships between IDA, the Borrower, NORAD and
the various participating groups themselves. An additional contributing factor was the
level of professionalism, which was more than satisfactory among all concerned. Dialogue
between the Government and IDA was sustained, amiable and direct at all times, even in
consideration of the slow rate at which the Borrower responded to some specific issues.
32.         Consulting Seices. The technical assistance provided by NORAD was of
a consistently high level and has been commented on in this report for the Maintenance
Program as well as for the PIU. The MWS input was also satisfactory, with the exception
of delays in reflecting modifications to tender documents and procedures and the initial
decision of adopting a sewage processing system that failed almost immediately. The
consultant team from the University of Zambia who were responsible for the Reform
Implementation Study produced an excellent report.
33.         Project Documentation and Data. AU IDA project documents referred to
in this report were well prepared. Of particular help were the supervision reports and the
working papers, which provided factual information. PIU quarterly progress reports on
the other hand were not very useful outside broad cost and completion data. In these
reports, a subjective approach to complement costs and other data would have been more
valuable for evaluating the circumstances surrounding key decisions and general problems
of implementation.



- 10 -
L Conclusions and Lessons Leaned
34.          The Fifth Education Project came at a time of profound change in Zambia
when there was a dramatic downturn in its economy. The long preparation period was
indicative of the difficulties encountered in fitting the Reform into the country's national
development plans and of hesitations in committing the Government to new financial
obligations. The project focused rather narrowly on a single aspect of the Education
Refurm, admittedly of high priority to the Government. Preparation having taken several
years, it would have been preferable to wait for the results of the study on cost
implications of the Reform before deciding on the highest priorities, which the report
clearly identified as different from those earlier identified for the project. In retrospect,
the financing of a very limited number of junior secondary schools with boarding facilities
is questionable in terms of sustainability and replicability. Although the schools clearly
met a very strong demand, their qualitative aspects have yet to be evaluated. The
Maintenance component was successful due, in great part, to NORAD's technical and
financial assistance, while the study on cost implications of the Education Reform will
constitute an important document in future education investment dialogue between
Zambia and the Association.
35.   IbAn&            Notwithstanding the unique set of circumstances that bedeviled
this project, there are some lessons learned from this project that may be of value in
future projects. These are:
(a)  the painful experiences of this project indicate that when a country is undergoing
major economic or political upheaval, the project identification process needs to be
very circumspect in order to reconcie the priorities of the moment with the
anticipated needs of the emerging scenario;
(b)  if a project is going to take five years to prepare, as this one did, it is necessary to
allow for sufficient flexibility to make design changes in the project. Even before
the project became effective, concerns were raised within the Bank about issues it
had failed to address (para 9). It is these issues which later turned out to be
critical during implementation and which undermined the overall impact of the
project;
(c)   planned and sustained maintenance of physical plant and equipment is a major
form of investment. A costed maintenance schedule should be an integral part of
project design in projects comprising construction of physical facilities (para 21);
(d)   bureaucratic decisions carried out to the letter without onsideration for mitigating
circumstances generate unnecessary burdens (para 28). Even within the rules
governing suspension of disbursements, there were several actions that could have
been taken to make the suspension and final closure of this project less abrupt and
less costly to the Government;
(e)  supervision mission teams should contain a skills mix that ensures a technically
sound review of the project (para 26). A technically sound mid-term review of this
project would have indicated the need to recast the project in light of the dramatic
changes in the economy and the consequent revision of priorities;



- 11 -
(f)   where more than one Government ministry is involved in project implementation,
communication delays are likely to slow down implementation unless Bank
supervision missions focused more closely on ministerial coordination (paras 19 &
27);
(g)   gaps in the continuity of supervision can have serious consequences in project
outcome (para 29);
(h)  firm financing commitments on the part of bilateral agencies should be included in
credit agreements (para 17);
(i)  implementation progress reports prepared by Borrowers should be designed to
yield information that is operationally useful including explanations for actions
taken and general implementation difficulties (para 33).



- 13 -
PROJECT COMPLEIION REPORT
ZAMBIA
FIiX1 EDUCATION PROJEC1
(CRDIT 1251-Z)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Part II was rLot completed.



- 15 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
FIFTH EDUCATION PRGJ A CT
(CREDIT 1251-ZA)
PART HI STATISTHCAL INFbORMA1ON
A. Related Bank Loans*
Table 1: IBRD Loans Relevant to the Project
Loan Number  Year of          Purpose of
Project Title   Approval       Project                    Status         Comments
Ln. 592-ZA     April To provide quantitative expansion  Completed   Education objectives
Education I    1969  and qualitative improvement in the  03/79      basically achieved.
education system to meet urgent               Project considered too
manpower needs. Funded 9 new                 large and ambitious
secondary schools, improvement of             for a first operation.
56 existing secondary schools, 2
primary and 2 TTCs and 1 technical
school
Ln. 645-ZA     Nov.  To increase the supply of high level  Completed   Facilties provided are
Education II    1969  manpower in selected fields by      12/75     effectively utilized.
providing the extensions to the               Improvements could
UNZA Schools of Engineering and               be made through
Education.                                    strengthening of
UNZA planning
capacity.
Ln. 900-ZA     May  Expanding output of medical         Completed   Project amended in
Education HI    1973  assistants; in-service training for  03/80    1980 to include 12
agricultural staff and farmer                 primary schools and
training; curriculum development              maintenance program
services and additional facilities for        for secondary schools.
secondary schools and teacher                Implementation
training colleges.                            complicated by
coordination of
X  All the Projects preceding the one under discussion here were I1RD Loan



- 16-
unrelated
subcomponents.
Farmer training
program ineffective
due to policy changes
during
implementation.
Loan Number  Year of        Purpose of
Project Title   Approval      Project                  Status         Comments
Ln. 1356-ZA    Dec.  Improve education administration,    Completed  Successful completion
Education IV    1976  business education and training of  03/83  of physical facilities.
agricultural staff and farmers              Farmer training
affected by
policychange as for
Education m.
Effectiveness of
education admin-
istration weakened
through failure to use
technical assistance
and fellowships.
B. Project Timetable
abe 2: Planned, Revised and Actual Dates of Project Timetable
Planned Date    Revised Date    Actual Date
Identification Mission      05n7             -               08/77
Preparation Mission         01/79           11-12/80        11-12/80
Appraisal Mission           03/81            -               03/81
Credit Negotiations         02/82            03/82           03/82
Board Approval               -               -              05/20/82
Credit Signature            0)5/82           -              06/14/82
Credit Effectiveness        09/82            -              09/14/82
Project Completion          09/87
Credit Closing             03/31/88          -              03/31/88



- 17 -
36. Comments on Project Timetable. Project preparation took five years partly because after the
release of the Education Reform document, project design was changed from broad sectoral support to
project-specific lending. A further delay of one year occurred after appraisal because the project had
been inadvertently left out of the Govermment's 1981-83 investment program. The project went into
suspension, with the general suspension of disbursements to Zambia in May 1987. The Credit
Account was closed in March 1988, although the last payment was made in August 1987.



- 18 -
C. Crdit isbursemens
Table 3: Cumuladve Esimated and Actual Disbursemen
(in US$'000)
Bank FY                      1983      1984       1985       1986       1987       1988
Apprais3l Esdlate           1.20       5.70       11.70      19.45      24.10      2S.00
Actual                      1.20       3.86        6.98       7.50       9.28       9.S1
Actual as % of Esdlmate     100%        68%        60%         39%        38%       38%
Date of Final Disbursement 08t21/87
lime I3ne of Plamed and Actual Disbursenent Schedules
Cumulative Disbursements
Estimated and Actual (in US$ millions)
30
25 -
20 ..  
15
10-r
0'
1983         1984          1985           1986         1987          1988
Appraisal Eitimate       Actual Disbursement



.-19
D. ftlJee  ghMg
Iabe 4: Planned and Actual Compledon Dates of Compnents
Planmed             Actual              Months of
Project Componans         Completion           Compledon            Delay
Civi Worhs                 10/85               01/87                IS
FuPibr                    08/85                0886                12
Equlipment                09/85                10/86                13
Isxbw JSS
Civil Wors                 1018S               02/87                16
Furnmir                   08/85                08/86                12
EqMpmet                   Wig/8s               10/86                13
Mwemo ISS
Cvil Wors                  10/85               02/87                16
Furnitue                   MIS                 08/86                12
Equlpmntk                 09/85                10/86                13
Civi Worksy                      10186                10/88               24
ftcation Rdam MNu*lr        12/83               01/86                25
37.   CommenoBMWMmido. Tcontimnddedaluatn of the Kwacla coupled with
a lack of foreign exchane so slowed dow  eip   td  that by 1987, when              weo
suspended, only threo out of the eight schools bad been completed. Consucon time for hese three
schools nearly doubled firom an esmated 15 months to 29 months, mainly becau  Govenmen was
unable to keep up the replenishment of counart fnds in the special aco  even after DA increased
the      Ia   npecnge Of the civil woks categor   om 60% to 75% and inacread finds
deposited i dth Specia Accunt The tending pcs for the olher five schools beg  three yeya
behid chede becae  of a lack of resludon on th foiw     e _chag kme  Conra  were awarded
in January 1987; with only four months to go befre suspion of  d         ;co  rea
about 15% compleion for four sools, while work never        o die ffi stool.
D'Beamn of diffiUltie sa upplying elecucu eVquIpmnt to dw shools, cauapletom W=deayed by 3.6 maidms.
Y'   Maea  Poam w complted du toNOOWs fimald esie  abw Credft Sqiem



-20-
E. Prlect Costs and Flnancn
Table 5: Project Costs and Financing
(USS million)
Planned             Actual
IDA                    25.00               9.54
Government             142Q                4 3
TOTAL                  I229
38. Comment on Protjiect Finacng. NORAD disbursed US$6. 155 million in the period 1984-19M7
towards technical assistance for project administration and the school maintenance program. Data on
local costs of the project is incomplete and or unavailable, especially on the last 18 months of the project.
This is probably due to the abrupt way in which the project closed. Ihe data available indicates that total
actual local costs amounted to the equivalent of US$million 4.39 as compared to an original estimate of
the equivalent of US$million 14.20.
Table 6: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
(SDRs)
Category               Original Allocation    Actual Disbursements
(1) Civil Works               8,000,000            4,965,568
(2) Construction Mateials     5,330,000            1,139,687
(3) Furniture, Equipment and   1,500,000           1,399,577
Vehicles
(4) Consultants Services and    600,000             440,079
Project Administration
(5) Initial Deposit in Special  1,070,000           962,7581
Account
Total Amount Withdrawn       -                 8,907,669
Canceled Undisbursed         -                 13,292,331
Balance
Credit                    22,200,000           22,200,000
Thuis amount represnus the idifference between the SDR equivalent provailing at Xt tmo advances were made
and the SDR equivalent provailing at the dme documentaon for the advacs wa submittd.



-21 -
Table 7: Cost Analysis of Schools: Appraisal Estimates and Actual Costs
(ZK million)
Jldstiatuon        Appraisal           Actual        Difference           %
a) Civi Worlc                          3,385'
Academic          1,163
Boarding            808
Staff Hours       1.=
Sub-Total         2,993              3,385          +392               +13%
Lubwe JSS
a) Civil Works                         3,2061l
Academic          1,368
Boarding            734
Staff Hours        924
Sub-Total         2,993              3,285          +180               + 6%
Mwenzo JSS
a) Civil Worhm                         3,155 v
Academic          1,368
Boarding           734
Staff Hours        924
Sub-Total         2,993              3,155          +129               + 4%
' Final cos basnd on constuct  contracts.



-22 -
F.  eg;tResults
Iable : Comparison of Appraisal Estimates and Actual Student
Enrollments (1991) for 3 Junior Secondary Schools
Dnstglkdons
Chibombo               Lubwe                 Mwenzo
Enrollment               Appraisal   Actual    Appraisal   Actual     Appraisal   Actual
Total Enrollment         480        608         360        527         360        557
Boys                     240        334         180        302         -          -
Girls                    240        274         180        225         360        557
Boarding                 360        519         240        478         240        539
Day Students             -           89         -          49          -           18
uiflt Facilities
(in sq. meters)
Academic                2,186      2,186      2,106      2,106       2,106       2,106
Boarding                1,772      1,772      1,334      1,334       1,334       1,334
Housing                 2,282      2,282      1,711      1,711       1,711       1,711
, of Staff Houses        (25)       (25)       (20)       (20)        (20)        (20)
39.  Comnment on Student Enrollments. The facilities are over enroiled by about 40 per cent, with the
highest over enollment at the girls' school, Mwenzo. This is because the expansion of physical facilities
has not kept pace with the growth in student mnmbers. While in relative terms the physical facilities built
under this project made very generous space allowances, they are now very over crowded. Sanitation
facilities are particularly inadequate, a problem that was not satisfactorily resolved during construction
(para 15).
Table 9. Project Studies
Purpose as Defined                               Impact
at Appraisal         Status                    of Study
1. Education Reform   To produce a detailed  Completed               Due to Credit
Implementation Study    and costed plan for                          suspension never
proposed reform of the                        adopted as a strategy.
education system.
40. Comment on ProJect studies. The interim report submitted by the team was never formaily
adopted by Government because of the crisis that had gripped the country by the time it was completed.
Many of the issues it addressed are still very pertinent, and future IDA projects will no doubt incorporate
them in the policy dialogue.



- 23 -
G. Statu of Crdt Covenants
Table lQ: Compliance with Credit Covenants
Secton                                                 C_t tat  ofCM
3.03         (a) In carrying out the Project, the       In full compliance (a) and (b)
Borrower shall maintain the existence of the
PIU; and
(b) shall consult with the Association
whenever it proposes to make new
appointments to the positions of Project
Director, Assistant Project Director,
Procurement Specialist, Financial
Controller, Project Architect and
Maintenance Coordinator within the PIU.
3.05 (c)     Upon the award by the Borrower of any      Action as deemed necessary on the
contract for goods, works or services to be  part of the associaton.
fianced out of the proceeds of the Credit,
the Association may publish a description
thereof, the name and nationality of the
party to whom the contract was awarded
and the contract price.
3.05 (d)     Promptly after completion of the Project,  Due to the una cirmstance
but in any event not later than five months  leading to suspension of
after the Closing Date or such later date as  disbu   t, the project did not
may be agreed for this purpose between the  close in the anticipated manner and
Borrower and the Associaton, a report on   as a result the report was not
the execution and initial operation of the  prepared.
Project, its cost and the benefits derived
and to be derived from it, the performance
by the Borrower and the Association of
their respective obligations under the Credit
Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purpose of the Credit.
3.06         'he Borrower shall, not later th- n        in full compliance. University of
December 31, 1982, carry out a reform      Zambia, School of Education,
implementation study to determine the most  completed the study and the final
economic and efficient means 4or           report was issued in July 1986.
implementing its educaton reform program
and to identify future investments in the
education sector, and shall furnish to the
association the results of said study, not
later tanDecember 31, 1983, for the
Associaon to comment thereon.



-24-
Section                 Covenant                         Status of Compliance
4.01 (a)     The Borrower shall cause PIU: to maintain   In full compliance
records adequate to reflect, in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices, its operations and
financial condition, including, without
limitation to the foregoing, separate
accounts reflecting all expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested
from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditures;
4.01 (b)     to have its accounts and financial statements    In full compliance
(balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable
to the Association; and
4.01 (c)     to furnish to the Association, as soon as   ia compliance up to suspension of
available but in any case not later than six  disbursements
montbs after the end of each such year: (i)
certified copies of its financial statements
for such year as so audited; and (ii) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably
requested, including, without limitation to
the foregoing, a separate opinion by said
auditors in respect of the separate accounts
referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of this
Agreement and in respect of the
expenditures and records referred to in
Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, as to
whether the proceeds of the Credit made
available to it and withdrawn from the
Credit Account on the basis of statements
of expenditure have been used for the
purpose for which they were provided.
4.03 (a)     The Borrower shall operate the educational  compliamrce related to 3 institutions
institutions and faciities included in the  completed under the project
Project in accordance with appropriate
administrative and educational practices and
with due regard to economy.



-25-
H. Use of Bank Resources
Table II: Staff Inputs by Stage of Project Cycle in Staff Weeks
Project Cycle
Phase FY       77  78  79  80  81   82  83  84  85  86   87  88  Total
1) Preparation
and Pre-
Appraisal    12.3 12.9 2.1 2.6 20.3 0.0 0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0 0.0  50.2
2) Appraisal   0.0  0.0 0.0 0.0 24.4 10'.6 0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0 0.0  35.0
3) Negotiations   0.0  0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 19.7 0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0 0.0  19.7
4) Supervision    0.0  0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0  0.0 8.5 21.4 34.5 20.7  11.3 3.0  99.4
TOTAL                                                               204.3



-26 -
Table 12: Mission Data by Stages of Project
Project Cycle                         No. of      Days In                             Pert.
Stage                Date           Persons     Fleld        Specdalizationsy       Status
Generatio
Identification I       May 77         3           1S           A, E, EP
Identification 2       Oct 80         2           10           A, TE
Preparation            NovlDec 80     2           18           E, GE
Appraisal              Mar 81         4           16           A, E, GE, TE
Suerisio
Supervision I          Oct 82         3            5           A, E, TE               1
Supervsion 2           May 83         3            4           A, E, TE               I
Supervislon3           Oct83          2            4           A, TE                  1
Supervision 4          Jun 84         4           12           A, E, GE, TE           2
Superision 5           Oct 84         3           13           DC, A, OA              2
Supervision 6          Feb 85         2           13           A, OA                  2
Stpervision 7          Jul 85         2            9           A, OA                  2
Supervision8           Dec 85          1           8           A                      2
Supervision 9          Feb 86         2           10           A, OA                  2
Supervision 10         Oct86          2            9           A, OA                  2
Supervision 11         Nov 87          1           6           A                      n.a.'
*   Superision Missions 1-3 also supervised Third and Fourth Projects coming to a close
** Final Supervision - Disbursements suspended as of May, 87.
A - Achiect; B - Economat; BP - Education Plnner, GE = Geneal Educator; OA = Operational Asasaant;
DC - Division Chief, TR - Technical Educator



-27-
Z.AAbm
ZAMBIA
FEI EDUCAIION PROJEUT
EXCHANGE RATE FLUCrUATIONS
Currency unit of the Country: Zambian Kwacha (ZK)
Currency unit of the Credit: Special Drawing Rights (SDR)
Year/Month of Appraisal: April 1982  SDR 1 = USS 1.13
1982                1 US$ = 0.93 ZK                  1 SDR  = 1.13 US$
1983                1 US$ = 1.51 ZK                  1 SDR  = 1.13US$
1984                1 US$ = 2.20 ZK                  1 SDR  = 1.12 US$
1985                1 US$ = 5.71 ZK                  1 SDR  = 1.10 US$
1986                1 US$ = 12.82 ZK                 1 SDR  =  1.23 US$
1987                1 US$ = &OO8ZK                   1 SDR  = 1.42 US$
1988                1 USV  - ]O.00 ZK                1 SDR  =  1.35 USS
1992(Jan.)          1 US$ = 120.00ZK                 1 SDR  =  1.38US$



