Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3573-ZA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
A FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
IN THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
April 20, 1982
Education Projects Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00               =          Kwacha 0.87
Kwacha 1              -          US$1.15
Ngwee (N) 100         =          1 Kwacha
Kwacha 1              =          SDR 1.132804 (02/28/82)
MEASURES
1 Meter (m)            =         3.28 Feet (ft)
1 Square Meter (m2)   =          10.76 Square Feet (ft2)
1 Kilometer (km)       =         0.6214 Miles (mi)
1 Hectare (ha)         =         2.471 Acres (ac)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AfDF        -      African Development Fund
CIDA        -      Canadian International Development Agency
CSO         -      Central Statistical Office
MOE         -      Ministry of Education and Culture
mWS         -      Ministry of Works and Supply
NORAD       -      Norwegian Agency for International Development
PIU         -      Project Implementation Unit (Unit III under the MWS)
SIDA        -      Swedish International Development Authority
TNDP        -       Third National Development Plan,1979-1983
UNZA        -      University of Zambia
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
A FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT IN THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
I.  SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND EMPLOYMENT ....       ..............  1
Geographic and Socio-Economic Setting ......................        1
Recent Developments and Prospects ..........................        1
Labor Force and Employment .................................        2
II.  THE EDUCATION SECTOR AND MAJOR ISSUES IN EDUCATION
DEVELOPMENT ................................................        3
Educational Reform Proposals and Recommendations ....     .......   3
Education Finance ..........................................        5
Education in the Third National Development Plan ....     .......   6
Assessment of Government Plans and Policies ....       ............  7
Role of the Bank Group in Zambian Education Development ....    11
III. THE PROJECT..13
Objectives ............  13
Project Components .........................................    14
Basic Education (Junior Secondary Schools) ....      ..........   14
Secondary School Maintenance Program ....................   15
Reform Implementation Study .............................   16
Technical Assistance .......................................   16
Female Participation in the Education System ....      ...........   16
Unesco assisted the Government in preparing the project in November/December
1980. This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Zambia in March 1981 and included Mr. L. Swahn (Technical Educator,
Mission Leader) and Ms. A. De Leva (Economist) of the World Bank Group,
Messrs. T. Davis (General Educator, Consultant) and C. Hammerschmidt
(Architect, Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
IV.  PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL PLAN ..........................    17
Project Cost .........       ....................................  17
Customs Duties and Taxes ...............................       18
Contingency Allowances .................................        18
Foreign Exchange Component .............................        19
Financial Plan ............................................        19
V.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING 19
Implementation ...........................................         19
Administration ........................................         20
Reporting and Evaluation ..............................         20
Professional Services .................................         20
Site Selection ........................................        21
Procurement .........       .....................................  21
Disbursement .........       ....................................  21
Special Accounts .........................................         22
Auditing ..........      .......................................   22
VI.  BENEFITS AND RISKS .......................................         23
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....         ...............    23
APPENDIX I      - Description of the Education System
ANNEX I - Tables and Charts
Table 1   - Comparative Education Indicators
2   - Central Government E]xpenditures on Education, 1975-80
3   - Primary School Enrollment, 1965-80
4   - Secondary School Enrollment, 1971-80
5   - Distribution of COSC Results, 1980
6   - Output of Primary School Teachers, 1975-80
7   - Output of Secondary School Teachers, 1975-80
8   - University of Zambia Graduates, 1968-80
9   - Summary of Technica:L Assistance
10   - Summary of Enrollment and Estimated Project Costs
11   - Estimated Cost by Category of Expenditure
12   - Implementation Schedule
13   - Schedule of Disbursements
Chart 1   - Organization Chart -- Ministry of Education and Culture, 1980
2   - Structure of the Education System, 1980
3   - Education Pyramid
4   - Interim Structure of the Education System
5   - Final Structure of the Education System
ANNEX II - Selected Documents and Data. Available in the Project File
MAP No. 15735R



REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
BASIC DATA
Population (1980)                                         5.7 million
Population growth rate                                     3.3% p.a.
GNP per capita (1980)                                     US$566
Education (1980)
Literacy Rate                                        44%
Primary education (Grades 1-7)
-  enrollment                                     1,040,000
-  as percent of age group 7-13 years             95%
-  percent of enrollment which is female          47%
Secondary education (Forms I-V)
enrollment                                     95,000
as percent of age group 14-19                  16%
- percent of enrollment which is female           35%
University of Zambia
enrollment (regular, fulltime)                   4,010
-  percent which is female                        18%
Education Expenditures
Government expenditures on education as
percentage of total expenditures of the
Government (Prel. estimate 1980)
-  Recurrent                                      12.1%
-  Capital                                        11.7%
-  Total                                          12.1%
-  As percentage of GDP                            4.5%



t1
U1



REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
APPRAISAL OF A FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
I. SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND EMPLOYMENT
Geographic and Socio-Economic Setting
1.01    Zambia, with an area of 752,600 km2 and a population of 5.7 mil-
lion, is a landlocked country, rich in both agricultural and mineral
resources. The population is growing rapidly (3.3% in 1978-80), and becom-
ing increasingly urban (the share of urban population rose from 30% in 1969
to 43% in 1980) with the main poles of urban attraction being mines and
cities along railway lines.
1.02    Zambia's heavy dependence on copper (foreign exchange resources,
fiscal revenues, employment) makes the economy extremely vulnerable to
developments in world copper markets. Also because it is landlocked, the
country is vulnerable to political instability in neighboring countries,
which has in the past induced high defense expenditures and resulted in
disruption of the country's access routes to the sea. Real GNP per capita
remained approximately constant between 1965 and 1976; since then, it has
fallen steadily, and in 1980 was about 22% lower than the average for the
previous 12 years.
Recent Developments and Prospects
1.03    Zambia-s current economic difficulties were triggered by a 40% fall
in the price of copper in 1975 setting off a balance of payments and public
finance crisis, which in the absence of a subsequent improvement in the
copper price evolved into economic depression. These problems were com-
pounded by a decline in copper ore grade and several years of drought which
reduced agriculture production and the absence of appropriate policies to
cope with the situation. The net effect was an annual average 2.5% decline
in real GDP between 1977 and 1980 and large fiscal and balance of payment
deficits.
1.04    Zambia's Third National Development Plan, 1979-83 (TNDP) contained
the following development objectives:  (a) economic diversification to
promote agriculture and agro-allied and small scale industries to lessen
dependence on copper; (b) more productive use of investment; (c) increased
employment; (d) reduction of income disparities between rural and urban
dwellers; and (e) better monetary and fiscal management to achieve
reasonable price stability. However since 1979, because of the severity
of the above-mentioned negative factors, there has been little progress
toward achieving these long-term objectives.
1.05    The medium term outlook for the future of Zambia's economy is
somewhat brighter: (a) the political situation in neighboring Zimbabwe has



- 2 -
stabilized; (b) some improvement in the price of copper is foreseen; and
(c) the Government has began to initiate a set of policy reforms which are
supported by an IMF Extended Fund Facility (approved in May 1981).
Labor Force and Employment
1.06    In 1980, Zambia-s labor force was estimated at 1.8 million, of
which over half were employed in traditional agriculture, about 21% in the
modern wage sector and the rest were either unemployed or working (mainly
self-employed) in informal occupations. Systematic employment data are
available only for the modern wage sector.  About three-fourths of those
working in this sector are employed by the Government or by parastatal
enterprises (including mines).
1.07    During the first half of the 1970's employment in the wage sector
increased slowly, but steadily, at about 2.8% per year. However, as a
consequence of the 1975 collapse of copper prices it declined by over 6%
in 1976 and stagnated through 1979. Partly as a consequence of the rees-
tablishment of trade with Zimbabwe, emnployment in 1980 increased by 3.3% or
only half a percentage point below the TNDP projected rate.
Wage Employment, 1970, 1975, 1980
(in Thousands)
Average Annual
Growth Rate (%)
1970     1975    1980 *    1970 - 1980
Agriculture, Forestry, and Fisheries           34.6      36.1    39.6           1.4
Mining and Quarrying                           57.6      64.8    60.7           0.5
Manufacturing                                  38.2      44.3    49.0           2.5
Construction                                   68.8      71.7    43.6          -4.5
Transport and Communications                   22.3      22.1    25.4           1.3
Services **                                   121.5    154.5   165.8            3.2
Total                                         343.0    393.5   384.1            1.1
Source: Central Statistical Office
* Average for quarter ending in June.
** Excludes domestic servants.
1.08    A policy of generous wage increases which made employment in the
modern sector more attractive than other work opportunities has been a
major inducement for rural-urban nigration. At the same time, in recent
years this policy has resulted in considerable cutbacks in private sector



wage labor, thus contributing to increasing urban unemployment. However,
the development of mainly home-based informal activities such as small
repair shops and retail trade outlets has provided some relief to the
unemployment situation.
1.09    The TNDP estimates that with a labor force growing at about 4% per
year, some 63,000 new jobs would need to be created each year if an
increase of the unemployment backlog is to be prevented. Even if the
rather optimistic wage employment growth rate of 3.8% per year projected in
the TNDP were to be achieved, the modern sector would absorb only about
one-fourth of the annual additions to the labor force; thus, traditional
agriculture would have to provide the bulk of new employment. In order to
cope with this situation the TNDP emphasizes the provision of incentives
for self-employment in the rural areas through an integrated package of
extension services, land clearance, adoption of labor-intensive techniques,
and farmer training.
1.10    Although no comprehensive updated manpower study is available for
Zambia, the TNDP includes indicative projections of manpower supply and
demand. These projections are based on enrollments and admission policies
of existing educational institutions and limited employment surveys for
particular sub-sectors undertaken by the Central Statistical Office (CSO)
and the University of Zambia (UNZA). These studies reveal shortages in the
skilled, technical and professional occupations, particularly engineers,
senior secondary school teachers, medical personnel at all levels, tech-
nicians and professionals for the mining sector and managerial and super-
visory staff for all sectors. They also reveal that in urban areas there
is substantial unemployment and underemployment among low-skilled or
unskilled labor. With its plans to foster agriculture, the Government
expects that enough income earning occupations will be created in agricul-
ture or in activities supporting agriculture to absorb the increase in the
rural labor force as well as induce surplus urban labor to revert to
agriculture.
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR AND MAJOR ISSUES IN EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT
2.01    General.  A description of the education system is contained in
Appendix I. Annex I, T-1 are comparative education indicators, C-1 through
C-3 are the organization of the Ministry of Education and Culture (MOE),
the structure of the education system and the education pyramid, respec-
tively.
Educational Reform Proposals and Recommendations
2.02    A general feeling that education was not producing the attitudes
and skills conducive to self-reliance and national development caused the
Government to undertake a review of the sector between 1974 and 1978 to
determine and analyze its shortcomings. Concern arose particularly because



of the growing number of primary and secondary school leavers and dropouts
who remained unemployed after schooling.  After extensive national debate
the document "Educational Reform Proposals and Recommendation" (Reform) was
published in June 1978. The paper contains an in-depth evaluation of the
existing system, formulates specific proposals for action, sets priorities
for future development, and outlines an investment program for the sector
during the next decade, starting from the beginning of the TNDP.
2.03    The aims of national education in Zambia, according to the Reform,
are to provide each person, within his/her capacity, opportunities to:
inter alia obtain an education based on personal interest, abilities and
needs; attain intellectual excellence and acquire practical skills or
experience; and contribute to the economic and social development of Zam-
bia.
2.04    The existing education structure will be modified according to the
schematic diagrams which are shown in Annex I, C-4 and C-5. The most
important features of the proposed near structure are:
(a) Full-time basic education will begin at the age of seven and
continue until the completion of Grade 9. The new structure
will have three successive stages of full-time education as
follows:
1.  Basic Education.  The ultimate goal is to provide a
nine-year universal basic education system. Due to
insufficient number of school places available at present
in Grade 1 and Form I (the future Grade 8), the achievement
of this target cannot be accomplished in the immediate
future but over a 10 to 15 year period through phased
expansion of facilities and increased resources.
When nine-year universal basic education is ultimately
achieved, there will be a continuous program from Grades
1 through 9 with the curricula organized on the basis
of six years of primary and three years of junior secondary
education.
2.  Second Stage.  At the end of Grade 9, students will be
selected to enter a fu-ll-time general education program for
Grades 10-12 (presently, Forms III to V), or they may pursue
specialized training programs such as the assistant
nurses' course, trades training, primary school teacher
training or similar courses. Some of those who leave full-
time education at this stage may pursue in-service training
programs in various sectors of the economy and/or take
advantage of continuing (part-time) education programs.
3.  Third Stage.  Within this stage of education, there will
be a wide range of fields of study for Grade 12 graduates,
such as advanced specialized programs leading to diplomas



- 5 -
in teaching, technology, nursing, agriculture, etc., and
programs at university level.
(b) Continuing Education. This part of the education system will
cater to adults or youths who have left full-time education or
may never have entered it, but wish to pursue education and
training by part-time study. The following are the principal
areas: (i) literacy education designed to achieve universal
literacy through intensification of ongoing programs; (ii)
part-time formal studies by correspondence and/or evening
courses, to provide access to the various levels of the
system; and (iii) in-service education aimed at increasing the
understanding, competence, and productivity of persons in the
world of work and to enable workers to improve their vocational
and professional skills.
Education Finance
2.05    Education in Zambia is free through the university level.  On
average in the past five years (Annex I, T-2), Government recurrent expen-
ditures on education have accounted for about 14% of total annual recurrent
expenditures and capital expenditures for about 9% of the respective total.
Notwithstanding, steady yearly increases in enrollments (primary 3%, secon-
dary 5%, university 13%), education recurrent expenditures in real terms
fell by over 15% between 1976 and 1978 and stabilized thereafter. This can
be attributed mainly to the decline in teachers real wages since 1976, the
last year in which a cost of living adjustment was granted. This situation
is reflected in the decline in education cost per student as follows:
1976             1980
(in US$ of 1980)
Primary                            103               71
Secondary                          556              381
University                       7,594            3,750
Also contributing to the decline in unit costs have been the phasing out of
boarding for primary schools; a sharp reduction in the provision of educa-
tional materials to students; the deterioration of the quality boarding
services in secondary education; and an increase in student:teacher ratios
at the university level. A comparison of Zambia-s unit costs in 1980 with
those in other countries in the region can be seen from the following
estimates for the 1979/80 school year:



Zambia         Malawi            Lesotho          Botswana
(in US$ of 1979/80
Primary                71            16                 28               157
Secondary            381            262                195               840
University         3,750          4,100              3,340             6,890
The differences among the four countries with regard either to the propor-
tion of boarders in secondary schools and/or that of expatriate teaching
staff provided on a grant basis are not sufficiently large as to alter the
countries ranking in terms of their unit costs.
2.06    As it is difficult to assume that teachers' salaries can continue
to fall in real terms and, as there is only limited scope for increasing
student:teacher ratios, Zambia is not expected to be able to reduce sub-
stantially unit costs on these two counts. Thus, because of its present
financial constraints, Government's efforts in the short-term should be
directed at preventing any significant increase in real wages or decline in
student:teacher ratios.
Education in the Third National Development Plan
2.07    The Government's immediate strategy for implementing the Reform's
goals are contained in the TNDP. Bank Group staff have reviewed the
proposed reform and agree with its basic recommendation to improve the
quality, equity and efficiency of the education system. Although the TNDP
indicates agreement with the ultimate goals of the Reform, it also expres-
ses caution about the rate of implementation during the Plan period (para.
2.04.a.1). In this respect the Government, at the recommendation of Bank
Group staff, is planning to undertake a study of the development of the
formal education system as set forth in the Reform, which would serve as a
guideline for future investment in the sector (para. 2.30). The TNDP
investment program includes elements outlined in the paragraphs which
follow.
2.08    Basic Education. (Grades 1-7, Former Primary School and Grades 8-9
of Former Junior Secondary School The TNDP aims at providing facilities for
all children from the age of seven to ,enter school and continue until they
reach Grade 7. Enrollment is estimated to increase from 962,000 in 1978 to
1,154,000 in 1983. Total investment of K 177 million (1977 prices) is
estimated to be needed for construction of about 4,500 classrooms, 5,000
staff houses and other school requisites. The Government would provide K
24 million (about 14% of the capital expenditures) and che remainder of
about K 153 million is to be raised from other sources or provided through
self-help schemes. Grades 8 and 9 (the former first two grades of junior
secondary school) will ultimately become the two last grades of the
nine-year universal basic education cycle. The TNDP aims at increasing the
progression rate from Grade 7 to Grade 8 from 19% in 1980 to about 21%
in 1983.



2.09    Senior Secondary Education (Grades 10-12).  The TNDP target is to
maintain about 50% progression from Grade 9 to Grade 10 to meet the
increasing demand for Form V graduates for the labor market and tertiary
training institutions.
2.10    Teacher Training.  The achievement of the goal for increased
enrollment in Grades 1 through 7 will require about 5,000 new primary
school teachers to be employed during the TNDP period. To achieve this
goal, eight existing primary teacher training colleges should be extended,
each from 300 to 500 students capacity, and a new resource center attached
to all the primary teacher training institutions. At secondary level, the
two existing Teacher Training Colleges in Kitwe and Kabwe would be expanded
to a capacity of 500 students each and a third college of a similar size
would be required during the TNDP period.
2.11    Curriculum Development.  The MOE would embark upon a comprehensive
program for curriculum reform including re-orientation of teachers, produc-
tion of related school materials and purchase of books and equipment. The
new Education Services Center, constructed and equipped under the
Bank-assisted Third and Fourth Education Projects (paras. 2.26 and 2.27)
will play an important role in implementing this program.
2.12    Technical and Vocational Training.  The Government-s plans include
the establishment of three new Trades Training Institutes in the Eastern,
Western and North-Western provinces where no technical education or voca-
tional training institutions exist. However from the point of view of
manpower needs, this program appears premature. Other investment in this
subsector would be used to improve the utilization and efficiency of exist-
ing facilities.
2.13    University of Zambia.  The TNDP also includes the establishment of
the new Solwezi Campus, the Ndola Campus, and the improvement of the Lusaka
Campus. However, in recognition of the country-s economic constraints,
recent (October 1980) adjustments to the Plan emphasize only the develop-
ment of a School of Environment Studies and a School of Business
Administration and Accountancy on the Ndola Campus and a modest improvement
in the buildings and equipment of the Lusaka campus, while the development
of the Solwezi Campus will be postponed. A revised university development
plan to that effect is under preparation and was scheduled to be ready in
late 1981.
Assessment of Government Plans and Policies
2.14    Overview.  The Government's plans and policies for development of
the education and training sector in the TNDP concentrate on a gradual
expansion of the formal education system in order to obtain greater equity
at the basic education level and an improvement of quality in output at the
secondary education level. This is not expected to have an immediate
effect on alleviating the shortage of manpower in technical and other



.- 8 -
professional occupations (para. 1.10). However, during the 1970s, educa-
tion policy has emphasized the establishment of institutions of secondary
and higher learning in which Bank Group assistance has played an important
role (para. 2.23). The capacities of these institutions are not yet fully
utilized primarily because of the poor quality of output from various
levels of the secondary school system. The Government's intention to
implement gradually the Reform so as to improve efficiency and quality in
the education system is therefore sound and is expected ultimately to
increase and improve the output of needed skilled and professional manpower
for the industrial, mining, health, agricultural and education sectors.
2.15    Basic Education.  An assessment of the required investment for
introducing a nine-year universal basic education system, based solely upon
1980 numbers, shows that 60,000 additional school places in Grades 1-7 and
200,000 in Grades 8 and 9 would be required to enroll every child at the
appropriate age of entry from seven to sixteen years. This would also
require an additional 9,250 teachers. hlence, in the short and medium terms
it appears that universal basic education is feasible only for Grades 1-7,
where it has already achieved an enrollment of 95% within the appropriate
age range; total age group enrollments for Grades 8-9 will be gradually
increased as the system can be realistically financed and serviced. Due in
large part to financial constraints, only 19% of the present Grade 7
graduates are able to continue with full-time education up to the end of
Grade 9. The retention of this percentage through the mid-1980s is depend-
ent upon an input into the system of at least 6,000 places at the junior
secondary level. It is the Government's clear policy that national
progression rate of 22% from primary to junior secondary level, achieved in
the mid-1970s, should not be allowed to fall to 15% (the TNDP states a
progression rate of 21% as the target, para. 2.08). Therefore, the
proposed additional junior secondary schools would assist the Government in
carrying out an important element of national policy.
2.16    It is obvious that the plan to attain Universal Basic Education
"over a 10 to 15 year period" (para. 2.04 (a)l) is not realistic, and that
a new program for the future medium- and long-term development of the
education system, within the framework outlined in the Reform proposals,
has still to be established. It is the Government's intention therefore to
introduce a study of the development of the formal education system in
relation to the proposed Reform (para. 3.07). Annex I, T-3, includes
primary school enrollments for the period 1965 to 1980.
2.17    Secondary School Maintenance Program.  This ongoing program sup-
ported by the Bank Group-assisted Third Education Project (para. 2.26) and
the Norwegian Agency for International Development (NORAD) is given high
priority in the TNDP. A well conceived program is being developed which
should assist the MOE in protecting its investment in physical facilities
and equipment and the proposed project supports the second phase of this
program (para. 3.04).



- 9 -
2.18    Senior Secondary Education.  Further expansion of the senior secon-
dary school system (para. 2.09) is considered to be of lower priority than
junior secondary school expansion. Although undoubtedly there will be
pressure to increase the number of senior secondary school places, the
present capacity of the system is sufficient quantitatively (about 11,000
student places in each of Forms IV and V) to provide an adequate output for
existing and planned tertiary education and training for the next decade
(Annex I, T-4). The Government-s intention to improve the quality of the
output of Form V graduates appears a sound policy, and successful implemen-
tation is anticipated with the increased output of graduate teachers from
the UNZA and the Secondary School Teacher Training College. Annex I, T-5
provides an analysis of the results of the Form V COSC examination.
2.19    Teacher Training.  Given the large expansion initially envisaged in
the TNDP (para. 2.10), the most pressing problem confronting the education
system would be a shortage of qualified teachers.  However, assuming a more
realistic growth, based on the project currently proposed, the supply of
trained teachers (Annex I, T-6 and T-7) for the proposed schools should
be adequate.  A recent MOE working paper indicated that the output of
teachers at the junior secondary level is matching requirements to such an
extent that the recruitment of expatriates is no longer necessary--even in
subject areas such as mathematics and science. Further, the eight existing
Primary Teacher Training Colleges are expected to increase their enroll-
ments through a more efficient utilization of existing facilities as a
result of the addition of Resource Centers to be provided each college
under an agreement with the Swedish International Development Authority
(SIDA) which will also provide recurrent funds for their operation. Secon-
dary Teacher Training is also being financially supported by SIDA and other
bilateral funds through a project which would establish a new college in
Lusaka. Hence, existing and planned teacher training facilities have the
capacity to provide an adequate supply of trained teachers for the expected
expansion of upper Basic Education including the upgrading of teachers to
improve the quality of instruction in the schools.
2.20    Curriculum Development.   The recently completed curriculum
development center, including the new printing workshop which has a print-
ing capacity of about 10,000 books per day, should increase the efficiency
and effectiveness of work in curriculum development. SIDA and NORAD are
providing ample incremental funds for educational materials production.
The present 42 staff of the curriculum development center will be increased
by two experts provided by Unesco and funds will be supplied for fellow-
ships for staff development through a new UNDP project currently being
negotiated. The curriculum for the secondary schools contains numerous
practical subjects which emphasize the development of skills useful for
later employment in industry and commerce (woodwork, metalwork, homecrafts,
commerce and agriculture).



- 10 -
2.21    Technical and Vocational Training.  Zambia's educational policy for
technical education and vocational training has been to concentrate resour-
ces on full-time pre-employment training in technical colleges and trades
training institutes followed by on-the-job training in industry. This
approach is in contrast to apprenticeship training, which is not considered
suitable primarily because of job immobility resulting from such schemes.
The Government's plan includes the establishment of three additional trades
training institutes (para. 2.12) which, due to the underutilization of
existing training institutions, appears to be inappropriate considering
also the lack of adequate manpower justification.
2.22    Tertiary Education.  This level of education includes numerous
programs administered by various institutions. Successful completion of
Form V or other equivalent programs is the normal requirement for entry to
university or college. Some Form V graduates could continue their educa-
tion through part-time study in areas of possible development that are
relatively inexpensive and have considerable potential in Zambia. As
discussed in para. 2.13, UNZA is at present planning new programs which
appear worthwhile and sound. The Government funding of the various schemes
however remains doubtful in view of the severe financial constraints. At
present, UNZA will utilize the Zambia Institute of Technology for the new
programs, but further expansion of the tertiary level of the educational
system, would require additional infrastructure. Annex I, T-8 includes
UNZA graduates by degree from 1968 to 1980.
2.23    Revised 1981-83 Investment Program.  Shortly after the completion
of the TNDP it became evident that under the country-s current financial
difficulties it would not be possible within the estimated time span to
implement all investment projects included in this Plan. Consequently, a
revised investment program for 1981-83 had to be prepared. In this new
program, investment in education was substantially scaled down and only the
Government-s highest priority projects were retained.  These included
mainly on-going projects totally or partially financed from external grants
or loans and new projects for which external financial assistance had
already been identified, e.g. the proposed IDA project. The projects in
this group are in the fields of primary education (Bank and NORAD); secon-
dary education, including a school maintenance program (Bank, NORAD and
SIDA); teacher training and education services (Bank, the Netherlands and
SIDA); and technical education and vocational training at the various
levels (Bank and SIDA). All these projects are complementary; their
development has involved substantial inter-agency coordination and they
address the most urgent education and manpower training needs of Zambia. A
few new projects for which no external financial assistance has been iden-
tified are also included in the revised three-year investment budget.
These projects, for which full justification for external assistance has
not been provided, will most probably have to be postponed until the finan-
cial situation of the country has become substantially stronger.



- 11 -
Role of the Bank Group in Zambian Education Development
2.24    General.  The Bank Group has provided US$69.0 million(l) to Zambia
for education projects with a total investment cost of about US$107 million
equivalent. The projects, particularly the First and the Second Education
Projects, have placed emphasis on the expansion and improvement of secon-
dary, technical, higher education, and teacher training in line with the
need to alleviate the acute shortage of trained local high- and mid-
dle-level manpower in the years following independence. This was in line
with the Bank's criteria for assistance to education development in the
early 1970s. A shift in emphasis occurred gradually with the Third and
Fourth Education Projects which gave increased attention to farmer and
health training, and adult education as well as to the improvement of
supportive educational services (e.g., curriculum development, educational
research, school broadcasting). The first two Bank Group-financed projects
have been completed. In addition, the Bank financed an education component
in an urban project (Loan 1057-ZA) and an array of project-related training
as part of various infrastructure projects. The total cost of Bank Group
financed education and training components of projects in sectors other
than education is estimated at about US$6.0 million equivalent.
2.25    The First Education Project (Loan No. 592-ZA), approved in April
1969 in the amount of US$17.4 million, was designed to provide quantitative
expansion and qualitative improvement in the education system to meet
urgent manpower needs. The project included nine new secondary schools and
improvement to 56 existing secondary schools, two primary and two higher
teacher training colleges and a technical school. The project was com-
pleted in March 1979, some four and one half years beyond the original
closing date with a cost overrun of about 18%. The project completion
report issued in June 1979 noted that the project (involving 70 institu-
tions) was considered by the Bank Group and the Borrower to have been too
large and ambitious for a first operation of the type in the country. The
decline in copper prices resulted in shortages of Government counterpart
funds and also contributed to the delay. Another lesson learned was that
the standardized construction system using locally manufactured prefabri-
cated elements had shortcomings in the design and technology although cost
savings were undoubtedly realized initially.  The need to formulate and
schedule, much earlier in the project implementation cycle, the teacher
training programs and the general introduction of new curricula is also a
*         lesson learned.  The education objectives of the project were basically
achieved, albeit slowly. A project performance audit report on this
project is under preparation.
1. Includes a US$11.0 million equivalent grant to the Government by NORAD
which is being administered by the Bank Group under the Third Education
Project.



- 12 -
2.26    The Second Education Project (Loan No. 645-ZA), approved in Novem-
ber 1969 in the amount of US$5.4 million, was designed to increase the
supply of high level manpower in selected fields by providing extensions to
the UNZA Schools of Engineering and Education. The project, as originally
approved, was basically completed in December 1975, about two and one half
years beyond the original August 1973 closing date. However, the project
was amended to utilize savings realized mainly from the civil works com-
ponent for new facilities for the Schocl of Agricultural Sciences. The
modified project was completed and the proceeds of the Loan were fully
disbursed by March 1979. A project comtpletion report, issued in June 1979,
noted that the facilities provided were being effectively utilized,
although in the case of the School of Engineering, not yet to full
capacity. It noted that the wastage of students from the UNZA was high
after the first year which could be attributed in part to the poor quality
of entrants particularly in the science subjects. It was also realized
that improvements could be made in the efficiency of the university system
through the strengthening of its general planning capacity. A project
performance audit report on this project is under preparation.
2.27    The Third Education Project (Loan No. 900-ZA), approved in May 1973
in the amount of US$33.0 million which includes a subsequent NORAD grant of
US$11.0 to the Government, consisted of: (a) expanding the output of
medical assistants; (b) in-service training for agricultural staff and
farmer training; (c) curriculum development services; and (d) additional
facilities for secondary schools and teacher training colleges. The
project included about 115 man years of technical assistance for project
implementation, planning, administration and fellowships. The project was
substantially completed by the original closing date, September 30, 1979,
but was postponed to March 31, 1980 to permit project accounts to be final-
ized. However, substantial savings were realized in the technical assis-
tance component due to grants and the project was amended to utilize these
savings for 12 new primary schools and the development of a first phase of
a maintenance program for secondary schools with coordinated assistance
with NORAD. The primary school component work is about six months behind
schedule due to delays by the Government in releasing conterpart funds.
This is being closely monitored by the Bank Group. An initial review of
the objectives of the original components of the project indicate that the
educational objectives are expected to be achieved.
2.28    The Fourth Education Project (Loan No. 1356-ZA), approved in Decem-
ber 1976 in the amount of US$13.3 million, is designed to improve education
administration, business education and training of agricultural staff and
farmers; technical assistance and evaluation studies. The overall progress
in implementing the project is satisfactory and the project is expected to
be completed prior to the original March 31, 1983 Closing Date.
2.29    Lessons Learned from the past projects include:  (a) projects
should be of a size that can be implemented within a reasonable time frame;
(b) timely release of budgetary allocations by the Government is essential;
(c) special programs for training should be implemented concurrently with



- 13 -
the hardware components; and (d) required technical assistance should be
coordinated with other donor agencies at an early stage of project prepara-
tion. Coordination of assistance with other donor agencies is essential
since NORAD, SIDA, the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development,
African Development Fund (AfDF), Canadian International Development Agency
(CIDA), Unesco, UNDP, etc. are providing major inputs to the education
sector.
2.30    The proposed project takes into consideration the lessons learned
by: (a) keeping the size of the project: (i) within the Government-s
ability to finance; and (ii) in particular, the construction component,
within the capacity of the constructioa industry for timely implementation;
(b) by more advanced preparation of the designs of the facilities; and (c)
early coordination of the technical assistance component with NORAD.
Existing teacher training programs should be able to provide adequate
staffing for project schools (para. 2.19). Since the proposed maintenance
component is a continuation of an ongoing program which is being success-
fully implemented, no risks are envisaged to carry out this component. The
continuation of an ongoing maintenance program should accelerate implemen-
tation of that component.
2.31    Lending Strategy.  The Bank Group strategy for future lending in
the education and training sector should be to assist the Government in its
efforts to implement the Reform and thereby improve the quality, equity and
efficiency of not only its basic education system but the education system
as a whole; to support occupational training at all levels for increased
Zambianization of high- and middle-level manpower and to enhance employment
opportunities. The Bank Group should continue to coordinate its lending
program closely with other donor agencies. The proposed study of the
development of the formal education system vis-a-vis the Reform (paras.
2.07 and 3.07), which is to be supported by SIDA, aims to plan and organize
in detail the practical implementation of the Reform from an educational,
financial and organizational point of view, and should serve as a guideline
for future investment in the education sector. The study would also review
the assistance being provided by other Donor Agencies and its impact in the
education sector.
III. THE PROJECT
Objectives
3.01    The proposed project would assist the Government in carrying out
high priority components of its Education Reform as contained in its TNDP.
Specifically, it addresses the equity of the basic education system by
providing increased educational opportunities in deprived rural areas. It
would assist in improving the efficiency of the education system by intro-
ducing within the first phase of the Reform, junior secondary schools,
which are to become an integral part of basic education. The junior secon-
dary schools proposed are all to be located in rural areas. This would be



- 14 -
consistent with the main thrust of the TNDP to reduce dependance on the
mining sector and emphasize agriculture. This would provide incentives for
the population to remain on the land thus slowing down rural-urban migra-
tion (para. 1.04). The project would also continue the efforts to develop
and improve a school maintenance program. It has been designed in conjunc-
tion with and would complement ongoing development programs assisted by
numerous donor agencies and by previous Bank Group assisted education
projects.
Project Components
3.02    Basic Education (Junior Secondary Schools).  This component would
include facilities and equipment for eight new junior secondary schools.
This program has the highest priority in the Government-s education
development plans since it will be the first expansion of the secondary
school system since the completion of those schools financed under the
Bank-assisted First Education Project in 1969. Because of the expansion of
the primary school system, the progress-ion rate between Grade 7 of the
primary school and Form I of the junior secondary school has declined
nationally from about 22% during the 1970s to the present 19%. This would
drop to approximately 15% by the mid--1980's, if additional facilities are
not provided. The present progression rate to the Form 1 level of educa-
tion in the areas selected for the project, ranges from nil to about 17%,
against the 19% national average. The additional places proposed including
three new schools to be financed by AfDF would only sustain an 18% rate and
fall short of the 21% goal of the TNDP.
3.03    Of the eight schools, six would provide three-stream entry and two
schools would provide four-stream entry for Grades 8, 9 and 10. The
three-stream schools would enroll 360 puLpils and four-stream schools would
enroll 480 pupils giving a total 3,120 aLdditional places. Two schools
would be day-schools and the remainder would provide boarding for about 70%
of the enrollment. With the development of the educational system and
gradual implementation of the Government-s policy of universal basic educa-
tion to Grade 9, the need for boarding facilities would decrease. Boarding
facilities have therefore been designed for easy conversion into standard
classrooms catering to an additional 3,840 day-pupils. Each boarding room
for 20 students, with loose furniture, will be identical in size to a
classroom for 40 students. The sites have been selected and the buildings
designed in such a way that maximum flexibility is available for expansion
of the schools either through local community 'self-help' schemes or
through Government input. For example, three-stream schools may be
developed into four streams by the addition of three classrooms while
further laboratory workshops or admiristration accommodation would not be
required.  The schools have been designed basically for 40 pupils to one
classroom, with added laboratory, domestic science and workshop facilities.
Hence, all students would have a "home" classroom, which can be used by
pupils for studies and homework in the evening, thus allowing considerable
economy in eliminating, inter alia, the need for a library reading room and
individual pupil storage lockers (experiences in previous Bank Group



- 15 -
projects have shown the latter not to be satisfactory). It will also
simplify the scheduling of classes and diminish other organizational
problems now affecting secondary schools through a class rotation system.
Laboratories and workshops will be furnished with fixed installations only
along walls for flexible use of facilities. Equipment would be kept to a
minimum and would mainly consist of hand tools for students' practical work
and demonstration kits for the teachers.
3.04    Secondary School Maintenance Program. An evaluation report of the
Government's existing secondary school maintenance system issued in 1977
emphasized the necessity for the establishment of an improved maintenance
program to prevent deterioration of existing facilities and equipment. The
report noted that the maintenance and renewal of buildings and equipment,
as carried out by the Public Works Department and Mechanical Services
Branch, were inadequate for the existing secondary schools. A new secon-
dary school maintenance program (Phase I) was therefore established in 1980
with financial assistance under the Bank-assisted Third Education Project.
3.05    The maintenance program is administered by the Project Implementa-
tion Unit (PIU) under the Ministry of Works and Supply (MWS). NORAD is
providing the program-s technical assistance requirements. The program
coordinator arrived in January 1981, and six additional specialists fol-
lowed thereafter. The Government intends to maintain the program on a
permanent basis to ensure maximum benefits from its investments in secon-
dary school buildings and equipment. A satisfactory work program has been
prepared by a NORAD/Government team which sets forth the organization,
administration and an implementation schedule. This report will be con-
tinuously reviewed and updated as experience is gained in carrying out the
program. During the first and second phase, the maintenance program is
expected to improve buildings, furniture and equipment in secondary schools
which have fallen into serious disrepair. Thereafter the program s costs
would be reduced as it focuses on routine maintenance in all secondary
schools. Following the initial program of two-and-a-half years, NORAD has
indicated it would agree to continue its technical assistance program
(about 21 man-years) for an additional two-and-a-half years (para. 3.08)
while local counterparts are being trained as replacements.
3.06    The proposed project would provide support to the second phase of
the program for renovation (civil works), and for procurement of needed
repair materials, spare parts, equipment and essential transport. The
program also encourages self-reliance for maintenance at the schools by
giving special maintenance and repair courses to the technical teachers.
These teachers will to a great extent be able to organize maintenance in
the schools using existing workshop tools and machinery and utilizing the
students for the work. The Government confirmed NORAD's technical assis-
tance commitment including the training of local counterparts (paras. 3.05
and 7.01a) and also confirmed its intent to continue operating the estab-
lished maintenance program after the phasing out of the external financial
support upon completion of the proposed project (para. 7.01b).



- 16 -
3.07    Reform Implementation Study.  To determine the most economic and
efficient method to implement the Government's Education Reform, MOE would
undertake a comprehensive study to produce a detailed plan for the full
transition of the present education structure into the new structure (para.
2.04). This plan would in the future govern all investments in new school
facilities, curriculum development, and teacher training programs. The
Government confirmed that the study would start not later than December 31,
1982, and be completed by December 31, 1983 (para. 7.01c). SIDA is to
assist in the financing of the study and will provide the necessary
specialists to assist the MOE in carrying out the task. Satisfactory terms
of reference have been prepared.  Progress in carrying out this study would
be monitored by Bank staff during project supervision, including consult-
ation on the findings.
3.08    Technical Assistance.  NORAD is expected to provide about 35
man-years of specialists' services (Annex I, T-9). The PIU would be allo-
cated about 21 man-years for the maintenance program (para. 3.05) and 14
man-years for project implementation (para. 5.02).
3.09    Female Participation in the Education System.  Participation of
females in the formal education system in 1980 was as follows: (a) at the
basic education level (Grades 1-7), females represented about 47% of the
total enrollment, varying from 49% at Grade 1 to about 41% at Grade 7; and
(b) at the secondary level (Forms I-V), females represented only about 35%
of the total enrollment, varying from about 38% in Form I to about 28% in
Form V. The Government's policy is to provide equal educational oppor-
tunity for boys and girls. The percentage of female participation has been
increasing over the past ten years, and this trend is expected to continue.



-17 -
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL PLAN
Project Cost
4.01    The total cost of the project is estimated at US$39.2 million
equivalent, including custom duties and taxes estimated at about US$2.3
million. The estimated costs and foreign exchange components are given
in Annex I, T-1O and T-11, and are summarized as follows:
Kwacha (millions)         US$ (millions)       % of
----------------------   ---------------------    Base
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total   Cost
I. Civil Works, Furniture,
Equipment & Vehicles
1. Junior Secondary
Schools                   8.73   10.72   19.45  10.03   12.32   22.35        81
2.  Maintenance Program       1.22    1.68    2.90   1.41    1.93    3.34        12
Sub-Total I         9.95   12.40   22.35  11.44   14.25   25.69        93
II.  Professional Services         0.48    0.32    0.80   0.55    0.37    0.92          3
(Consulting Engineers)
III.  Project Administration         0.45    0.45    0.90   0.51    0.52    1.03         4
Base Cost (March 1981)       10.88   13.17   24.05  12.50   15.14   27.64    100
(Total I - III)
IV. Contingencies
1.  Physical (10%)            1.08    1.32    2.40   1.25    1.51    2.76
2.  Price (29%)               3.49    4.15    7.64   4.00    4.78    8.78
Sub-Total IV        4.57    5.47   10.04   5.25    6.29   11.54
Project Cost (I - IV)        15.45   18.64   34.09  17.75   21.43   39.18
of which duties and taxes   (2.00)    -       (2.00) (2.30)    -       (2.30)
4.02    Construction, furniture and equipment costs have been derived from
quotations received for similar items in the ongoing Third and Fourth
Education Projects and other similar projects, reviewed in consultation
with staff of MOE, MWS, and PIU with adjustments reflecting changes of
existing standardized building designs and master lists of furniture and



- 18 -
equipment. These modifications have resulted in a reduction of the
estimated unit cost for secondary schools through simplification of build-
ing designs, maximum use of local materials, simple building techniques,
and elimination of unnecessary sophisticated equipment. The proposed
schedules of accommodation meet the minimum requirements and are func-
tional. Furniture and equipment would be of the type pertinent to the
basic needs of the country and the educational objectives of the project.
The base unit costs of construction vary from US$320/m2 to US$530/m2 (at
the official exchange rate) depending on location with an average of
US$430/m2. These costs reflect: the global economic situation which is
characterized by high import rates, inflation and energy cost; the tran-
sportation difficulties associated with a land locked country; the rural
locations of the schools; and a construction industry that is uncertain
about its future including difficulties in procuring scarce materials.
Although a direct comparison of unit cost of construction is difficult,
the cost (US$430) in this project compares with unit cost in other Eastern
Africa countries as follows: Malawi US$390 (1981); Kenya US$330-US$400
(1981); Lesotho US$331 (1981); and Comoros US$350 (1981).
4.03    The technical assistance component is to be provided by NORAD
(para. 3.08). The cost of professional services (consulting engineers)
(para. 5.04) equivalent to about 120 man-months of services, is estimated
at an average rate of US$7,500 per man-month. This includes salaries,
travel, subsistence, overhead, and fees.
4.04    Customs Duties and Taxes.  Items directly imported for educational
purposes are exempt from import duties and taxes. The project has been
costed net of import duties and taxes on those items, but includes taxes
estimated at about US$2.3 million equivalent representing duties and taxes
on imported but locally procured construction materials, equipment, fuels,
and on services.
4.05    Contingency Allowances.  For physical contingencies, 10% has been
added to the base cost of all project components. Price contingencies have
been calculated by applying to the base costs (as of March 1982), the
following percentage rates of price escalation in accordance with the
implementation schedule (Annex I, T-12):
Local     Foreign
1982                                15%         8.5%
1983-86                             12%         7.5%
The local price increases are based on recent trends and forecasts
by the MWS (for construction) and the PIU for furniture and equipment,
inter alios. These rates have been reviewed by Bank Group staff and have
been found appropriate.



- 19 -
4.06    Foreign Exchange Component.  The foreign exchange component has
been calculated as follows: (a) civil works, 53%; (b) equipment, including
vehicles, and furniture, 85%; and (c) professional services and project
administration, 40%. Including contingencies,
Financial Plan
4.07    The total project cost of US$39.2 million equivalent would be
financed by an IDA Credit of SDR 22.2 million (US$25 million equivalent)
representing about 68% of the project cost net of taxes and would finance
the foreign exchange component and about 23% of the local currency cost as
follows:
US$ millions equivalent
Govt.       Bank Group          Total
1.  Civil Works                             7.80           9.90            17.70
2.  Construction Materials                   -             6.00             6.00
3.  Furniture                               0.20           0.90             1.10
4.  Equipment and Vehicles                  0.20           1.00             1.20
5.  Professional Services                  0.50            0.40             0.90
6.  Project Administration                  0.50           0.30             0.80
7.  Unallocated (Contingencies)            5.00            6.50            11.50
Total                                 14.20          25.00            39.20
of which duties and taxes             (2.30)           -              (2.30)
4.08    The Government's counterpart funds of US$14.2 million equivalent
would be phased over about five years with an estimated maximum contribu-
tion of US$3.0 million equivalent required in any single Zambian fiscal
year. By 1986, when the proposed project becomes operational, the addi-
tional recurrent costs generated by the project, estimated at about US$1.1
million in 1980 prices, would represent less than 1% of total Government
recurrent expenditures for education in 1980.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING
Implementation
5.01    The project would be implemented over a period of five and one half
years, including six months for completion of payments and finalization of
accounts. The project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1987,
with a proposed Closing Date of March 31, 1988 (Annex I, T-12).



- 20 -
5.02    Administration.  The PIU, established in the MWS for the implemen-
tation of the Third and Fourth Educaticin Projects, would be responsible for
the financial and administrative control of the proposed project, including
liaison with the Bank Group, and coordination with various ministries and
agencies involved in the project. Ihe Director of the Buildings Branch of
the MWS, a Zambian, has previously served as a part-time Director of the
PIU. In July 1981, he assumed on a full time basis, the position of Direc-
tor of the PIU. In addition, the Unit is staffed with a full-time assis-
tant director and other senior staff provided by NORAD, namely, a project
architect, a maintenance coordinator, a procurement specialist, a financial
controller, and three supervisory engineers. NORAD is expected to continue
its support for the PIU (paras. 3.06, 3.08 and 7.01 a). Appointments to
the key positions in the PIU (Project Director, Assistant Project Director,
Procurement Specialist, Financial Controller, Project Architect and Main-
tenance Coordinator) would be in consultation with the Bank Group. Training
of local counterparts would be continued under this project.
5.03    Reporting and Evaluation.  Following procedures established under
the Third and Fourth Education Projects, semi-annual reports on implementa-
tion progress would be submitted to the Bank Group within two months fol-
lowing the periods ending January l and June 30. Not later than five
months after the project closing date, the PIU, in cooperation with the
MOE, would provide to the Bank Group, a report evaluating the execution,
initial operations, costs and benefits of the project and performance of
the Government and the Bank including lessons learned. Government produced
a good evaluation of the results of the First Education Project.
5.04    Professional Services (Architectural/Engineering/Quantity
Surveying).  The Buildings Branch of the MWS would be responsible for
designs, the preparation of tender and contract documents, and supervision
of construction for the junior secondary schools. These services would be
provided by MWS at no cost to the project, except for the engineering
services (structural, mechanical and electrical) which the MWS is unable to
provide. The cost of the engineering services is therefore included in the
proposed project. Consultants would be selected in accordance with Bank
Group guidelines. Sketch designs for the new junior secondary schools
prepared by the MWS architects have been reviewed by the Bank Group staff
and found to be satisfactory. The designs are based on MWS standards,
proven as reasonable cost, durable buildings. However, improvements in the
designs of water and sanitary facilities are required since in a number of
instances schools have been closed because of health hazards resulting from
inappropriate design. The services of consulting engineers would include
the new design of more efficient water and sanitary facilities for the
project, and related supervision under the direction of the MWS (para.
5.02). The services required under the maintenance program including,
inter alia, working drawings, specifications, preparation of tenders and
procurement documents, construction supervision and supervision of repair
of furniture and built-in equipment, would be the responsibility of the
PIU, which is adequately staffed for that purpose (para. 3.05).



- 21 -
5.05    Site Selection.  Sites for all the junior secondary schools have
been selected and no problem is foreseen regarding their acquisition as
all land is owned by the Government. The satisfactory topographical plans
have been received for four of the sites, setting out information on serv-
ices available at each site, the distances to the nearest Government
authorities, health centers, and services, and the number of students
within the catchment-areas and information on other existing schools, if
any, within the catchment-area. Information on the sites of the remaining
four schools would be sent to the Association by about April 30, 1982
(para. 7.02).
Procurement
5.06    Contracts for civil works, construction materials, furniture,
equipment and vehicles would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank Group's Guidelines for
Procurement, except as follows: (a) civil works under the maintenance
program would be carried out by departmental forces of the MWS utilizing
force account methods (estimated at US$1.3 million including contingen-
cies); (b) construction materials, furniture, equipment and vehicle con-
tracts each to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent (total estimated at
US$0.6 million); and (c) locally procured transportation services for
furniture and equipment (total estimated at US$0.3 million including con-
tingencies). Previous experience indicates that due to the small size and
scattered locations, the use of the MWS departmental forces would be the
most economic and efficient method to carry out the work under the main-
tenance program. Contracts for items (b) and (c) would be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally and in accordance with
local procedures satisfactory to the Bank Group. The aggregate value of
contracts to be awarded by ICB is estimated at US$34.0 million including
contingencies.
5.07    When ICB is used, domestic manufacturers would be allowed a
preference of 15% or the existing applicable rate of import duties,
whichever is lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing foreign suppliers.
5.08    Sketch designs, draft tender and contract documents and master
lists of construction materials, furniture, equipment and vehicles (includ-
ing proposed grouping) would be reviewed by the Bank Group. Items would be
grouped to the extent practicable to permit bulk procurement. Review of
tender evaluation documents by the Bank Group prior to award would not be
required for civil works contracts costing less than US$250,000 equivalent
and contracts for construction materials, furniture, equipment and vehicles
each costing less than US$50,000 equivalent.
Disbursement
5.09    Disbursement (Annex I, T-13) would be on the basis of (a) 60% of
expenditures for civil works; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures for imported
construction materials, furniture, equipment, and vehicles and 90% of



- 22 -
ex-factory cost when manufactured locally, or 75% of total expenditures for
imported goods when procured locally; I(c) 75% of total expenditures for
local transportation services for furniture and instructional equipment;
and (d) 100% of foreign expenditures or 40% of expenditures for profes-
sional services and project administration. All disbursements would be
fully documented except for disbursements for operational expenses under
project administration and for work executed by departmental forces (force
account) which would be made against statement of expenditures, documenta-
tion of which would not be submitted for review but would be retained by
the Borrower and would be available for inspection by Bank Group staff in
the course of supervision.  The estimated disbursement schedule (Annex I,
T-13) for the project shows a shorter implementation period (five and one
half year) than for education and other sector projects, country-wide as a
result of: (a) the advanced stage of preparation of the project com-
ponents; (b) the proven, efficient performance of the PIU in implementing
the Third and Fourth Education Projects; (c) the expected continued
efficiency of the technical assistance provided by NORAD; and (d) a less
complex project than in the past.
Special Accounts
5.10    In order to ensure that funds for the project would be made avail-
able when needed, a Special Account, operated by the PIU, would be estab-
lished in the Bank of Zambia with an initial deposit of Kwacha 1.0 million
(SDR 1.07 million) which would be withdrawn from the Credit account after
effectiveness. The account would be replenished on the basis of documen-
tary evidence, to be provided to the Bank Group by PIU, of payments made
from the account for goods and services required for the project.
5.11    In order to ensure that the Government s counterpart funding also
would be available when needed, the Government would establish a separate
Project Advance Account into which it would deposit, at the beginning of
each quarter, its share of project costs. Establishing the Project Advance
Account and depositing the initial amount, estimated at Kwacha 700,000
would be a condition of Credit effectiveness (para. 7.03).
Auditing
5.12    Auditing would be required oni an annual basis for all expenditures
financed under the project with particu]Lar attention to those reimbursed
under statements of expenditures. Auditing would be performed by auditors
acceptable to the Bank Group, applying satisfactory auditing procedures.
Audits would be submitted to the Bank Group within six months following the
end of the Borrower's fiscal year. The PIU currently has an arrangement
with a private consulting auditing firm which audits all accounts. Their
reports are submitted to the Bank Group and to the Auditor Generals Office
in Zambia. In addition, the Government auditors visit the PIU at varying
intervals to check the accounts. These procedures are working satisfac-
torily.



- 23 -
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
6.01    Benefits.  The proposed project would assist the Government in
carrying out high priority components of its Education Reform as contained
in its TNDP. By expanding education opportunities in deprived rural areas,
equity would improve in the basic education system.  The rural location of
the schools is expected to assist the Government in its endeavor to promote
agriculture and slow down the migration from rural to urban areas (para.
3.01). The project would continue the efforts to improve and further
develop an effective and permanent school maintenance program to protect
and increase the effectiveness of capital investments in the education
system.
6.02    Risks.  No major risks are foreseen.  Experience has shown that
lack of advanced preparation for similar projects, including belated
appointment of technical assistance specialists, has created delays result-
ing in cost overruns, inter alia. These problems are expected to be mini-
mized since standardized designs have already been developed and reviewed
by Bank Group staff. Technical assistance specialists are being provided
by NORAD which is expected to continue; and the proposed maintenance com-
ponent is the second phase of an ongoing program. The timely release of
adequate budgetary allocations will be closely monitored. In addition, the
components have the highest priority in the Government-s education develop-
ment plans and the project is only the first phase of a much longer invest-
ment plan expected to improve equity, quality and efficiency of the educa-
tion system as set forth in the Education Reform.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01    During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
the following principal points:
(a) Confirmation of NORAD's participation in the project with
respect to the required technical assistance and the training of local
counterparts (para. 3.06);
(b) Confirmation of the Government-s intent to continue operating
the maintenance program after the phasing out of the external support on
completion of the project (para. 3.06); and
(c) Confirmation by the Government that it would carry out a study
of the education reform which would start not later than December 31, 1982
and be completed by December 31, 1983 (para. 3.07).



- 24 -
7.02    During negotiations, the Government submitted satisfactory
topographical plans and the requested information for four of the eight
sites. It was agreed that the Government would send similar plans and
information on the four remaining sites by about April 30, 1982 (para.
5.05).
7.03    A condition of effectiveness would be the establishment and funding
of a Project Advance Account (para. 5.11).
7.04    Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project constitutes
a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of SDR 22.2 million (US$25 million
equivalent) to the Republic of Zambia.



- 25 -                         APPENDIX I
Page 1 of 6
DESCRIPTION OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
Formal Education
1.      The structure of the education system, the education pyramid,
enrollment in primary and secondary education and comparative education
indicators are included in Annex I.
Pre-Primary
2.      Other than a grant of K 10,000 per year to the Pre-School Associa-
tion, the Ministry of Education makes no provision for pre-primary educa-
tion. Nursery schools exist but these are provided by city and district
councils, parastatal organizations, private voluntary agencies and
individuals. All nursery schools must be registered with the local council
but there is no control over the programs they offer. Thus some are effec-
tively infant day care centers, some organize supervised play activities
and learning experiences and others, under parental pressure, teach part
of the primary school curriculum. Nursery schools are mainly located in
cities and townships. There are no available statistics concerning the
number of nursery schools and children attending such schools on a national
scale. In 1979 and 1980, nine-month courses for "pre-school" teachers were
run at Chalimbaba In-Service Training College. The courses will be super-
vised by the Ministry of Education in the future.
Primary and Basic
3.      The full primary course at present consists of seven years of
schooling, but in a few rural areas, schools with only four grades still
exist. Primary education is free and compulsory. In 1980, about 16% of
the Grade 4 pupils could not continue to Grade 5 because of lack of class-
rooms. In 1980, about 78% of all primary schools were operated by the
Government; 21% were Government aided; and fewer than 1% were private.
Participation of the relevant age group (7-13 years) in primary schooling
was about 95%. The primary course is concluded with the "Grade 7 Composite
Examination", determining who will gain access to lower secondary school.
Nineteen percent of Grade 7 primary school leavers progress to the secon-
dary level. The rest have to find employment or other ways of furthering
their education, specifically in skill training. Since 1965 English has
been the official medium of instruction from Grade 1 onwards, and teaching
materials, aids and assessment exercises are all in English, though some-
times teachers use one of the seven official Zambian languages to explain
concepts which cannot be easily understood.
4.      Secondary level is free but not compulsory.  It is composed of a
lower cycle (three years, Forms I-III) and upper cycle (two years, Forms
IV-V). Some 16% of the age group (14-18 years) are enrolled in secondary
courses. Upon completion of the third year of secondary schooling (Form
III), the "Junior Secondary School Leaving Examination" is taken. About
50% of the students progress to the upper cycle and take at the end of Form



APPENDIX 1
Page 2 of 6
- 26 -
V the Cambridge Overseas School Certificate (COSC) examination conducted
and administered by MOE (Annex I, T-5). Today, about 124 secondary schools
are in operation and 65 of them received Bank assistance under Loans No.
592-ZA and 900-ZA. Fifty-five of the schools are co-educational, while 44
are for boys and 25 for girls. There are two specialized secondary techni-
cal schools, David Kaunda Secondary Technical School in Lusaka and
Hillcrest Secondary Technical School in Livingstone.
5.      Significant changes in the curriculum were introduced in 1970 which
emphasized the development of skills useful for later employment in
industry and commerce (technical drawing, woodwork, metalwork, homecrafts,
commerce and agriculture). These changes were helped by the provision of
facilities for practical rooms provided in a number of schools by World
Bank loans. Other subjects covered at this level are English, Geography,
Civics, History, Zambian languages, French, Mathematics, Science, Religious
Education, Music and Physical Education.
Special Education
6.      Until 1971 special education was provided by voluntary agencies
only, mainly missions, and was not welL organized. Since 1971 education
for the handicapped has been the responsibility of the Ministry of Educa-
tion, and a "special education" inspectorate has been set up in the Minis-
try. A number of voluntary agencies are still involved. However, there is
an inter-ministerial steering committee which advises on the organization
and improvement of education for the handicapped.
7.      Provision by the Ministry of Education for special education in
1980 was as follows:
The blind               7 primary schools with an enrollment of 372,
6 units in secondary schools and 1 unit of home
economics in a secondary school with a total
enrollment of 86.
The deaf                2 primary schools and 4 units in primary schools
with a total enrollment of 153 and 1 unit in a
secondary school with an enrollment of 10.
The physically  :       4 primary schools and 2 leprosaria with an
handicapped             enrollment of 320.
The mentally    :       5 units in primary schools and 5 hospital teaching
handicapped              services units with a total enrollment of 800.
There are no schools for educationally subnormal children (ESN schools)
in Zambia. However, the senior psychologist of the School Psychological
Service is at present helping to organize referral services.



- 27 -                         APPENDIX I
Page 3 of 6
eacher Training
8.      Primary.  There are ten primary teacher training colleges, four of
which are grant-aided mission colleges. The minimum entry qualification
is Form V (but students may not necessarily have qualified for a division
certificate and some mature students with Form III are still accepted).
The colleges also accept untrained teachers from the primary schools.
Kitwe Primary Teacher Training College has the largest enrollment with
approximately 600 students in 1980. The other colleges average 250-300.
The primary teacher training colleges produced 1,540 teachers in 1980.
Since 1976 lower and upper primary teacher courses have been merged to
offer an integrated two-year primary course, though the home economics
course remains separate. The curriculum consists of basic educational
theory, educational psychology, general methodology and instruction in all
the subjects studied in primary schools. About 75% of time is spent on
methodology. Teaching practice forms part of the course--six weeks in the
first year and six weeks in the second. The average pupil/teacher ratio is
about 48:1.
9.      Secondary.  There are three secondary teacher training col-
leges--the Copperbelt Teachers College at Kitwe, the Nkrumah Secondary
Teachers College at Kabwe and Luanshya Technical and Vocational Teachers'
College. Nkrumah is the largest of the colleges with an enrollment of
approximately 500; Kitwe, which has approximately 280 students, specializes
in the training of teachers of science, mathematics and homecraft. Both
these colleges were assisted by World Bank Loans 592-ZA and 900-ZA. Luan-
shya with 250 students specializes in commercial subjects and industrial
arts. Entrance to secondary teacher training colleges requires COSC. The
diploma program lasts for two years and graduates of the colleges are
equipped to teach at junior secondary school level although, because of the
lack of qualified staff, some are required to teach to Form V. Through the
School of Education at the UNZA, the university maintains an associate
relationship with the Colleges which means that the university moderates
the curriculum and examinations and approves the selection of students and
lecturers.
10.     The UNZA also trains secondary teachers, particularly for senior
secondary level. From October 1977, the School of Education became a
school of direct entry which has reduced the number of students forced into
education courses because of their inability to gain places elsewhere in
the university. The School of Education awards the degrees of BA with
education and BSc with education. In 1979/80, 161 students graduated from
the UNZA with a BA with education and 46 with a BSc with education. The
school is at present considering introducing additional courses in such
fields as special education, educational assessment, educational
administration and student guidance as well as establishing more post-
graduate programs in education.



-- 28 -                         APPENDIX I
Page 4 of 6
Technical Education and Vocational Training
11.     The Department of Technical Education and Vocational Training
(DTEVT) is responsible for occupational education and training for the
public and private sector. DTEVT operates nine trade training institutes
at secondary school level and five post-secondary colleges providing train-
ing in a great number of professions and trades including technical, com-
mercial and vocational teacher training. The total output from DTEVT
institutions was 2,084 in 1980 with a total enrollment of 7,108 trainees.
The mining industry coordinates through its central Mining Industry Man-
power Services Unit (MIMSU), an extensive technical and vocational training
program. Most of the formal training is performed by the DTEVT institu-
tions (technician, technologist and artisan level) and the UNZA (graduate
level). The MIMSU also operates an extensive scholarship program for
training technical and managerial personnel in Zambia and abroad. The
total number of mining industry students at these schools is about 1,000.
The training institutions under MIMSU's direct control are the Central
Training Services at Kitwe (technical and personnel management course),
Kitwe Trades Training Institute (trade training) and the Chingola
Administrative Training College (accountancy, clerical, typing, etc.).
About 330 students are trained at one time in these institutions. An
extensive in-service training program in which about 2,000 employees take
part is arranged at over 50 centers spread over the Copperbelt.
Higher Education
12.     University Education.  The only university in Zambia--the UNZA in
Lusaka, came into being in November 1965 and was formally inaugurated in
July 1976. It consists of eight schools plus a Center for Continuing
Education. There are two campuses in Lusaka and plans for two others, one
at Ndola for the School of Business ancl Industrial Studies and the School
of Environmental Studies, and the other at Solwezi for the Schools of
Forestry and Wood Technology, Agricultural Science and Veterinary Science.
As a result of the 1979 University Act, the UNZA is of a federal type,
i.e., the University of Zambia at Ndola, the University of Zambia at Sol-
wezi and the University of Zambia at Lusaka and Ridgeway, with all campuses
under one vice-chancellor. The university has three research institutes:
the Institute of African Studies, the Rural Development Studies Bureau and
the Educational Research and Curriculum Development Unit. University
education is free (except for expatriates) and it provides accommodation,
food, and student allowances (though students from Lusaka are encouraged to
live at home). Some students are sponsored by parastatal organizations,
e.g., the mines, and some support themselves.
13.     Total enrollment for the university in 1979/80 was 4,010 including
800 in the first year. The university assumes a 10%-20% drop-out each year
most of which will be in the first year. There are also about 500 students
studying for degrees by correspondence. By 1981 the capacity of the Lusaka



- 29 -                         APPENDIX I
Page 5 of 6
campus is intended to be 5,000, but this target is unlikely to be reached
because lack of financing has prevented the expansion of student and teach-
ing accommodations. The GRZ has laid down the percentage of enrollments in
each field of study as follows: at least 43% should be in the School of
Natural Sciences, 22% in the School of Humanities and Social Sciences and
35% in the School of Education. Of the total student intake 5% must be
foreign students, the majority of whom are refugees from neighboring
countries supported by grants from a variety of aid organizations. Female
participation in university education represents 18% of the total enroll-
ment.
14.     At present the university has 326 academic staff of whom Ill are
Zambian. The remainder are expatriates, mainly lecturing in the fields of
mining, engineering, sciences and medicine. The university has a staff
development scheme for sending Zambian graduates overseas for postgraduate
training, many going to Britain and the United States; for example, at
present seven members of the education department are studying overseas.
15.     Mledical training is conducted on three levels:  (a) post-secondary
professional training of 3-7 years duration; (b) paramedical training for a
period of 2-3 years; and (c) training of medical auxiliary staff of 2-3
years duration for Form III leavers. The training of dentists and phar-
macists remains a problem, although plans are under consideration for the
University to act as a Regional Center for training in these two areas.
For registered nurses, paramedical and medical auxiliary staff, shortages
are being met through the expansion of existing training programs and the
establishment of new training centers. This is being assisted by the Bank.
Over 90% of auxiliary medical staff are Zambians.
16.     Agricultural education is under the administrative responsibility
of the Ministry of Lands and Agriculture except at university level.
Higher education in agriculture is offered by the School of Agricultural
Sciences at UNZA, graduating approximately 20 students a year (Annex I,
T-8). Specialized three-year diploma courses in agriculture, agricultural
education, engineering, livestock, farm management, irrigation and nutri-
tion are offered at the Natural Resources Development College (NRDC) in
Lusaka. NRDC has a capacity of 600 student places but has a present
enrollment of only 400 due to lack of facilities for laboratory and practi-
cal work in certain courses. Two-year certificate courses for agricultural
and veterinary assistants are taught at three intermediate agricultural
colleges. Government and church groups sponsor three additional farm
schools. In eight provincial Farm Institutes (FIs), in-service training
of extension staff and three months of basic training for commodity demon-
strators is given. FIs also conduct farmer training courses for their
local districts but suffer from poor facilities and a high turnover of
personnel. At the farm level, aside from 450 agricultural camps, where
extension activities are based, 28 Farmer Training Centers (FTCs) are
active and each usually services one or two districts. The Third and



- 30 -                          APPENDIX I
Page 6 of 6
Fourth Education Projects placed emphasis on the expansion and improvement
of agricultural education at all levels.
Non-Formal Education
17.     Mass media for educational purposes are still in the intial stage
of development. School radio broadcasts 23 hours a week during 23 weeks of
the year mainly offering English language courses, supporting classroom
teaching, and external and correspondence course programs. Content and
presentation of locally-produced programs have not reached a high qualita-
tive level. Radio is considered potentially useful for agricultural exten-
sion work, literacy and women's education. Television remains an expensive
item accessible only to few urban dwellers and has not yet penetrated rural
areas. It offers an educational program of 20 hours weekly during 27 weeks
of the year with little relevance to the curricula of primary and secondary
schools.
18.     Adult Education Section of MOE organizes evening and correspondence
classes throughout the country. The main activity is to offer "academic"
courses leading to external Grade 7 and Form III certificates and the
training of typists/secretaries. In 1979, total enrollment for primary
school studies was about 16,000. On the secondary level there are regular
classes and "supervised study groups" with altogether 20,000 participants
aiming at the external junior/secondary examination. Other important adult
education institutions are the Department of Community Development (DCD)
of the Ministry of Labor and Social Services, and the Ecumenical Centers.
The DCD is the main organizer of adult literacy programs and is specialized
in rural development. Other activities of the DCD are to undertake minor
self-help projects (water supply, school building, feeder roads) and to
form rural women's clubs for learning home improvement. Ecumenical Centers
operate combined training (homecraft and farming) and rehabilitation
programs for the benefit of adults, adolescents and children.
19.     The "National Service" (created after Independence) has been reac-
tivated for all primary and secondary school leavers. Students of higher
education will have to participate in a program not yet fully formulated.
The purpose of the service is to give the youth, within the political
doctrine of Zambian "humanism", a taste for simple living and an under-
standing of agriculture and the rural environment. The Ministry of
Defence, which is responsible for the operation of the service, is prepar-
ing a training scheme and several model camps have been established. The
Zambian Youth Service of the MOE is providing community develop-
ment-oriented elementary training in building trades and agriculture for
primary school leavers.



ANNEX I
COMPARAIVE  EDUATION'IWDICATORS                             .     Table   1
.............Pagel1of                                         2
FEBRUARY 16,18
I   I                   I~~~~~I  CENTRALt          1        I        I              I               I
1 2OP/ :             :I.6I EX                                 I               IFI    RECURRENTI                       :SED.I
CAF,ITAI          IEU   A:EDUCATION           LIE-IF.:COMPILE- :5TU-,IUNOVCSTrTOKI-   SEE. :T-IINR
I            T   I          Ix TTL.S' RECUFRKNT    lAcy          IENROLLITION       DUENT :FKI       l- ED.:j   RAlE 'ENk(IL:.:KHT5:FNI'UJLL:
I   MARKET- % GNP   ICEKNTKAL.EXFP ALLOCATED:I  RAT   :RATIO IRATE FR.FER   :A1 % GNP/14,2   Fki.:PA IIi IFER HIkA:II
I POP. :PRICES: DEVOTED: GOVT. :             TO.       1(Z OF   INET  :p4RI.SCH,:TEACMHI  CAPISTA   US  SEE.           NE  IT:LACO- 16S5:
YRIMILLRA: 1US1): TO EDU.: IEXP.   :71,1. SEC. NI.IAI'ULTS): 1)   :CYCLE(X):KR    :                           ()         0a,   :1,       It,
I       .1    .(2   .3           .)           5        I         :6   I 7           I  . ( ) :          I           I        Il ( :1
ADVANCED
AUSTRIA          74   7.54 7v520H   5.3D          9.9K   24Y  519   ISY   99           98        9IC      26       10.7C       991                19 IC    16.8559
CANA4DA          78  23.5  8.670        8.1       4.3K   25    39    23       99,    100       100        21       17,6       100        92       I8     22.30
GERMA NY F.REP.78   61.1 10.300H    4.80.   8.4k.          ... y;,   i,99            ...       100.                          100        94X      226    12.00'
JAPAN            7   14.97) 77004    4,306                40U  3U   11        99       990      998       25                   998       951     208    2469Y
NETHERLANDS    78 13,9 9.200            8. 3     13.8L   20    31    24       99       96       93        19       1.          99        82      13      120
NEW ZEALAND ~73    3.85.5304    5.2.   13.45    39'   24    2             99      9         99         6       19.4        99,       67       9      24
NORWAY           76  *4.04 9.560        7.2       9.30    54    24    15      99       99       99        16       15.8        99E       62       it     11.S0
SUE DEN          78   8.3 10.540        8.8FhJ  10.1k    3/   i1    10        99       99      100        SAP      22.7       100        79      ('F    30 O08
11.5.    78  56.0   4.1960    5.~~~6 2.4K    26    39   22            99       99        100      24       12.3       100        AS       12     20.4
U.S.A.           78 28.0 9,770          7.1       2.9K           578   18     99       98       919       220       .          99        97      190    41.(00
EUROPE
GREECE           76    9.44 4.350H    2.61)    10.68    37    26   21         BAA      99       82C       31        6.2'      700        pi)             if,1500
IRELAND          74   3.2H)3,8104    5.16        ..       439   41    149    95      159KV      99A       35       ..        99.A        65KV    1       1.7
PORTUGAL         77    .H190            366    10.7E    41   21        15     710      82       608       19        7.8'      7,*        35      12       1.4
ROMANIA          75  21.94 1.650H   4.0           1.9K    36    19    13      98      lUCK       .. .     21       . ..       94         49      C2      10.90
SPAIN            74  37.14 3,960H   2.4A          8.05    49Y  22T   159    90A   215KV          ..       35A      ..         ..           XV    30)    I'S):)
AFRICA
ALGERIA,         79 18.5    1,450$    7.1W                34K  26K  21K    354    9455          4559      37K      11.9       52K'       346'    37K      5.99.5Kx
SEAIN            79    34    210        6.        35      43   21        5   II      42         30        46       14.0       30         it      49          -
BOTSWANA         79   0.:8    720       6.7       19.3    48   28       15    35     9          74        12      22.0       33          0       1         .5
BURUNDI          79    4.0    180       2.8k      20.60   44L  33L  22L    25        21X        34        35      11.0       17           2.5K   17        G.e
CAMEROON         76   8.1))  4900       3.71)     13,65   33    43   20.    .:   60X            45        52       11.4       20         91)    24        0.9O0CV
C.A.R.           74    1.9$  270$       3.0CA      .      58 16             .        79         25        699     71.SA       19          5E   27H         .(
CHAD             75   4.34   1504       3.0w      13.59   78    22            15     21V        30        6589    a.                       2K8    20      0.0144t
COOROS         80   0.4    260K       6.5       25.4L   40    28    14      20E      99K      65        45       16.0       58         )       3        1.
CONIloIR)        74    1.5$   580$H    6.0        ..      40    32   21       50'    103K       63        63      13.3A      4819                22       3.40
OJIBOGUTI        81    0.4    440       1.4       10.8    60    40      -      10       32      ..        41         .       60           8      19        0.50
EGYPT            78  38.7    400        5.5       11.3$   20   35   26         440c    73        8         30?      ..         8-2        49      1"       I5.00
ETNIOPIA         7931.        11        -22       11.50..           ...       15      38        ...       59        ..        ..          9      40       .
888DlMO          74   0.6 H3 O370       5.OD825                    0    1            1009       25C       46C   -4.7'        188        319      ZI     0.299
SAM BIA          76     .68 184         3.3        6.4 4256                   1         7       90        33      44.7        92        13       2a
GH ANA           74 1108H3808           ..        1555K  439   22Y  20Y0              6099      6428      309      ...I       148       350'    lACY  i.e)y
GUINEA           76   5.14   2604       4.80      .       3D    31    30              005       64        45      311        B6         13K      26       4'0
IVORY COAST    81      8.1    1175    10.0        45.0    33    46    13      30      AD        86,       43      26.0       47         11KV    76        1.649I
KENYA            79  15.3    300         .9       1.K   71       15    14     45       92       74        40      35,89       41         19      28       1.
LESOTNO          79    1.3      340     41        2l1.7    41   29   20       52       6        32        49,       D.G      65         15       23       09
LIBERIA          77    1.74    460$    3.18    11.9L    23    13   26         30      SIX1       .        54      27.9'      76         24X      (4
MADIAGASCAR      77   8.34    2504    4.0W    15.3        53    28    19      50      90        1         44        ..       38          I5      23       (.-0
MALAWI           79   5.9       201H    2.286    8.75    40    23    23       250'     19.      178       624      10.0      509          AK     21
MALI             75   6.3$H   1304    4.29W  21.7K    45E  37K    4           10E      22K2     ...       48E       ..       soT          6K     21
MAURITANIA       78    15       20      5.1      16.9     33    4657                   3         0        45      52.0        09                 2
MAURITIUS        76   099       9204    476    17,5K    50    26        A     808      94       99        24      19.5'        90       45       32       15
MOROCCO          80 19.5        740     63       17.5     36    44   20       28        2       35        39      19.7       40         251       1      41
-NIGER           7    5.1       240     28       230       52    43     5       8      I1        50       39       36.7       3.2                24
NIQoERIA         74    0.68    6008    41         9.60    239   16Y  429               4919     ..        34CY       .          .       lISX   2089y   0.49Y
RWANEDA          80    5.       200     3.2      20.7     62    17    11      23,    66         69        40?     14.0         69         2      13       0.40
SENEGAL          77    5.44    060$    5.0       18.9KE   46    34   20       10       12        ..       49~  21.68P    20             10       21       1.5
SIERRA LEONE   73    3.3$    230$    3.4         16.04    31      6I  31      159      34K      45        32      13.7C      68         1.11     2        0153AY
SOMALIA          76    3.7$      85$    2.0W    8.14    55       0     2      50      44        ...       32        20.4     40           5      15        1.00
SL)DAN      ~~~76374        404    4.1       128      4     36    16      20      04 4                3        6.76      33         14       2       1.24
SWAZILAND        78    0.5     580      6.11    21.403   37   33   23         65      92K       49        37        7.7      66         321      2        2.0
TANZANIA         78  17.1      230      6.848   11I1K    43    19    10       66F     96        87        IB111                9          4      20       0.3
9000             771   2.44    3208    1.5       11,7     30   28    21       18      174       40        58      13.30      5      -            44      200
TUNISIA          79 64  1120            9.8      16.9     41    36   20       62     100        80        39      12.8       30         30       Ii)      6.00
UGANDA           75  12.414  290' H 1.419    ...    3409 4009y 2209Y  25A    531X9    ...                 34T'T     ...       14A         6K8T   214A    0.569
UPPER VOLTA    77   564    1608    3.46    16.45    31    16   32              SC      13       23        51      52.5'      (9           2      75       1.II
ZAIRE            76  256.84    24049   6.0        .        49    26   :5      15       860      44        425     20.08       41         1II     27       I.00K
ZAMBIA     80  ~~        ~~5.7 540  .       1.L      4     23   22      44       95        80       48       12.9       19         1        2       15
ZI'MBABW.E      81   77        700     6.        95       6  66              74       90        55       39       20.0       85    5            23      0.5
*          ~~CENTRAL AMERICA AN45 THE CARIBBEAN
BAHAMAS         79    0.2  2.780       6.54    23.1K    34    36    I1       93       99        97       24        ...        9?        75      19
BARBADOS         76   0.  22,0804    8.1W    21.25    43   32    16           99     (06X       99        23      19. 9F       99       P4K      17
CDSTA RICA    530   2.2  1.81           8.4      38.1      4 0   27    3 3    90       93       77        33        5. 5       7 7      40       27     14.0
CUBA             78 97   1.000          8.0            . .......              96       98       98        22        ..         98       65       15      15.00
DOMINICAN REP 7 2 5.14    9008,1   1.011 .09:O            42   2 4    22      51~     80'       17        54        4.5E8      63       14       24       7.00
EL SALVADOR    77      4.14    6404    4.0       19.3k    64      8   27      62       88       32        39        ..         41       23       21       7.00
GUIATEMALA       713 6.64    930H    1.9         126K    55   23   14         47       64       26        35        ..         69         8      25       4.099
HAITI            80D 5.0        260     3.V6                      9     A     23       50       20        41       190         62-F       49    2.7       0.8
HONDURAS         78    3.4      480     4.29F   17.8Kl   62      1S    19     60K      78       30        35       12A'        s          I1     17       4.2
JAMAICA          80     2.   124K    65          18.41    37    43    20      90       98       9          D        2.3        95       81       72        .0
MEXICO           80 ..67.41.815o    5.0          18.70    46,   39    15      92       98       53        44        9.5        86       56       37     130
NICARAGUA        78   2.         6       .8      16.9F    AI    3lD  135    tOL        6A1      2         4         7. 30      D3        Lt   37          7.000
PANAMA           78    1.8  1.260       5.4      12.7K    420   130  13       788      97       8120      32       11.s        850      49       340    20.00
TRINIDAD~ IT. 77       I.1  3.1014    4.5        11.7K    48    32   20       95       98       9         30      10.lt        49       62        4
SOUTH AMERZICA
ARGENTINA        78  26.7   1.910       4.4       8.3K   436  31F  183    93           89       52        17        ...        87       31        a     23.00
BOLIVIA          76   5.34    5108    3.06I   30.5K  ... .. . I               42L      BOB      291C      24        ...o ...4                      C
BRAZIL          75 119.541 1.5108    2. SOW   6.2K    420   200)  221    648          88F       ...       2789     .. .       ...       26F     1589    6.008
CHNILE           75  10.74 1.4704    5.0KV   13.04    239   109   509            119KV           ..       359      8a9         .. .      48KBX    .       6.Y
COLOMBIA         74  25.64    9008    3'.310      ..       44C9 22CVIY  119    7C     11V        0        39        1O         90;;      36      148      6 .69
rECUADIOR        80    8.4   1,3699    6.0 DP              45   31    16,    81A    105          48       36       12.6D       86        47X     IA       28. 70
OUV ANA          74    0.8 a   5604    5.84    13:.4    47    35    14        88      90        39        33      19.80        19       62       2       (00
PARAGU Ay        794    .       9208    1.4      12.6K    42    17   20       84       a8       32         8        3kI        75       2        17       7.00
PEU            75  16.84    6808    4.2C    11.1k    409   229   159    72          111K       38       39C9    131.0A.      70        41       39 1.1
URUGUAY          75    2.98 1,790H   2.           94K    46    34   20        9 4      930        .       24      12.3E        83        ...     to
VENEZUELA        7314.04 2.8504H   4.6W6   196.9K    300  280   350    778             8I         .       33        ...       ...       33       ...    12.6.ICV



-32 -                                      ANNEX I
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS (CDNTO)                           Table  1.
........... I..............Page  2  of  2
FEBRUAIRY 16, 1962
I                          !  CENTRALI:                                                  
2  t     I          200~~~t GVT.2             2                                              I                    
2   t GNP/ 2            EXP. ON: z OF PUBELIC             I                  PRI. IRECUJRRENT:                     :SEC 
ICAPITA:           IEDU. As: EDUCATION    :LITER-   PRI. :COMPLE- 251T0- :UNIr COST:PROQGRESS-: SEE., : t;1T- *%'~t7
$      AT  2           :x TTL.  RECURR ENr    :ACY        IENROLL:TION       :DENTS:PRIM. ED). :10W RATE 2ENR0LL22IENTS2ENkULL.
2       IMARKET: % GNF,   CENTRALIEXFP ALLOCATED:  RATE :RATIO 2RATE FOR2PE,  :AS I ONP/:FROM PRI.:RAIIO  :fLR:  'RATIO 
I POP. :PRICES2 DEVOTED: GOVT. 2           TO:       :T% OP  : NET  2F'RI.SCH. ITEACH: CAPITA  '.TU SEC.2 NET  :1EACIH- GkOSS2
YRHMILLS.: CUSS): TO EDU.4  EKP.  flPRI. SEC. HC.:ADULTS): (V.)  2CYCLE(X):Ek                            (V.)     I       :Z ER    I C)
2(1)  I(2) 2(3)    1(4)  I                (5)      :   6)  2(7)  :(8)   :(9) 2(10)    2   1)                  :(12) 2(13) 2(14)
                          .-- - - - - - - - --- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
ASIA AND OCEANIA
AFGHANISTAN   77  14.6H  160H    1.8           ..       47   19   1s    I12    29X          69        37      13.8      62          ax     17       1.00
BANQLAD'ESH    79  92.9M   90         1.OLP  14.9C   51   1?   20    220    71X             ...      53        6.2P      ...       14X    23        1.43
CHINA           79 971.0   256        3.3       6.6    34   36   30    656    93            64        27       8.0      83         s1x     19       2.80
INDiIA          75 643.9H  180H    2.6Y    1.9K .. ....   298   65XY                         ...     43A      ...       ..         29XY   20AY    2.34EY
INDiONESIA      78 136.OH  340        2,4W    ..        266  32G  15G   62    92            46       32       ...       70         19      17       2.00
IRAN            73  35.8H      12.2H 3.3W1  12.2H    SOB  1GB  12B   50           77        74A      32       ,.        BOA        24      32       4.T2CY
IRAQ            75  12.2H 1.850H   6,7CW   ...          .......    26C   93KV               ...      22       ,.        ..         35KV    26C     A.47Y
JORD,AN         79'  2. 2  1.100H   6.8       1O.BF   19   44   18    70          97K       85       12       '7.2      9465               21      14. 00
KOREA           78  36.6  1,310    2.8W    16.5K   35   29   36    93             102X      94       49        8.6C     91         60      45      18.00
LEBANON         72   3.OH    . ..    3.5W    ..         39   40   10    68        86        65        19      23.28     63         26U     25     23.00'
MALAYSIA        80  14.2  1.460M   5.2        15.0      39   32   13       60B   96         94        28       6.60,    84         65      25j      4.20
NEPAL           80  14.3      140     1.1WF   9.9       29F  2DF  41F   1.9F   59F          2SF      31F      ...       64F        14F   -24F       0.8F
OMAN            72     .8H 2.790H   1.7HW   5.1K   96   -           -     2       24        99       27F    25.0?       ...        0.4K     9
PAKISTAN        79  78.0   270        2.0       2.5K   39   26   27    24         56K       50E      48        6.5       ..        20K     17       6.0CR
PAFPUA N.G.    75   2.9H  620H    5.4LW  17.OK   38   16   24    -32    5 7?                73P      31       28.0?     90         12X?    24      0.90!
FPHI L IP'FI NES   79  4 6. 8   600   2.SL,   15.7K   64   3669*           75      64       65       31        7.0      89         55      3ft      21.00.
SINGAPORE       74   2.3H 3.260H   2.7VW  14.9K   39Y  39?  17Y   72A   LO9XY               72A      31V       7.4A     99A        44KY   24        7.&8Y
SOLOMON ISL,  80   0.23   460         5.4      11.0K   41   34   20        ..    60         70        36      ...       35         18       ..
SYRIA           78   7.9   960w       4 .4      6.3w   39   25   26    58          89K      s0       35        7.7E     68         45X    21    1'2.60
THAILANDI       77   44.5  530        4.OVW   19.9K  55   30   15    814F   83              30       35       10.OC     70         26      25       3. u(
TURKEY          73  43.1w 1.250H   5,6CYW  16.6K ... .. .....   85?                         ...      34Y       7.2A     . ..       24Y    27DVY   5.83Y
YEMEN           73   5.6w  410w       0.sw    10.8K  4SF  21P  23P   1.0    15K             18      '36       19.3      75          2K     19      0.05B1
YEMEN P.D.R.  80    1.9   424         6.0       10. 5   63   14      8    40?   70          53       24      22. 4      81         31      16      2. 50
SUMMARY FOR DEVELOPING COUNTRIES:
NUMBER OP COUNTRIES:                 102      62       69   90   90    9-4    101          S1       101    71          85       lxp       99     87
RANGE'                              (0.5-  (1.9-    (20  (8-  (3-   (5-   (13-           (13-      (16-   -(3.1       (8-       (.4-    (8-    (.01-
9.9 )  30.5)   96 ) 73)  50)   99)   133X)   99                69)  52.51    99)            95  1  45)  41.0)
1OUARTILESI.UPPER                  5.6      17.5     49   35   22    536    98           91        42      9         91         48      25      11.0
MEDlIANI               4.2     13.0      42   26   16    610    82           65       34      13         68l        24      22      3.4
LOWER 2                3.0       9.9    34   21   13    25    56             33       29      20         A1         11      18      1.0
SYMBOLSI ... DATUIM UNAVAILABLE               A=1971 OR BcEFORE           N=CURREMT PRICES                         SOURCES:
-MAGNITUD,E NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE B=1972                          PODLP----
?QUESTIONABLE                     C=1973                      O=IHCLUDIN0 FOREIGN AlT',                 COLUMNSU1 ANtI 2 WORLD DANK ATLAS
*INCLUDIES P'ART-TIME STUDEENTS 01=1974                       RCCENTRAL GOUT. ONLY                                         OR IBRO  MIISSCKS
**COMBINEDt WITH P'RIMARY          E=197S                      S=MINISTRY OF EDUCATION (MOIE) ONLY                3 TO 14 IBRI) MISSIONS
SKi*  COMBINEDt WITH HIGwER           F=1976                      T=HOE AND STATE GOVT. ONLY                                   AND/OR UNESCO
0=1977                      U=EKCLUI'ING CENTRAL GOVT.                                   STATISTICAL
H=1978                      V=INCLUDINO PRIVATE EKP'ENDtITURE                            YEARBOOK
K=1979                      W=PUBLIC FXPENDIXTURE ONLY
L-1980                      X=INCLUDIING OVERAGED STUDiENTS
M-1981                      Y=UNESCO SOURCES
COMPARATIVE EDiUCATION DiATA ARE USEFUJL IN THIE EVALUATION OF VARIOLUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS OF RELATIVE STAGES OF EDUCATICNAL
DEVELOPMENT BETWEEN VARZIOUJS COUNTRIES. HOWEVER.ON THE BASI1S O17 THE PRESENT DATA,CROSS-NATIUNAL COMPARISON SHiOU-LD BE AF T'ROACHED WITK
GREAT CAUTION, DATA PRESENTED IN THiE ABOCVE TABLE HAVE BEEN COLLECTED LASO3ELY BY THE BcANK MISSiONS PR"OM ODVERNMENIT SOURCES) THE
REMAINDER ARE STAFF ESTIMATES OR DtATA FROM UNESCO., EFFORTS HAVE B-EEN MADE TO STANDARDIZE DEPINITIONS AND WITHIN LIMIITS. TOl CHECK THE
ACCURACY OF THE DATA. NEVERTHELESS,SUCH DATA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPIECTS ANDs THE BANK IS WORKING TO IMPROVE THEM
PROGRESSIVELY ON THE OCCASION OF ITS OF'ERATIGINAL WORK, IN THE USE OF THESE DATA. THE FOLLOWING QUALIFICATIONS SHOULD EiE BORNE IN
MIND:
(1)'EDUCATION' AS DEFINEDi IN THIE TABLE INCLUDES ALL EOUCATION AND TEAINING. FORMAL AND NON-FORMiAL-
(2)'PRIKARY EDUCATION REFERS TO EDUJCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND ISFCONDARYI EDtUCATION REFERS 10 ALL EDUCATION AT IHE SECONDIARY
LEVEL REGARDLESS OF TYP'E (E.G. GENERAL, TECHNICAL. AGRICUILTURAL) 
(3)'LIrERACY RATESM(CGL.6) ARE OFTEN OBTAINED FROM COUJNTRY CENSUJSES. IN MANV COUNTRIES THEY ARE ONLY APPROXIMATIONS AND IT IS
DOUBTFUL THAT ANY UNIFORM DEFINITION OF 'LITERATE' HAS BEEN FOLLOWED, CONSISTENTLYf
(4)'PUBLIC EXP'ENDIITURE IN EDUCATION' (COLS 4 AND 5) REFERS TO ALL CAP'ITAL AND RECURRENT EXPENDITURES DEVOTED TO EDIUCATION BV
FUBLIC AND) GUASI-PUBLIL AGENLIESi
(5)ENROLLMAENT RATIOS'(COLS 7. 12 AND 141 REFER TO SCHOOL YEAIR ANDt BEAK THU P'ERCENTAGE OF EL-IGIBLE CHILDtREN EHROJLELEt FULL-TINE
IN THE APPFROPRKIATE SCHOOIL. PUBFLIC ANG P'RIVATE BY LEVEL, THEY ARE OFTEN SUBJECT TO A WIPE MARGIN OF- ERRORZ IN (liP LILVELOFiNG
COUNTRIES OWING TO VARIArION IN THE ACCURACY OF BASIC CIATA(I.E. AVE-SPECIFIC POPULATION ANT' ENRO)LLMENTS). ENROLLMENT FIGURES
FREQUENTLY ARE HIGHER THAN THE NUMBIER OF STUDENTS ACTUJALLY IN SCHOOL. OVERAGED STUDENTS WHOISE INCLUSION IS INDIICAlEDi BY
FOOTNOTES ALSO CAN INFLATE THE RATIOS.



- 33 -                                                   ANNEX I
Table 2
ZANBIA
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
CENTRAL GOVUYIEENT EXPENDITURES ON EDUCATION, 1975-80
(Kwacha millions)
Recurrent                       1975               1976                1977                1978              1979                1980 I/
Expenditures              Amount      2       Amount      X      Amount      X       Amount      X       Amount      X       Amount      ,
Primary education       34.2      45.3     44.7      47.5      44.9      47.0      47.2      47.4      50.2      46.0      59.7     48.1
Secondary
education            16.8      22.2      21.0      22.3      21.7      22.7      22.1      22.2      24.1      22.1     28.8      23.2
Teacher training         2.1       2.8       2.4      2.6       2.7       2.8       3.1       3.1       3.4       3.1       3.9       3.'
Technical
education              6.7      8.9       7.7       8.2       7.4       7.8       7.6       7.6       3.2       7.5      9-6       7.,
Untversity of
Zambia                 5.9      7.8       8.6       9.1       9.0       9.4       9.6       9.6      11.3     10.3      12.0       9.7
Other                    9.8     13.0       9.7      10.3       9.8      10.3      10.1      10.1      12.0     11.0      10.2       8.2
Total                75.5    100.0       94.1    100.0       95.5    100.0       99.7    100.0    109.2    100.0    124.2    100.0
Tr, *, of Total Rec  Exp.            13.i6.o                                                    15.4                13.8                12.1
Capital Expenditures
Primary education        4.0     17.9       2.8      13.1       2.9      16.3        -         -        1.0      18.9      0.1       1.0
Secondary
education             8.1      36.0       6.3      28.9       4.6      26.3       1.6     20.3       0.9      17.0       2.6      25.5
Teacher training         1.2       5.2      1.1       5.0       1.6       9.1       0.6       7.6       0.3      5.6       0.6       5.9
Technical
education             4.6      20.4       5.7      26.1       3.0      17.0       1.1     13.9        0.6     11.3       1.5      14.7
University of
Zambia                3.2      14.0       3.6      16.7       3.5      19.7       2.0     25.3       0.7      13.2       1.1      10.8
Other                    1.5       6.5      2.2      10.2       2.0      11.6       2.6      32.9       1.8     34.0       4.3      42.1
Total                 22.6    100.0      21.7    100.0       17.6    loo.n        7.9    100.0        5.3    I0".'      10.2    1nr.n
In 10 of lotal .7apital Exp.        0.2                 13.3               12.'                 4-7                 3.2               11.7
In Y of 7otal Government Exp,    12.2           -      15.8        -       14.7        -       13.2        -       14.1        -      12.1
In x of GDP                           6.2                 6.2                5.8                 4.9                 4.4                4.5
1/ Preliminary.
Source: Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Education



- 34 -
ANNEX I
Table 3
ZAMBIA - FIF-H EDUCATION PROJECT
PRIMARY SCHOOL ENROLL,MENT - 1965-1980
ALI SCHOOLS
YEAR   SEX/T  GRADE I    GRADE 2    GRADE 3    GRADE 4    GRADIE 5    GRADE 6             GRADE 7    GRADE 8    E.S.N.    TOTALS
B     43,745      40,075       39,676      40,194      23,943       21,648       12,164       9,186                 230,631
1965     G      41,151      35,851      33,274       31,387      15,368      12,742         5,926       3,763                179,462
_______   T  84,896  75,926    72,950      71,581      39,311       34,390       18,090       12,949                410,093
B     53,410      44,598       41,886      42,488      34,490       24,978       23,672                             265,583
1966     G      50,297      40,151       35,498      32,474      22,533       14,452       12,404                            207,849
T    103,707      84,749       77,384      74,962      57,023       39,430       36,076                             473,432
B     59,744      52,635       45,215      43,076      36,795       35,388       27,781                             300,660
L967     G      56,159      48,375      39,087       34,723      24,806      21,324        14,192                            238,692
T    115,903    101,010        84,302      77,799      61,601       56,712       41,973                             539,352
B     63,954      60,297       53,929      46,375      37,826      37,816        39,231                             339,928
1968     G      58,909      54,828       47,404      38,406      26,651      23,116        20,011                             268,965
T    122,863    115,125       101,333      85,281      64,477       60,932       59,242                             608,893
B     65,870      64,114       60,903      55,199      40,229       38,701       42,801                    169      367,986
1969     G      61,293      57,080       54,035      45,397      29,639      24,877        21,858                    116     293,295
T    127,163    121,194    113,938    100,596          69,868       63,578       64,659                    285      661,28i
B     66,162      64,485       64,698      62,120      43,435       40,896       43,811                     69      385,676
1970     G      61,197      58,489       55,264      50,782      32,306      27,506        23,411                     39     308,994
T    127,359    122 974    119,962    112,902          75,741       68,402       67,222                    108      694,670
B     66,730      65,403       66,092      66,793      46,298      43,723        47,219                     73     402,331
1971     C      62,601      59,269      57,704       54,990      35,I112     31,105        26,640                     49     327,470
T    129,331    124,672    123,796    121,783          81,41C       74,828       73,859                    112      729,801
B     73,418      67,353       67,132      69,319      51,854      46,214        51,289                    114      428,693
1972     G      69,127      61,591       59,095      57,182      38,972      33,917        29,217                     79     349,180
T    142,545    128 ,944    126,227       126,501      90,826      82,131        80,506                    193      777,873
B     73,046      72 970       68,744      69,275      54,300       52,983       53,620                     71     445,009
1973     G      69,266      67,185      60,687       58,115      41,23C      37,106        31,593                    43      365,225
T    142,312    140,155    129,431        127,390      95,530       90,089       85,213                    114      810,234
B     75,571       75,272      75,146      72,723      56, 613      56,203       58,576                     89      470,104
1974     G      70,984      70,247       66,978      61,055      43,463      39,904        35,315                     54     387,946
T    146,555      145,5i9     142,124    133,778      100,076       96,107       93,891                    141     858,191
B     75,202      73,802       74,056      95,952      58,162       56,953       61,803                     77     476,008
1975     G      71,512      68,292      67,132       64,732      45,753      41,021        37,890                    52      396,384
T    146,715    142,094    141,188    140,684    103,915            97,974       99,693                    129     872,392
B     76,834      76,733       75,998      76,303      62,563       60,530       63,877                            492,899
1976     G      73,828      71,430       68,264      66,540      50,763      44,483        39,622                            414,968
T    150,662    148,163       144,262     142,843    113,326       105,013      103,499                            907,867
B     79,570       78,660      78,510      78,090      60,920       62,170       61,850                            499,770
1977     G      76,470      76,580      73,090       70,140      53,120      50,450        45,460                            445,310
T    156,040    155,240       151,600    148,Z30      114,040      112,620      107,310                            945,080
B     80,977      79,385       78,908      78,893      62,641      62,563        67,072                            510,439
1978     G      77,743      76,335       74,452      71,267      53,279      50,757        49,688                            453,521
T    158,720    155,720    153,360    150,160    115,920           113,320      116,760                            963,960
B     82,319      81,264       83,911      78,749      66,93C       64,355       67,421                            524,949
1979     G      79,090      78,168      72,699       71,724      56,336      52,766        49,828                            460,671
T    161,409    159,432    156,610        150,473    123,326       117,121      117,249                            985,620
B     85,422      84,271       83,378      82,962      70,237      70,377        76,428                            553,075
1980     G      83,382      81,151       78,821      74,435      60,138       56,264       52,392                            486,583
T    168,804    165,422    162,199    157,397         130,375    126,641        128,820                          1,039,658
NOTES:  1)  Up to 1965 the Primary System consisted of three years of schooling, i.e., Sub-standards A and B and Standards 1 to 6.
2)  1969, 1970, 1971, 1972 and 1973 totals include E.S.N. pupils prior to 1969 E.S.N.
Pupils were not recorded separately.
3)  From 1970 only those E.S.N. pupils in a special class with a special teachers were counted.
SOURCE:  Ministry of Education



- 35 -
ANNEX I
Table 4
ZAMBIA - FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
SECONDARY SCHOOL ENROLLMENT BY FORM AND SEX, 1971-80
YEAR          EuRM 1      FORM 2      FORM 3      FORM 4      FORM 5       TOTAL
1971   B      9,902       9,709       6,705       5,930       5,272        37,549
G     5,851       5,702       3,232       1,964       1,738         18,487
T    15,753      15,411       9,937       7,894       7,010        56,036
C       418         414         285         243         238          1,598
1972   B      9,870       9,980       9,632       4,916       5,545        39,943
G     5,877       5,443       5,111       1,967       1,710        20,108
T    15,747      15,423      14,743       6,883       7,255        60,051
C       408         409         408         216         238          1,679
1973   B    11,079        9,743       9,769       5,164       4,593        40,348
G     6,491       5,640       5,263       1,769       1,843        21,006
T    17,570      15,383      15,032       6,933       6,436        61,354
C       447         408         409         217         215          1,696
1974   B    12,129       11,065       9,824       5,608       4,938        43,564
G     7,125       6,145       5,349       1,973       1,608        22,200
T    19,254      17,210      15,173       7,581       6,546        65,764
C       489         448         410         226         212          1,785
1975   B    13,401       12,251      11,116       5,723       5,492        47,983
G     8,061       6,809       5,925       2,422       1,849        25,066
T    21,462      19,060      17,041       8,145       7,341        73,049
C       547         490         447         237         220          1,941
1976   B    14,064       13,625      12,246       6,330       5,568        51,833
G     8,015       7,637       6,621       2,534       2,160        26,967
T    22,079      21,262      18,867       8,864       7,728        78,800
C       562         552         487         251         235         2,087
1977   B    14,122       14,167      13,897       6,173       6,024        54,383
G     8,118       8,073       7,783       3,032       2,411        29,417
T    22,240      22,240      21,680       9,205       8,435        83,800
C       556         556         542         263         241         2,158
1978   B    13,921       14,122      14,167       6,607       6,173        54,990
G     8,159       8,118       8,073       3,403       3,032        30,785
T    22,080      22,240      22,240      10,010       9,205        85,775
C       552         556         556         286         263         2,213
1979   B    14,642       15,097      15,145       7,733       7,504        60,121
G     8,619       8,517       8,266       3,272       2,914        31,588
T    23,261      23,614      23,411      11,005      10,418        91,709
C       579         573         574         304         298         2,328
1980   B    15,248       15,507      15,327       7,631       7,749        61,462
G     9,256       8,831       8,387       3,822       3,013        33,309
T    24,504      24,338      23,714      11,453      10,762        94,771
~C      585         577         569         308         304         2,343
B - Boys
C - Girls
T - Total
C - Classes
Source: Ministry of Education



- 36 -
ANNEX I
Table 5
ZAMBIA - FIFTH ED)UCATION PROJECT
DISTKIBUTION OF COSC RESULTS, 1980
1960 FORM V RESULTS ANALYSIS                   NUMBER OF CANDIDATES IN EACH SUBJECT
GRADE DISTRIBUTION
Very Good      Credit         Pass       Sub.   Pass    Fail
SUBJECT
NUMBER    SUBJECT NAME            _                   1      2     3      4      5       6      7       8        9   ABSENT   TOTAL
1121       English Language                          145   238   993   625   761   1917   2437   1899   1210   424             10649
2011       Literature in English                     208   199   421   285   345    564    473    525    430   117               3567
2040       Bible Knowleoge                           103   140   394   182   232    472    410    399    552   179               3063
2041       Bible Knowledge                            20    63   188   144   152    384    344    399    501   240               2435
2044       Christian Religious Education              17    38   119    80    69    160    159    120    119   102                983
2158       History : World Affairs                     0      0     0      0      0       2       1       1       2      0          6
2160       Central Agrican History                    45    98   452   352   471    1069   10d4   1233   1918   402              7124
2222       Geography : Central Africa                 38    99   525   392   578   1521    1910   1727   1762   549              9101
2281       Economics                                   1      2    12      5      8      41      50      58    102    17          296
3002       Greek                                       0      0     0      0      0       0       0       0       0      1          1
3U16       French                                     11    10    22    14    13         31      44      46    106    37          334
3153       Bemba                                      21    61   322   203   243    558    493    408    305   263               2877
3154       Tonga                                       5    18    88    57    82         91    161       54      67    42         665
3156       Nyanja/Chichewa                             6    22   110    66    58    151    122           85    102    55          777
3160       Lozi                                        4    16    92    60    62    132    140           79      63   117         765
3201/6/9  Other Languages                              1      2     4      0      1       0       1       0       0      3         12
4001       Mathematics 8                              11    78   363   210   225    613    808    961   3225   391              6885
4003       Mathematics C                              20    57   120    95    90    238    260    365   1484   146               2875
4030       Additional Mathematics                      6      4    18      8    16       31      23      24      42    26         198
5000       General Science                             2      6    51    60    66    256        194    233    529   108          1505
5033       Agricultural Science                        0    10    92    90   127    314    514    666    758   147              2718
5050       Physics                                     5    23    99    49    60         81      77      43      66    96         599
5070       Chemistry                                  17    31   124    57    68         84      46      29     37    32          525
5090       Biology                                    10    66   384   270   329    950   1046   1138   2929   343              7465
5096       Human and Social Biology                    2    13    71    52    89    237    499    467    262   100              1792
5120       Physical Science                           11    39   247   127   186    507    625    774   1596   251              4363
6010       Art                                         7    10    45    24    30    108          96     85      52    39         496
6U20       Music                                       0      0            0      0       0       0       0      14     2          16
6030       Woodwork                                    0      C     9      4      7      29      38     41      54      6         188
6040       Metalwork                                   0      0     0      5      3      22      34      23      31    10         128
6044       Metalwork (Engineering)                     1      1     3      3      6       6       5       7       2      1         35
6050       Fashion and Fabrics                         0      0     0      0      0       7      14      20     55      6         102
6060       Food and Nutrition                          0      0     6      5      4      44      72      69     56    37          293
6075       General Housecraft                          0      1    23    18    28        95    111    128       51    24         479
7000       Engineering Science                         0     0      2      3      4       7       2       1       0     2          21
7040       Geometrical and Mechanical Drawing          6    16    63    28    42         89      51      55     78    25         453
7045       Geometrical and Building Drawing            0      3      9     2      3      11      11       7     21      8          75
7100       Commerce                                   31    44   387   292   340   1180   1042    910   1173   300              5699
7102       Commercial Studies                          0     0      O      0      0       0       L       3     23      2          29
7110       Principles of Accounts                     12    37    88    35    31         89      75      46     59    20          493
TOTALS               766  1445  59465  3902  4829  12091  13474  13128  19836  4670             80077



ANNEX I
- 37 -                                Table 6
ZAMBIA - FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
OUTPUT OF PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACHERS FROM
TEACHER TRAINING COLLEGES
OUTPUT OF TEACHERS
COLLEGES                              1975       1976*     1977      1978     1979      1980
C. LWANGA
Prirnary                            121         -        130       122      175       138
lomeecraft                           20         -         28        16       20        24
Total                               141         -        158       138      195       162
CIUIPATA
k                         Primary                             121          -        130      145       150      152
lloinecraft                          15         -         L6        22       20        22
Total                               136         -        146       167      170       174
DAVID LIVINGSTONE
Primary                             102         -         92        91      130       102
liomecraft                           16         -         18        18       20        30
Total                               118          -       110       119      150       132
KASAMA
Pri,nary                            145         -        136       124      150       131
liomecratt                           14         -         17        20       20        26
Total                               159         -        153       144      170       157
KITWE
Primary                            106          -        276      227       30(      300
Ilomecraft                          49          -         55        59       30        33
Total.                              155         -        331      286       33u       333
tIALCOIi W4OFFAT
Primary                            116          -         98      131       L50       136
ilomnecraft                          15         -         12        18       20        20
Total                               131         -        110)      1 49     170       156
1M1ANGU
Primary                             48          -         64        24      15(       138
Homecraft                            16         -          9        19       20        20
Total                                64         -         73        43      L70       158
M4UFULIRA
Pritnary                            II          -        117       11()     150       130
llomnecraft                          19         -         1M        19       20        20
Total                               129         -        133       129      170       150
MANSA
Primary                             -           -         -       122       150       113
llomnecraft                               6-              -         1        2(        20
Total                               --           -        --       138      170       133
SOLWEZI
Primary                             -           -         -        -        150       139
lomeeraft                            -          -         -        -         20        20
TotaL                                -          -         -         -       170       159
TOTAL PRLMARY OUTPUT
Primary                            869          -       1043     1096      1655     1479
lo,necraft                          164         -        171      207       210      235
Total                             1133          -       1214     1303      1865      1714
*  N(TE:  There were no graduates in 1976 because of change-over of course
durat ion.



- 38 -
ANNEX I
Table 7
ZAMBIA - FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
OUTPUT OF SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS FROM TRAINING INSTITUTIONS
1975 - 1980
OUTPUT OF TEACHERS
INSTITUTION           _                  1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980
University of Zambia                      191    155    199    181    183    207
Nkrumah T. College                        156    170    180    179    159    234
Copperbelt T. College                     108     80    108    126    137    140
DTEVT College                              -       63     51    101       98      78
NRDC                                       -       18     27      13      16      15
Evelyn Hone College
(Art and Music)                      -       -       11       9     12      23
TOTAL                           455    486    576    609    605    697



ZAIIBlA - FIFTH1 EDUCATION -PROJECT
UNIVERSITY oF ZAMIBIA
Graduates 1968-1979/3e
Degree                                    1968      1969       19 70   -19 71       1972 __197 3/74  _1974 /75              197 5/76      1976/ 77  1__97 7/78          1 9 7 8/791 9 789O
Phi. U).                                                                                                                                                                                    1
Mlaster of Arts, MI.A.                                           1                    2                          21                             1              1             1              6
fiaster of Education, :1. Ed.                                                                                    2                      -                     1              -              4
Master of Laws, LL. M1.                                                                                          1               2              -              1             1              3
laster of Science, M. Sc.                                                  2                                                     1              1             -              1              3
Bachelor of Arts, B.A.                     26        44         49        40         60           46           89              81            112            118           122            121
B.A. with Ed.                                         11        10        43         31           67          103             101            112            III            117           161
B.A. with Library  Stud.                                                                           6             7               6            13              9             10             16
B. Social Wurk                              1         19         3          1         2            8             9               1              5             6              6             10
B. Law                                               23         12        14         13           26           53              42             50             60             47             37
B. SC.                                                 3        13         11        is           37            31              33            39             58             20             19
B. Sc. with Ed.                                                             8        14           22            37              30            22             41             31             46
B. Sc. sithi Engineering                                         5          6        -            -            -               -              -              -
B. Eng.                                                                              13           26           29              23             28             21             31             38
B. Sc. lHum. Biology                                   6        20         14        12           23           42               28            35             44             25             38
B. Sc. Agriculture                                                                    4             3          27               27            25             24             11             17
B. Aed./Surgery                                                                      14           18            11              19            24             38             31             30
B. Mineral Scienice                                                                                              4               5             1(            1              13             35
B. Sc. (Libr,ary Studies)                                                                                                        1 
Total Output                               27       106        113       1 39       183          282          447             401            477            549            467           585
Total Enrollmenut                                           1,231    1 , 566    1,765         2,244         2,612           2,354          2,569         3,584          3 ,7 73        4,010
Planning Unit
University of Zambia
Mlarch 18, 1981
H >0
co



40  -
ANNEX I
Table 9
ZAMBIA - FIFTH EDUJCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
( Re: Para. 3.08)
Total
Post                                  1981.  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  Man-Years
Assistant Director                                 =xxx  xxxx  xxxx  x          3.00
Project Architect                                  =xxx  xxxx  xxxx  x          3.00
Maintenance Co-ordinator                          =xxx  xxxx  xxxx  x           3.00
Finance Controller                    ===-  ===                  xxxx  x        3.00
Procurement Officer                          =xxx  xxxx  xxxx                   2.75
Supervisory Engineer 1                       ====  =xxx  xxxx  xxx              2.50
2                   =xxx  xxxx  xxxx                     2.75
3                       xx  xxxx  xxxx                   2.50
Maintenance Engineer General 1          -=-=xxx  xxxx  xxx                      2.50
2       =-=     ==   =xxxx   xxxv  xxx         2.50
Maintenance Engineer, Electrical        ==         xxx  xxxx  xxx              2.50
Sanitary        ==       =xxx  xxxx  xxx                2.50
Mechanical      ==      =xxx  xxxx  xxx                2.50
Total Man-Years                              2.00  10.50 13.00 8.50  1.00   35.00
= T.A. provided by NORAD for implemenl:ation of the Third and Fourth
Education Projects.
x T.A. required for the Fifth Education Project (NORAD).



ZAOOIA--00F00 EDUCATION PROJECT
or P  0-  RH    ITIR       100N ";["f~f110 r40TI nII  -'"'Co001-
11-IFTO, Iul    11F     1      1 I A'I
-IUCTI' 111)01)  HO      0100~       ~ ~~     ~ '17'0  oI P           IIT) -                        1'  L               -L rF-[t   TOl>  III, IHOHI)000   EI   A1'PO                        13)                      TO                 IrO.1    0000 
No.      PROJECT 100M                                          111E F*LOLFI  TO  Till.  170I  <I   TinL   linE1  'Il)"'  EPI.0 t1 I"OlLIII' I' OL10111                                         01      Ol      010 5       2l   L1)0 I011             TO].AU"70,    LK,F)  F00FlT,T   'OO     0 1114 ll                   00
1.01  000020.  01000  ILCO  2501           00,  I    10------   --   m ---1--- --- -- --   ----      1.,        ------ 1-0----    -------00                                                                                                                                                                        125
0  `1    41~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '10    -                                                                                                                          5' 20   122
1.02  SIOMA, COED ILCA 85%)  GR  p-t"  491,                                                                                                                                                               -                  00        012     0100      100
0     -H          L1             IL'I06 2111                 I4 I2,o                                                                                                                                                                                     II-
1.04        OWEI 410      FD0 0111    1 30%)1       UP. 0 1),    n       0'       210         71      V        12       2       Oo          0'        1       00          .    '                    '"0                                                                                                    01       nO72
O  4  1324  4,  47   07.2'  2'0 0'  0  01    On                          -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~45            5          41     l~
1)     1"l          1' 5A.'                              l                                                                                                                                                    2---34    11'4      17'       04P
7       1011       5       04        ,'T    20',      1',       010                                                                                                                                                   2'        03'      011      II0"
1,07       $0150F,  $0111  LbA  25.1                01,   n-I    0'   To           00          '                 o     0         2          '                  '        '       .        o3                                                                                                       0 "00 ,,
0     2'I'    I21 'It0 I'                                     0        '1        '        --                                                                                                                                  0        14       5          1
0    '1,7.  1/12  'II    '51  0.  .2''             71"               00'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8    'V  -                                                                            - 51.4                       '4 4     049      1400
0000110       0  1010~~~~~~~'4  11)24  '260 02                   0.      l''         0.        1                  7       -                                                                                                                0"S1~ 00                  104
H  ,4 ~ ~    ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ -                 -         --10
4,00  1001110  OOMlOlIOOllOTTOH           0                                 -~        ~~~~                                                            ~~~~~~~           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A   -2.0  110  '00  -  4"I 200            70'
ONFO0I10` 10   I00102                                                          153      '2       '.'   20TH       02         "o        1         "         4      1         5       1)        4        1          0       0         00                                             10        '      20
TOIAL                 4205~~~~17 14~1 I00           3I.              PI,) 10'  100I      I7       ~ "'        1      1          0       11 1'2024A02                                              00-                                  1,   10'4P         1
400 .                   010.0                                                                        5         0'     00      .'          04        0        1          ' 00POJC    DIITAIN0A  222)  " I0   0'      00        ..      41       _- "').I             -                           44      0.         o
~~o   001                                    ','    04'      10301'    00.'              n4')O."                      '"     40      2n1        30'    .00         00       240    11.        111 2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 7  1   L    )2  50  40  -  401)0   4'' 020'0" 401
0ASEL0NElOST  TN   OWACHA                                                                              L 7 25  0020 1111      1'I"''          '     10     1'         170'   205,,1100            105l4   0.'      ,41       1204    483        3)2       125                 -10o                       O I       0
UNFORESEEN    I                                                                          ,0WA HATL   I00"    10'.             .3           '     11 41   200    100                    1~100     15         .21'"4200                 .05       10                                       0 .4"    00



I                                                                                                  I



- 42 -
ANNEX I
Table 11
ZAMBIA - FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED COST BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
Kwacha (millions)           US$ (millions)        % of Total
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total   Base Cost
1.  Civil Works
(a)  Site Development               1.53      1.72   3.25      1.76      1.98    3.73        14
(b)  Academic and Communal          3.16      3.57   6.73      3.64      4.09    7.73        28
(c)  Boarding                       1.63      1.83   3.46      1.87      2.11    3.98        14
(d)  Staff lhousing                 2.32      2.61   4.93      2.66      3.01    5.67        21
(e)  M4aintenance Program           1.05      1.19   2.24      1.21      1.36    2.57         9
Sub-Total                     9.69    10.92  20.61    11.13    12.55   23.68            86
2.  Furniture                           0.14      0.80   0.94       0.16      0.92    1.08         4
3.  Equipment and Vehicles              0.15      0.85   1.00       0.17      0.98    1.15         4
4.  Professional Services               0.48      0.32   0.80       0.55      0.37    0.92         3
5.  Project Administration              0.42      0.28   0.70       0.48      0.32    0.80         3
Base Cost (March 1981)             10.88    13.17  24.05    12.50    15.14   27.64          100
Total 1 - 5
6.  Contingencies
(a)  Physical (10%)                 1.08      1.32   2.40      1.25      1.51    2.76
(b)  Price (29%)                    3.49      4.15   7.64      4.00      4.78   18.78
Sub-Total Contingencies             4.57      5.47  10.04      5.25      6.29   11.54
Project Cost (1-6)                 15.45    18.64  34.09    17.75    21.43   39.18
of which duties and taxes           2.00       -     2.00      2.30       -       2.30



7.AMBrA   -   FIFTH  EDUCATION  PROJECT
IMPLEMXiTATIiON SCHEDULE
Years              1982                1983            1984              1985              1986            1987            .1  1988
Quarters        1   2   3   L4.j 1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3 -'4
Selection and appointment of   J
engineering consultants, survey)
of sites, design and the prep-                            :
aration of tender and contract )                                                                   +
document, review of tenders.   )                          *x-x *** -**
certification and supervision.
Junior Secondary School.s
+
Three J1S.S.  civil works                                           ** *XX      XXX  XXX     XXX x DC XXX  XXU VV    V VVi
Three J1S.S.  civil works                                                * **X XXX XYX iDO( )DO( XXX XXX XD( X.XV WE VWV   W
Two J.S.S. civil works                                                           ** XXX XXXX XiX X XX XIC     XX 'o XVi WVVV VVV V
Furniture                                                           *  *  KH'     XXXs,  Y    X ;X  "_7, X-X VMY-I X   yXXX  = 7 XT V X\TV V
Equipmenit and vehicles                         J* *** *** YXXX       XXX YYX XXX   XXX XXX                          XJYX xy-ryvv VVn  vV  V                               l
Maintenance Programi
Civil works                                                                                                 +
v  XXX XXX XXX XEX X XXX XXX XXX X X XX XXX  YXX XXX )Ci OI0V VWV VVV WV
Furniture
Equipment and vehicles
4
Project administration                                                       ZZ ZN zzz ZZZ ZZZ 'Z  ZZZ ZZ ZZZ ZZZ ZZZ ZE  ZZZ zz ZZZ   XXX ZZZ  'ZZZ
Legend        =  Selection and appointmert of consultirng engineers                                   VVV =  u,rant  period
H: =Selection and survey of sites                                                          --- = ecmnlcal supervision
Design and the preparation of tender documents                                     ZZZ - Project administration and supervision
XXX =  TerilOering, award, mobilization Find construction phase                              + = Mid-points of completion
Date of effectiveness (estimated at 10/01/82)
t = Completion' Sate (09/30/8z)
=  Closing Date (03/31/8i)
r' -
I ) 



- 44 -
ANNEX I
Table 13
ZAMBIA - FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ Millions)
Accumulated                Undisbursed
Quarters  1/'      Disbursements              Disbursements                  Balance
1                    1.20                      1.20                        23.80
2                     _                        1.20                        23.80
3                     -                        1.20                        23.80
4                    1.00                      2.20                        22.80
5                    1.00                      3.20                        21.80
6                    1.25                      4.45                        20.55
7                    1.25                      5.70                        19.30
8                    1.50                      7.20                        17.80
9                    1.50                      8.70                        16.30
lQ                    1.50                     10.20                        14.80
11                    1.50                     11.70                        13.30
12                    1,75                     13.45                        11.55
13                    2.00                     15.45                         9.55
14                    2.00                     17.45                         7.55
15                    2.00                     19.45                         5.55
16                    1.50                     20.95                         4.05
17                    1.50                     22.45                         2.55
18                    1.00                     23.45                         1.55
19                    0.65                     24.10                         0.90
20                    0.40                     24.50                         0.50
21                    0.25                     24.75                         0.25
22                    0.25                     25.00 2/                       -
1/ From IDA-Credit effectiveness.
21 Equivalent to SDR 22.2 million.



r CEO (Prim)       _
m    m   _ _ ~CEQ (Sec)         _      ,_
CE    .,                  _, 
L CEO (Grant aided)   
C7                        > >
- ~ CEOs                    >
85e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ c'i
(-a>-,                     .
a '____ Chief Planning __
Officer
_   m   C   E  0  5 _ _ D - 1 L~~~~0 
>       > :/2                             t    ,          I                                  O
Senior Finance         >
0      3 5'        Of-icers              _                                                  Z
aD      a                                               ,                                    cs
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
>
0
Subject and      1- ^ _                                          F      O
>
Regional                   -        - D
Insp Prim-  ,J                             a        a 3  '              0
D J _ D _ ~~~' n           TTC                              '                  L      L     
z _.; o rL t t  Insp          - -n n~ ~ ~ ~~ - 11  Nt_-_ -W         
~~-.                                             (D                                      - a^C tyr:      -
7                                                                                           C-,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a -
L   zC                        e-C , -
r.0 zI_    z a                      Primary and           -
'0-~~~~~~~~~
Regional                                                     |'
Inspectors        -                                              a      0 !
^ L'S                            Head Prod Unit                                                            H
0                              Sen Fin Off   _    x
Sen  Pers Of' __  a                                       a
ID          CD
a c        Princ (Admin) -       A
Chief Stores
Officer
Qv ID           Insps, Con-    -                          4 ^-'
trollers Curr                      -         , _
Dev, Standards       -          -^
-  ,     and Cert, Adult 7    D          a
r 'pgrading,    -    a - _      -n
Business and                    a
-        Commerce,            c
Paramedical   -
Senior Planning a 
Officer            a a>
T W1?4                      Chief Bldgs    _    - e
I x aNNV                    Officer
-        Cont Student
Services



ZAMBIA - FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
THE EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM,1980
NB  For 1979 and 1980 entries, many of the                           EMplOYMENT                                        M_-      ICINE
courses with Form III as the minimum entry                         -)AND/OR        scilool.
qualification are increasingly demanding                             NoN-NoRMAL     AOF                           ENGINEERING, MINES
Form V.                                                               TStAINING    NATURAS
SCSENCES
2+   3}-C   NATURAL SCIENCES ANI)       _ UNIVERSITY
AGRICULTUIIAL SCIENCES
_     2gH>[+ ] 3   SCIIOOI, OF EDUCATION
[jJJjJ.J~JJ3]SCIHOOL OF HIUMANITIES AND
SOCIAI, SCIENCE
EMPLOYMENT             PRIMARY
ANDORTEAChEFR TRAINING
AND/OR                       ,
NON-FORMAL          -4      {3        - ----F       SECONDARY TEACHER TRAININGC
TRAINING
2ihilJ  DIPtOMA IN ACCOUNTANCY, MANAGEMENt OR
REIATED FIEIJ)S
2   CERTIFICATE IN ACCOUNTANCY, MANAGEMENT OR
RELATED FIELDS
LOWER SECONDARY       UPPIRSEC                                                                             01
(GRlADES)                                       (FORMS)                                   [I{]-                TECltNOLOGIST COURSES
TRADES TRAINING
INSTITUTES
ADULT                                     1              TECIINICIAN COURSES
EDUCATION      DIVERSIFIED
A = PRIMARY SCIIOOI LEAVING                                          VOCATIONAL PROGS
EXAMINATION GRADE VIl                                            -fi]-I                1     2  DIVERSIFIED VOCATIONAL PROGRAMMES
n = JUNIOR SECONDARY SCIIOOI                                         CLERK/TYPIST
LEAVING EXAMINATION                                                   1                1  SECRETARIAL (SltORTIIAND/TYPIST)
FORM 111
1I[                PARAMEDICAL., REGISTIRED NURSES
C = CAMABR IDGE OVERtSEAS SCIIOOL                                     CERTIFICATE IN
CERTIFICATE FORM V                                                ACTX
_ _]    _        {j}J4T]  DIPLOMA IN AGRICULTUIIE AND                        h
REIATEI) FIEIDJS
7                             14                        17                                        19
AGE               I ---- -      -                to                         L-  uwrds -
14                            lf                        I



ZAMBIA - FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
EDUCATIONAL PYRAMID,1980
Enrollment irn '000s
Age Edn, Attainment                                                                                                                                                  Actual  Total COH.
18+  Degree                                                                          l4 0
18   Form V                                                                     7.7.       3.1                                                                        10.8      113.0
17   Form IV                                      BOYS                          7.6         3.8                          GIRLS                                        11.4      117.0
16   Fnrm !ll n5 3  L                                                                          8.4                                                                    23.7      121.0
15   Form                                                                15.5                                                                                         24.3      127.0
14   Form I                                                              1 2                    9.3                                                                   24.5      132.0
13   Grade 7                  7 .4                                                                                                                                   128.8      140.0
12   Grade 6                                                                                                                                                         126.6      144.0
11   Grade 5                                                                                                                                                         1370.2      17.0
10   Grade 4             83        0                                                                                                          74.                    157.4      159.0
9   Grade 3834-.                                                                                                                                           .       ....;      :....,,,G,., ,r d 78.8  162.2  164.0
8   Grade         2                                                                  81.2                                                                           165.4 1867.
7  Grade I8.                                                                                                                                        83.4            168.8      176.0
100           80            60            40             20            0             20            40             60            80            100
World Bank   22769          @3-
rt 
n X
A.~ ~ ~ ~ 



ANNEX I
- 48 -                                     Chart 4
Interim structure of education
EDUCATION
YEAR
22  =     ___  
_21  -_    --_ M     _D '_ _   _
-20        _        M
19~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(
18    _   _                                                                    z
s ~~~~~~16 ___CBw
13~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
12                                                      3                         z
11 _ ___        SENIOR SECONDARY SCHOOL EUC O
AI         Va_u voaioa programmes , e.g. Trades Nu1'rsing Teacher-  '-Tring etc.
_z         _        JUNIOR SECON64771-10OOL6 ,',! I         t, _ 71 O
6 edigusaltoadpm.
:D  Dotrt
__     .       _       y _     E           A    u
6  a L  -.             V          Science.
4  _       __         __       PRIMARY SCHOOL                     ; Iwl! 
AG;E     2     co _=--   
PRE -SCHOOL EDUCATION
NOTES
A      Various vocational programmes, e.g., Trades, Nursing, Teacher Training, etc.,
leading to a certificate.
E]Various programmes, e.g., Agriculture, Technology, Commerce, Nursing, etc.,
leading usually to a diploma.
University degree:
D = Doctorate
M = Master
B = Bachelor: 4 years -Ordinary.
5 years -Engineering, Agriculture, etc.
6 years -Veterinary Science.
NB               7 years -Medicine,
in A and B there are also some courses which take less than 2 years.
From primary to senior secondary an education year represents a grade.



49 -                                        ANNEX I
Chart 5
Final structure of education
EDUCATION
YEAR
23              _____                           __=_____      _
22              D        .                    _                  .
21 _           M    D
20   ___             M    D            .___._ _
*,9_            B    _     JD =-D
18                   a         M                               .__      -
17                        B                                                       z                          J
B                                       ~~~~~~~0
16                              B             ___O
15                    C    - L  
13~~~~~~~~~
14 2B
11                        SENIOR SECONDARY SCH   CHOOL O_
AGE     2O.._   
__9__1..!_i7 ,,' st.0  _z
_0                                SECONDAP - SCHOOL EDUCATON
ledigusaltoadpm.
_ = = __M = Mate.
4        ahlo:4yer          P RdinARY.(CHO
PRE-SCHOOL EDUCATION
NOTES
A     Various vocational programmes, e.g., Trades, Nursing, Teacher Training, etc.,
leading to a certificate.
B     Various programmes, e.g.s  Eginetri, Technology, Commerce, Nursing, etc.,
leading usually to a diploma.
C     University degree:
D = Doctorate.
M = Master.
B = Bachelor: 4 years -Ordinary.
5 years -Engineeringl, Agriculture, etc.
6 years - Veterinary Science.
7 years - Mediciie.
NB
In A and B there are also some courses which take less than 2 years.
From primary to senior secondary an education year represents a grade.



- 50 -
ANNEX II
ZAMBIA - FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.   Reports and Studies Related to the Education Sector
A.1 Zambia Education Sector Memorandum, December 1978.
A.2 Education Reform Proposals and Recommendations, June 1978
A.3 Turner Report, ILO, December 1978.
A.4 Basic Needs in an Economy under Pressure, November 1980.
B.   Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B.1 Loan Request to the World Bank, December 1980.
B.2 Revised Loan Request, March 1981.
C.   Selected Working Papers
C.1 Architectural and Educational Working Papers.



A



r, ____________                 __ ____                                                                                     IBRD15735R
<~  b~BM  jN.             T A N ZA N [ A
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECT INSTTUTIONS      -R ssdct Boundo,,e-   R,ods                                    2
oN            *~,o,   "om3r .-J- S h,rychls   - -"- 0   ,e                % A, o 8    e
N~~~~~~~
OW J CNN  3 Scrz ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-' \JL
-< X \ ~~~~~R E P U B L IC  O F                                      V, h  t'/1'l;
A  N      0z  L A                        -RE                           Lbq          iL  U      P                           gpo                  (      ,
\~~~~~~~~V '                  R T H                            
<o --t--Rj-- M = C .= :                       C.OPPERBELT(            L.t. T + ,
lX-' >;> 5 < KAB                                                                                                              + 2             \             <
[ ~~~~~-   0     Kpambu4J             <           r- fi ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   '  t  5  3    L  A  W       /xt                              nw
K'.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
->~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  }L.K
MONO Awl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  
i telob- E) NA
' +              ble/"i    A O M A                     M U                                                           M   B CA>!      Z A  M  B  I    ( U  E
11         A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OO22OOOt 
,T  E .   t R  /N    AKA            ______j__'                                                                        R             U__. 
t \         X<ts,  ,  E  h E,e F    \                       X  T-          NA                     B A B W  E,.     R    AZ  ;
__     N A M  IBI A,  -MgXn                                                                                                           *4f.,o,,O,c
I:22~      B_                4     /OTSWANA\          2t       _z'.                                          3'9 



