E-315
Annex 10
FYR Macedonia
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Environmental Management Plan
1. Overview:
Since the Trade and Transport facilitation in Southeast Europe (TTFSE) Project is unlikely to
have significant adverse environmental impacts, the project has been rated accordingly as
Category B. To prevent, minimize or mitigate site specific negative impacts, however, this
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) and a set of mitigatory measures have been prepared.
Upon review with the client government it will be signed as an attachment to the PIP.
2. Mdinimization of negative impact:
The major concerns about possible negative site-specific impacts associated with border crossings
relate to: (i) emissions from vehicles waiting for customs clearances, (ii) drainage of disinfectants
ancl spills of oils and fuel; (iii) waste disposal and loose garbage; and (iv) site disruptions caused
by upgrades or relocations of utilities or such infrastructure as buildings, parking/waiting areas,
ancd access roads.
The objective of the TTFSE to reduce constraints on traffic flows at border crossings, including
the simplification of paperwork and reduction of processing times, will correspondingly reduce
standing time and vehicle emissions from trucks and other vehicles. Processed and road side
waste, garbage and litter will also be reduced and better managed. The small scale of physical
investment, largely limited to the improvement of in-place facilities, offers only limited potential
threat. Specific actions included in the EMP (see Exhibit 1) to further minimize potentially
negative impact and promote institutional development include:
-  liaison with environmental authorities;
- training and sensitization;
*   site certification;
*   consultations on the harmonization of standards; and
* provisions in construction contracts;
a. Liaison with Environmental Authorities
Contact betwveen the Macedonia Customs Administration (MCA) and the Ministry of
Environment (MoE) needs to be intensified. This will be achieved through the appointment of an
environmental officer in the MCA who will be responsible for liaison, monitoring and reporting
on environrmental issues and the EMP to the Project Implementation Team (PIT) of the TTFSE.
I Incorporation of the functions of the environmental officer into the overall, long-term
responsibilities of the MCA will be reviewed as part of the reform and capacity building
processes of the MCA. Environmental issues will be included in the public infornation program
to be provided by the MCA.
b. Training and Sensitization
The MoE has already designated the liaison for the TTFSE.



The MCA environmental officer, in collaboration witlh the MoE;, will assist the TTFSE training
consultant in the design and provision of training and sensitization for the staff of the customs
service relating to the importance of environmental issues and protection. Standard procedures
and guidelines based on the national environmental regulations will be developed.
In coordination with the appropriate associated ministries and agencies providing control
functions at the border such specialized training in support of veterinary and phvto-sanitary pre-
inspections will be designed. Training on the control of the hunting and gathering of endangered
flora and fauna will also be covered.
c. Site Certification
In order to promote acceptable practice and minimization of environmental impact at all stations,
the MCA environmental officer, jointly with a representative of the Ministry of Environment, will
inspect all border crossings scheduled for investment under the TTFSE or marked as pilot sites.
The MoE will review the capacity and appropriate jurisdiction to participate in these inspections.
On the basis of satisfactory compliance with regulations and procedures a letter of certification of
compliance will be issued. Particular attention will be given to assure corrective procedures
relating to (i) the use of disinfecting pits at border crossings, (ii) the storage and use of
disinfecting materials and chemicals at sanitary and disinfecting sites, (iii) the control of waste
materials including hazardous materials, and (iv) the control of road-side litter and garbage.
d. Consultations on the Harmonization of Standards
The project supports the harmonization of standards with those of the EU. Particular attention
will be given to those relating to hazardous materials. The MCA environmental officer will
consult with the Ministry of Environment to ensure progressive application of appropriate
standards and to ensure collaboration with relevant environmental programs and activities funded
by the EU. Progress in this area will be regularly reported to the PIT and included in reports to
.the Bank.
In addition, the project will also enable customs officials to better enforce the terms of
international conventions and agreements relating to the environment. Especially relevant will be
the regulations included in such agreements as (i) the European Agreement Concerning the
International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road (ADR) of September 1957 with its Protocol
of October 1993; (ii) the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES); (iii)
the Convention on the International Carriage of Perishable Foodstuffs and on the Special
Equipment to be Used for Such Carriage (ATP) of September 1970; and (iv) the Basel
Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and their
Disposal of May 1992.
e. Provisions in Construction Contracts
Although not required as a result of recent changes in national environmental regulations,
environmental reports will be prepared to examine the potential negative environmental impact
and suggest mitigation measures for any new construction under the TTFSE. These reports will
be prepared by the MCA, the Ministry of Urban Planning, or a qualified consultant and submitted
for a 30 day review by the MoE. The acceptance of and clearance for payment by the PIT for
work contracted under the TTFSE will be dependent upon the presentation of such details and a
description of supportive action if such was recommended by the MoE. All contracts will contain
clauses requiring the minimization of noise and dust during construction.



Exhibit 1: Summary
Liaison witlh          The MCA will designate an environmental officer who in collaboration with
Environmental          the PITwill be responsible for: (i) liaison with environmental officials of the
Authorities            Ministrv of Environment: (ii) the review and monitoring of the EMP; (iii) the
provision of periodic status reports to the PIT; (iv) consultations with such
interested parties as NGOs; and (iv) and the provision of support for
supervision missions. The government will assure that the MCA
environmental officer has access to information relevant to the project and
environmental compliance.
Training and           The MCA in collaboration with environmental officials of the Ministry of
Sensitization          Environment will provide training and sensitization of staff at each border
crossing. Standard procedures will be specified. Special training will be
offered for pre-inspection skills in such related areas as veterinary and phyto-
sanitary inspections and in support of the protection of endangered species.
Certification of       The Ministry of Environment jointly with the MCA environmental officer
Acceptable Practice at  will inspect each border crossing schedules for investment under the TTFSE
Border Crossings       or marked as a pilot site for certification of the acceptability of practices and
minimization of environmental impact at all stations. Particular attention will
be given to (i) the use of disinfecting pits, (ii) the storage and use of
disinfecting materials and chemicals at the sanitary and disinfecting sites, (iii)
the control of waste materials including hazardous materials, and (iv) the
control of road-side litter and garbage.
lHarmonization of      One of the goals of the project is to assist harmonization with EU and
Standards              international standards. The MCA environmental officer will consult with the
Ministry of Environment periodically on progress and provide progress
reports to the PIT. The MCA environmental officer will ensure compliance
with evolving regulatory requirements and conventions.
Construction           Desiglns for new construction will include an environmental report with plans
for the minimization of negative impacts. Contract documents will contain
clauses requiring minimization of noise, dust, and waste disposal during
construction. All works will comply with local environmental regulations
L                      | where applicable
[January 2000]



