Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20493-MK
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 7 MILLION
TO THE
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
FOR THE
TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST EUROPE PROJECT
June 21, 2000
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Turkey and FYR Macedonia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchlange Rate Effective April 24, 2000)
Currency Unit = Denar (Den)
1 Denar = US$0.015
1 US$ = 64.44 Denars = 0.739 SDR
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBRtEVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP         Automated Data processing
ASYCUDA           Auto:mated System for Customs Data
BCP         Border Crossing Point
CEFTA          The Central European Free Trade Agreement
EU         The E,uropean Union
FIATA         Federation of International Forwarding Agents
FMS         Financial Management System
FNRR          Fund for National and Regional Roads
FYR Macedonia         The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GOM          Govemment of FYR Macedonia
ICIS        Integrated Customs Information System
IDA         Intermational Development Association
IRU         International Road Transport Union
IT        Infornation Technology
LAN         Local Area Network
MCA          FYR Macedonia Customs Administration
MOF          Ministry of Finance
MOU          Memorandum of Understanding
PIT        Project Implementation Team
RSC         Regional Steering Committee
SAD         Single Administrative Document
SECI         Southteast European Cooperative Initiative
SOE         Statement of Expenditures
TCP/IP        Transfer Control Protocol/ Information Protocol
TEN         Trans-European Network
TFP         Transit Facilitation Project
TIR        Transport International Routier
TOR         Terms of Reference
TTFSE         Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe
UN-ECE          United Nations Economic Commission for Europe
WAN          Wide Area Network
WTO          World Trade Organization
Vice President:                    Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Director:                  Ajay Chhibber, ECCO6
Sector Director:                   Ricardo A. Halperin, ECSIN
Sector Leader:                     Eva Molnar, ECSIN
Team Leader:                       Graham Smith, ECSIN
Task Manager:                      Anca Dumitrescu, ECSIN



FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST EUROPE PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. PROJECT  DEVELOPMENT  OBJECTIVE  ................................................................3
1. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE ................................................................3
2. KEY  PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ................................................................3
B. STRATEGIC  CONTEXT ................................................................3
1. SECTOR-RELATED COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY (CAS) GOAL SUPPORTED BY THE
PROJECT ...............................................................3
2. MAIN SECTOR ISSUES AND GOVERNMENT STRATEGY ....................................................4
3. SECTOR ISSUES TO BE ADDRESSED BY THE PROJECT AND STRATEGIC CHOICES .............. 7
C. PROJECT  DESCRIPTION  SUMMARY ................................................................                                 7
1. PROJECT COMPONENTS ................................................................7
2. KEY POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL REFORMS SUPPORTED BY THE PROJECT ......... ............8
3. BENEFITS AND TARGET POPULATION ................................................................9
4. INSTITUTIONAL AND IMPLEMENTATION  ARRANGEMENTS ..............................................9
D. PROJECT  RATIONALE ...............................................................                                           12
1. PROJECT ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED AND REASONS FOR REJECTION ..........                                           ............... 12
2. MAJOR RELATED PROJECTS FINANCED BY THE BANK AND/OR OTHER DEVELOPMENT
AGENCIES ...............................................................1 3
3. LESSONS LEARNED AND REFLECTED IN THE PROJECT DESIGN ................                                     ...................... 1 3
4. INDICATIONS OF BORROWER COMMITMENT AND OWNERSHIP ...................................... 14
5. VALUE ADDED  OF BANK  SUPPORT IN THIS PROJECT ............................... ..................... 14
E.  SUMMARY  PROJECT  ANALYSIS  .........................................                                ...................... 14
1. ECONOMIC ...............................................................                                                  14
2. FINANCIAL  AND FISCAL ...............................................................                                     15
3. TECHNICAL ............................................................... 15
4. INSTITUTIONAL ...............................................................                                             15
5. SOCIAL ...............................................................                                                    15
6. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT ...............................................................                                  16
7. PARTICIPATORY  APPROACH ...............................................................                                    16
F. SUSTAINABILITY  AND  RISKS ...............................................................                                    17
1. SUSTAINABILITY ...............................................................                                            17
2. CRMCAL RISKS ............................................................... 18
3. POSSIBLE CONTROVERSIAL ASPECTS ................................................................ 19
G. MAIN  CREDIT  CONDITIONS ...............................................................                                      19
1. EFFECTIVENESS CONDMONS ............................................................... 19
2. OTHER  ............................................................... 19
H. READINESS  FOR  IMPLEMENTATION ...............................................................   20
I. COMPLIANCE  WITH  BANK  POLICIES  ...............................................................  20



ANNEXES
ANNEX 1.  PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
ANNEX 2.   DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTON
ANNEX 3.   ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
ANNEX 4.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF THE TOTAL INVESTMENT OF THE PROJECT
ANNEX 5.   FINANCIAL SUMMARY
ANNEX 6.   PROCUREMEN'T AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
TABLE A.   PROJECT COSTS BY PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
TABLE Al.  CONSULTANT SELECTION ARRANGEMENTS
TABLE B.    THRESHOLDS FOR PROCUREMENT METHODS AND PRIOR REVIEW
TABLE B 1.   PROCUREMENT PLAN
TABLE C.    ALLOCATION OF CREDIT PROCEEDS
ANNEX 7.   PROJECT PROCESSING BUDGET AND SCHEDULE
ANNEX 8.   DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
ANNEX 9.   STATEMENT Ol LOANS AND CREDITS
ANNEX 10.  ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
ANNEX 11   MACEDONIAN CUSTOMS SYSTEM REFORM STRATEGY
ANNEX 12.  COUNTRY AT A. GLANCE
MAPs No.   30919 AND 3100)3



FYR Macedonia
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
Turkey and FYR Macedonia Unit
Date: June 21, 2000                                 Program Team Leader: Graham Smith
Country Manager/Director: Ajay Chhibber             Sector Director: Ricardo Halperin
Project ID: 7E-PE-70089                             Sector: TY- Other Transportation
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Credit      Theme(s): Public Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention:    [ ] Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data               [ ] Loan      [X] Credit    [H  Guarantee       [] Other [Specifyl
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: SDR 7 milion (US$ 9.3 miUlion equivalent)
Proposed terms:                        [X]  Multicurrency     [   Single currency, specify
Grace period (years):   10             [1   Standard Variable  []  Fixed          [ ]   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity:      35
Commitment fee:         0.5% on undisbursed credit balance, beginning 60 days after signing less any waiver.
Service charge:         0.75%
Finaning plan (US$m):
Source                             Local             Foreign            Tota
Government                                                   3.1                0.0              3.1
USA                                                          0.1                1.9              2.1
IDA                                                          1.8                7.5              9.3
Total:                                                       5.1                9.5             14.5
Borrower: former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency: Ministry of Finance, Macedonian Customs Adnministration
Estimated disbursements (IDA FY/ US$M):
FY                            FY2001  FY2002  FY2003  FY2004
Annual               0.9      3.8      4.4     0.3
Cumulative              0.9      4.7      9.0      9.3
Project implementation period: 3 1/2 years
Expected effectiveness date:    October 31, 2000       Expected closing date:    June 30, 2004
Implementing agency: Macedonian Customs Administration
Contact person: Sladjana Damjanoska
Address: 13, Lazar Licenovski Str., 1000 Skopje
Tel: + 389 91129 155      Fax: + 389 91 237 832          E-mail: sladjana.damjanoska@customs.gov.mk



Page 2
The TTFSE Proiect: Key Desien Concents
How does this project differfrom the typical project?
Reyional character. The TTFSE projects are regionally linked in a program supporting fYR
Macedonia, Albania, Bosnia amd Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia and Romania in their efforts to
foster trade. All these countries are beneficiaries of the Stability Pact'. They seek to promote more
efficient and less costly trade flows across the borders of the participating countries and provide
EU-compatible customs standards. This requires the cooperation of the participating countries and
a mutual sharing of concerns iFor the reform of their Customs services. To assist such cooperation
and facilitate the sharing of information, a Regional Steering Committee (RSC) has been created.
All participating countries are represented on this committee and have signed a Memorandum of
Understanding detailing its ro:Le and activities. The United States (US) is funding a secretariat for
the RSC and experts to assist each government in procurement management.
Reform  combined with the provision of infrastructure.  The project will support the
implementation of ongoing customs reforms and focus on integrated solutions at selected pilot sites
located on main European corridors. Customs reform is an essential part of the activities fYR
Macedonia needs to undertake to join the European Union. These pilots will increase the
productivity of border agencies, enabling shorter processing time at border crossings and inland
termninals. Reforms and pilots will need to be supported at some border crossings by the upgrading
of infrastructure. The project will finance physical improvements at these border crossings, once
critical elements of reform proceed.
Non-duplicative structure. The TTFSE seeks to offer the Customs services the guarantee that
reform needs will be addressed in a way least costly to the government. Governments will
continue ongoing customs reforms led by the European Union (EU) and will use grant funding
from the EU and the USA for most of the technical assistance components.
Participatory approach. The design and implementation of the TTFSE is based on participatory
methodology to ensure that the projects belong to the participating countries and are endorsed and
owned by the various stakeholders, including the beneficiaries.  Consultations with customs
officials and users have occurred during the design phase and mechanisms are built into the project
to obtain regular user input in the monitoring and evaluation process.
Building on previous/ongoins   tiatives. Several international organizations have recognized the
need to help countries in the region improve transit across borders and have provided assistance to
start addressing it. The EU was the first in the Balkans to start addressing this issue. Its experience
highlights the need for comprehensive reforms and carefully selected upgrading of infrastructure.
The Southeast European Cooperative Initiative2 also promotes economic and environmental
cooperation among the countries in the region, with a focus on efficient transit, and combating
corruption and smuggling.
The Stability Pact for South Eastern Europe, adopted in Cologne on June 10, 1999 at a special meeting of Foreign
Ministers, representatives of international organizations, institutions and regional initiatives concerned with South
East Europe, commits these parties to the adoption of a comprehensive, coordinated and strategic approach to the
region, replacing crisis management with preventative diplomacy.
2 Consisting of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Greece, Hungary, Moldova, Romania, Slovenia,
fYR Macedonia and Turkey, established iin December 1996.



Page 3
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The proposed project forms part of a regional program for Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast
Europe3 that aims to strengthen and modernize the customs administrations and other border control
agencies in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria,
Croatia, and Romania. The Program, the result of a collaborative effort between the Government, IDA,
the EU and the US, seeks two development objectives:
(i) to reduce non-tariff costs to trade and transport; and
(ii) to prevent smuggling and corruption at border crossings.
The project would achieve these objectives by: (i) supporting customs reform; (ii) strengthening
mechanisms of interaction and cooperation between private and public parties at regional, national and
local levels; (iii) disseminating information and providing training to the private sector; (iv) financing
infrastructure and equipment at selected border crossings; and (v) implementing, at pilot sites, an
integrated set of new customs procedures, information technology, human resource management
techniques, supporting infrastructure, and cooperation mechanisms4 for agencies at border crossings. The
financing of infrastructure will be dependent upon the successful implementation of the reforms, notably
the application of targeting and selectivity techniques.
In fYR Macedonia, the EU, based on its experience in the country, will continue to support the
implementation of the Customs System Reform Strategy developed by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and
fYR Macedonia Customs Administration (MCA). This is part of the association process. The process
necessary to change institutional cultures and ingrained behavior is expected to take a substantial time,
about 8 to 10 years. The reform involves simultaneous and sustained actions on: (i) change in
administrative and operational procedures; (ii) definition of staff profiles for the organization and hiring or
training according to them; (iii) elaboration and implementation of a staff development plan; and (iv)
introduction of up-to-date information technology and regional interconnections. This project will provide
support to implement the customs reform at border crossings and inland terminals during the first phase of
the process.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Progress towards the objectives will be monitored by key performance indicators covering the
performance of MCA services at one pilot inland terminal and three pilot border crossings, and overall
efficiency indicators for the MCA as a whole. The indicators include: (i) transport costs to/from the three
main trading partners and the transaction costs at these pilot sites; (ii) number of physical or documentary
examinations and their effectiveness; (iii) clearance time; (iv) the value of recorded trade; and (v)
occurrence of corruption. In addition, a set of regional indicators will be used to measure cost/time
reduction in regional transport on three major corridors to evaluate the overall impact of the program. A
detailed set of indicators has been defined to follow the national and regional progress throughout the
project life (Annex 1).
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
CAS document number: 18162MK   Date of latest CAS discussion: 06/13/2000 (Progress Report)
3Referred to in this document collectively as "the program" and nationally as the "TTFSE" project.
4Including shared access to information and intelligence systems, and training for interagency awareness.



Page 4
The assistance strategy of the Bank Group emphasizes the three priority areas outlined in the
Government's "National Development Strategy for Macedonia": (i) Promote private sector growth. The
highest priority is given to support for policy reforms to further liberalize trade, eliminate direct
government participation in the sector, and establish the prerequisites for efficiency in markets. The Bank
program supports economic policy reforms, including delicensing, regulatory and tax simplification, and
competitive privatization, especially to prevent opportunities for corruption; (ii) Increase effectiveness of
the state. The Bank will support, as a key criterion for EU accession, the strengthening of public
administration. Its assistance will focus on the role and organization of the state, and on reforming public
expenditure management. This will include improving the transparency and accountability in public
finance management, developing the basis for a merit-based civil service system, and providing
instruments to address the existing weak governance in public sector; and (iii) Alleviate poverty and
develop human capital. The Bank will support building up programs aimed at strengthening front line
social services: basic health, primary education, social assistance, and labor services.
The proposed project is especially in line with the objectives (i) and (ii) above. It will support the
restructuring of MCA to better serve trade activities by reducing non-tariff transport costs, lowering the
price of imported goods, and improving the competitiveness of Macedonian products, thereby promoting
private sector growth and creation olf new jobs in the country. The project will also support the MCA in
strengthening its tax collection capacity and enforcing several international conventions relating to the
environment, while reinforcing ongoing efforts against corruption.  The proposed border crossing
infrastructure improvements would allow a cost-efficient cross-border system with positive results for road
transport.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Trade is highly significant to the fYRZ Macedonia's economy, representing on average about 86% percent
of GDP in 1998 (see trade indicators in Annex 4). FYR Macedonia is already considered one of the most
open trading countries in the region. The conflict in Kosovo blocked fYR Macedonia's main transport
corridor to the rest of the world, as well as closed off its second largest export market, FR Yugoslavia.
However, the negative impact of the crisis has turned to be much less than anticipated. In fact it has
boosted the construction and service sectors, as fYR Macedonia has become the major transport route to
Kosovo. Trade is increasingly changing its old patterns in terms of partners, and progressively in
composition of products. Export volumes continue to grow in response to strong demand from Kosovo.
Trade has become mainly oriented towards the EU (though transport routes have been damaged as a result
of the conflict in the region), with main trading partners being Germany, Greece and Italy (about 35% of
trade) (see Map 30919). The United States are also an important partner, with over 13 percent of exports.
The country's main exports consist of clothing, iron and steel, and drinks and tobacco products. Imports
consist mainly of food products, manufactured consumer goods, mineral fuels and lubricants.
FYR Macedonia has strengthened trade links with its neighbors. It entered into free trade agreements with
its main partners in the region (Bulgaria, Croatia, Slovenia, and FR Yugoslavia), and it has made similar
proposals to Albania and Romania.
The MCA describes its major objectives in its strategy (Annex 11) as : (i) to promote fair trade; (ii) to
increase attractiveness of foreign investors; (iii) to ensure protection for the citizens and business in all
areas involving imports and exports in a clear, uniform, simple way as efficiently as possible; (iv) to
facilitate a practical system to collect taxes, customs duties, excise, and VAT (starting April, 2000); and
(v) to respect the provisions on environment protection.
The MCA plays a critical role in serving both the State and the trading community. In 1999, the MCA
collected about 25 percent of the total state budget revenues (about US$208 million equivalent), and the
percentage is expected to increase with the recent introduction of VAT, to be also collected by MCA. The
Government has achieved partial success in improving the services of MCA and reducing trade and
transport impediments through the recent restructuring of customs. Particular efforts have been made to
strengthen the law enforcement at the borders by establishing an Intelligence Department. Private sector



Page 5
observers recognize the efforts of MCA but underline that much remains to be accomplished. The
following obstacles to trade and transport have been identified in consultation with both Customs and
various stakeholders:
a. Modernizing Customs Code and Procedures
The Government, in close collaboration with the EU, IMF, and the Bank, has already taken various steps
to improve customs legislation, procedures and documentation. The MCA introduced the increased use of
a Single Administrative Document (SAD)5 along with the ASYCUDA6 system. A new tariff, aligned to
international standards, has been introduced. The different categories of duties have been consolidated,
and the present one percent ad valorem fee collected on all imports will be replaced by a flat declaration
handling fee, consistent with WTO-compatible practice. The Government has also introduced, as a part of
the Transit Facilitation Project supported by the Bank7, a wide range of training programs for more
efficient customs operations. The EU-compatible Customs law incorporates modern features and will
enable the MCA to operate according to EU practice. The passing of the law has placed the MCA under
the Ministry of Finance (an IMF ESAF8 requirement) to ensure coordination between tax collecting
agencies and improve transparency. An improved version of the law, together with implementing
regulations, became effective as of April, 2000.
Despite this modernization, the actual implementation of MCA procedures needs further attention to
facilitate trade and transport activities. Stakeholders have indicated they have concerns about: (i) changes
in the legal system and regulations without advance notice; (ii) clarity and transparency of customs
regulations; (iii) application of legislation at border points; (iv) coordination among border agencies; and
(v) interaction with the Government. At the same time, MCA management has signaled the following
major impediments to trade facilitation: (i) the need to revise the definition of responsibilities between
Customs and Border Police, as well as (ii) the lack of sufficient training in legislation and procedures by
both trade operators and customs officers.
The MCA intends to address these issues. Assistance is on-going within the PHARE Multi-beneficiary
Customs Program. Regulations are being designed for a new EU assistance program to certain countries of
South East Europe, including fYR Macedonia, under the name Community Association and
Reconstruction Assistance to the Western Balkans - CARA. However, customs-specific assistance within
the program is unlikely to be implemented in the near future.
b. Upgrading Customs Facilities
Even if procedures are reformed and professional standards are strengthened, the design and facilities of
some of the main border crossing points will prevent MCA from fulfilling its trade facilitation, collection
and enforcement functions. Insufficient facilities (both physical infrastructure and equipment) at these
border crossing points (BCPs) are one of the reasons for delays.
The Government has already started to rehabilitate BCPs with its own funds and with assistance from
development partners. Of the country's five major international BCPs, modernization of Bogorodica (on
the Greek border) was funded by EU - PHARE. Kafasan ( on the Albanian border) was built with United
Nations Development Program funding. However, the lack of processing lanes for traffic and the limited
capacity of inspection areas are the most common difficulties. Tabanovce9, strategically most important
for fYR Macedonia, has not been financed by any donor programs, yet requires partial reconstruction.
5A standardized format for waybills and related transport documents, promoted by UN.
6Automated customs declaration processing system developed by UNCTAD
7The project is closed; it was implemented between 1995-1999
8 Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
9 The border facilities at Tabanovce, at the border with FR Yugoslavia, were developed only recently and are
temporary in nature. The Government has decided on its full reconstruction rather than rehabilitation; IDA will
finance only the first phase, based on the most critical needs.



Page 6
Critical needs for improvement also still exist at Kafasan and Deve Bair even after multi-donor funding of
core facilities.
With respect to equipment and information systems, the MCA started in 1996 to introduce the ASYCUDA
system with the support of the EU (implementation of a pilot site and technical expertise from UNCTAD)
and the Bank (roll out of the system under the Transit Facilitation Project). Hardware, software, and
communication devices were also introduced under the Transit Facilitation Project. However, some parts
of the systems used by the MCA date back to 1994, and the hardware, software, and telecommunication
systems need to be updated. At the same time, equipment to raise the quality of inspection and processing
at major border stations, and communications equipment to complete the customs national network are
critically needed.
c. Preventing Smuggling and Corruption
Despite the efforts of the MCA and the Government, stakeholders have reported that corruption and
particularly the lack of transparency generate significant additional costs (albeit the degree is less
significant than in other Balkan countries). Freight rates set by companies operating in the region
frequently include a mark-up to cover unofficial payments. Users complain that unequal treatment of
importers is a constant problem, and tax collection procedures allow arbitrary action by customs and
provide opportunities for rent seeking behavior at the border crossings.
Improvement of customs ethics is a major objective of the MCA. In addition to the previous Bank/IMF
efforts'°, the EU has assisted MCA in introducing their Ethics Code, including the basic principles of
customs ethical behavior (as stated in the Arusha Declaration on Integrity in Customs), communication
with clients, and disciplinary procedures. The MCA has been the first in the region to implement an ethics
module training program. The Government of the fYR Macedonia has prepared a new "Code of Ethics"
(anti-corruption measures) within the package of the Strategy for Public Administration Reform supported
by the EU and the Bank.
d. Improving Private-Public Interactions
Limited and sometimes late prior consultation with the trade community prevents meaningful and
constructive interactions. The Economic Chamber of fYR Macedonia and Mak-PRO'1 committee provide
mechanisms to reach more consensual decisions. The lack of accountability of the MCA in facilitating
trade is a core reason for the discoinection between users and the MCA. Customs officials do not feel
liable for the delays they cause in the release of goods, cargo transfer, and down-time suffered by vehicles,
whether these delays are justified or not, and the related costs are solely borne by the cargo owners.
Limited foreign language skills among operational officers cause time-consuming and costly transactions
requiring translations. The MCA increasingly provides training to its officers to improve the quality of
their interactions with the private sector, but further efforts will be required to achieve the quality of the
services available in, and compatible with, the European Union.
e. Strengthening Regional Coopieration
FYR Macedonia, like all other participants in the South European Cooperative Initiative (SECI)'2,
recognizes the importance of coordinated actions to address the above issues. It is recognized that, to
some degree, each country can expect to gain more from actions to be taken by its neighbors than those it
'° The Bank and IMF had previously prepared a computerized fraud data base, which is now partly operational, and
provided advice on the introduction of the preventive service and the general organization of the investigations unit
within the framework of the new Customs Law.
1 Professional body that seeks to improve international trade through the simplification and harmonization of
procedures and practices in administration, commerce and transport, in accordance with UN/CEFACT guidelines.
12 See footnote 2. SECI was set up in December 1996, to promote regional economic and environmental cooperation
among the countries in the region. The initiative is being supported by UN-ECE, the US government and the
governments of Italy, Austria, Greece, arid Turkey.



Page 7
should take itself. A regional view has thus emerged, according to which participant countries would
simultaneously apply coordinated and compatible measures to reduce trade/transport impediments and
corruption/smuggling opportunities. The regional cohesion can be symbolized by the signing of the
regional Memorandum of Understanding by the six countries, as well as their willingness to benchmark
country performance and to work on streamlined solutions at paired border crossings' (Map 31003). The
support shown by the EU and United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UN-ECE) as well as
such bilateral donors as the US reflects the importance attached to the development and stabilization of the
region.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project will address the issues described above, building on previous efforts and taking full account of
ongoing EU support to avoid any duplication. The project will combine resources from the IDA and the
USA. Given the interest of fYR Macedonia in the implementation of EU-compatible standards and the
need to ensure the overall compatibility of the program, close relationships with the EU will be
maintained. The project will seek improvements in: (i) procedures of border agencies; (ii) border
infrastructure and equipment; (iii) the ICIS; and (iv) trade/transport business environment and professional
performance.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components: (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a cost breakdown)
The project consists of the following components:
a. Customs Administration Institutional Reform
Includes: (i) improvement of customs procedures; (ii) ) assistance to streamline operations at three border
posts and one inland terminal on a pilot basis; (iii) ) customs training in new procedures, and training for
interagency awareness and cooperation; and (iv) organizational restructuring of the MCA.
b. Trade Facilitation Development
Includes activities to be financed by the US Govemment: (i) provision of technical assistance and advisory
services to trade and international transport participants through the Economic Chamber; (ii) improvement
of communication between border control agencies and trading community by using a virtual forum'4; and
(iii) provision of equipment to support information availability.
c. Improvement if Integrated Customs Information System (ICIS)
Includes: (i) ) software and assistance for information system improvement; (ii) hardware and works for
ICIS and communication improvement; (iii) ICIS personnel training; and (iv) a regional program of
experience-sharing. This component will stimulate regional and inter-agency cooperation.
d. Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities
Includes: (i) rehabilitation and a new truck terminal at Tabanovce border crossing; (ii) improvement of
Deve Bair border crossing; (iii) improvement of Kafasan border crossing; (iv) equipment for enhancing the
processing capacity at customs stations, and improving the MCA's training capacity; and (v) design and
supervision of the civil works.
e. Program and Project Implementation
13 Between FYR Macedonia and Bulgaria, and between FYR Macedonia and Albania
14 Creation of an internet website that will enable exchange of views, user surveys and consultation.



Page 8
Includes the services required to support implementation of the program. At the regional level these will
consist of the secretariat services to the RSC and at the national level the auditors and procurement
consultants, the establishment of a financial management system, and training to the Project
Implementation Team (PIT).
Component                      Category         Cost Incl.    % of     IDA       % of IDA
Contingenc.   Total  financing  financing
(US$M)               (US$M)
A. Customs Administration  InstitiLtion Building      2.0      14.0       0.4        4.6
Institutional Reform
B. Trade Facilitation     Consulting                  0.4       3.0       0.0        0.0
Development               Service/Training/
Equipment
C. ICIS Improvement       Consulting Services/        5.6      38.9       4.4       47.1
Training/
Equipment/ Civil
works
Civil Works /              5.9       40.8      4.2        44.8
Consulting Services
E. Program and Project    Operating costs and         0.5       3.3       0.3        3.4
Implementation            Consulting Services
Total                     14.5      100.0      9.3       100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
FYR Macedonia has indicated its commitment to market reforms, including deregulation and privatization.
The project will supplement ongoing policy and institutional reforms seeking the following objectives.
a. Strengthening of the MCA
The capacity building activities will address the following aspects:
.  implementation and enforcement of new  legislation aligned with the European Union
legislation, with reference to the acquis communautaire16 and related legislation;
*  adoption of simplified and standardized customs and border inspection procedures
(compliance measurement and selective inspection based on risk assessment);
*  human resource management to develop customs/border inspection expertise and enhance
system integrity;
*  training for customs personnel to ensure uniform application of the new legislation, to improve
the fulfillment of MCA's mission, and to enhance integrity;
*  creation of a partnership among border inspection agencies and the trade/industry community
to better coordinate operations, procedures, and the exchange of information; and
*  adoption of audits and account management processing to facilitate trade and trade data
exchanges
b. Strengthening of the Integrated Customs Information System
Improvements to the information systems in use will have the following impacts:
15 Due to rounding, items may not add exactly to totals.
16 Treaties and the accumulated body of agreements on substance, procedures and protocols effective in the European
Union that must be accepted by countries wishing to join.



Page 9
* elimination of multiple data entry;
* support of selectivity and targeting procedures at all customs locations;
* support of international Electronic Data Interchange standards to enable fast integration into
the international trading community;
* monitoring of Customs performance, traffic patterns and capacity use;
* information exchange with other governments in the region; and
* prevention in corruption opportunities by lessening human intervention.
c. Strengthening Regional Cooperation
The project will lead to greater regional cohesion. The implementation of joint pilot projects with Bulgaria
and Albania at selected border posts will strengthen regional cooperation at both local and national levels.
3. Benefits and target population:
a. Benefits
It is hoped that the Customs reform and decreases in trade and transport costs will lead to transparent
customs procedures, a more reliable business environment, and economic growth as a result of lower
prices of imports and more competitive prices/services for exports. This will translate into:
*  cheaper import goods / inputs for Macedonian consumers and industries;
*  better and more reliable business environment for private sector activities, particularly for the
trade activities of small and medium enterprises;
*  more predictable and reliable economic setting for foreign companies;
*  improved facilitation for transit traffic;
*  prevention of corruption and smuggling opportunities;
e  improved revenue collection by the MCA, enabling reduction in tariffs;
-  uninterrupted services of ICIS and better integrity of data; and
-  improved alignment with EU standards and procedures.
b. Target Population
The beneficiaries of the proposed Project will be transport operators, importers, exporters, freight
forwarders, other trade industries, foreign investors, and ultimately, consumers and producers inside and
outside the region. Travelers and tourism will also benefit.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
a. Implementation Period
The project will be implemented over three years and a half (FY2001-FY2004). It will be completed by
December 31, 2003, and closed by June 3, 2004. The Customs reform process will last about 8 - 10 years.
b. Executing Agencies
FYR Macedonia, through its Ministry of Finance (MOF), will be the borrower for the IDA credit. Its sole
beneficiary will be the MCA. Through the proposed co-financing, other project beneficiaries will be the
MOF, the Border Police, and the Economic Chamber. The implementation arrangements will include the
following elements : (i) a project manager and a project implementation team; (ii) a project coordinator;
(iii) a facilitation coordinator; (iv) a website coordinator; and (v) a regional steering committee (RSC).



Page 10
The MCA will implement the project. The MCA management has appointed a Project Manager, and a
Project Implementation Team (PIT) covering procurement, loan management and reporting functions
acceptable to the IDA will be completely established by credit effectiveness. The project manager will
make an evaluation of the workload for the PIT and plan resources accordingly. The PIT will coordinate
project management for the various beneficiaries, prepare terms of reference, hire consultants, and contract
for services, training, goods, and civil works as necessary for the implementation of the project. The PIT
will include representatives of the Public Enterprise (see paragraph 3.c below).
The proposed Project Coordinator is the finance minister of fYR Macedonia. The Coordinator will call
and chair coordination meetings of the various border control agencies and manage their input. The project
coordinator has authorized the director general of MCA to represent the country at the Regional Steering
Committee (see below).
The Economic Chamber of fYR Macedonia will manage the trade facilitation component and has designed
a Facilitation Coordinator, who will interact with the Project Manager for the implementation of the
component. The MCA will interact as Website Manager.
The MCA and the Border Police will ensure that appropriate technical expertise is engaged to support the
Project Manager. Cooperating partners (the ministries of Transport, Environment, and Agriculture) will be
involved in the definition of new procedures for border controls.
Given the scope (six countries) and complexity of the Regional Program and the related policy and
institutional reforms anticipated, a Regional Steering Committee (RSC), meeting periodically at the
regional level, will oversee the overall implementation of the program. The participating countries have
signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) setting up the RSC. The RSC is constituted of high-level
officials of the participating countries (general director of MCA in the case of fYR Macedonia), and donor
representatives as observers. It will provide guidance for the necessary sector policy and reform decisions.
Meetings will rotate among the participating countries, with the project manager of the host country
providing support services to the RSC.
The UN-ECE is providing a secretary to the RSC to support the implementation of the program. The
secretary17 will: (i) prepare the agenda, supporting documentation and minutes for the RSC meetings; (ii)
consolidate on a semi-annual basis the implementation reports of the countries involved in the program;
(iii) consolidate the annual review report of the Project Implementation Teams; (iv) assist in the trade
facilitation efforts; and (v) establish a link to the SECI-PRO committees.
In order to provide a model of pragmatic solving of border crossing problems, the project will include
implementation of operational restructuring at three pilot border crossings located on the main
international corridors (Tabanovce on the border with FR Yugoslavia, Deve Bair on the border with
Bulgaria, and Kafasan on the border with Albania) and one pilot inland terminal (Kumanovo). Bulgaria
and Albania will similarly be creating as one of their pilot stations the facilities on the other side of the
border with fYR Macedonia (Guyeshevo and Qafe-Thane, respectively). All the TT1FSE neighboring
countries will develop pilot sites at their borders with each other, whenever possible, thus creating a
corridor for implementation of border crossing operational restructuring. A more detailed set of indicators
for management purpose will be developed at these pilot sites. The indicators will be used by each country
to examine and allow the evaluation of comparative performance
This framework will provide an assessment tool for identifying problems and tracking the success of the
solutions applied in each case, providing an evolving case study. The results will be updated each quarter
by the PIT in addition to the project indicators in Annex 1 and offered to the RSC for review and
comparison. The lessons learned i.rom these case studies will be extended to other specific border
crossings in the participating countries and to change management in general. Sharing the case studies,
along with other project reports, with the customs services and transport associations in countries not
]7 The secretary will be sharing his time between his TTFSE responsibilities and the management of the SECI-PRO
committees.



Page 11
associated with the TTFSE will enable the projects to stand together as a quasi pilot of customs reform for
application to countries outside the Program.
c. Procurement and Disbursement
Civil works, goods and services financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with the IDA
procurement guidelines. Procurement will be undertaken by the PIT established within the MCA. The PIT
has been staffed permanently with a procurement specialist, who prepared the draft Procurement Plan. The
procurement specialist will be supported with outside procurement advisors as required18. Contracts for all
civil works at border locations, and for the design and supervision of works will be prepared in
cooperation with the Public Enterprise'9, to comply with local legislation.
The project components not financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with national regulations or
the procurement regulations of the co-financing institutions. The project elements, their estimated cost and
procurement methods are summarized in Table A of Annex 6. Consultant selection arrangements are
summarized in Table Al of Annex 6. A procurement plan detailing the packaging and estimated schedule
of the major procurement actions is presented in Table C of Annex 6 (to be agreed upon and finalized at
negotiations). All other procurement information, including the capability of the implementing agency,
estimated dates for publication of the General Procurement Notice and IDA review process is presented in
Table B of Annex 6. All disbursement arrangements are set out in Annex 6.
d. Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements
A Financial Management System20 (FMS) will be established prior to credit effectiveness. The FMS has
met the minimum IDA financial management requirements (4-B LACI Certification) prior to Board
presentation. IDA made a preliminary review of the systems in place and made recommendation for the
installation of an appropriate FMS. IDA has reviewed the FMS and prepared a report identifying
weaknesses and proposing remedial actions to enhance the system and enable the development of
appropriate project management reports with a view to the possible transition to PMR-based disbursement
methodology at the Borrower's option. IDA has defined a time-bound action plan to specify the steps
necessary for: (i) board presentation; (ii) credit effectiveness and (iii) further strengthening of procedures
and staff development during implementation. The development of the FMS will be monitored by IDA
before effectiveness, during the first supervision mission, and throughout project implementation.
The PIT will establish and maintain project accounts adequate to provide information regarding project
resources and expenditures. To that end, the MCA has hired a suitably qualified accounting/financial
specialist. The PIT will have accounts audited every fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to IDA,
in accordance with IDA guidelines and International Standards of Auditing, issued by the International
Federation of Accountants and IDA guidelines. The reports of such audits will be submitted to IDA no
later than six months after the end of the Borrower's fiscal year. The PIT will also maintain all
documentation related to project expenditures and keep financial records in accordance with sound
accounting practices. A management letter giving an opinion on internal audit controls should be
submitted to IDA six months after effectiveness of the credit.
e. Reporting
The PIT will prepare quarterly progress reports and transmit them to IDA and the RSC; the RSC secretary
will consolidate the reports on a semi-annual basis, and forward them to IDA. These reports will include:
the progress of each project component, key performance indicators, procurement issues (actions dealt
18 The procurement advisors will be individuals with satisfactory country and World Bank procurement experience, to
be funded by the US government.
19 Government's agency in charge with public procurement of civil works, including at borders
20 Including accounting, financial reporting, auditing and proper internal control systems.



Page 12
with, actions planned, and an update of procurement implementation). The reports will measure
performance against the implementation schedule and compliance with Credit covenants.
f Supervision and evaluation arrangements
Supervision will be managed at the national level by World Bank Headquarters staff with active
involvement of the Country Office, and at the regional level by a program team leader from World Bank
Headquarters. The World Bank will devote some 50 staff weeks for supervision of program and project
progress through FY2003. This includes the Bank's contribution to the time of a senior customs specialist,
jointly funded by a French trust fund.
Each October or November during the implementation of the project, IDA together with the PiT and the
other development partners (EU, US) will conduct a review of project execution. The review will assess
the status of regional and national project implementation and cooperation, progress made at the level of
pilot sites compared to targets, implementation of donor programs and productivity of the MCA. The
review will offer refined targets and objectives for the following year and a set of recommendations. The
schedule of procurement for the coming year will be agreed at the time of the review, considering the
progress to date in the institutional reform.
g. Monitoring
Overall, project monitoring will be based on performance targets and indicators (Annex 1) and the Project
Implementation Plan. This plan was finalized by the Borrower and agreed on during negotiations.
Monitoring will be carried out by the MCA, assisted by consultants as necessary.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
a. Separate individual projects carried out by each country
The possibility of preparing independent projects for each participating country was reviewed and rejected,
since the achievement of overall project objectives will be greatly aided by simultaneous standardization
and harmonization of cross border institutions, operations, and legal frameworks among countries and with
the EU.
b. Regional program of investment projects
A regional program of coordinated border crossing facilitation projects is more advantageous and was
selected since it will:
*  generate substantial benefit spill-over to customs users, producers, and consumers in the trade
partner countries of fYR Macedonia, which, if also implementing the program, will in tum
bring benefit to Macedonian industries/consumers;
*  allow the program countries to share information and introduce more consistent customs and
border control procedures/operations;
*  be flexible enough to respond to country differences, the pace of European integration, and the
impact of the EU enlargement process;
*  enable IDA to coordinalte with other donors that also implement regional projects; and
*  maximize project benefits and minimize project implementation/supervision costs by near-
simultaneous implementation.



Page 13
c. Regional Adaptable Program Lending (APL)
A regional or "horizontal" APL, including Alternative b above as a first phase, would have enabled
sequential entry of countries in the Program. The delegation to the Regional Vice President of approval of
operations according to a well defined operational blue print was proposed. This horizontal APL,
however, was judged to be infeasible because (i) such delegation by the Board was thought unlikely; and
(ii) the determination of the future value of performance indicators to include potential borrowers in the
program would have been a delicate and risky task, given the inherent complexity of the program. For
these reasons, Alternative b was preferred.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies:
(completed, ongoing and planned):
Sector issue                          Project              Latest Supervision (Forn 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Transportation             Macedonia, fYR: Transit              HS              HS
Facilitation Project
Transport Sector Project              S              S
Transportation             Albania: Durres Port                  S               S
Trade Facilitation         Estonia Transport                    N/A            N/A
Public Sector Management   Turkey: Public Financial              S               S
Management
Public Sector Management   Albania: Tax Administration           S               S
Modernization
Other development agencies
EU                         EU-PHARE programs, Customs
Multi-Beneficiary programs
EBRD                       Trade Facilitation Program
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory), N/A (not
yet available)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
FYR Macedonia has made considerable effort to improve its border crossings with external aid. Despite
the progress made, further efforts are still required. The border crossing problem, by its nature, requires
coordinated and mutually reinforcing actions in many areas The reform effort is integrated to ensure
complementarity between assistance from the EU, the US and the World Bank.
The Transit Facilitation Project in fYR Macedonia (completed in 1999, ICR# 19408) highlighted the need
to: (i) tailor the complexity of the project's design to what can be achieved under a single loan; (ii) ensure
the capability of the implementing agencies; (iii) address issues perceived as real priorities by the
borrower; and (iv) maintain flexibility to ease implementation.
Both the EU-PHARE and UNDP experiences show that in order to lessen transaction costs at border
crossings, border crossings investments need to be supplemented by: (i) reliable traffic data; (ii) accurate
information on waiting times; (iii) adequate remedial actions on both sides of a border crossing; (iv)
attention to multi-agency needs; (v) linkage to national transport policies; (vi) reliable communication
infrastructure and equipment; (vii) communication with users; and (viii) coordination and simplification of
customs procedures and removal of state controls on international trade.



Page 14
These lessons are reflected in the design of the present project. The project design was tailored to respond
to stakeholders' concerns following active consultations. The project will cover the first phase of customs
reform and focus on the implementation of integrated solutions at a national level and local level (pilot
border crossings). The pilots will stimulate cooperation across border and among agencies to optimize
procedures, communication links and monitoring of performance. Customs users will receive training and
advisory services to enhance their professional skills. They will be encouraged to voice their concerns and
priorities and will receive accurate and timely information on existing procedures.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
FYR Macedonia's commitment to the reforms under the project comes from long standing interest in
expansion and liberalization of legitimate trade, and participation in such regional initiatives as those
promoted by SECI. The potential future EU accession acts as a strong stimulus for reforms. Under SECI,
fYR Macedonia and other participating countries declared their strong commitment to facilitate legitimate
trade. As long ago as September 1998, the Government affirmed its commitment to the development and
implementation of such a project. I'he continuous dialogue with the country and the agreements reached
during project preparation, stand as clear statements of borrower commitment and ownership.
The Memorandum of Understanding setting up the Regional Steering Committee for the TTFSE program
was signed by all six countries' representatives in Skopje, on February 10, 2000, confirming project
ownership and commitment towards program implementation and regional cooperation.
Commitment to the reform at an operational level (border posts, regional directorates) is less assured and
will be a special point of focus through the pilots.
5. Value added of IDA support in this project:
At the outset, the commitment of the participating governments to the T1TFSE objectives was weak. fYR
Macedonia was unable to fund borcler crossing improvements entirely from its own budgets; also, long-
term financing was more attractive. The EU and other donors have limited capacity to fund infrastructure.
As to technical assistance, the government was (and remains) reluctant to borrow for foreign technical
assistance because of its high cost relative to local salaries. The best solution therefore was to combine
IDA credit financing for infrastructure with US grants for TA. The fact that the IDA was willing to
finance infrastructure only on condlition that Customs reform and institutional strengthening was carried
out in parallel, has reinforced the attention given to the latter. Furthermore, IDA through its broader
lending and country assistance strategies is well placed to help promote cooperation and coordination of
policies and public spending
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic: (supported by Annex 4)
[X] Cost-Benefit Analysis:
NPV=US$1.7 million @ 12%; ERR= 16%
The project would have a fair-return/low-risk profile. The net present value is estimated at US$1.7million
on an investment and recurrent expenses of US$11.5 million. Two benefits have been quantified: (i) lower
transport costs due to the diminution of waiting times at border crossings and inland terminals; and (ii)
economic benefits of trade expansion resulting from the project. Waiting at border crossings is the concrete
manifestation of inefficiency in trade related services. In the European Union customs administrations are
required to keep 90 percent of vehicles waiting no more than 20 minutes, or about 40 minutes to cross both
sides of a border point. FYR Macedonia is expected to take a few years before it achieves this standard.
The difference between present waiting times at Macedonian borders and a target of 40 minutes to one
hour to cross both sides of the boider has been used as the basis to test the economic justification of



Page 15
investing in border crossing improvements and equipment. The savings on transport costs are estimated in
excess of US$2.2 million per year after 2004 for vehicles entering fYR Macedonia.
The reduction in costs to trade and the increased reliability of delivery times are expected to lead, in the
medium run, to a significant increase in trade volumes, which would make use of existing excess
production capacity. Extrapolating from analysis of some specific cases, the trade expansion resulting
from the project is assumed to generate a benefit equivalent to 20% of transport benefits. The switching
values and sensitivity analysis confirm that the risks are acceptable.
2. Financial and Fiscal:
The fiscal impact of the project is expected to be positive. There is evidence to suggest that the real volume
of trade is much higher than shown by official records, both as to quantities and unit values. The improved
performance of border crossings should provide the basis for a significant expansion of the official volume
of trade and generate additional customs duties and excise taxes.
IDA will finance all foreign costs and, in the case of civil works, a small part of local costs in keeping with
general World Bank practice in fYR Macedonia. The Government will fund all other local costs, as well
as all taxes and customs duties, when applicable.
Provision of local funds for the project financing is not expected to create a problem - they represent on
average about US$1 million (or about 0.1 percent) of the annual state budget (see Annex 5). Debt servicing
responsibilities will be fulfilled by the MOF.
3. Technical:
The site and building works in the project require some moderately complex design or construction
methods (Tabanovce). It is important that the design is scrutinized, not only to minimize costs, but also to
fit the construction time within the project duration. The overall work is relatively complex, involving
several buildings, emergency electrical systems, and numerous site utilities. The construction market is
developing fast, particularly since the reconstruction in Kosovo has started, with some contractors able to
compete internationally. It is necessary to employ full-time site supervision services of independent
consulting firms to ensure quality. ICIS improvement will be carefully tailored and implemented to reflect
the already advanced Macedonian system and to secure its compatibility with the EU system.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing Agencies: Project Manager and her Project Implementation Team (PIT)
Implementation will be overseen by the Project Manager and her Project Implementation Team (PIT). The
Project Coordinator will enable the PIT to obtain the input of the various agencies involved. The Financial
Management Specialist will continue to assist the Project Manager in establishing the financial
management system.  The established PIT will receive technical support from  the donor-funded
procurement expert. During negotiations, agreement was reached on the organization, staffing, and
resources necessary for the PIT to operate satisfactorily. Its full implementation will be a condition of
effectiveness.
The Trade Facilitation Development component will be managed by the Economic Chamber of fYR
Macedonia in collaboration with Government agencies and the private sector. The Economic Chamber has
designated a Facilitation Coordinator, who will interact with the Project Manager, and with the Website
Coordinator located in MCA.
b. Project Management: Regional Steering Committee
The Regional Steering Committee (RSC), meeting at least once every three months, will oversee the
coordination and implementation of the Program and the proposed project. The RSC will be constituted of



Page 16
high-level officials of participating countries (the director general of MCA in the case of fYR Macedonia)
empowered to implement necessary sector policy and reform decisions.
5. Social:
The Project will have an indirect impact on the poor. The reduction in border crossing delays will reduce
trade and transport costs and, in turn, also the cost of imported goods, leading to benefits to consumers and
lower cost of inputs required for local manufacturing with corresponding creation of new jobs. This import
effect will however be partly offsei: by the loss incurred by local producers, when new imports replace
local products.
The project aims at improving access to knowledge related to trade, transport and logistics through the
training extended to the business community. The TTFSE website will allow access to all information
related to border crossings in the six countries involved in the Program, improving to a large extent
transparency, thereby reducing opportunities for illegal payments. The electronic forum under the website
will empower the business community in the region and outside by enabling it to voice its opinion on the
quality of the border services received and propose corresponding recommendations to smooth trade and
transport activities.
6. Environmental assessment:           Environmental Category []A  [X] B [] C
Since the improvement at border crossings involves mainly the enhancement of existing facilities within
developed areas, the Environmental Category is B. The IDA will finance the rehabilitation and a new truck
termninal at the Tabanovce border station. The Ministry of Environment has endorsed the related
environmental assessment study concluding that there are no issues related to land expropriation,
relocation, or affected flora and fauna. Works consist of the demolition of existing customs buildings and
their replacement by new ones, addition of utilities, the erection of canopies, and the
enlargement/construction of parking and truck terminal areas, or the addition of paved lanes. There may
be some small environmental impacts in the creation of additional paved areas, but no major fills are
envisioned or disturbance of forested or wetland areas. Removal and disposal of waste and demolition
materials should conform to international standards and be a contractual obligation.
All designs for station improvemenl.s will ensure compatibility with local environmental regulations and
conditions. The project Environmental Management Plan (Annex 10), reviewed with the client, will
minimize negative environmental irmpact and strengthen coordination and collaboration with the Ministry
of Environment. The Environmental Management Plan is included as an annex to the PIP, and was agreed
upon during negotiations. Training will be provided to sensitize operational personnel in the MCA to
environmental issues. In any event, the overall impact of the project should be positive, since it should
lessen waiting times and vehicle emissions from trucks and other vehicles at the border crossings.
The project will enable customs officials to better enforce the terms of international conventions and
agreements relating to the environient. Especially relevant will be the regulations included in such
agreements as (i) the European Agreement Concerning the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by
Road (ADR) of September 1957 with its Protocol of October 1993; (ii) the Convention on the International
Trade in Endangered Species (CITES); (iii) the Convention on the International Carriage of Perishable
Foodstuffs and on the Special Equipment to be Used for Such Carriage (ATP), of September 1970; and
(iv) Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and their
Disposal, of May 1992.
7. Participatory approach:
The project has been designed to fillly reflect the views expressed by principal stakeholders, including
such customs users as truckers and freight forwarders. IDA staff conducted extensive interviews and
stakeholder analysis to identify trade impediments and their remedial actions. In addition, the activities
planned under the Trade Facilitation Development component will foster opportunities for closer, more
frequent and transparent contact and feedback between Customs and the trading community.



Page 17
In support of the reform of the work culture for the MCA, the project will make available a consultant to
establish and assist focus groups of key stakeholders. This activity will be coordinated with other aid
agencies and existing stakeholder groups (the Economic Chamber and Mak-PRO). The Government will
also initiate a public information program designed to reach stakeholders and the public. User surveys are
envisioned as a basis for performance indicators. Principal stakeholders, for example truckers, will also be
involved in monitoring border delays. The project and the program will make intense use of the Mak-PRO
committee and count on its feedback to monitor improvements.
The project has been prepared in collaboration (COL), consultation (CON), and information sharing (IS)
with the following:
a. Primary Beneficiaries and Other Affected Groups:
* Exporters, importers, producers, and consumers (CON)
* Road transport operators (COL)
* Freight forwarders/shippers (COL)
* Traders organizations and Economic Chamber of Macedonia (CON)
* Foreign investors (IS)
* Ministry of Finance and Macedonian Customs Administration (COL)
- Ministry of Transport and Communications (CON)
* Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, as well as sanitary and veterinary
inspection agencies (CON)
* Fund for National and Regional Roads (COL)
b. Other Key Stakeholders:
a The European Union (PHARE), the US
- IRU and FIATA2'
* Private companies, and population in the vicinity of borders (IS)
A specialist in participatory methodology will assist in the design and implementation of a Project Launch
Workshop in each country. The specialist will also provide a preliminary action plan, which will be
adopted as a guide for user participation under the Trade Facilitation Development Component (Annex 2).
The Action Plan will use output provided by the participants that attended the Project Launch Workshop.
As follow-up to the Project Launch Workshop, the Action Plan will include, for example, such activities as
a series of user focus groups as well as user surveys. The focus groups will provide an open index of user
satisfaction. Surveys of such key stakeholders as truckers and freight forwarders will provide the basis for
more quantifiable information as part of the verification plan for the performance indicators, assuring a
central role of such stakeholders in project monitoring.  The PIT with the assistance of the Economic
Chamber of fYR Macedonia will be responsible for implementing the Action Plan. The results will be
reported as part of the annual review.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project will support values that are critical to fulfilling fYR Macedonia's long-term objective of
achieving sustainable growth. Once these reforms are in place, the sustainability of the effort will be
assured by transparency in customs operations, regular cooperation among border crossing agencies
21 FIATA = Federation of International Forwarding Agents.



Page 18
including those of other countries, and the gains accruing to all parties involved in legitimate trade. The
expected increase in revenue collection will allow continuous upgrading of the customs services,
procedures, management, and equipment enabling the MCA to cope with trade and traffic growth,
technological advance, and continued compatibility with the EU.
At the level of fYR Macedonia, the risks of project failure are moderate. At the level of the region,
effective cooperation could greatly enhance the development impact, but is subject to much greater
uncertainty.
2. Critical Risks: (reflecting assurnptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
Risk                                             Risk             Risk Mininiization Measure
Rating
Annex 1. cell "from Outputs to Obiective "
The flows of traffic linked to Kosovo will         M      While these flows may be only temporary, the
disappear .                                               reconstruction effort will last at least five more
years.
Cooperation among border agencies faces inertia    S      The high-level coordinator will have the
and strong resistance.                                    authority to request meetings gathering involved
agencies.
Reducing costs to trade and tariffs will n,ot reduce  M   Enforcement of new customs legislation will
illegitimate trade.                                       reduce significantly the risk
Political commitment is not adequate to resist     M      The prospect to eventually join the EU is a
pressure groups (public or private) and to ensure the     strong incentive to proceed with the reform.
success of the institutional program.
Coordination by RSC is not effective and does not  M      Donors are an integral part of the Prograimn. The
receive participation by donors                           RSC will include key decision-makers of each
program country and observers from donor
countries.
Regional cooperation issues prevent the achievement  H    The MOU, the RSC, the regional website, the
of regional goals.                                        benchmarking and the willingness to access the
EU will create a favorable environment for
proper cooperation.
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
The willingness to introduce deep change at pilot  S      The performance at pilot sites will trigger the
sites across agencies is low.                             disbursement for some physical infrastructure
components.
The targeting and selectivity techniques are not   M      The effective implementation of targeting and
effectively implemented at an operational level.          selectivity techniques will trigger the
disbursement for some physical infrastructure
components.
Overall Risk Rating                                M      This is a modest risk, fair return project
with a potential for good return.
Risk Rating:      H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
22 The Kosovo crisis has affected the Macedonian economy and increased the volume of traffic going to Kosovo.



Page 19
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Risk                        Type of      Risk    Risk Minimization Measure
Risk      Rating
Delays in institutional        G          M      Coordination with other donors
changes
Resistance by some MCA         G           S     The MCA has started to address corruption
officers (loss of revenue)                        (Ethics Codex). The transparency of
requirements using the website will reduce
opportunities.
Corruption in customs system   G          M      Efforts to strengthen integrity have been
launched, and additional training will be
introduced to enhance the capacity of MCA to
address corruption.
Type of Risk:  S (Social), E (Ecological), P (Pollution), G (Governance), M (Management capacity), 0 (Other)
Risk Rating:   H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
G: Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
a. Establishment of a Project Implementation Team with appropriate staffing, organization, systems
(including a financial management system), funds, facilities, and other resources in a manner
satisfactory to IDA.
b. Selection of independent auditors acceptable to IDA
2. Other: (according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements)
a. By November 15 of each year, the Borrower and IDA will review progress achieved under the
project, including at the pilot sites based on agreed performance monitoring indicators, and will
confirm the implementation program (including procurement packaging) and performance targets
for the following year.
b. Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the total number of customs
declarations which result in a physical inspection by the MCA at its pilot inland terminal does not
exceed on a monthly basis (i) 80 percent by September 30, 2001; (ii) 60 percent by September 30,
2002; and (iii) 40 percent by September 30, 2003.
c. Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the monthly number of trucks
completing import clearance in less than 15 minutes at its pilot inland terminal will exceed (i) 10
percent by September 30, 2001; (ii) 20 percent by September 30, 2002; and (iii) 30 percent by
September 30, 2003.
d. Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the number of trucks opened
on a monthly basis at its pilot border crossings will not exceed: (i) 80 percent by September 30,
2000; (ii) 65 percent by September 30, 2001; (iii) 50 percent by September 30, 2002; and (iv) 35
percent by September 30, 2003.
e. By December 31, 2001, the Borrower, through its Project Coordinator, will establish a mechanism
across all border agencies to provide the Website Manager with up-to-date information on waiting
times and opening hours at border crossings, customs law, by-laws, and procedures of border
agencies; this information shall be binding and made available to customs users in order to contest
a decision at a border post.



Page 20
f. The Borrower will maintain its participation in the Regional Steering Committee and inform IDA
of actions taken at the RSC level which may affect the implementation of the Regional Program or
of measures included in the P'IP.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [ ] Not applicable.
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
[x] The Project Inplementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[ ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under credit conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x ] The project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval:
ik                                  -
Program Team Leader/Task Manager: Graham Smnith/An   mitrescu, ECSIN
Sector Director:      Ricardo A Halpern, ECSIN
Country Director:     Ajay Chhibber,  C06



FYR Macedonia
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Proiect Design Summary
Narrative Summary                            Key Performance Indicators            Monitoring and                  Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                                                          (Goal to Bank Mission)
Promote private sector growth         Total trade increasing from US$2.9 billion in    Ministry of Finance    Wealth is distributed appropriately to alleviate
1999 to US$4.3 billion in 2002                                  poverty.
Increase effectiveness of the state   Quality of customs services gradually      Ministry of Finance    Tax proceeds will be used transparently and
improving in user survey                                        appropriately.
Alleviate poverty and develop human   Availability of information and training for the   MCA          Adequate social security net is introduced.
capital                               professionals involved in trade and transport
Project Development Objective:                                                                        (Obiective to Goal)
I .Reduce non-tariff costs to trade and  Transport costs for the main commodity traded   *  Annual sampling  *  Business environment such as competitive
transport                            to the three main trading partners decreasing  by Chambers of        market, post-privatization corporate governance
annually by 2 % on average from year 2001    Commerce and           and judicial and regulatory systems will be
evolution of          improved.
CIF/FOB ratio.    *  Reform in the banking/insurance sector will
Study performed      reinforce trade activities. Reduction in tariff
at project           levels and non-tariff costs will enhance trade
completion.           incentives.
2. Prevent smuggling and corruption at    *  Value of recorded imports increased from    *  MCA annual  Non-customs tax collection will also be made more
border crossing                           US$1.8 billion in 1999 to US$ 2.5 billion  report           efficient.
in 2002                                *  Annual survey of
*  Occurrence of corruption reduced by 50%    truckers crossing
by 200323.                                 the border
Outputs:(Outputs to Objective)
1. Strengthen the institutional capacity of  *  Import clearance time at pilot terminal  *  Logs of Customs  The transport sector will offer a competitive
MCA and other border agencies           down from 4 1/2hours in 1999 to I hour on    *  IRU in        environment.
average in 2003.                           cooperation with    Cooperation between border agencies will be
*  Physical examination down from 100% in    the National       supported by the Finance Minister
1999 to 40% in 2003                        Association of    Border agencies will be given the political mandate
*  Percentage of trucks cleared in less than 15  Road Transport    to innovate at pilot sites.
minutes up from 0 in 1999 to 30% in 2003.  Operators
*  Ministry of
23 See definition of indicators
CD 1>



Finance
* Economic
Chamber
2. Support customs users                Internet framework and forums set up in 2001    MCA through the     The banking / insurance industry will be able to
for private/public sector information exchange.   Website Coordinator   provide services to the trade sector at a reasonable
Internet site visits exceed 300/month in 2001.                     price.
Current MCA situation available on the internet
in 2001.
3. Strengthen ICIS to provide high level    Full support to targeting and selectivity by  *  Customs        Information will be used by other agencies for the
internal and external services          December 2001.                                *  Economic          improvement of respective services.
Chamber
4. Improve main border crossing facilities  All works completed by December 2003.     Periodic surveys of    The border crossings selected will remain critical in
users on the duration   the aftermath of the Kosovo crisis thanks to their
and the convenience   location on main corridors.
of border crossings
(incl. monitoring of
congestion)
5. Strengthen on-site inspections to    * Irregularities/number of examinations up    *   Ministry of       Reducing costs to trade and tariffs will result in
prevent smuggling                         from 8 % in 1999 to 10 % in 2003 (borders)      Finance           significant regularization of trade.
* Incidents of corruption reduced by 50 %    *  MCA                Political commitment is adequate to resist pressure
over project life                                                 groups (public-private) and ensure the success of the
institutional program.
Project Components/Sub-components:    Inputs: budgetfor each component24                                    (Components to OUtputs)
A. Customs Administration Institutional                     1.8                       Surveys of Customs    Border agencies will actively participate in the
Reform                                                                                Brokers              implementation of pilots.
*   Improvement of customs procedures
*   Organizational restructuring of
customs
B. Trade Facilitation Development                           0.4                                             Other on-going regional initiatives for trade will
*   Training & Seminars                                                                                     continue operating.
*   Expertise and advice
_ _ __              _                               I _ _____I
>
-
24 The costs described below are base costs; therefore, they do not include contingencies.



C. ICIS Improvement                                       4.2                                            The modules for targeting and selectivity will be
*  ICIS Personnel Training                                                                               operational nationwide by December 2001.
* Equipment for ICIS Improvement
D. Improvement of border crossing                         4.4
facilities
* Deve Bair Border Improvements
* Kafasan Border Improvements
* Border Crossings Equipment
E. Program and Project                                    0.4
Implementation
* Advisers and Auditors
* PIT consultants and operating costs
x



Annex I
Page 4 of 7
FYR Macedonia
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Performance Tareets
Indicators                                      1999  |      2000      |    2001        |      2002       [      2003
ActActg.         Acctt                     Targ.    Act     Targ.     Act
1. MCA Performance
PILOT INLAND TERMINAL OF KUMANOVO
Import Clearance Time (min.)                    280      240              150              100                60
Physical Examination (%)                        100      100               80               60                40
Trucks cleared in less than 15 min. (%)          0        0                10               20                30
Irregularities/ No. of examinations (%)          3        5                8                10                12
Tabanovee Pilot Border Crossing
Truck Examination (%)                            100      80               65               50                35
Irregularities/ No. of Examinations (%)          8        8                10               10                10
Average Border Exit Time (min.)                  20       18               16               13                10
Average Border Entry Time (min.)                 60       50               40               30                30
Surveyed Occurrence of Corruption (%)
Pilot Border Crossing Deve Bair
Truck Examination                                100      80               65               50                35
Irregularities/ No. of Examinations              8        8                10               10                10
Average Border Exit Time                         20       18               16               13                10
Average Border Entry Time                        60       50               40               30                30
Surveyed Occurrence of Corruption (%)                                                                _
Pilot Border Crossing Kafasan
Truck Examination                                100      80               65               50                35
Irregularities/ No. of Examinations              8        8                10               10                10
Average Border Exit Time                         20       18               16               13                10
Average Border Entry Time                        60       50               40               30                30
Surveyed Occurrence of Corruption (%)
2. Development Objective Achievements
Revenue Collected/Customs Staff (US$000)        297      300              330              360               400
Total MCA Cost/Revenue collected (%)             2.1      1.9              1.8              1.7              <1.5
Salaries/Revenue Collected (%)                   1.5      1.4              1.3              1.2               1.0
Trade Volume/ Number of Staff (US$000/staff)    4,100    5,200 |_       |_ 5,600           6,100
Annual Number of Declarations/ Custom Staff     324      400              550              650               800
Transport Cost for the main export commodity    100      100               98               96                94
traded with the three main trading partners (US'S-
base 100 in 1999)25
Value of Recorded Imports (US$ mil.)            1,795    2,110           2,287             2,477
Value of Recorded Exports (US$ mil.)            1,191    1,515 |_      |_ 1,696            1,895 | _ l            _l
25 Belgrade: US$ 833; Munich: US$ 2,100; Thessaloniki: US$ 566



Annex I
Page 5 of 7
Source of actual values                    1999
Total MCA Revenue Collected (US$ mil.)              208
Total MCA Cost (US$ million)                         4.5
Total Number of MCA Staff                           700
Total MCA Salaries (US$ million)                     3.2
Annual Number of Declarations                      227,000
Trade Volume (US$ million)                           2.9



Annex I
Page 6 of 7
Performance Indicators - Definitions
Indicators                          Description                             Remarks
1. Pilot Sites Clearance Performance
PILOT INLAND TERMINALS
Import Clearance Time    Time between entrance of truck into  Information on truck identification and time of
the terminal and its exit from the  arrival and departure will be recorded with the
terminal after release of goods.  use of computer terminals or time clocks
installed at the terminal entry and exit points.
Physical Examination    Number of times goods are          Information will be derived from the computer
examined cr the cargo compartment  system that records all declarations and the
is searched compared to the total  requirement to prepare an automated report of
number of import, export, and     the results of each physical examination.
suspense declarations.
Trucks Cleared in Less    Number of times that a truck      Information will be developed using the same
Than 15 Minutes          completes import clearance (time   system that provides the data on import
between entry into the terminal and   clearance times.
departure after release of goods) in
less than filteen minutes compared to
the total number of import
clearances.
Irregularities/Number of   Number of irregularities discovered   Information will be obtained from the
Examinations             during physical examinations      automated reporting of the resuits of all
compared to the total number of   physical examinations
physical examinations carried out.
Pilot Border Crossings
Truck Examinations      Number of entering trucks actually   Information will be compiled through the use
opened (i.e seals broken) compared   of computerized traffic logs and the
to the total number of entering trucks  requirement to prepare an automated report of
processed.                        the results of each truck examination.
Irregularities/Number of   Number of irregularities discovered   Information will be extracted from the
Examinations             during exarninations compared to the  automated reports of truck examinations.
total number of trucks examined.
Average Border Exit      For trucks exiting the country, it is   Information on truck identification and times
Time                     the time bet:ween joining the queue    will be recorded continuously with the use of
and crossing the border. Physically    computer terminals or time clocks installed at
inspected trucks are excluded.    appropriate locations.
Average Border Entry     For trucks entering the country, it is  Information on truck identification and times
Time                     the time between crossing the border  will be recorded continuously with the use of
and departing the station. Physically  computer terminals or time clocks installed at
inspected trucks are excluded.    appropriate locations.
Reported Occurrence of   Number of cases when a driver      Information to calculate this indicator will be
Corruption               makes or is asked to make an       derived from surveys of truck drivers using the
unauthorized payment compared to   crossing point. This survey will be conducted
the total number of survey         on a continuous basis through cooperating
responses. ________________________  transport companies.



Annex I
Page 7 of 7
2. Development Objective Achievements
Revenue Collected       Total revenues collected/Total    Information to be obtained from records
/Customs Staff          number of Customs employees       maintained by the Customs Service.
Total MCA               Total budget of the Customs Service  Information to be obtained from records
Cost/Revenue Collected   (including salaries, overtime,   maintained by the Customs Service.
bonuses, and benefits)/Total revenue
collected irrespective of its
destination
Salaries/Revenue        Total agency salaries, overtime,  Information to be obtained from records
Collected               bonuses, and benefits/Total revenue   maintained by the Customs Service.
collected irrespective of its
destination
Trade Volume/Customs    Trade Volume/Number of Customs   Information to be obtained from records
Staff                   employees                         maintained by the Customs Service.
Annual Number of        Total number of declarations      Information to be obtained from records
Declarations/ Custom    (import, export, suspense regimes,    maintained by the Customs Service.
Staff                   but excluding transit), irrespective of
the number of items/Total staff
________________    employed by Customs
Regional Performance Indicators
2000        2001        2002        2003       2003
as % of
____________________                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~2000
I. Istanbul-Bucharest   Avg. Time (hours)    80          78          75          71         89
Average Cost         $1,015      $1,000       $975        $940         93
11. Istanbul-Tirana  Avg. Time (hours)      192         189          182        172          90
Average Cost         $2,800      $2,760      $2,690      $2,600        93
III. Sarajevo-Ljubljana  Avg. Time (hours)  40           40          39          38          95
Average Cost          $750        $740        $730        $720         96
Base-year values are estimated by Bank staff for a single 20 ton truck-load, based on a survey of freight forwarders in
the Southeast Europe region



Annex 2
Page I of 6
FYR Macedonia
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Detailed Project Description
(NBF) = Non Bank Financed
Note: All costs in the tables are without contingencies, and do not include taxes
A.    Customs Administration Institutional Reform  (funded by IDA, US Government)
Total cost with contingencies US$ 2.0 million
1. Improve-   1.1 Develop a        60, 000  Refine mechanisms for collecting and uising productivity and
ment of      monitoring          (NBF)  workload indicators for each customs functions to measure
Customs      mechanism for               the performance of MCA, and design the corresponding
Procedures  productivity and              monitoring systems. These indicators should enable the
workload                    comparison between MCA and the region, and worldwide.
indicators to
enable
international
comparisons
1.2 Study and     240,000   Review the current situation at border crossings and inland
design of new        (NBF   Customs stations to  identify procedural problems and
customs                     shortcomings.   Develop  and  implement a new  work
procedures                  methodology for border operations and for clearance at
inland Customs stations.  New  design will emphasize
transparency, simplification, and the establishment of
standards. The new procedures at the border crossings will
also maximize the possibilities for cooperation among the
border agencies, as well as cross-border cooperation. At
inland Customs stations, the new procedures will strengthen
the working relationship between Customs and the brokers to
reduce clearance times.
1.3. Designated   660,000  Establish programs to implement new border processing
border stations     (NBF)  procedures and practices on a test basis, with a view to
and inland                  expanding the use of successful ideas nationwide. Areas to
Customs stations            be addressed include procedures, staffing, automation and
will serve as test          cooperation among agencies.
sites for ideas to
improve
operations.      _
1.4. Training      60,000  Elaborate a training program designed to provide staff with
programming         (NBF)  the knowledge, skills and attitudes required to handle the
new procedures and techniques. The program will address
the needs of three categories of staff. At management level,
the goal will be to obtain comprehension and acceptance of
the new procedures through seminars, study tours abroad arnd
workshops.   The  second  and  third  levels  will be
_________ __ _differentiated by existing and newly recruited staff. Both of



Annex 2
Page 2 of 6
these levels will be instructed in the application of these new
procedures. Training for existing staff will emphasize how
the new procedures give them better tools to perform their
functions.
1.5 Training       80,000  The training will include:
activities          (NBF)  (i) a study tour abroad for 2 high-ranking customs officers
during a two-week period ($20,000); and
(ii) at least one month of training on new procedures for all
operational customs officers, during the second and third
years of the project, evenly distributed as proposed in the
training program ($ 60,000)
1.6 Interagency    30,000   Enhance cooperation among the border agencies through a
awareness and       (NBF)  greater awareness of each other's functions and
training                    responsibilities. Will include
(i) sensitization of customs officers to the importance of
environmental issues;
(ii) familiarization of customs officers with veterinary,
phyto-sanitary and immigration processing;
(iii) seminars for judges, police and other officials
responsible for prosecution of Customs violations; and
(iv) assistance for the implementation of international
conventions related to environment.
2.Organiza-   2.1 Strengthening   280,000  MCA will
tional       of preventive &     (NBF)  (i) introduce mobile control units to complement the
restructu-   investigation               selective inspection at borders;
ring of      services                    (ii) develop its investigative capacity; and
Customs                        380,000  (iii) strengthen post-release audits.
This will involve 12 months of TA, 2 weeks training abroad
for 6 operational staff, and communication, computer and
small inspection equipment
Total without contingencies     1,790,000
B. Trade Facilitation Development (funded by US Government)
Cost with contingencies US$ 0.4 million
1. Streng-     1. I Establish and   100,000  Design a regional website and mechanisms to update it. The
thening of    maintain a          (NBF)  website will enable transparency on policies, legal and
Private-      regional website            regulatory framework and cooperation at a local, national and
Public       to support the               regional level among private and public parties.
Partnership   program and act             It will offer a comprehensive information resource on border
as a national               crossings and inland terminals (pictures), on procedures of
focal point for             border agencies in the region, and support the
trade facilitation          implementation of the TTFSE Program. All training
materials developed under the Trade Facilitation
Development will be made available on the site. This



Annex 2
Page 3 of 6
component will include the necessary equipment to operate
the site
2. Improve-    Expert services      300,000   Develop and implement programs under the Distance
ment of the   and training         (NBF)   Learning Initiative (DLI), in trade, transport and logistics
perfor-                                     focussed on facilitating trade. It includes delivery of
mance of                                    conventional training and seminars.
trade facili-
tation                                      The programs will consist of: (i) a study guide; (ii) study
agents                                      sessions; (iii) reference readings; (iv) frequently asked
questions; (v) exams; and (vi) certification by a lead
professional association. Seminars will be offered for the
most critical study sessions. Materials will be available either
electronically on the website or in the form of paper copies
printed out at the Economic Chamber.
Total without contingencies         400,000
_   (NBF)
C. Customs Administration ICIS Improvement26 -(funded by IDA)
Cost with contingencies US$ 5.6 million
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fX'
1. ICIS         1. I Implement       180,000   Establish the use of electronic document as the exchange
Monitoring   electronic data                 method between all regional institutions/parties involved in
Assistance    interchange and                trade. The process would lead to fully automatic procedures
(Software)   payment of duties               with no human intervention and should use the
UN/EDIFACT international standard messages. It would
also include:
(i) the development of a pilot electronic payment scheme
with one bank and a large importer,
(ii) extension to the rest of the banking system, and
(iii) data interchange based on the ASYCUDA transit
module and regional efforts in that field; and (iv) inter-
change of data between MCA and other agencies inside and
outside the country.
1.2 Implement the    60,000   Establish the use of the digital signature; consider the
digital signature              selection of the most appropriate translator and digital
signature software including the main aspects involved in
this topic. The consultant will evaluate the different
alternatives and suggest the most suitable one. In addition,
elaborate the necessary procedures to authorize a private
company as a Certifying Authority. This company will be
responsible for giving the private and public key to each
institution involved in the electronic process.
1.3 Implement        80,000   Establish the IT process for generating the first version of
the risk criteria, and determine the best way to include these
26 This component will be dimensioned to enable shared use with other border control agencies and to prepare for future data sharing with
neighboring countries.



Annex 2
Page 4 of 6
selectivity for the         criteria in the ASYCUDA++ system, including automatic
examina-tion of             feedback and refining.
goods
1.4 Final design   200,000  Assist MCA in designing and implementing a system of
and implemen-               transit enabling the fast processing of corresponding
tation of                    vehicles, cargo and drivers. The system should be properly
ASYCUDA-                     interfaced with the first sub-component.
compatible
national transit
system
2.Equipment  2.1 Introduce       1,030,000  Includes the purchase of servers for the data center and
for ICIS       servers, PC and              customs houses, and computers and printers for the whole
Improvement  printers according             Administration, including HQ, customs houses, and the
(Hardware)   to current                     main border-crossings.
standards
2.2 Purchase       500,000  Includes the purchase of detection equipment for major
equipment for                border crossings and international corridors, corresponding
advanced transit            communication and server equipment, handheld reading
monitoring                   devices.
2.3 Bar code       100,000  Expedited remote entry of data into the automated customs
equipment for                system to match documents and discharge procedures. This
clearance                    also allows Customs to enter data into the system directly at
management                  the truck control point.
3. Civil Works 3.1 Build special    400,000   Set up a data center in the HQ. Will include such aspects
locations in such            as: generator; uninterrupted power supply; special power
manner as to                circuits; fireproof walls; access control; separate locations
allow for an                 for servers, printers, and telecommunications equipment;
uninterrupted                and air conditioning. At Customs houses, it includes the
service                     set-up of special lockers with adequate power and air
conditioning. These lockers will be safe areas for
installation of the local servers.
3.2 Build an ADP  1,000,000  Building of a central site for the management of
Center                       computerized operations related to clearance, border transit
management, and data interchange with other agencies; will
also be used for the management of mobile enforcement
units.
4. Telecom-    4.1 Install and    300,000  Install and update LAN in HQ, Customs houses and main
munication   update local and             border crossings; the amount of connections in each location
equipment   wide area network             according to the number of computers installed. At the
in HQ, Customs               border crossings the LAN must consider border control
houses, and                 locations, and provide for direct communication with
border crossings             adjoining country border agencies.
The characteristics of the LANs must be according to
current standards, i.e., to include racks, patch panel, routers,
and hubs connecting in a star topology over TCP/IP
protocol. The wide area network must establish
connections, taking into account the telecommunications
company capabilities. Where this is not possible, install
L______________________________             dedicated lines between each point; it must evaluate ISDN



Annex 2
Page 5 of 6
technology. The speed of the line must be at least 64 KBPS.
Additionally, it would establish TCP/IP addresses according
to international standards.
5. ICIS        5.1 Provide        160,000  Prepare training modules and supporting documentation for
Personnel   specialized                   ASYCUDA functions that are not yet documented,
Training     training to                  especially the transit module. A "train the trainers" course
Customs staff in             will be organized, followed by training sessions for 300
the use of                   officers.
computer- based
Customs systems
5.2 Prepare and    100,000  Prepare training programs in (i) database management,
carry out an                 internal tools and mechanisms, & website design and
urgent training              development, & (ii) telecommunications, CASE tools and
program for the IT           IT methodologies. The training will be delivered locally
staff                        (database management, internal tools and mechanisms), and
abroad, to 25 ADP staff in CA.
5.3. Training       40,000  Equipment for improving and supporting Customs training
equipment                    capacity
5.4 Regional        50,000  Organization of seminars to share regional experience and
experience sharing           find technical solutions in implementing the reform.
program
Total without contingencies     4,200,000
D. Improvement of Borider Crossing Facilities (funded by IDA, GOM)
Cost with contingencies US$5.9 million
1. Tabanovce  LI .1Upgrading of  2,000,000   *Expand the existing border station to provide additional
Border       thie existing      ,,traffic lanes and secondary inspection areas for private
Construct.  facility                          vehicles;
* Provide a bus inspection facility;
* Construct a truck processing and inspection facility.
1.2 Improve the     40,000  Equip BCP with a power generator
power supply
Sub-total     2,040,000
2. Deve Bair   2.1 Improve the    500,000   .  Build an additional dedicated lane for entering trucks;
Border       existing facilities          *  Construct a water pump station and supply;
Improve-                                  *  Build disinfection pits;
ment                                      .  Demolish existing buildings..
2.2 Improve the     40,000  Equip BCP with a power generator.
power supply
2.3 Advance        100,000  Roadside equipment and sign-posting automatically
signaling                    informing drivers of border crossing delays.



Annex 2
Page 6 of 6
Sub-total       640,000
3. Kafasan    3.1 Make the       600,000  *  Remove the old administrative building;
Border       newly built BCP             *  Complete construction of the heating and water supply
Improve-    operational                     systems;
ment                                     *  Paving;
*  Control barriers;
*  Canopy revision;
.  Disinfection pits.
3.2 Furnish new    40,000  Equip building with office furniture
building
Sub-total       640,000
4. Design -and  4.1 Design       150,000  Design of works at the three border crossings and inland
Supervisioncetr
of Works    4.2 Supervision    230,000   Supervision of works.
Sub-total          380,000
5. Enhance-   5. I. Surveillance  90,000  *  Four closed circuit television stations for monitoring
ment of     equipment                       traffic and operations at major BCPs;
processing   5.2 Inspection    600,000  *  Equipment for inspecting trucks at pilot BCPs
capacity at  equipment
customs
stations
Sub-total         690,000
Total without contingencies    4,390,000
E. Program and Project Implementation (funded by IDA, US Government)
Cost with contingencies US$0.5 million
1. PIT        1.1 Incremental    100,000  *  Office equipment and materials (US$75,000); FMS
Operating     operating costs     (IDA)       software (25,000)
Costs         1.2 Consultants    100,000  .  Accountant and procurement consultants (US$75,000);
and PIT training    (IDA)      training to PIT staff (US$25,000)
2.RSC         Consultant         105,000  Secretary (US$ 45,000) and procurement advisors (US$
Secretariat    services           (NBF)  60,000) financed by the US Government.
Procurement
Advisors
3. Auditors    1.3 Consultant    100,000
services            (IDA)
Total without contingencies      405,000



Annex 3
Page I of 2
FYR Macedonia
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Estimated Proiect Costs
Traie and Tnsiport Facilitation in SE Eipe                                     %     %Total
GCoxoents Prijed Cost Smnany                                 (LS$ M1ion)   Forign   BaSse
1x arl  F o    Totdal              Costs
A Cnstonis AMinistration ntiitutioml Refonn
lniim'et ofQiErna PtzoIt                            0.0      1.1      1.1      98        9
Org4izational 1keorting of the N'CA                 0.3      0.4      0.7      59        6
Subtoial TAtorr Adnisitr]ation Isiational Reform      0.3      1.5     1.9       83      14
R Thide Fadlitation lDevlopmnut
Fpetise ardAdvice                                   0.0      0.3      0.3      85        2
Training&Snina                                      0.0      0.1      0.1      85        1
Subtcla Trade Facilitation Dewlwpnrt                  0.1      0.3     0.4       85       3
C IdS lnmwenmt
IQSQvil wrks                                        0.8      0.8      1.6      51       13
IC[S Qvil ws                                        0.1      0.5      0.6      84        5
IC0S Pomnel Trainig                                 0.2      0.2      0.4      51        3
Eguiprst for ICIS Jnprnn't                          0.5      1.9      2.3      79       18
Subtotal ICS Inpwncnt                                 1.6      3.4     5.0       68      39
B InpqnEgt of 130ier Cring Faiht"ie
Tabanowe Bcer Re1hbilitationi                        1.2     1.2      2.4      51       18
lDxe Bair Bxer I1npwnrts                            0.3      0.3      0.6      51        5
Kafasan Border 1Tp nirts                            0.3      0.4      0.7      51        5
Border-ssingEquiprent                               02       0.9      1.1      80        8
Subtotal rownut of B order CrosingFacilitie           2.2      29      5.2       57      40
E Pgram and Pniject fir#lernntation
Advises &Auditors                                    0.1     0.1      0.2      48        2
PIT Comultantnad Q)erating Costs                    0.1      0.1      0.2      44        2
SuilBalPrgam aid Pfoject in-#emertation               0.2      0.2     0.4       46       3
Total BASEL   XCONE(                                  4.4      8.4    12.8       65      100
Physical CGntirgeries                               0.4      0.7      1.1      63        9
Price Cbntinrgies                                   0.2      0.3      0.6      61        4
Toal PROJECTC1S                                       5.1      9.5    14.5       65      113



Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
Copnenents by Financiers                                                                                                         Local
IDA            GOM         USA                Total        For.  (Fcl. Duties &
Amount  %    Amounlt  %    Amount  %    Amount  %               Fchk. Taxes)  Taxes
A. Customs Administntion Istitutional Reform
Improvement of Customs Procedures                            -       -     0.0       -     1.2    100      1.2      8      1.2    0.0
OrganizationalRestructusingofthe MCA                       0.4      53     0.1      10     0.3     37      0.8      6      0.5    0.3      0.1
Subtotal Customs AdministrationInstitutional Reform          OA      21      01       4     1.5    75       2D       14     1.7    03       0.1
B. Trade Facilitation Development
Expertise andAdvice                                                  .     0.0       -     03    100       03       2      0.3    00
Training & Seminars                                          -       -       -       -     0.1    100      0.1      1      0.1    0.0        -
3ubtotal Trade Facilitation Development                        -       -    0.0        -    0A    100       OA        3     OA      0.1        -
C. ICIS Improvement
ICIS Civil works                                            1.2     65     0.7     35               -      1.9     13      1.0    0.6      0.3
ICIS Monitoting Assistance (Software)                      0.6      84     0.1      16              -      0.7      5      0.6             0.1
ICIS PersonnelTraining                                     0.3      84     0.1      16              -      0.4      3      0.2    0.1      0.1
Equipment for ICIS Improvement                             2.3      84     0.4      16       -      -      2.7     18      2.1    0.1      0.4
SubtotalICIS lmprovement                                     4A      78      1.3     22        -      -    56        39     39      09      09
D.IurprwementofBorder Crossing Facilities
TabanovceBorderRehabilitation                               18      65     09       35       -      -      27       19     14     0.9      04
Deve Bair Border Improvements                             0G4       65     0.2      35       -      -      0.7      5      03     0.2      0.1
KafasanBorderlmprovements                                  0.5      65     03       35       -      -      0.3      6      0.4    03       0.1
BorderCrossingsEquipment                                    1.0     84     0.2      16       -      -      1.2      8      10     00       0.2
Subtotal Improvementof BorderCrossingFacilities              4.2     71      1.7     30        -      -    59        41     33      L6       09
E. Program and Project hnplemeltation
Advisers & Auditors                                        0.1      44     0.0       8     0.1     47      0.2      2      0.1    01       0.0
PIT Consultants andOperatingCosts                          0.2      87     0.0      13       -      -      0.2      2      0.1    0.1      0.0
Subtotal Program and Project Implementation                  0.3      66     0.1     11      0.1     23     0.5       3     0.2    0.2       00
Total Disbursement                                           93       64     3.1     22      2.1     14    14.5    100       95     3.1      2.0



Annex 4
Page I of 6
FYR Macedonia
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Cost Benefit Analysis of Total Proiect Investment
Table 4.1. Summary Economic Benefit from the Project
COSTS             BENEFITS
FY                                                   Net Benefits
(in US$ million)   (in US$ million)    (in US$ million)
2001                        1.4               0.1                 -1.3
2002                        5.0               0.7                 -4.2
2003                        5.5               2.0                 -3.6
2004                        0.3               2.4                 2.1
2005                                          2.1                 2.1
2006                                          1.6                  1.6
2007                                           1.6                1.6
2008                                           1.7                 1.7
2009                                           1.7                 1.7
2010                                          1.8                  1.8
2011                                           1.8                 1.8
2012                                           1.8                1.8
2013                                           1.9                 1.9
2014                                           1.9                1.9
2015                                          2.0                 2.0
2016                                          2.0                 2.0
2017                                          2.0                 2.0
Total     1                12.2               29.0                16.8
Internal Rate of Return                                        16%
Dsount Rate                          1 |     12%
INPV (@ 12%    |9.31                                11.01                1.61
The Principles of the Economic Evaluation
The border crossings proposed for i]mnprovements under this project were selected on the basis of: (i) high
traffic; (ii) geographical location (on international routes); (iii) long waiting time at present; and (iv) need
for upgrading. These border crossings were designed to ensure efficient and transparent border
operations, while fitting the more stringent norms of the European Union as regards office space
occupancy. The analysis was built in close coordination with local parties (customs services, Ministry of
Finance, Border Police) reviewing alternative remedial measures.
The economic cost-benefit analysis compares the economic costs and benefits of the project over the
implementation period and over its assumed 15-year period of expected life. Detailed calculations on
costs and benefits are shown in Table 4.1. All costs and benefits are expressed in constant 2000 prices.
All investment and recurrent costs are net of import duties, taxes or subsidies.



Annex-4-TeJle 4.2
Economic Cost-Benefit Analysis                      fr ofMtcedania
(US$ Million in 1999 prices)
FY                                                   20011   2902       2Q03     2904  |265         206|  2007          2008     209|  2010          2011      2012     2013      2014      2015|
Coat:
Investment Costs
lfh the P oJed
Trade Facilitation Development             0.15      0.17      0.11
Customs Adrn. Institutional Reform          0.41     0.84      0.79     0.W0
ICIS improvement                           0.33      1.77      2.35     0.29
Border Facilities unprovement              0.50      2.19      2.29
Total VRth tha Prjejct                      1.38     4.97      5.55     0.29
Total hcrementid Coate                                 1.3       497       5.55     0.29       0.Q      0.0       0.0       0.6      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      Q8.       0.Q       Q8.
Econe..i Benefita
1. Trna-prt Cost Reductiox (withpr.ject)
Pilot Crosm2ss                              0.1      0.43      1.17     1.50      1.54      1.58     1.61      1.65      1.70     1.74      1.78      1.83     1.87      1.92      1.97
Otker CrossinispPosts
Pilot Inland Tesmisal                      0.03      0.17      0.47     0.60      0.62     0.63      0.65      0.66     0.68      0.70      0.71      0.73     0.75      0.77      0.79
Total                                      0.10      0.60      1.64     2.10      2.15     2.21      2.26      2.32      2.38     2.44      2.50      2.56     2.62      2.69      2.76
2. IJnact of Reduced Tramaprt Costr on Trad*
Trade Benefits from Trarsport Cost Reduction  0.02   0.12      0.33     0.42      0.43     0.44      0.45      0.46     0.48      0.49      0.50      0.51     0.52      0.54      0.55
3. Tranwprt Cost Reduction (withoutproject)                                        -0.13     -052      -106     -109     -111      -114     -117      -120      -123     -126     -129     -132
TotaI Benefit from Project                             0.12      0.72      1.97     2.39      2.07      1.59     16.3      2.67      1.71     1.75      1.80      1.84      1.89     1.94      1 98
Net Benefit* from Project                              -127     -4.25     -3.58     2.10      2.07      1.59     163       1.67      171      1.75      1.80      1.84     189       194       19
O X



Annex 4
Page 3 of 6
Costs
The project cost considered for the economic evaluation amounts to US$12.2 million excluding taxes and
including physical and price contingencies. It includes components under: (1) Customs Administration
Institutional Reform; (ii) Trade Facilitation Development measures; (iii) Integrated Customs Information
System; and (iv) Border Crossing Facility Improvements. It does not take into account the cost of the PIT
and assistance to PIT.
Benerits - With Project Scenario
Two benefits have been identifiecl: (i) lower transport costs due to the diminution of waiting times at
border crossings and inland terminals; and (ii) economic benefits of trade expansion resulting from the
project.
Trade and Transport Costs Reduction. The savings on transport costs at Macedonian border crossings
and the inland terminal under the project would progressively reach about US$2.15 million by the end of
2005. Delays at border crossings and inland terminals are symptomatic of a number of issues associated
with deficiencies in trade related services: procedural complexity, cumbersome documentation
requirements, systematic inspection of vehicles, slow customs clearance steps, scarce and unreliable
information technology and telecommunications, absence of standard service times and inadequate
infrastructure.
Assumptions. The progressive reduction of border crossing time27 to one hour for incoming traffic has
been used as the basis in the economic evaluation of the project. The three pilot border crossings and the
pilot inland terminal would progressively28 meet this objective by 2003. Other border posts scheduled for
improvements under the project, but not selected as pilots, would experience similar waiting time
reduction with a lag of one year. The average waiting time for trucks in the "do nothing" alternative is the
mid estimate as reported by customs users and officials. The average value of time for trucks was
obtained through interviews (US$250/day). Natural traffic growth was estimated at 2.5 percent under the
category "trade and transport cost reduction".
In order to realize the economic benefit from the waiting time reduction, both the physical investments
and the customs reform are jointly required because the customs reform alone can not completely reduce
the waiting time. For example, the implementation of new procedures requires additional lanes to allow
for traffic segregation, appropriate space covered by canopies for secondary inspection 29, proper
communication capacity with limited interruption (LAN, WAN, phone, fax), access to power sources to
enable computers to function or lighting to be available during evening shifts. The project will
specifically address these border posts where infrastructure or equipment bottlenecks exist.
Economic Impact of Increased Trade. The impact on trade under the project comes from: (i) reduction
in waiting time at border crossing points; and (ii) increased reliability in the delivery of goods. In a
competitive market, these two elements will be reflected in the price of traded goods, and stimulate trade.
The increased reliability of international delivery times will facilitate the integration of local companies
into international production chains.
In the medium run (from 2003) these two elements should enable a significant increase in trade volumes.
30
Such trade gains are obtained by combining trade creation and trade-substitution effects . Imports would
be the most affected initially, since the border inefficiencies bear mostly on imports. However the
27 From entering the border area in one country to exiting the border area in the next country.
28 5% in FY2001, 30% in FY2002, 80% in FY2003 and 100% in FY2004 of the targeted time reduction (down to
one hour).
29 Selectivity means not only that not all trucks are inspected, but that those inspected are subject to a far more
detailed inspection than today.
30 The trade creation effect is the increased demand in the importing country for a commodity from an exporting
country, resulting frorn the price decrease associated with the elimination or reduction of distortions. Trade substitution
accounts for the tendency of importers to substitute goods from one source to another in response to a change in the
import price of supplies from one source,



Annex 4
Page 4 of 6
regional nature of the project would simultaneously impact exports. Increased import volumes would
benefit local consumers (including local companies relying on foreign inputs for their production) by
increasing their consumer surplus and would create a loss for some local manufacturers, whose products
become replaced by new imports. Increased export volume would benefit local producers by opening new
market opportunities and would reduce local consumer surplus by reducing the quantity available on the
local market at the initial price.
The broad economic impact of cheaper international transport is complex to analyze even in countries
with valid statistical data and requires general equilibrium models taking into account the
monetary/foreign exchange impacts of new trade patterns. Given the current level and quality of data
available on the six Balkan countries, such a detailed evaluation would not be realistic. The outcome of
various studies on this phenomenon shows these additional benefits ranging between 20 and 30 percent
over the transport savings generated. For the purpose of this evaluation, 20% was considered as the most
appropriate. Exhibit 4.1 provides an at-a-glance summary of trade for Macedonia.
Benefits - Without Project Scenario
If the project were not taking place, reform efforts supported by the EU would continue to be
implemented, although at a slower pace than neighboring countries, given the reduced EU involvement.
The differential between the with or without project scenarios in terms of costs includes only the project
costs as described above. The EU support would enable the Customs services to partly achieve the
objectives of this project on a delayed schedule. The benefits associated with "the without project"
scenario were subtracted from the benefits in the "with project scenario" to obtain the project benefits. It
was estimated that, without the project, 5 percent of annual with project benefits would be achieved in
FY2004, 20 percent in FY2005 and 40 percent in FY2006 and onwards. The absence of needed
infrastructure without Bank's financing would impose a limit to the efficiency that could be achieved,
explaining that only 40 percent of the savings could be reached without the project.
Sensitivity Analysis on EIRR
Tables 4.3. presents the various assumptions tested and their influence on the economic internal
rate of return of the project. The internal rate of return for the project is above the opportunity
cost of capital. The switching values combined with the reform assumptions indicate that the
project has a good likelihood of exceeding 12 percent of return on capital. The projected rate of
return remains above the opportunity cost of capital unless investment cost were to go up to 20%
and traffic were simultaneously to go down by 20 percent.
Table 4.3. Sensitivity Analysis
%o Change in Parameter
_ _Upside_+20%  | Downside .20%
Modified Parameters               EIRR           EIRR
Daily Truck Value (US$)           21%            11%
Trade Related Savings             17%            15%
Traffic Volume                    21%            11
Investment cost (-)               22%            12%
Investment cost (-) and Traffic Volume  29%       7%



Annex 4
Page 5 of 6
Table 4.4. Switching Values (for IRR @ 15 percent)
Daily Truck Value (US$/day)           210
Trade related benefits coeff.          <0
Traffic volume/existing traffic      85%
Minimum Time Savings
I       (in minutes)                   77



Annex 4
Page 6 of 6
Macedonia Goods Trade Outlook (1998)
TRADE INDICATORS
1993  1994    1995    1996    1997    1998
Trade Balance
Exports (FOB) in US$ mn         1,055    1,086    1,205    1,147    1,150    1.322                    1"3   1994  1ws   sa    1997  1991
Imports (FOB) in USS min        1,012    1,271    1,425    1,464    1,755    1,914             2,O-
Balance on Goods                   43     -185    -220    .317       -388     -592
Growth Exports                           2 9%    11 0%     4 8%     4 7%    12 0%              I
Growth Imports                          25 6%    121%      2 7%     8 5%     91%                              I
Total Trade of Goods in US mln   2,067    2,357    2,630    2,611    2,790    3,236          ' tat,
Growth Trade volume                     14 0%    11 6%     0 7%     6 9%    16 0%/
Real GDP in USS billion                   1.90     1.90     1.90     1.90     1.90      s        r.
Exports as % of GDP                       57%      63%      60%     62%       70%
Imports as % of GDP                       67%      75%      77%     92%      101%
Trade balance as % ofGDP                  10%      12%      17%      20%     31%
Tradeas%ofGDP                            124%    138%    137%    147%    170/%                      O1o3OE-C.,.d. FOB      Otp-nGcr d,IOB
TRADE STRUCTURE
Key 1997 trade goods in Thous tons, ranked by value
export                              import
Zinc (not alloyed)             47 3   Crude oil                     375.4          1997 exports,                      1997 iniports,
Cotton shirts for men and boys    19   Passenger cars                 78    (total USD 1,237 min, fob)           (total USD1,779 min, cif)
Hot-rolled iron products       149 2  Fuel oils not imcluded elsewhe   238 4        0
Cigarettes containing tobacco  5 8   Gas oils                       140 1         0.1%                               0.8%
Tobacco                        124   Flat-rolled iron products       776
Ferro-mckel                     13   Motor spirit                    99 1                                                C
Blouses for women and girls     I I   Blouses for woman and girls     1 3             C          A                     27 5%
Ferro-silicon                  51 I  Zinc (not alloyed)              739 944 Y                 521%                                A
Wine made from fresh grapes    653                                                                                                1 r3%
1997 Main Erports (total USD 1,237 million, fob)                                                               10 6%/
Clothing (248 8), Iron and steel (178 5). Drieks and tobacco (162 3),                 B
Non-ferrous metals (93 6), Machinery and Transport Equipment (90 9)                 3 3%
1997 Main Imports (total USD 1,779 million, cif)                                A
Food products (239 2), Manafactured consumer goods (212),                       C - RawC materGals intemediates   B-CapitalGoods
Mineral fuels and lubricants (194.8), Chemicals (189.4), Iron and steel (110 7)  C - Conwmer Goods                  D - Othem
TRADE by TRANSPORT MODE and TRADE DIRECTION
1998 Export      199S Imponr
thous t USD min  thous t USD mln           Exports partners, 1998        |        Imports partners, 1998
Sea transport               -                       0 6      0 3         (total fob US$1,322 mi)                (total cif US$1,914 min)
Railways                        437 3    143 0   1695 0    301 3
RoadTransport                  10375   11469   17864   14982   1                                       1r1
Air transport                     5 1     25 6      2 0     79 6   |,3% Irae,                                        I t.xn
Others                            81       66      191      341    |tan Germn                                                           en      |
14896   1322 1  35032   19135   |n                                             13.3%  7.\1%
Mnja, border eronsing,, 1998                                               33,/   ,     14%
Export            thous t USD mln  t/USD                                              e                         s           a\1 
Highway Tabanovce               3 1 7    525 4  593 3                                   S     Gece                                         Si.
Bogorodica                      309 3    353 3  875 5                VYogoO                     7JX2                                    1 via,
Railway Tabanovce               297 1     90 5  3282 9                                                                                  '12..2
Blace                           1888      997  18937 7
Raiway station Gevgelija        128 4     49 4  2599 2
Import            thous.t USDmin  t/USD                                        Trade with EU        1997    1998
Raiway station Gevgelija       1051 5    159 1 6609 1                                      Exports, fob           452      584
Bogorodica                      696 0    273 0  2549 5                                     tmprts, cif            644      693
Raiways station Skopje-Tt-bares   611 4    142 5 4290 5
Highway Tabanovce               448 I   747 6  599 4
Macedonian foreign trade exceeds its GDP and increase by 47 % over the period 1994-1998. Both imports and exports grew following stagnation in 1990-94 Until
recently Yugoslavia was the most important export partner contributing 23% to export receipts. Following signing a trade agreement with the EU in late 1997,
however, exports to EU countries expanded raptdly and Genmany beeame Macedonia's leading export partner In the 1998 list of export partners, Germany was
followed by Yugoslavia, US, Greece and Italy In 1997 the mast important Macedonia's export goods were clothing (21 1% of total export receipts) iron and steel
(15 1% of receipts), and tobacco products(13 S% ofthe total)
The trade deficit (fob-fob) widened from $31 7m in 1996 to $400m in 1998 because of a substantial expansion in imports Partly this expansion was accounted for
an increase in steel and textiles imports, necessary inputs for processing isdastries Food products comprised the biggest share in imports (14%) A slight rise in
living standards contributed to the expansion in imported consumer goods, which comprised 12% of total imports in 1997. Germany and Yugoslavia were the most
imporant suppliers of imports followed by Slovenia, Ukraine and Italy The conflict in Kosovo blocked FYR Macedonia's main transport corridor to the rast of the
world, as well as closed off its second largest export market, FR Yugoslavia However, the negative impact of the crises has turned to be much less than anticipated
In fact it has boosted the constuction and service sectors, as FYR Macedonia has become the major transport route to Kosovo



Annex 5
FYR Macedonia
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe
Financial Summary
Project Components Cost and Financing Plan
Project Components by Year -- Totals Including Contingene
(US$ Million)
FY2001 FY2002 FY2003 FY2004  Total
A. Customs Administration Institutional Reform
Improvement of Customs Procedures                      0.3     0.4    0.4        -    1.2
Organizational Restructuring of the MCA                0.1     0.4    0.4        -    0.8
Subtotal Customs Administration Institutional Reform     0.4    0.8    0.8         -    2.0
B. Trade Facilitation Development
Expertise and Advice                                   0.1    0.1    0.1              0.3
Training & Seminars                                    0.0    0.1        -       -    0.1
Subtotal Trade Facilitation Development                  0.1     0.2    0.1        -    0.4
C. ICIS Improvement
ICIS Civil works                                               0.6     1.0    0.3    1.9
ICIS Monitoring Assistance (Software)                  0.1    0.3    0.3              0.7
ICIS Personnel Training                                0.1     0.2    0.1        -    0.4
Equipment for ICIS Improvement                         0.2     1.0    1.5        -    2.7
Subtotal ICIS Improvement                                0.4    2.1    2.8    0.3    5.6
D. Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities               -       -       -       -
Tabanovce Border Rehabilitation                          -     1.3    1.4        -    2.7
Deve Bair Border Improvements                            -    0.2    0.5         -    0.7
Kafasan Border Improvements                              -     0.2    0.6        -    0.8
Border Crossings Equipment                             0.4    0.8        -       -    1.2
Subtotal Improvement of Border C'rossing Facilities      0.6    2.6    2.7         -    5.9
E. Program and Project Implementation                      -       -       -       -      -
Advisers & Auditors                                    0.1    0.1    0.1       0.0    0.2
PIT Consultants and Operating Costs                    0.1    0.1    0.1       0.0    0.2
Subtotal Program and Project Implementation              0.1    0.1    0.1       0.0    0.5
Total PROJECT COSTS                                      1.7    5.9    6.6    0.4   14.5
Project Financing                                    FY2001 FY2002 FY2003 FY2004  Total
IDA                                                    0.9    3.8    4.4    0.3    9.3
Government                                             0.3     1.3    1.5    0.1    3.1
USA                                                    0.5    0.8    0.7    0.0    2.1
Total Project Financing                                  1.7    5.9    6.6    0.4   14.5



Annex 6
Page I of 8
FYR Macedonia
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arranaements
Procurement
The following procurement arrangements will apply to all contracts wholly or partly financed by IDA:
General. Goods and works wholly or partially financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with
the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published in January 1995 and
revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. Consultant's services wholly
or partly financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with the Guidelines for Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers published in January 1997 and revised in
January 1999. Standard documents published by the World Bank will be used by the PIT for the
preparation of bidding documents and request for consultant's proposals.
Procurement of Works. Civil work contracts estimated to cost more than US$0.5 million will be
financed under International Competitive Bidding procedures (ICB).
Procurement of Goods. Contracts for the supply of goods valued at US$100,000 or more will be
procured under ICB. Office and training equipment for Customs for a total of US$100,000 will be
procured through National Shopping (NS).
Prior and post review by IDA for Goods and Works contracts: All IDA financed goods and works
contracts under ICB will be subject to prior review procedures in accordance with the Guidelines of
IDA. All other contracts will be subject to post review.
Procurement of Consulting Services: Recruitment of consulting firms for the design and supervision
of works will be carried out under the Quality and Cost Based Selection method (QCBS) in
accordance with the Guidelines of the IDA/Bank. The design for the border crossings civil works will
be based on the Urban Plan design undertaken by the Public Enterprise. For financial audits the Least
Cost Selection (LCS) method will apply. Short-term consulting services to PIT (accountant,
procurement consultant) will be procured according to Section V of Consultants Guidelines for
individual consultants. Costs associated with training for the PIT staff will be financed from the
consulting services category. Consultants for ICIS personnel and other training will be selected based
on qualifications.
Prior and post Review by IDA for consultants' contracts: All consultant contracts awarded through
competition and expected to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more per contract with firms and
$50,000 or more per contract with individuals will be subject to prior review by IDA. All other
competitively awarded contract not subject to prior review under these thresholds will be subject to
post review. All contracts not awarded through competition and all Terms of Reference (TOR) will be
subject to prior review.
Procurement Implementation Schedule and Advance Procurement Actions: The MCA and IDA
have agreed on the procurement plan (Table B2) at appraisal; the Plan was finalized during
negotiation. This timetable will be used as a basis for monitoring of procurement processing. In
particular, the following advance procurement actions have been identified and are hereby proposed to
the MCA as critical milestones so that main contracts can be signed soon after Credit effectiveness:
(a) the General Procurement Notice was published on May 31, 2000 in UN Development Business; (b)
submit draft Specific Procurement Notice for the construction works and provision of goods by June
30, 2000; (c) submit Terms of Reference, short lists, Letter of Invitation (LOI), and draft model
contract for consulting services by June 30, 2000. All notices to be published in the UN Development
Business should be submitted to IDA at least 45 days prior to publication.



Annex 6
Page 2 of 8
A Project Preparation Facility advance (PPF) of US$75,000 has been made available to GOM to
finance establishment of the PIT, including the financial management system and staffing with a
qualified accountant/financial expert, office equipment, as well as procurement consultants to assist
the PIT.
A Procurement Capacity Assessment has been undertaken by the IDA procurement specialist, and the
overall risk assessment has been rated high. The Action Plan for remedies has been agreed with the
Borrower, and is attached to the project files.
Disbursement
Disbursement: Disbursements against the categories described in Table 6.C will be made upon receipt
by IDA of fully documented applications, except for contracts valued at less than US $0.5 million for
works, US $100,000 for goods, US $100,000 for consulting firms and US $50,000 for individual
consultants, as well as operating costs which will be made against certified statements of expenditures
(SOE). Supporting documentation for SOEs will be retained by the Borrower and made available to
IDA during supervision. The minimum size of application for direct withdrawals and issuance of
commitments from the IDA credit account would be 20 percent of the amount of the Authorized
Allocation to the Special Account.
Special account: To facilitate project implementation, the Borrower will establish a Special Account
in its National Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the IDA to cover the IDA's share of
expenditures. The Authorized Allocation will be US$1 million, representing about four months of
average expenditures made througlh the Special Account. During the early stage of the project, the
initial allocation to the Special Account will be limited to an aggregate of US$500,000. However,
when the aggregate disbursements under the Credit have reached the level of US$2 million, the initial
allocation may be increased up to the Authorized Allocation of US$1 million by submitting the
relevant Application for withdrawal. Applications for replenishment of the Special Account may be
submitted monthly or when one-third of the amount has been withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier.
Documentation requirements for replenishment will follow the standard IDA procedure as described in
the Disbursement Handbook, Chapter 6. Monthly bank statements of the Special Account which have
been reconciled by the Borrower will accompany all replenishment requests.
Project Accounting and Financial Management: A financial management system (FMS) including
accounting, financial reporting, plarning, budgeting, auditing, and proper internal control systems will
be established prior to effectiveness. The FMS has met the minimum IDA financial management
requirements (4-B LACI Certificate) prior to Board presentation. IDA has reviewed the existing FMS
in the MCA, and has prepared a report identifying weaknesses and proposing remedial actions to
enhance the system and enable the development of appropriate project management reports with a
view to the possible transition to PMR-based disbursements. IDA has defined a time-bound action
plan to specify the steps necessary for: (i) Board presentation; (ii) credit effectiveness and (iii) further
strengthening of procedures and staff development during implementation. The FMS will be
compatible with OP/BP 10.02 and with the Project Financial Management Manual, published by IDA.
The development of the FMS will be monitored by IDA before effectiveness, during the first
supervision mission and throughout project implementation.
The PIT has been staffed with an accountant/financial expert acceptable to IDA. The company
installing the FMS will assist the P'IT in establishing and maintaining project accounts adequate to
provide information regarding project resources and expenditures. The PIT will have accounts audited
every fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, in accordance with International
Standards of Auditing issued by the International Federation of Accountants and IDA guidelines. The
reports of such audits will be submitted to IDA no later than six months after the end of the
Borrower's fiscal year. The PIT will also maintain all documentation related to project expenditures
and keep financial records in accordance with sound accounting practices. A management letter giving



Annex 6
Page 3 of 8
an opinion on internal audit controls should be submitted to the IDA six months after effectiveness of
the credit.
Accounting and auditing. An independent auditor acceptable to IDA should conduct an annual audit
of the project's account. Terms of reference for the annual audits of the project accounts were agreed
upon at negotiations. Certified copies of these audits would be submitted to IDA within six months of
the end of the Government's fiscal year. Certified copies of the auditors' report would be retained by
the PiT for subsequent review by IDA missions.
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (in US$ million equivalent)
~ Ode NBS. ¶1
A Gvilk                                61         -      -     -   61       -
(4.0)       -                (4.0)    -
R  iEmnt&GZxds                         5.0      0.1      -     -   5.1      -
(4.2)    (Q 1)               (43)
CCtltart mices &'iiirg                  -         -   0.8   1.7   25        -
(0.6)       (0.6)     -
D TraU                                  -         -   0.4   0.3   0.7       -
(0.3)       (0.3)     -
E xmrEUC OpwaftGsts                     -         -   0.1      -   0.1      -
(01)        (QO1)D
lLl1      Q1    13    21   145
(8.1)    (0.1)  (1.1)        (9.3
Me 1igies patlsis arele-re    e aMls finedbyllDA
Note:   - Due to rounding, amounts may be slightly different from those in other tables.
- Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
- The PPF advance of US$100,000 is included under "C" (US$25,000) and "E" (US$50,000)
- Auditors (US$ 0.1 million) and Consultants and training to PIT (US$0.1 million) are categorized
under the "Consultant Services and Engineering".
- N.B.F. = Not Bank-Financed (financed by the US Government)
- Details of "Other" and "N.B.F." are found in the Table 6-A2.



Annex 6
Page 4 of 8
Annex 6, Table Al: Consu]tant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method                     Total Cost
Consultant Services                                                         (including
Expenditure Category                                                       contingencies)
QCBS  Q}BS    SFB    LCS    CQ    Other  N.B .F. _____
A. Firms             0.85                   0.15    0.15            1.70       2.80
(1.5)
B. Individuals                                              0.10    0.30       0.40
(0.10)
Total  0.85                   0.15    0.15    0.10    2.00       3.20
0.85                  (0.15)  (0.15)  (0. 10)            (1.25)
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants
Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit.



Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review31
Section 1: Procurement Review                                                                          _
Element (Goods/Works)      ICB                NCB              IS                NS              Other methods
1. Procurement method      $500,000 (works).  N/A              N/A               Goods:          No objection on an annual budget
thresholds                  $100,000 (goods)                                     <50,000.        for operating costs
2. Prior Review             All contracts.   N/A               N.A.              N.A.            N.A.
Element (Consultant Services)  QCBS / LCS     Section V                                          Other methods
3. Procurement method       100,000
thresholds
4. Prior Review             >$l00,000         >$50,000
5. Ex-post Review           The IDA will monitor procurement activities, contract management and project record keeping during periodic
supervision missions. 20% of contracts will be ex-post reviewed.
Section 2. Capadty of the Implementing Agency in Procrment and Technical Assistance requirements
6. FYR Macedonia has several years of experience in implementing Bank/IDA projects. Procurement of works, goods and services has been
satisfactory. Primary responsibility for overseeing implementation of procurement procedures will rest with the Project Implementation Team located
in Customs Administration.
7. Country Procurenient Assessment Report or Country Procurement Strategy  8 Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions of the
Paper status: CPAR has not been completed.                            first year ready by negotiations? No
Secion 3. Training Informnation and Developient on Po    t
9. Estimated date of     10. Date of General       11. Indicate if contracts are subject  12. Domestic  13. Domestic Preference for
Project Launch Workshop:  Procurement Notice update:  to mandatory SPN in Development  Preference for    Works: No
October 15, 2000        May 31, 2000               Business:  Yes                  Goods: Yes
14. Retroactive fmancing No                                           i 15. Advanced Procurement (PPF)    Yes
16. The PIT within the MCA will oversee all procurement activities under the project and will ensure procurement is done in accordance with World
Bank procedures. Public Enterprise will participate in drafting, evaluating, and monitoring of civil works at border crossings, in line with the domestic
legislation. Procurement reports will be submitted by PIT to the IDA quarterly. PIT will be assisted by procurement consultants, as need be.
Section 4. Procurement Staffing
17 Procurement Staff as part of Project Team:    Els Hinderdael       Division: ECSIN       Ext. 33306
18 Role of the Field Office in Procurement: Field Office will liaise between HQ team and PIT on procurement issues.
LA
CC 



Annex 6, Table Bi1: Procurement Plan
Deactiplion   Type    No. of   Rstlm. cost  fousia          o-IdDcmnsBdConc
Customs equipment for      G          1     0.6         ICB         N/A          Draft to Bank: April 15,    1. Invitation: SPN: June 1, 2001     Nov. 1, 2001   Oct. 30, 2002
preventive and investigation                                                     2001                       2. Opening: August 1, 2001
services                                                                         Bank No Obi: June 1, 2001    3. Eval. & Recom.: October 1, 2001
ICIS Software              G          1     0.8         ICB          N/A         Draft to Bank: July 1, 2000    1. Invitation: SPN: August 15, 2000  Jan. 15, 2001   Jan 15, 2002
Bank No Obj: August 15,    2. Opening: October 15, 2000
2000                       3. Eval. & Recomn.: December 15, 2000
ICIS ITequipment           G          1     2.1         ICB          N/A         Draft to Bank: Nov. 15, 2000  1. Invitation: SPN: January 1,2001  June 1, 2001    May 1,2002
(computers, bar code and           package                                       Bank No Obj: January 1,    2. Opening: March 1, 2001
advance transit)                                                                 2001                        3. Eval. & Recom.: May 1, 2001
Works for ICIS             CW         1     2.0         ICB          N/A         Draft to Bank: May 1, 2001    1. Invitation: SPN: June 15, 2001  Sep. 15, 2001  Oct. 15, 2003
Improvement                        package                                       Bank No Obj: June 15, 2001   2. Opening: August 15, 2001
3. Eval & Recomi.: Septem.erber 15,2001
Des;gn for AD.' Center     CS         i     0.05        CQ           N/A         Draft to Bank October 1,    1. Invitation: SPN: November 1, 2000    Jan. 15, 2001   Apr. 30, 2001
2000                       2. Opening: December 15, 2000
Bank No Obj: Novemberl,   3. Eval. & Recom.: January 15, 2001
2000
ICIS Telecommunication     G          1     0.4         ICB          N/A         Draft to Bank: July 15, 2000  1. Invitation: SPN: September 1, 2000    Feb. 1, 2001    Dec. 31, 2002
equipment                                                                        Bank No Obj: September 1,   2. Opening: November 1, 2000
2000                       3. Eval. & Recom.: January 1, 2001
ICIS Personnel Training    CS         1     0.05        CQ           N/A         Draft to Bank June 1, 2000    1. Invitation: SPN: July 15, 2000  Dec. 15. 2000  July 31, 2003
1     0.40        QCBS                     Bank No Obj: July 15, 2000   2. Opening: September 15,2000 .
package                                                                  3. Eval. & Recom.: November 15, 2000
Office& trainingequipment   G        2      0.1         NS          N/A          Draft toBank: Sept. 1,2000    1. Invitation: SPN Sept. 15, 2000  Nov. 1,2000    Dec. 15, 2000
Bank NO: Sept. 15,2000     2. Opening: October 15, 2000
3. Eval. & Recom.: Novemebr 1, 2000
Tabanovce border upgrading   CW       1     2.5         ICB          N/A         Draft to Bank: February 1,    1. Invitation: SPN: March 1,2001   June 1,2001    Dec. 31,2003
works                                                                            2001                       2. Opening: May 1, 2001
Bank No Obj: March 1, 2001  3. Eval. & Recorn.: June 1, 2001
Deve Bair border           CW         1     0.6         ICB         N/A          Draft to Bank: February 15,   1. Invitation: SPN: March 15,2001  June 15,2001   Dec. 31, 2002
rehabilitation                                                                   2001                       2. Opening: May 15, 2001
Bank No Obj: March 15,     3. Eval. & Recom. June 15, 2001
2001
Kafasan border rehabilitation  CW     1     0.9         ICB         N/A          Draft to Bank: March 1,     1. Invitation: SPN: April 1,2001    Julyl5,2001    Dec. 31,2002
2001                       2. Opening: June 1, 2001
Bank No Obj: April 1, 2001   3. Eval. & Recom.: Julyl, 2001
Design forBC civil works   CS         I     0.1         QCBS         N/A         Draft to Bank: July 1, 2000    1. Invitation: SPN: August 5, 2000  Nov. 1,2000   Feb. 1, 2001
Bank No Obj: August 1,     2. Opening: September 20,2000
2000                       3. Eval & Recoin: October 15, 2000
Supervision of civil works at  CS     1     0.3         QCBS         SPNIEOI    Draft to BankJanuary 15,     1. Invitation: February 15,2001     May 1,2001    Mar. 31,2003
borders                                                             July 15,     2001                       2. Opening: April 15, 2001
2000        Bank No Obj: February 15,   3. Eval. & Recom.: May 1, 2001
2001
W



Border Equipment           G          I      1.1        ICB            N/A       Draft to Bank: June 30, 2000    1. Invitation: SPN: August 15, 2000  Jan. 15, 2001   June 30, 2002
Bank No Obj: August 15,     2. Opening: October 15, 2000
2000                        3. Eval. & Recom.: December 15, 2000
Auditors                   CS         1      0.15       LCS            N/A       Draft to Bank: July 1, 2000  1. Invitation: SPN: August 10, 2000  Jan. 10, 2001   Dec. 31, 2003
Bank No Obj: August 10,     2. Opening: October 10, 2000
2000                        3. Eval. & Recom.: December 10, 2000
- PIT incremental operating    N/A    I      0.1        N/A            N/A       TOR: April 20,2000                          N/A                   June 15, 2000   Nov. 1, 2000
costs: office equipm. &
FMS
-PIT training              CS       N/A    0.05          SS            N/A                  N/A                              N/A                   May 15, 2000   June 30, 2001
-PIT consultants           CS         I      0.1        IC             N/A       TOR: April 30,2000                          N/A                   June 30, 2000   June 1, 2001
(acct.&proc)
Total                                        12.4
GPN issued May 15,2000; next GPN update: April 15,2001; Source: UN Development Business
CW= Civil Works, G= Goods, CS= Consulting Services, TR= Training, TA-Technical Assistance, QCBS= Quality and Cost Based Selection, NBF= Not Bank Financed, IS= International Shopping, IC=
Individual Consultant s; SS = costs associated with PIT training in the Bank and other training centers
-1
00 a,



Annex 6
Page 8 of 8
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
(US$ Million)                            Credit            Disbursement
Amount                  %
1. Civil Works                          3.6                65%
2. Equipment, Goods and materials       3.9         100% foreign, 100%
ex factory and 84%
of other local
expenditures
3. Consulting Services and Training     0.9                100%
4. Incremental Operating Costs          0.1                90%
5. Project Preparation Advance          0.1                100%
Unallocated                                 0.8
Total                                       9.3
Credit amounts financed by I]DA
Note: Due to rounding, the actual sum may be different (e.g. PPF amount is US$ 75,000).



Annex 7
FYR Macedonia
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                      Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
B. Project Schedule                             Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      8 months
First Bank mission (identification)            01/25/1999           01/25/1999
Appraisal mission departure                                         02/14/2000
Negotiations                                   05/15/1999           05/15/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  10/30/1999
Prepared by: Ministry of Finance, MCA and IDA Team
Preparation assistance:                   Magdalena Kusemileva
Dammika Somasundaram
Marie Laygo
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Specialty
Graham Smith                              Program Team Leader
Anca Dumitrescu                           Task Manager
Gerald Ollivier                           Transport Engineer
Aly Abu-Akeel                             Counsel
Alessandra Iorio                          Counsel
Bogdan Constantinescu                     Financial Management Specialist
Rohit Mehta                               Sr. Disbursement Officer
Els Hinderdael                            Procurement Specialist
Pedro Taborga                             Senior Economist
Ryo Eguchi                                Project Officer
Kenneth Gwilliam                          Principal Transport Economist (Peer Reviewer)
James Walsh                              IMF (Peer Reviewer)
Consultants who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Specialty
Philip Moeller                            Office Team Leader, Environmental Specialist
Michel Zarnowiecki                        Customs
Ivan Taborsky                             Customs



Annex 8
FYR Macedonia
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Documents in the Proiect File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
*  Management Information System: FYR Macedonia-Bosnia and Herzegovina-Albania
*  Trade Facilitation Component -- FYR Macedonia
  Customs Institutional Reform: FYR Macedonia -Bosnia and Herzegovina-Albania
*  Economic and Financial Analysis of the Project
*  Technical paper regarding the selection of border crossings
-  Financial management assessment
-  Procurement capacity assessment
C. Other
*Including electronic files.



FYR Macedonia
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Status of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in Macedonia, Former Yugoslav Republic of
Operations Portfolio
As of April 20, 2000
Difference Between
Board                                                  Last PSR                                                     Expected and Actual
Date                                              Supervision Rating bl         Oricinal Amount in US$ Millions      Disbursements a'
FiscalDeeomnImlmnan
Year  Active Projects                         DeveloPmen       o Imrlementason  IBRD       IDA    Cancel.  Undisb.     Orig. Frm Revd
Obiectives    Proaress
1996    P036089   HEALTH SECTOR TRANSI               S            S                0        16.9         0    12.06     12.92         0
1996    P010001   MKPRIV. FARMER SUPPORT             S            S                0         7.9         0      3.68     4.18         0
1998    P038391    EDUCATION REHAB.                 S             S                0          5          0      0.58     0.63         0
1998    P038399   IRRIGATION REHAB.                  S            S               7.5         5          0      10.6     1.97       1.34
1998    P042399   POWER                              S            S               35          0          0    29.45      3.51         0
1998    P034609   PSD II                             U            U               25          0          0     12.37    -2.26         0
1999    P065834   EMG. RECOVERY                     HS            S                0         50          0      1.34      1.39        0
1999    P058056   PENSION REF. T.A.                  S            S                0          1          0      0.67     0.57         0
1999    P038392   SOCIAL SECTORS ADJ.                S            S                0         29          0     14.51     14.43        0
1999    P066221    SOCIAL SUPPORT                    S            S                0         10          0      9.62     2.42         0
1999    P050589   TRANSPORT                          S            S               32          0          0     19.48     5.95         0
Active Proiects Closed Proiects   Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):    96.88     558.71      655.59
of which has been repaid:       0.00         294.58       294.58
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:    207.14    248.10      455.24
Amount sold:                    0.00          0.86         0.86
of which has been repaid:       0.00          0.86         0.86
Total Undisbursed:              113.85        0.00        113.85



Annex 10
Page ] of3
FYR Macedonia
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Environmental Management Plan
1. Overview:
The Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe (TTFSE) Project is unlikely to have significant
adverse environmental impacts. The project has been rated accordingly as Category B. To prevent,
minimize or mitigate site specific; negative impacts, however, this Environmental Management Plan
(EMP) and a set of mitigatory measures have been prepared. Upon review with the client government it
will be signed as an attachment to tIhe PIP.
2. Minimization of negative impact:
The major concerns about possible negative site-specific impacts associated with border crossings relate
to: (i) emissions from vehicles waiting for customs clearances; (ii) drainage of disinfectants and spills of
oils and fuel; (iii) waste disposal and loose garbage; and (iv) site disruptions caused by upgrades or
relocations of utilities or such infrastructure as buildings, parking/waiting areas, and access roads.
The objective of the TTFSE to reduce constraints on traffic flows at border crossings, including the
simplification of paperwork and reduction of processing times, will correspondingly reduce standing time
and vehicle emissions from trucks and other vehicles. Processed and road side waste, garbage and litter
will also be reduced and better managed. The small scale of physical investment, largely limited to the
improvement of in-place facilities, offers only limited potential threat. Specific actions included in the
EMP (see Exhibit 1) to further minimize potentially negative impact and promote institutional
development include:
  liaison with environmental authorities;
-  training and sensitization;
-  site certification;
*  consultations on the harmonization of standards; and
-  provisions in construction contracts.
a. Liaison with Environmental Authorities
Contact between the Macedonia Customs Administration (MCA) and the Ministry of Environment (MoE)
needs to be intensified. This will be achieved through the appointment of an environmental officer in the
MCA who will be responsible for liaison, monitoring and reporting on environmental issues and the
EMP to the Project Implementation Team (PIT) of the TTFSE. 32 Incorporation of the functions of the
environmental officer into the overall, long-term responsibilities of the MCA will be reviewed as part of
the reform and capacity building processes of the MCA. Environmental issues will be included in the
public information program to be provided by the MCA.
b. Training and Sensitization
The MCA environmental officer, in collaboration with the MoE, will assist the TTFSF, training consultant
in the design and provision of training and sensitization for the staff of the customs service relating to the
importance of environmental issues and protection. Standard procedures and guidelines based on1 the
national environmental regulations will be developed.
32 The MoE has already designated the liaison for the TTFSE.



Annex 10
Page 2 of 3
In coordination with the appropriate associated ministries and agencies providing control functions at the
border such specialized training in support of veterinary and phyto-sanitary pre-inspections will be
designed. Training on the control of the hunting and gathering of endangered flora and fauna will also be
covered.
c. Site Certification
In order to promote acceptable practice and minimization of environmental impact at all stations, the
MCA environmental officer, jointly with a representative of the Ministry of Environment, will inspect all
border crossings scheduled for investment under the TTFSE or marked as pilot sites. The MoE will
review the capacity and appropriate jurisdiction to participate in these inspections. On the basis of
satisfactory compliance with regulations and procedures a letter of certification of compliance will be
issued. Particular attention will be given to assure corrective procedures relating to (i) the use of
disinfecting pits at border crossings, (ii) the storage and use of disinfecting materials and chemicals at
sanitary and disinfecting sites, (iii) the control of waste materials including hazardous materials, and (iv)
the control of road-side litter and garbage.
d. Consultations on the Harmonization of Standards
The project supports the harmonization of standards with those of the EU. Particular attention will be
given to those relating to hazardous materials. The MCA environmental officer will consult with the
Ministry of Environment to ensure progressive application of appropriate standards and to ensure
collaboration with relevant environmental programs and activities funded by the EU. Progress in this area
will be regularly reported to the PIT and included in reports to the Bank.
In addition, the project will also enable customs officials to better enforce the terms of international
conventions and agreements relating to the environment. Especially relevant will be the regulations
included in such agreements as (i) the European Agreement Concerning the International Carriage of
Dangerous Goods by Road (ADR) of September 1957 with its Protocol of October 1993; (ii) the
Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES); (iii) the Convention on the
International Carriage of Perishable Foodstuffs and on the Special Equipment to be Used for Such
Carriage (ATP) of September 1970; and (iv) the Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary
Movements of Hazardous Wastes and their Disposal of May 1992.
e. Provisions in Construction Contracts
Although not required as a result of recent changes in national environmental regulations, environmental
reports will be prepared to examine the potential negative environmental impact and suggest mitigation
measures for any new construction under the TTFSE. These reports will be prepared by the MCA, the
Ministry of Urban Planning, or a qualified consultant and submitted for a 30 day review by the MoE. The
acceptance of and clearance for payment by the PIT for work contracted under the TTFSE will be
dependent upon the presentation of such details and a description of supportive action if such was
recommended by the MoE. All contracts will contain clauses requiring the minimization of noise and
dust during construction.



Annex 10
Page 3 of 3
Exhibit 1: Summary
Liaison with          The MCA has designated an environmental officer who in collaboration with
Environmental         the PIT will be responsible for: (i) liaison with environmental officials of the
Authorities           Ministry of Environment; (ii) the review and monitoring of the EMP; (iii) the
provision of periodic status reports to the PIT; (iv) consultations with such
interested parties as NGOs; and (iv) and the provision of support for
supervision missions. The government will assure that the MCA
environmental officer has access to information relevant to the project and
environmental compliance.
Training and          The MCA in collaboration with environmental officials of the Ministry of
Sensitization         Environmnent will provide training and sensitization of staff at each border
crossing. Standard procedures will be specified. Special training will be
offered fir pre-inspection skills in such related areas as veterinary and phyto-
sanitary inspections and in support of the protection of endangered species.
Certification of      The Ministry of Environment jointly with the MCA environmental officer
Acceptable Practice at  will inspect each border crossing scheduled for investment under the TTFSE
Border Crossings      or marked as a pilot site, for certification of the acceptability of practices and
minimization of environmental impact. Particular attention will be given to
(i) the use of disinfecting pits, (ii) the storage and use of disinfecting materials
and chemicals at the sanitary and disinfecting sites, (iii) the control of waste
materials including hazardous materials, and (iv) the control of road-side litter
and garbage.
Harmonization of      One of the goals of the project is to assist harmonization with EU and
Standards             international standards. The MCA environmental officer will consult with the
Ministry of Environment periodically on progress and provide progress
reports to the PIT. The MCA environmental officer will ensure compliance
with evolving regulatory requirements and conventions.
Construction          Designs far new construction will include an environmental report with plans
for the minimization of negative impacts. Contract documents will contain
clauses requiring minimization of noise, dust, and waste disposal during
construction. All works will comply with local environmental regulations
where applicable.



Annex 11
Page 1 of 2
FYR Macedonia
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Macedonian Customs System Reform Strateg
One of the major devotions of our country is to achieve necessary development level in order to
be accepted as a permanent EU member. Therefore our Customs System Reform Strategy is built
on the grounds of the EU Customs policy. The reforms that need to be undertaken shall be guided
by the objectives set forth by our Administration. These objectives are closely connected to the
four basic freedoms of modem, developed societies: freedom of goods, persons, services and
capital.
Using them as cornerstones, we have determined the following objectives, which will be the
present and future development directions of Macedonian Customs:
1.   To promote fair trade
2.   To increase the attractiveness of Macedonia as a location for trade and industry and
contribute to the creation of new jobs
3.   To 'ring fence' the domestic market and create conditions for trade, which will secure
maximum benefit from it for everybody
4.   To ensure protection for the citizens and business in all areas involving imports and exports
in a clear, uniform, simple way as efficiently as possible.
5.   To introduce new technologies for more effective and efficient performance, together with
the improvement of the knowledge and skills of the staff
6.   To facilitate a practical system to collect taxes, customs duties, excise, and the VAT in
2000
7.   To respect the provisions on environment protection and protection of endangered species
8.   To produce statistical data on foreign trade
These objectives shall be achieved through reforms in all areas of the customs work, and more
specifically through the following:
1.1    Building a stable and comprehensive legal system which ensures uniform application of
EU compatible customs legislation (the new Customs Law and implementing
regulations), which is designed to strengthen the powers of the customs officials, but also
to determine their responsibilities;
1.2    Establishing close cooperation with the trade and business;
1.3    Respecting ethical standards and principles;
1.4    Developing and implementing trade facilitation mechanisms which will create effective
and efficient Customs procedures, but also minimize their cost.



Annex 1 1
Page 2 of 2
2.1    Application of working techniques and methods, based on risk analyses and selectivity, in
order to decrease the necessary time and costs of the trade and transport;
2.2    Application of unified and simplified procedures, adapted to EU and world norms, which
are expected to attract foreign interest and capital.
3.1    The Customs Tariff and preferential agreements, concluded with individual countries or
groups of countries, as tariff measures,  but also the non-tariff measures, such as
introduction of quantity import reductions, levies, prevention of import of counterfeited
and pirated goods and providing subsidies for the domestic exporters, are just few of the
measures through which domestic producers and producers exporting from other
countries could compete fairly and equally on the domestic market.
4.1    Developing efficient and effective enforcement function capable of detecting, preventing
and investigating fraud, preparing cases for prosecution of offenders; the function should
be flexible enough to respond to an intelligence-led strategy based on the latest methods
of targeted risk assessment to safeguard the revenue and protect the society;
4.2    The enforcement function should be applicable along the border and throughout customs
territory, which will facilitate the flow of legitimate passengers and trade while ensuring
timely revenue collection and protection of the citizens.
5.1    Developing an IT system and environment, integrated in a developed infrastructure and
modern equipment, which completely support the Customs Business Strategy;
5.2    The IT system and infrastructure support the Transit system based on the EU Common
Transit Convention; they also provide the satisfactory value for the invested money.
5.3    The system of permanent training is a complement to the introduction of new working
technologies, thus developing the staff to become capable of implementing the Customs
Business strategy.
6.1    Ensuring maximum efficiency and integrity of revenue collection and management, by
developing and implementing appropriate policies, systems and procedures to collect and
account for revenue;
6.2    Taking into account the future collection and management of EU revenue and auditing of
procedures and accounts by both national and EU authorities.
7.1    The environment protection to be implemented through control of imports of dangerous
goods and waste materials, control of products which could endanger the ozone layer and
control of trade with radioactive materials;
7.2    Supervision and prevention of endangered species of flora and fauna according to the
Washington Convention 1983 - CITES.
8.1    Collection of statistical data represents indispensable basis for making important
economic decisions at national level (macroeconomic policy for improvement of the
national economy);
8.2    Follow up of statistical data from international sources assist in finding new markets for
domestic goods, follow tup world flows of legitimate, but also illegitimate trade.



Annex 12
Page 1 of 2
Macedonia, FYR at a glance                                                                       4?7?00
Europe &   Lowet-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                             Maoedomia.  Centtral middle-
FYR       Asia  income          Development diamond'
1998
Population. mrid-ear  n                                  2.0       474      2,2t3                  LiFe expectancg
GNP per capita f/lv4whod e-$                           1800       2,310     1,230
GNP (f/A(s method   Z1Is                                          1.0Z8     2,803
Aveeage annual gtowth. 19S2-98
Population i,Y                                           0.8        01         1.1
Labor force (t.r/                                         1.2       0.6        1,5     GNP                               Gross
per                             primarg
Most recetrt estimate (latest year available. 199248)                                  capita                           rnxonx
Povertg gpMt0'pW (p7'?
Urban population                                                    so 5ff% bFo,  61  6t  58
Life expectancg at birth [w.Ps,/                          72        eS         68
Infant mrortaltg /y t1tei>MfAs                            is        23         38
Child mnalnutrition /r1, l'AA? ml. i w                                -                         Acoess to safe water
Access to safe watet fi   ac                               .          ..       75
Illiteracg (      a                                        ..         4        14
Gross primary enrollment f                                99       0oo        103           _   Al'daxre                           .
Mate                                                   100         101      105         -                -
Female                                                  98         99       100      _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977    187       1US7       1i85
Economic ratios'
GoP g2ntowcr/,  a.                                                  3,7       3,5
Gross domestic investmentfGDP                              ,       224       231
Exports of goods and servicestGDP                                  537S       43.1                     Trade
Gross domestic savingsGaDP                                           .1       8.6
Gross national savingslGDP                                         161 0      15V;
Current account batanc.GOP                                         -74        8.8        o
Interest pagmentslGDP                                               1.9        t       Domaestic                     Investment
Total debtt.DP                                                     34.1      43.3       avings
Total debt serviceferports                                 .        9,4       g.2
Present value of debttGOP                        L,
Present value of debtlexports                                                  -.
Indebtedness
1877.87 1588-53       1997       19S8  1555-03
GOP                                     ..       ..       1.4       2.S         ..          -        lex     FJ1
GNP per capita                         ..        ..      0.8        2.1         ..          -                n
xWports of goods and services          ..        ..    32.7        15.0         ..                  ;N______ _________
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997       1938      Growth rates of output and investmen,
AgricuIture bl                                   ..       ..       13.0       12.0     se.
industry bf                                      ..       ..       34.0      35.0      40 .
Manufacturing                                   ..       ..         ..
Services bl                                      ..       ..       53.0      53.0
-20- .19  In  I    04   07   It
Private consumption                              ..       ..       73.7      73.8      40
General government consumption                   ..       ..       17.2       17.6
Imports of goods and services                    ..       ..        51.1     57.6                        GOI      --0-- GDP
1977-87 1988-98         1997      1998       Growth rates of exports and imports
, Nca~  varsn4vciawk/
Agriculture                                      ..                 7.1        ..      40
Industig                                         ..       ..        0.6        ..    30
Manufacturing                                   ..       ..         ..        ..    20                                            .
Services                                                             1.5               1e.
Private consumption                              .         ..        3.1       3.2      0 
General government consumption                   ..                -2.4        4.1    -1e-    93                      or    o
Gross domestic investment                        ..       .. ,      7.6       2.5    -20
Imports of goods and services                    ..       ..       28.9       12-8                    Exports    Imports
Gross national product                           ..        .        1.3        3.1
Nlote: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
'The diamonds show four ket indicators in the countrl fin bold) compared with its income-qroup averaqe. If data are missinq, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex 12
Page 2 of 2
Macedonia, FYR
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1387       1S37       1338       Inflation (%I
Consumer prices                                   ..       0*8                           to .                                          i
Implicit GDP deflator                                                 3.3        15       s              \
cr eisn  Abaa.dce                                                                        it° 
Current revenue                                                      34.9      333. 9                95
Current budget balance                                                0.9        0.1
Overall surplustdeficit                                              -0.4       -1.7                     G
TRADE
1977     1987       1997       1998       Esport and import levels lUSt
Total exports (fob)                                                 1,237      1.322     2500i
Raw materials                                                       147
Food and beverages                                                  109        105      000
Clothing and textile                                                261       363       ss.
Total imports (cifl                                         _         7 1,79   1914
Food                                             ..        -        242          .
Fuel and energy                                                     193        163       s09
Capital and intermediate                                            775        851
Export price index /9.-F=z                         .                  117       126              2        94   95   96 91   9*
Import price index  tItM-,P                                           114       122                  a Exports      a Imports
Terms of trade /Atrn=WJfl                                             102       104                                                    i
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1977     1937       1937       1398       Current account balance to GOP ratio
Exports of goods and services                      .         ..     1.385     1,453       x
Imports of goods and services                                       1.896     2.025           12  92   94   95   9    9    9*
0Resource balance                                                     -531     -572       .3       L.J
Met income                                                            -33        -17                    [i
Net current transfers                                                 291       300                      JL
Current account balance                                              -273      -289
Financing items (net)                                                 281       328
Changes in net reserves                                               g-8        39          -
Reserves including gold (Ssntnsf?                                    280        333
Conversion rate  FC;rfl J                                            69.4      74.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS                                                         _
1977     1987       1997       1938
Mqff0S^fZ                                                                                Composition of total debt. 1998 (US$ 1i
Total debt outstanding and disbursed               0        0       1,265      1.533      C              o  t
BRO                                              0         0         92        115                     134    115
IDA                                              0         0        145        179
Total debt service                                 0        0         120       124                            17         3
IBR                                              0         0         13        12
IDA                                              0         0          1          1                                        114
33414
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                  0         0          8        29
Officialcreditors                                0         0         74        113
Private creditors                                0         0         20        55
Foreign direct investment                                            16       167                                     2??
Portfolio equity                                 0         0          2         8                    320
World Bank program
Commitments                                      0         0        102        36      A - IBRD                        E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                    0         0         41         51     B - IDA    D - Other mlItilsteret   F - Privete
Principal repayments                             0         0          8         5      C - IMF                         G- Short-term
Net flows                                        0         0         34        46     _       _1 _
Interest payments                                0         0          6         9
j Net transfers                                     0        0         28         38
Development Economics                                                                                                         417100
al Calculated usinq market etchanQe rate; bl Share of GDP at factor cost.



MAP SECTION






IBRD 30919
Z. E 7  X  % q   j W  X           4 r    ,';,:-X.u S uSOUTHEAST EUROPE REGION
TRADE AND TRANSPORT
FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST
'C        -~~~~~~ ~EUROPE PROJECT
r  ~~-a  ~ ~ ,'.9,,0F,,-         L  9'\             10/~~~~~~               ~1 N
|DoQO 9'Siji A.ARINO | ,M _                                                                     MAAIN  TRADE PATTERNS
$767   0              $301                                                                                                                                                                                         N
N                              ~~~~~~~IMPORT AND EXPORT PATTERNS (1 998):
EXPORTS (CON,   -)                   MFORS (153. M. 0-
-40t   Wo  USA  i  S  ;,< 4 < g R.r-<> <.,,,, _gS- G                                                                                                                                                                                     T
/9     0"-  ,9~~~~~~-,Tr,oooooo--/9                                  Tmoo  I',      -
Ex                                                                       NIA                                                                                                                          P-1, IH-,,)'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o, 
10/2 1f1/2  IA                                                                                                    R--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~To,o   -Fade 019 4'U$
U  l7                Xe, j,a                          E   ,u                           EFr   11g--}  . 1 j7.,1  y              '>~- S(<                                    '       1l;l $*650np,[,  $65  m.; .                                                  PS.   $)  O1020       0
42Z4&P0fl                ~~~~~$1390                           Imoi
82                                                                                        ;                                                   > A aINTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
2 X <>                                                                                                      w 94   So 7, n 1 50     ;por0  M   MACRO-TRADE INDICATORS:
SAN MAR NO  -/   40/3 ~~~   6                       OS41-                                                                                                                                   bO12GDP PER CAPITA, 1998 (US$)
$240                                                                                                                                         I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~253
0    30'.         BULGARIA 
E9ort                                                  4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~LANA29  -.    1 .   1
19                  MACEDONIA ~~~~                        Ior  F0              ~           E~9.BOSNIA &                                                                         4.1    0.8      2.5    1 200
HERZEGOVINA           -       -        -
F,po,I,  5005  000                       - - - - -  -   - >99m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    BULGARIA              123      4.6     5.      1220
ALBANIA   ,       ~-' ' "O                                                                              -CROATIA                                                        200      44A     8.8    4520
0  - --       ,                 f                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~        ~~~~~~~~~FYR MACEDONIA  3.5  1.3  1.9    1290
- -    -  '                                                         ~~~~~~~        ~     ~~~~     ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~ROMANIA  38.2  8.3    11.8    1390
'40'       To USA
1Z5                             E,p.,k                                                                                                                                           0              10~~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 20030
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~t"-                                                                                                                     KILOMErERS
-~~~~~~~  C,,9,.                             - -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,   d                            x
4 ~ ~   ~    ~    ~    0           ~          4,'-'-,                             '' -    t              
-~~  0                                   9  ,                            99a9'o"o,., 000,9 0000.o"OO9xdomo0000ooo,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAY~W_






-1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Orntp'                                                                                                                          IBR D 31003
Ro                                                                                                                     6  iret
t ;  N !                                                            . 7,                                                                   N *E-
beta      ~~ RO                                    o-a vr            '-                                                                                           
'A                                                                                              .½k!Orodeo                     -.             ,           F -
I                                              I'- -l- I    I
>~~~~~~~~~~(%N tW                                                     ' ,    'A HE ZKAP T          <-Gu9f=o1ostn
t3~~~~~~~~~~~aj                            m isk    s   l._;\ G_Sa, eo X             il-              8e-                                                          orca,;                     ll
BL--ki-  B.nj ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~ ~               *--'
EUROE PRJEC -                                  Gr d sk    .    c¢ l i G<na Wnope Tr ~  ' K  -.    )o                                les   I I         Fe sonif  An                                -
@    W  NID P AN* N NM16EWl    j  kt                 Durt~~L.k. 
MAR                                    '4 HEURZPEG           INTA       N S F    . I .HORIConstant,,   CCnst..fo
_                    split  .    G  T         arEvA O               G9S         I L 5                                                                   x      j             l  ck
~               MbeirTe
A"R                                                                     Pi~~~~~~ptio      Dlbc  nreo  tin
SOUHESSTRSCUROE PROJECT                                                                                                                                               urgamsn   Kfso    Pip-~       
PACIITATONDRB IN SOUTHTEAnST\                                                                                         't
PAUEROPEA PRNSOJET CORDRSi                                                                                 - 
MPORROADST                                                               Erse-  oI               /     A   I                                                                           ue
MNJR PAUUR PROADS CT                                       JD Vr
LO AERET INLAD BOUMNDARIS                                                                                                          w 5 E  5  M~~iei 
SCDBe AE PSA LOTerr AND INRRCc pRSEd                                          ARAwReRB..Ae.I~.



