Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3402 MK
Development Credit Agreement
(Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project)
between
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
(the Borrower)
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association)
Dated January 10, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3402 MK
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 10, 2001, between the Borrower and the Association.
WHEREAS (A)
 the Borrower has entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) 
on February 10, 2000 with other Regional Countries (as hereinafter defined) confirming 
the Regional Countries’ commitment to a regional trade and transport facilitation 
program (the Regional Program);
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project which forms part of the 
Borrower’s activities under the Regional Program; 
(C)
to assist in financing the Project and other measures included in the 
Regional program, the Borrower intends to obtain financial assistance from other 
external sources in an amount of about $2,100,000 equivalent; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.  ‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association determines 
meets the 
requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 183 of the Board 
of Governors of 
the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996; and 
‘Participating Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such countries.”
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is 
not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any 
import of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is 
prohibited by a decision 
of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII 
of the 
Charter of the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Customs Reform Strategy” means the strategy satisfactory to the 
Association, adopted by the Borrower, describing the measures to be taken to 
strengthen MCA;, as the name may be amended from time to time with the agreement of 
the Association; 
(b)
“Environmental Management Plan” means the plan, satisfactory to the 
Association, adopted by the Borrower, describing the environmental mitigation, 
monitoring and institutional measure under the Project;
(c)
“ICIS” means the integrated customs information system of MCA to be 
supported under Part C of the Project; 
(d)
“MCA” means the Macedonia Customs Administration, an agency of the 
Borrower operating under MOF; 
(e)
“MOF” means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower;
(f)
“Regional Country” means each participant country in the Regional 
Program; 
(g)
“PIP” means the  Project Implementation Plan adopted by the Borrower, 
including the Customs Reform Strategy and the Environmental Management Plan, on 
[_______________] setting out measures required for implementation of the Project;
(h)
“PIT” means the Project Implementation Team, established within MCA and 
operating under the Project Manager; 
(i)
“Project Coordinator” means the Project Coordinator designated by the 
Borrower to be responsible for coordination of the activities of agencies of the 
Borrower under the Project;
Page  3
(j)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(k)
“Project Manager” means the head of the PIT;
(l)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letter dated 
April 7, 2000 and April 20, 2000 between the Borrower and the Association; 
(m)
“RSC” means the Regional Steering Committee, established by the 
Participating Countries under the MOU for the purposes of overseeing implementation of 
the Regional Program; 
(n)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and
(o)
“Website Coordinator” means the Website Coordinator designated by MCA for 
purposes of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seven million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
Page  4
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on  April 1 and  October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each April 1 and October 1 commencing on October 1, 2010, and ending on April 1, 2035. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on April 1, 2020 shall be 
one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years  
the level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to 
access the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of          
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned      
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through MOF and MCA, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate financial, administrative, environmental and technical 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the PIP, including the Customs Reform 
Strategy and the Environmental Management Plan, and the implementation program set 
forth in Schedule 4 of this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Page  5
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of 
the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, acting through the MCA, shall establish and 
maintain a financial management system including records and accounts and prepare 
financial statements in a format acceptable to the Association adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures for and in connection with the carrying out the 
Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower, acting through MCA, shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association who shall be appointed 
within six 
(6) months of the Effective Date of this Agreement;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of 
this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Association has 
received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be 
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
Page  6
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 
June 30, 2001, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly 
Project management reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected 
sources and applications of funds for 
the Project for the six-month period 
following the period 
covered by said report, and (B) shows separately 
expenditures 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the period 
covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
(B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; 
and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end 
of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days 
after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the MOU shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, terminated, waived or otherwise modified so as to affect 
materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform its obligations under 
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days 
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the PIT has been established with staff, (including a Project Manager, 
procurement officer, accountant, administrative and other personnel), functions and 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and with resources and a financial 
management system satisfactory to the Association; and
(b)
the Borrower has selected, for purposes of Section 4.01 of the Agreement, 
independent auditors satisfactory to the Association.   
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
Page  7
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Dame Gruev 14
9100 Skopje
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
               THE BORROWER  
By /s/ Goce Georgievski         
Authorized Representative
ASSOCIATION
By /s/  Christiaan J. Poortman                                 
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
     Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
 
(1)
Works 
   2,720,000
65%
(2)
Goods
   2,940,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
Page  8
100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 84% of local 
expenditures for other
items procured locally
(3)
Consultants’ services
    680,000
100%
 and 
training
(4)     Incremental Operating 
     80,000
90%
 Costs
(5)
Project Preparation 
     60,000
Amount due under 
Advance
Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement
 (6)
Unallocated
    520,000
 TOTAL
7,000,000  
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means the incremental operating 
costs of the PIT incurred on account of Project implementation, management and 
monitoring, including office equipment, supplies, materials and the cost of 
establishing the Project financial management and reporting system; and  
(d) 
the term “training” means training activities (other than consultants’ 
services) to be carried out under the Project, including the cost of workshops and the 
travel cost and per diem of the trainees.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for: (i) works under contracts costing less 
than $500,000 equivalent each; (ii) goods under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent each; (iii) contracts for consulting firms costing less than $100,000 
equivalent each; (iv) contracts for individual consultants costing less than $50,000 
equivalent each; (v) operating costs; and (vi) training, under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower, and (vi) 
training. 
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account, in 
the National Bank of the Republic of Macedonia, on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association. 
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a 
request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
Page  9
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account, or (B) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Credit Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
The term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equal to $1,000,000 to be 
Page  10
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that, unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to $500,000 until 
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account, plus the total amount of 
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal or exceed the equivalent of 
$2,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On 
the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit, minus the total amount of 
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the 
Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited 
in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed equivalent of $1,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Page  11
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) the reduction of the non-tariff costs of 
trade and the cost of transport at the Borrower’s borders; and (b) the prevention of 
smuggling and corruption at the border crossings of the Borrower.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Institutional Reform of Customs Administration
Implementation, through the provision of technical assistance, training and 
equipment, of measures for reform of customs services and administration, including: 
(a) improvement of the customs operating procedures; (b) implementation of 
organizational restructuring of MCA; and (c) inter-agency awareness and cooperation. 
Part B:
Trade Facilitation Development
Implementation, through the provision of technical assistance, training and 
equipment, of trade facilitation measures, including: (a) establishment of a regional 
web site in support of the Regional Program; and (b) implementation of measures to 
improve performance of personnel of shippers, transport operators and other agencies 
involved in trade facilitation.
Part C:
ICIS
Implementation, through the provision of technical assistance, training and 
equipment, of measures in support of ICIS, including: (a)  improvement and upgrading 
of software and hardware; (b) provision of works and communications equipment; (c)  
training of ICIS personnel; and (d) regional program to exchange information with 
other agencies and customs administrators. 
Part D:
Border-Crossing Facilities
(a)  Improvement and upgrading, through construction of facilities and provision 
of equipment and technical assistance, as needed, of the border crossings at 
Tabanovce, Deve Bair and Kafasan; and (b) enhancement of processing capacity at border 
crossings. 
Part E:
Project and Regional Program Support
Provision of support to the PIT in Project Implementation, including the 
provision of training and consultants’ and auditing services. 
***
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003. 
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines) and (b) the following provisions of this 
Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
Page  12
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and 
procured in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 1of this Part B.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract to be procured in accordance with the procedures 
referred to in Part B of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the following 
provisions of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Page  13
Services for the carrying out of audits under the Project may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
Services for design and for ICIS personnel training estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract may be prepared under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2  (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.
 Implementation Responsibilities
1.
The PIT, acting under the Project Manager, shall perform all technical 
responsibilities for Project Implementation, including: (a)  preparation of annual 
plan for project implementation; (b) preparation, with the assistance of consultants, 
of bidding and contract documents under the Project; (c) the maintenance of the 
Project financial records and accounts and arranging for the audit thereof; (d)  
preparation of the quarterly reports on Project progress, referred to in Part B of 
this Schedule; and (e) supervision of progress of project implementation.
2.
The Borrower, acting through MOF and MCA, shall insure that the PIT shall be 
maintained until the completion of the Project under terms of references and with 
staff and other measures satisfactory to the Association. 
3.
The Borrower shall ensure: (a) that each annual plan for Project implementation 
Page  14
referred to in paragraph (1) above shall be prepared after a review between the 
Borrower and the Association of progress in meeting the targets indicated  in the PIP, 
including the targets set forth in the Annex to this Schedule; and (b) that the 
inclusion of investments and other Project activities in said plan, as well as the 
procurement arrangements thereof, shall be made in agreement between the Borrower and 
the Association, taking into account the requirements set forth in the Environmental 
Management Plan.
4.
The Borrower shall: (a) maintain its participation in the RSC; and (b) inform 
the Association of actions taken at the RSC level which may affect the implementation 
of the Regional Program or of measures included in the PIP.
5.
The Borrower shall ensure the establishment by the Project Coordinator, by 
December 31, 2001, of mechanisms at all border agencies to provide the Website 
Coordinator with current information to be made available to custom users, on waiting 
times and opening hours at border crossing and customs regulations and procedures of 
border agencies.
B.
Reporting
The Borrower shall ensure: (a) the preparation by PIT for submission to the 
Association of quarterly reports on the progress of project implementation; and (b) 
the consolidation of said progress reports into semi-annual progress reports to be 
furnished to the Association and RSC.
C.
Monitoring
The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators included in the PIP, 
included those set forth in the Annex to this schedule, the achievement of the 
objectives of the Project; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, by October 15 of each year, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by November 15 of each year, or such later 
date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
Annex to SCHEDULE 4
Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall take all 
necessary measures to achieve the following targets:
(a)
The total number of customs declarations which result in a physical 
inspection by the MCA at its pilot inland terminal shall not exceed on a monthly 
basis: (i) 80 per cent by September 30, 2001; (ii) 60 per cent by September 30, 2002; 
and (iii) 40 per cent by September 30, 2003.
(b) 
The monthly number of trucks completing import clearance in less than 15 
minutes at its pilot inland terminal shall exceed: (i) 10 per cent by September 30, 
2001; (ii) 20 per cent by September 30, 2002; and (iii) 30 per cent by September 30, 
2003.
(c)
The number of trucks opened on a monthly basis at its pilot 
border-crossings shall not exceed: (i) 80 per cent by September 30, 2000; (ii) 65 per 
cent by September 30, 2001;  (iii) 50 per cent by September 30, 2002; and (iv) 35 per 
Page  15
cent by September 30, 2003. 
