                                      Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                                Report No: 35869

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                 (IDA-34020 PPFI-Q2190)

                                         ON A

                                        CREDIT

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 7 MILLION

                                        TO THE

                     FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA

                                        FOR A

               TRADE & TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTH EAST EUROPE




                                      May 25, 2006




Infrastructure Department
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

           (Exchange Rate Effective December 2005)

                  Currency Unit = Denar (MKD)
                        1 Denar = US$ 0.0194
                         US$ 1 = Denar 51.550

                        FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1 -    December 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

       ADPIC           Automated Data Processing Centre
       ASYCUDA         Automated System for Customs Data
       APL             Adjustable Program Lending
       MCA             Macedonian Customs Administration
       BCP             Border Crossing Point
       CAFAO           Customs and Fiscal Assistance Office
       CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
       CEE             Central and Eastern European
       EDI             Electronic Data Interchange
       EU              The European Union
       FIATA           Federation of International Forwarding Agents
       FMS             Financial Management System
       GDP             Gross Domestic Product
       GOM             Government of Macedonia
       ICIS            Integrated Customs Information System
       IRU             International Road Transport Union
       LAN             Local Area Network
       LPT             Local Project Teams
       MCA             Macedonia Customs Administration
       MOF             Ministry of Finance
       MOU             Memorandum of Understanding
       PE              Public Enterprise
       PIT             Project Implementation Team
       PMR             Project Management Report
       QAG             Quality Assurance Group
       RAU             Risk Analysis Unit
       RSC             Regional Steering Committee
       SECI            Southeast European Cooperative Initiative
       STAT            SECI/TTFSE Advisory Team
       TIR             Transport International Routier
       TOR             Terms of Reference
       TTFSE           Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe
       UNECE           United Nations Economic Commission for Europe
       USA             United States of America


                 Vice President:      Shigeo Katsu, ECAVP
              Country Director        Orsalia Kalantzopoulos, ECCU4
               Sector Manager         Motoo Konishi, ECSIE
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Zarko Bogoev, ECSIE

                  MACEDONIA, FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF
                Trade & Transport Facilitation in South East Europe (TTFSE)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
9. Partner Comments                                                              21
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            31
Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report                                            32

Map IBRD Nos. 30919 and 31003

Project ID: P070089                                                  Project Name: Trade & Transport Facilitation in South
                                                                     East Europe (TTFSE)
Team Leader: Zarko Bogoev                                            TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: May 25, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Trade & Transport Facilitation in South East             L/C/TF Number: IDA-34020; PPFI-Q2190
                            Europe (TTFSE)
   Country/Department: FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF                                        Region: Europe and Central Asia
                            MACEDONIA                                                                Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (100%)
                  Theme: Regional integration (P); Infrastructure services for private sector development (P); Other
                            accountability/anti-corruption (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/20/1999                                     Effective:                           02/26/2001
     Appraisal: 02/15/2000                                         MTR:
      Approval: 07/25/2000                                      Closing: 06/30/2004                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REP OF FYR MACEDONIA/MACEDONIAN CUSTOMS ADMINISTRATION
                                           (MCA)
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                         Ajay Chhibber
Sector Manager:                 Motoo Konishi                                  Eva Molnar
Team Leader at ICR:             Paulus A. Guitink                              Graham Smith
ICR Primary Author:             Zarko Bogoev; Sati Achath;
                                Madhu Nair


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the US$14.5 million project (Credit US$9.3 million) were to: (i) reduce non-tariff costs to
trade and transport; and (ii) reduce smuggling and corruption at border crossings. The project formed part
of a regional program for Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe (TTFSE) that aimed to
strengthen and modernize the customs administrations and other border control agencies in Albania, Bosnia
and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and Romania. Serbia
and Montenegro, first, and then Moldova joined the program later, bringing the total to eight countries. The
project was the result of a collaborative effort among the Government of Macedonia (GOM), The World
Bank, the European Union (EU), and the United States of America (USA).

The objectives were straightforward, clearly stated, important to the country's economic and social
development, and realistic in scale and scope. These objectives were expected to be achieved by: (i)
supporting Customs reform; (ii) strengthening mechanisms of interaction and cooperation between private
and public parties at regional, national and local levels; (iii) disseminating information and providing
training to the private sector; (iv) financing infrastructure and equipment at selected border crossings; and
(v) implementing, at pilot sites, an integrated set of new Customs procedures, information technology,
human resource management techniques, supporting infrastructure, and cooperation mechanisms for
agencies at border crossings. These actions have been common to all TTFSE program countries.

The project was consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Macedonia, discussed
by the Board on June 13, 2000 (Document No. 18162MK). The assistance strategy of the Bank
emphasized the three priority areas outlined in the Government's "National Development Strategy for
Macedonia":

(i)    Promoting Private Sector Growth. The highest priority was given to support for policy reforms to
further liberalize trade, eliminate direct government participation in the sector, and establish the
prerequisites for efficiency in markets. The Bank program supported economic policy reforms, including
de-licensing, regulatory and tax simplification, and competitive privatization, especially to prevent
opportunities for corruption;

(ii)   Increasing Effectiveness of the State. The Bank supported, as a key criterion for EU accession, the
strengthening of public administration. Its assistance focused on the role and organization of the state, and
on reforming public expenditure management. This included improving the transparency and accountability
in public finance management, developing the basis for a merit-based civil service system, and providing
instruments to address the existing weak governance in public sector; and

(iii) Alleviating Poverty and Developing Human Capital. The Bank supported building up programs
aimed at strengthening front line social services: basic health, primary education, social assistance, and
labor services.

The project was especially in line with the objectives (i) and (ii) above. It supported the restructuring of the
Macedonia Customs Administration (MCA) to better serve trade activities by reducing non-tariff transport
costs, lowering the price of imported goods, and improving the competitiveness of Macedonian products,
thereby promoting private sector growth and creation of new jobs in the country. The project also
supported the MCA in strengthening its tax collection capacity and enforcing several international
conventions relating to the environment, while reinforcing ongoing efforts against corruption. The border crossing
infrastructure improvements would allow a cost-efficient cross-border system with positive results for road
transport.



                                                      - 2 -

The project design reflected lessons learned from earlier projects in Macedonia and other countries in the
region. For example, the Transit Facilitation Project in Macedonia highlighted the need to: (i) tailor the
complexity of the project's design to what can be achieved under a single loan; (ii) ensure the capability of
implementing agencies; (iii) address issues perceived as real priorities by the borrower; and (iv) maintain
flexibility to ease implementation.

The project was not very complex in terms of design or implementation. It was very demanding, however,
because: (i) it required a high level of government commitment and good intra-, and inter- cross-border
agency coordination; (ii) the Project Implementation Team (PIT) team members had to take care of their
regular work in the MCA, in addition to their work on the project; (iii) lack of cooperation and coordination
with the Public Enterprise (PE) that possesses, operates and maintains the Border Crossing facilities; and
(iv) re-orienting Customs to become a more service oriented organization required a change in culture and
practice.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of five components, all related to achieving the project's objectives. These were
standard components replicated in all TTFSE projects.

Component I: Customs Administration Institutional Reform (US$2.0 million: 14% of the total
project cost)

Included activities to be financed by the US Government: (i) improvement of Customs procedures; (ii)
assistance to streamline operations at three border posts and one inland terminal on a pilot basis; (iii)
Customs training in new procedures, and training for interagency awareness and cooperation; and (iv)
organizational restructuring of the MCA.

Component II: Trade Facilitation Development (US$0.4 million: 3% of the total project cost)

Included: (i) provision of technical assistance and advisory services to trade and international transport
participants through the Economic Chamber; (ii) improvement of communication between border control
agencies and the trading community by using a virtual forum; and (iii) provision of equipment to support
information availability.

Component III: Improvement of Integrated Customs Information System (ICIS) (US$5.6 million:
39% of the total project cost)

Included: (i) hardware and works for ICIS and communication improvement; (ii) software and assistance
for information system improvement; (iii) ICIS personnel training; and (iv) a regional program of
experience-sharing. This component was aimed at stimulating regional and interagency cooperation.

Component IV: Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities (US$5.9 million: 40.8% of the total project
cost)

Included: (i) upgrade of the border crossing at Tabanovce; (ii) improvement of Deve Bair border crossing;
(iii) improvement of Kafasan border crossing; (iv) equipment for enhancing the processing capacity at



                                                   - 3 -

Customs stations, and improving the MCA's training capacity; and (v) design and supervision of the civil
works.

Component V: Program and Project Implementation (US$0.5 million: 3.3% of the total project cost)

Included the services required to support the regional and national implementation of the project. The
regional support consisted of secretariat services to the RSC. The national support comprised the services
of an auditor and procurement consultants, the establishment of a financial management system, and
training for the PIT.

3.4 Revised Components:

The components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Satisfactory.There was no official assessment of the quality at entry by the Quality Assurance Group
(QAG). The ICR deems the quality at entry to be satisfactory and the project as well conceived.

As mentioned in the earlier section, the project objectives were consistent with the CAS and the
Government priorities, and met the critical needs of Macedonia's trade and transport sector. The quality of
project design was generally adequate to meet the project's objectives. During preparation of the project,
major risk factors and lessons learned from other earlier projects in Macedonia and other countries were
considered and incorporated into the project design.

The project was prepared in collaboration and consultation with exporters, importers, producers and
consumers, road transport operators, freight forwarders/shippers, traders organizations and MAKPRO,
MOF and MCA, Ministry of Transport and Communications, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water
Economy, as well as sanitary and veterinary inspection agencies, and Fund for National and Regional
Roads. In addition, consultations were held with other key stakeholders such as the European Union
(PHARE), the US Government; the International Road Transport Union (IRU) and the Federation of
International Forwarding Agents (FIATA); and private companies and populations in the vicinity of the
borders. This kind of extensive stakeholder consultations and the participatory process in project
preparation substantially contributed to the quality and readiness at entry.

During project preparation, three project designs were considered:

      Regional Program of Investment Projects: A regional program of coordinated border crossing
facilitation projects was more advantageous and was selected since it was expected to: (i) generate
substantial benefit spill-over to customs users, producers, and consumers in the trade partner countries of
Macedonia; (ii) allow the program countries to share information and introduce more consistent customs
and border control procedures/operations; (iii) be flexible enough to respond to country differences, the
pace of European integration, and the impact of the EU enlargement process; (iv) enable the Bank to
coordinate with other donors that also implement regional programs; and (v) minimize project
implementation/supervision costs by near-simultaneous implementation.

      Separate Individual Projects Carried Out by Each Country: The possibility of preparing
independent projects for each participating country was reviewed and rejected since the achievement of
overall project objectives would be greatly aided by simultaneous standardization and harmonization of
cross-border institutions, operations, and legal frameworks among countries and with the EU.



                                                     - 4 -

     Regional Adaptable Program Lending (APL): A regional or "horizontal" APL, would have enabled
sequential entry of countries in the Program. This horizontal APL, however, was judged to be unfeasible
because: (i) such delegation by the Board was thought unlikely; and (ii) the determination of the future
value of performance indicators to include potential borrowers to the program would have been a delicate
and risky task, given the inherent complexity of the program.

For the above reasons, the first alternative was preferred.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Satisfactory. Overall, the project outcome was satisfactory.

In general, the project met its development objectives through: (i) its support to Customs reform and
improved interaction between private and public sectors; (ii) dissemination of information and training to
private sector; (iii) financing of infrastructure and equipment; and (iv) implementation at pilot sites of
integrated Customs procedures and new information technology, which has contributed to reduce non-tariff
costs to trade and transport. The project has also contributed to reducing smuggling at border crossings
through the use of selective examination and border control equipment.

Anecdotal evidence has shown that, through supporting electronic data interchange, the project has
enhanced processing transparency, thus reducing corruption opportunities at border crossings. Further
strengthening of the Customs Information System, as well as enhancing inter-agency information exchange
will further reduce corruption opportunities.

The implementation of the border crossing rehabilitation component has created a proper flow of traffic and
space for vehicle inspection/processing, thus expediting the border crossing time. At the same time, the
physical improvements contributed to better working conditions of Customs front line officers. Similarly,
implementation of ICIS contributed to accelerate the speed in processing customs clearance and faster
transmission of statistics and risk analyses to/from HQ.




                                                     - 5 -

The details are as follows:

Part A: Institutional Reform of Customs Administration

      Indicators          1999      2000        2001        2002      2003        2004      2005
                          Act. Targ. Act. Targ. Act. Targ. Act. Targ. Act. Targ. Act. Targ. Act.
1. Development Objective Achievements
Revenue Collected/        297     300   442   330  381    360  586  400  578    400  800  400  680
Customs Staff (000)
Total MCA                  2.1    1.9   1.3   1.8   1.4   1.7  1.4 <1.5  1.7    <1.5 1.4 <1.5 1.67
Cost/Revenue Collected
(%)
Salaries/Revenue           1.5    1.4   0.9   1.3   0.9   1.2  1.1  1.0  1.0    1.0  0.97 1.0 1.14
Collected (%)
Trade Volume/Number       4,100 5,200 2,553 5,600 2,199 6,100 3,102 N/A 2,955   N/A 3,967 N/A 4,891
of Officers (US$ mil.)
Annual Number of           324    400   353   550  317    650  N/A  800  355    800  434  800  414
Declarations/Custom
Staff
Value of Recorded         1,795 2,110 1,582 2,287 1,296 2,477 N/A   N/A 1,833   N/A 2,290 N/A 2,794
Imports (US$ mil.)
Value of Recorded         1,190 1,515   660  1,696 573   1,895 N/A  N/A  733    N/A 1,032 N/A 1,393
Exports (US$ million)



Performance Indicators and Development Objective Achievements

     The revenue collected/customs staff increased from $297,000 in 1999 to $680,000 in 2005.
     Total MCA cost/revenue collected (%) was 1.67 in 2005 compared to 2.1 in 1999, even though
      it was a little higher than the target of <1.5.
     Salaries/revenue collected (%) was 0.97 in 2004, which met the target of 1.0, and 1.14 in
      2005 which fell short of the same target. However, this was a substantial improvement compared to
      1.5 in 1999.
     Trade volume/number of staff ($000/staff) increased from $4.1 million in 1999 to $4.8 million in
      2005.
     Annual Number of Declarations/Custom Staff increased from 324 in 1999 to 414 in 2005, even
      though this was almost half of the target.
     Value of Recorded Imports: The value increased from $1795 million in 1999 to US$2794 million in
      2005.
     Value of Recorded Exports: The value decreased from $1191 million in 1999 to US$1393 million in
      2005.




                                                     - 6 -

       Indicators          1999      2000     2001        2002        2003       2004        2005
                            Act. Targ. Act. Targ. Act. Targ. Act. Targ. Act. Targ. Act. Targ. Act.
 2. Pilot Sites Clearance Performance
 1. MCA Performance
 Kumanovo Pilot Inland Terminal
 Import Clearance Time      280    240  196 150   244   100  173   <60   103   <60   120  <60   100
 (min.)
 Physical Examination       100    100  100  80   70    60   83    <40   32.6  <40   35.4 <40   34.5
 (%)
 Trucks cleared in less       0     0   4.9  10    0    20    1    >30     0   >30     0  >30    0
 than 15 min. (%)
 Irregularities/No. of        3     5    0   8     0    10    0    >12   22.6  >12   41.4 >12   40.5
 Examinations (%)
 Tabanovce Pilot Border Crossing
 Truck Examination (%)      100    80   100  65   N/a   50   58    <35   41.2  <35    18  <35   18
 Irregularities/No. of        8     8    0   10   N/a   10    0    >10     0   >10     0  >10    1
 Examinations (%)
 Average Border Exit         20    18        16   N/a   13   30    <10     9   <10     6  <10    6
 Time (min.)
 Average Border Entry        60    50   61   40   N/a   30   74    <30    24   <30    20  <30   20
 Time (min.)
 Surveyed Occurrence of
 Corruption (%)
 Deve Bair Pilot Border Crossing
 Truck Examination          100    80        65   N/a   50   32    <35   28.3  <35   7.5  <35    8
 Irregularities/No. of        8     8        10   N/a   10    0    >10     0   >10    25  >10   20
 Examinations
 Average Border Exit         20    18   18   16   N/a   13    6    < 10    7   < 10    8  < 10   7
 Time
 Average Border Entry        60    50   333  40   386   30   167   <30    38   <30    37  <30   35
 Time
 Surveyed Occurrence of
 Corruption (%)
 Kafasan Pilot Border Crossing
 Truck Examination          100    80        65   N/a   50   100   <35   100   <35   50.5 <35   45
 Irregularities/No. of        8     8        10   N/a   10    0    >10     0   >10     0  >10    0
 Examinations
 Average Border Exit         20    18   12   16   N/a   13   12    <10    10   <10     7  <10    7
 Time
 Average Border Entry        60    50   285  40   N/a   30   20    <30    19   <30    33  <30   15
 Time
 Surveyed Occurrence of
 Corruption (%)


Pilot Site Performance

Kumanovo Inland Terminal. The import clearance time at the Kumanovo inland terminal had improved
from 280 minutes level in 1999 to 100 minutes average in 2005, even though it was much higher than the
target of <60 minutes. Likewise, physical examination was 32.6% in 2003, 35.4% in 2004, and 34.5% in
2005, thereby meeting the target of <40%. The % of irregularities detected was 22.6 in 2003, 41.4 in 2004,
and 40.5 in 2005, and they met the target of >12. On the other hand, the % of trucks cleared in <15
minutes was zero.




                                                   - 7 -

Tabanovce. The performance at Tabanovce in the truck exam improved in 2004 and 2005 at 18%,
compared to 100% in 1999, and met the target of <35%. The rate of irregularities detected increased from
zero in 2003 and 2004 to one in 2005. The average entry time of 20 minutes in 2004 and 2005 exceeded
the target of <30 minutes.

Deve Bair. The percentage of truck exam met the target of <35% in 2004 and 2005 at 7.5% and 8%
respectively. The number of irregularities detected was 25 in 2004 and 20 in 2005, which met the target of
>10. The average entry time at the border could not meet the target of <30 minutes in 2003, 2004, and
2005.

Kafasan. Trucks exam percentage could not meet the target of <35% in 2004 and 2005. They were much
higher at 50.5% and 45% respectively. Number of irregularities detected was constantly zero, while the
average border entry time was 15 minutes, and met the target of <30 in 2005.

Risk Analysis. The Risk Analysis Unit (RAU) has increased its cooperation and has established an
efficient exchange of information with other departments; especially with the Intelligence Unit and both
units have moved into adjacent office space in the new ADPIC building which will help to improve
coordination. RAU is working on risk profiles and establishment of selectivity criteria. The system has been
regularly updated and reviewed, based on the criteria and results of regular analyses. With assistance from
the STAT, the RAU is preparing monthly reports for irregularities for the pilot border crossing points at
Tabanovce, Deve Bair and Kafasan. In January 2005, RAU introduced a "blue channel" where only
random post-release control is exercised and RAU is monitoring the procedure. Similar to the effective red
channel criteria developed by the RAU, this should lead to an increase in immediate release with targeted
controls being executed after release in the form of documentary reviews and importer audits. The unit is
now fully capable of working independently.

Part B: Trade Facilitation (TF) Development

1. Strengthening of Public-Private Partnership

This component supported the activities of MAKPRO, gathering main stakeholders from the private sector,
Chamber of Economy, Association of Freight Forwarders, and the public sector, Foreign Trade Center,
Ministry of Finance, and MCA. The outputs included:

     An extensive public outreach effort to raise awareness about trade and transport facilitation over the
      years 2001-2004, in the form of articles and promotional editorials published in magazines such as
      Newspaper- "Nova Makedonija","Utrinski vesnik", "Vecer", "Fakti", "Ekonomski Magazin"; TV
      "Kanal 5", "MTV"; Radio- "Kanal 77", " Macedonian National Radio".

     Active regional opportunities to cooperate. The PRO committees of Southeast Europe met three to
      four times a year regionally to discuss the Trade Facilitation component and other trade facilitation
      issues. They also met regularly on a bilateral basis to address urgent issues and discuss cooperation.

     The willingness by the private sector to match grant funding of the Trade Facilitation component.
      The PRO Committees provided a full matching of donor contribution that was directly targeted to
      them, ensuring their active commitment to the program.

     The elaboration and release of a joint information platform for users (www.ttfse.org). The website,



                                                     - 8 -

       designed and maintained regionally provides information on requirements of many border agencies in
       Southeast Europe. Multiple regional coordination meetings were organized to define and build the
       platform.

      Three exchange programs to the US focused on border issues, supply chain management and
       security, and use of analytical tools (trade facilitation audits) to review their present status.

Regional Website. The TTFSE regional website is operational and was loaded with trade and transport
information relevant to the business community. However, some parts have not yet been completed. The
reorganization of the Chamber which ceased to have mandatory membership and is now transforming itself
into a market oriented organization has caused some disturbances in the web maintenance as well as in the
work of MAKPRO which is trying to find its place within the new Chamber. In the meantime, all
institutions responsible for providing information to the web have been instructed on how to update their
information on the web.

2. Improvement of the Performance of Trade Facilitation Agents

Training and Seminars

In 2004 the Economic Chamber of Macedonia and MAKPRO completed the conventional training program
for transport operators, freight-forwarders, and border agencies, delivering 18 seminars (14 in Skopje and
four elsewhere in Macedonia) to 398 participants from 128 companies. In addition to the standard seminar
contents, some specific topics such as certificate of origin, and arbitration have been included in the
program. The feedback received from the participants showed a very high degree of satisfaction with the
content and usefulness of the seminars. A good cooperation was developed with the Customs
Administration and four seminars were specially organized for the representatives of the Customs Offices
throughout Macedonia.

The training manual has been translated, and is being distributed to the participants in the ongoing
seminars. The sessions started in June, with the first two modules completed in October 2005. The training
for transport operators and freight-forwarders was carried out in September 2005.

                          Training                                Units
             Seminar Units                                          55
             Seminar Units: Attendance                             933
             Seminar Units: Cities Reached                          14

             Public Outreach
             Articles                                               44
             TV                                                      4
             Radio                                                   2
             Other                                                   3
             Total Activities                                       53




                                                       - 9 -

Global Facilitation Partnership Distance Learning Initiative (GFP-DLI )    1




The Economic Chamber of Macedonia still has no access to GFP-DLI, but it is expected to be realized
under TTFSE II.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1 - Customs Administration Institutional Reform

(i)   Improvement of Customs Procedures. The main achievement was the establishment of RAU and
implementation of selectivity at all inland terminals within the Automated System for Customs Data
(ASYCUDA) through the green, yellow and red channel (blue channel is still a pilot). Selectivity at the
border crossing points is implemented using the procedure of primary and secondary control of the
passengers and private vehicles.

(ii)  Assistance to Streamline Operations at Three Border Posts and One Inland Terminal on a Pilot
Basis. The project financed study tours for two high ranking customs officials; and organized training for a
large number of customs officials on new Customs procedures.

(iii) Customs Training in New Procedures, and Training for Interagency Awareness and
Cooperation. Enhanced cooperation among the border agencies involved in clearance procedure achieved
greater awareness of each other's functions and responsibility.

(iv)  Organizational Restructuring of the MCA. Introduced an internal control, through Sector for
Professional Responsibility; developed investigative capacity; strengthened post release audits through
implementation of blue channel review within ASYCUDA; and provided training for operational staff.

Achievement for this component is satisfactory.

Component II - Trade Facilitation Development

See Section 4.1 (B)

Achievement for this component is satisfactory.

Component III - Improvement of Integrated Customs Information System (ICIS)

(i)   Hardware and Software Improvement. Servers have been transferred and installed in the new
Automated Data Processing Centre (ADPIC) building and the IT sector staff has moved into the new
building. A demo version of the ASYCUDA World from UNCTAD has been tested by MCA, but no
decision has been made so far on the provision and installation of the full system. The IT department was
advised to visit Moldovan Customs to see the ASYCUDA World system in function before making any
decision. In the meantime, ASYCUDA++ is functioning well for MCA purposes.

(ii)  ICIS Personnel Training. The ASYCUDA training was completed in accordance with the contract.
Training for selectivity module of ASYCUDA was realized in Geneva in October 2004. The training for 11
Customs officers in Java programming language was delivered in May 2004.

Achievement for this component is satisfactory.




                                                   - 10 -

Component IV - Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities

(i)   Upgrade of the Border Crossing at Tabanovce. Completed the rehabilitation and construction of a
new truck terminal; and improved the power supply.

(ii)  Improvement of Deve Bair Border Crossing. Upgraded the existing facility; improved the power
supply; and completed advanced signaling.

(iii) Improvement of Kafasan Border Crossing. Made the newly built BCP operational and furnished
the new building.

(iv)  Equipment for Enhancing the Processing Capacity at Customs Stations, and Improving the
MCA's Training Capacity. Surveillance and inspection equipment were procured and improved the
training capacity of MCA.

(v)   Design and Supervision of the Civil Works. Design and supervision of works at three border
crossings were completed.

Achievement for this component is satisfactory.

Component V - Program and Project Implementation

This component comprised services for the regional and national implementation of the project.

Regional Implementation

The Macedonian TTFSE team actively participated in the RSC meetings involving high government
officials from the TTFSE member countries. By 2005, nine RSC meetings had been conducted - in Skopje,
Bucharest, Sofia, Tirana, Savtat (Croatia), Belgrade, Chisinau (Moldova), Sarajevo (Bosnia and
Hertzegovina) and Milocer (Serbia and Montenegro).

The meeting of the TTFSE Steering Committee Working Group on Exchange of Information among
neighboring countries was conducted in 2000 in Skopje. Representatives of TTFSE Countries and
observers of USA STAT and the Bank were among the participants.

National Implementation

The implementing agency was MCA within the Ministry of Finance. The Customs Administration
management appointed a Project Manager and established PIT covering procurement, loan management
and reporting functions acceptable to the Bank. The Project Coordinator was the General Director of
Customs Administration, who chaired coordination meetings of the various border control agencies and
managed their input, and represented the country at the RSC. The Economic Chamber managed the Trade
Facilitation Component, and provided a Facilitation Coordinator and Website Coordinator, who interacted
with the Project Manager for the implementation of the component.

Prior to credit effectiveness, a financial management system was established for accounting, financial
reporting, planning and budgeting, and the PIT carried out the respective activities. The PIT prepared all
the quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports using the more detailed Project Management Reports (PMRs).



                                                  - 11 -

The PIT produced these reports, in general, within the 45 day limit after the end of each quarter. In addition
and as required, an auditing consultant acceptable to the Bank was appointed to audit the TTFSE project.

The PIT had adequate internal controls for the project, including regular reconciliation of bank accounts,
adequate segregation of duties, proper accounting policies and procedures and reconciliation of
disbursement summaries of the Bank with project accounting records.

Achievement for this component is satisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The project had an estimated net present value of US$4.7 million compared to an estimated US$1.7 million
at appraisal, based on the methodology used during appraisal. Traffic grew strongly on Corridor X, and
time reduction was significant at all pilot site locations. This contributed to a higher rate of return (34
percent) than originally anticipated (16 percent). It is worth noting that in line with the overall project
objective of facilitating trade, fYR Macedonia experienced solid trade expansion during the project life,
which is not considered directly as part of the analysis. It is likely that the estimated trade benefit equivalent
to 20 percent of transport benefits used in the evaluation is an understatement of the actual impact of
improved border crossing.

Costs. The project costs spread over more years than expected as a result of slow disbursement, the 2001
Civil conflict and as such the discounted cost was less than originally anticipated. From an economic point
of view, the total project cost, excluding taxes, was reduced to US$10.7 million versus a US$12.2 million
original cost estimate.

Project Benefits. The project expected two types of benefits: (i) lower transport costs due to the diminution
of waiting times at border crossings and inland terminals; and (ii) economic benefits of trade expansion
resulting from the project.

Trade and Transport Cost Reductions. The annual savings on transport costs at the pilot Macedonian
border crossings and the inland terminal under the project are estimated at US$2.4 million in 2006. Delays
at pilot border crossings and the pilot inland terminal have been substantially reduced as shown by Key
Performance Indicators in Annex 1. Other locations benefited from the information system improvement,
although monthly measurements are not available. The daily unit cost used in the original economic
evaluation (US$250 per day) was too low. Further review led to a regional value estimated at a minimum
of US$300, as indicated in the 2004 TTFSE Progress Report. The Macedonian Road Transport
Association, AMERIT, has confirmed the cost of assumption of US$300 per day. Some countries of
Southeast Europe have a daily rate closer to US$350 a day while comparable countries like Bulgaria have
an estimated cost of US$300, based on their Road Transport Association estimate.

Economic Impact of Increased Trade. The links between trade facilitation, trade expansion, and Customs
revenue collection clearly exist but are difficult to quantify, due to the multiplicity of other factors
influencing the macro-economic development and trade of the TTFSE countries. Company competitiveness,
in particular their ability to deliver reliably their inputs in international supply chain, depends nonetheless
on their capacity to assess border transaction cost (direct and time cost) with a fair degree of certainty.
Since 1999, fYR Macedonia and other countries involved in the TTFSE program enjoyed very strong
growth of their trade volumes. In fYR Macedonia, trade increased from US$2.5 billion (2000) to US$4.89
billion (2005), with export doubling to reach US$1.3 billion, while imports grew to US$2.7 billion. In the
meantime, Customs collected revenues increased from US$442 million to US$680 million, despite
reductions in tariff rates, illustrating their ability to better capture legitimate trade.



                                                         - 12 -

For the purpose of the economic rate of return calculation a very conservative 20 percent of additional
transport benefits (or about US$0.5 million per annum from 2005) linked to increased trade was added, as
per the approach used during appraisal. The 20 percent coefficient is based on research (Venables)
available at the time of appraisal and considered appropriate by peer reviewers. Recent research in this
field (Trading on Time - January 26, 2006 - WB) indicates that, on average, one day of delay reduces trade
by at least 1 percent. Considering Macedonian trade of US$3.6 billion, a reduction of one day could
translate into U$36 million of additional trade. Considering the significant reduction in border crossing and
clearance time, the consequent trade increase and the trade gain economic benefit linked to shorter time and
improved market access are likely to have been significant, albeit difficult to quantify. Accordingly, the
ICR economic evaluation retained the conservative appraisal assumption instead.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
The fiscal impact of the project is considered positive, as a result of continuous performance monitoring
and new infrastructure at selected sites. The Customs administration increased their collections by US$270
million between 2001 and 2004 due to trade growth and a large program of activities, including but not
limited to TTFSE. The overall efficiency indicators (See Development Indicators) also underline significant
progress in the cost effectiveness of Customs, making the Macedonian Customs one of the most cost
efficient in the region (only 1.67 percent of revenue collected). Since the Customs administration is not a
revenue earning entity, no Financial Rate of Return was calculated. Part of the increase in revenue
collection can be associated with the enhanced processing by Customs. The calculation of direct fiscal
impact was however not possible since many factors played a role (trade increase, reduction in tariffs, free
trade agreements) and attribution of impact would be highly subjective.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Substantial. The project focused on procedural changes at the border, and the trade facilitation role of
Customs. It created awareness on the importance of cross-border cooperation among neighboring countries.
The project was also instrumental in improving dialogue among Customs administrations within the region.


The project facilitated the implementation of the new Customs Code, adoption of simplified and standard
Customs and border inspection procedures, such as risk analysis and selectivity procedures, and
introduction of green, yellow, and red channels. Customs staff received training in ASYCUDA and on
using modern equipment, with new procedures and new systems which were tested during the life of the
project.

Monitoring the performance of the Customs administration using key performance indicators has led to
substantial institutional development impact. Even though these indicators were initially tested on four pilot
sites, they have been extended to all the Customs Offices in Macedonia.

The project was instrumental in creating local project teams, which were semi-informal structures with
representatives of each administration working at border/customs sites (Customs, Veterinary, Police,
Phyto-sanitary). The Project, also, provided technical assistance and advisory services to trade and
international transport participants through MAKPRO Committee.

Finally, the three-year Users Survey comparative results, published on the TTFSE regional website,
provided a diagnostic of the overall Customs environment from the users' perspective in a transparent
                                                             2


manner, thus contributing to a substantial improvement of the dialogue between Customs and its clients.




                                                   - 13 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

A. Positive Factors

(i)   The prospect of becoming a member of the EU on the part of all the TTFSE countries was a major
incentive, significantly motivating the ownership of, and the high level of commitment to the project.

(ii)  The preparation of the TTFSE Program was preceded by the Southeast Europe Cooperation
Initiative (SECI) sponsored by the USA and the Stability Pact. The TTFSE was designed to mesh with
co-financing from the USA under SECI and seen as the first regional program under the Stability Pact.
This gave the projects under the program high credibility and visibility.

(iii) The regional approach of the TTFSE Program, including the creation of a Regional Steering
Committee where the performance of individual projects could be compared with the performance of
neighboring countries and the sharing of experience and lessons learned created peer pressure among the
participating countries, which in turn generated a competitive spirit and motivated them to perform better.

(iv)  Strengthening the role of the private sector, especially with the emergency of PRO-Committees
under SECI, and the increased professionalism of operators through training, certification, and the web-site
under the project provided the beginning of a private sector watch-dog function, monitoring government
performance and breaking down the resistance to data sharing in the sector.

B. Negative Factors

(i)   The dramatic increase in oil prices, not foreseen during project preparation, affected the
achievement of regional performance indicators related to reduction of transport costs. Similarly, the drop
of the US dollar vis-a-vis the Euro had not been foreseen when establishing the targets. These situations
decreased the usefulness of the originally defined indicators.

(ii)  Civil Conflict in 2001. Implementation of the project was behind schedule because of the delay
resulting from the civil conflict which lasted for about a year in 2001. As a result of the conflict, access to
some border pilot sites was difficult or impossible. At the same time, for security reasons the SECI/TTFSE
Advisory Team (STAT) was redeployed to neighboring countries during the conflict, and was thus unable
to constantly help MCA set up the procedures to collect the performance indicators in accordance with
standards set by the Bank (however, the STAT had continued to support and liaise with PIT and MCA
management from Sofia and through meetings organized at the border with Bulgaria). The Bank's
supervision missions to Macedonia were similarly banned until November 2001, and partial project
supervision was undertaken by the field team member.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
A. Positive Factors

(i)   High Ownership from MOF. As mentioned in Section 3.1, the Minister of Finance was the Project
Coordinator and the MOF was highly involved in the project. As a result, the Bank could approach them
directly to resolve outstanding issues. The Ministry's support ensured a high level of government
commitment.




                                                     - 14 -

(ii)  High Degree of Cooperation from Some Agencies. The project benefited from a high level of
cooperation from various Ministries and agencies. The Council of Ministers was supportive in passing
relevant Acts and resolutions to promote the project.

B. Negative Factors

(i)   The Closing Date of the Project was Extended Twice for a Total Period of 18 Months. The first
extension was for one year from June 30, 2004 to June 30, 2005. This was necessitated because of the
delay in implementation resulting from the civil conflict in 2001. The second extension was for six months
to December 31, 2005, in order to complete the upgrading of Tabanovce Border Crossing.

(ii)  Delays in Civil Works. The reasons for the delay in completing the upgrading of Tabanovce
Border Crossing were twofold: (i) the failure of the public administration to timely provide the necessary
permits and to execute the land expropriation; and (ii) the contractor's inadequate organization of works.
The civil works contract for the ADPIC was delayed because of several changes in the design of the
building. Execution of works at Deve Bair experienced delays due to the problems with the issuance of
construction permits for demolition of a duty free shop and for external lighting. The demolition could not
be performed because of the unclear ownership. The works at Kafasan experienced some delays, because
the design did not reflect the real position of the existing buildings and therefore had to be adjusted.

(iii) Overlapping of Border Police with Customs' Activities. The Border Police collect all information
related to Customs (invoices, TIR carnet, and vehicle documents) from truckers that cross the border, and
stop the trucks after they pass Customs, for further examination. (Police interference - contrary to the
provisions of international conventions - which added about 45 minutes to the processing time of every
truck).

(iv) Disruptions in the organization of pilot sites' activities. The frequent rotation of border chiefs at the
pilot sites had created disruptions in the organization of pilot site activities. For example, this had made it
necessary for the coordinator to brief one or more of the Chiefs regarding the LPT and data collection
process prior to each collection.

(v) Public Enterprise's delay to finalize the Urban Plan. Implementation of the ICIS component,
particularly concerning the border physical improvements, was delayed mainly due to the time it took for
the Public Enterprise (the state administrator of public property, including border facilities) to finalize the
Urban Plan and agree on the final list of improvements to be included in the border design.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
See Section 5.2.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total final cost of the project was US$14.28 million compared with the PAD estimate of US$14.5
million. The difference is mainly due to the benefit of the exchange rate between SDR and US$. The Bank
financed US$10.18 million and the Government contributed US$4.12 million equivalent in local costs. The
U.S. Government financed a major TA component under the project.




                                                      - 15 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Likely. The sustainability of the project is rated as likely for the following reasons:

Considering that Macedonia is keen to become a member of the EU by 2010, it is highly likely that the
Government will take special efforts to sustain the achievements of the project for the smooth integration
with the EU. In addition, because of the wide publicity given on the results achieved, and the availability of
public information, the public is well aware of the recent developments and as a result, it will be difficult
for the Government to backtrack. The EU presence in support to the public administration and training will
continue under the CARDS Program, and in the meantime, Customs and Fiscal Assistance Office
(CAFAO) Mission of European Commission to Macedonia, will most likely continue to assist the MCA.

The MCA has improved its level of performance, in terms of reducing border crossing and clearance time
(and this is an irreversible event); increased its revenues because of better performance, implementation of
the reforms, reduction of smuggling, and especially greater awareness of the trade community and Customs
staff on the benefits of fair and transparent business activity. For example, the implementation of
ASYCUDA is expected to streamline the procedures and improve the performance of Customs staff. In
addition, the following factors would also strengthen the sustainability in Customs: (i) lately there has been
increased stability at senior management level; (ii) the project goals are now incorporated into Customs
objectives as part of its annual plan; (iii) key staff at pilot sites are supportive of the program reforms, and
capable of moving forward with support from upper management; and (iv) strong commitment from MOF
to the program will result in continued pressure on Customs to continue expansion of program concepts.

The monitoring approach using key indicators developed under the TTFSE is likely to be continued beyond
the project life, as the Customs management is determined to follow-up on performance monitoring, and to
gradually expand it to the main border and Customs inland locations in Macedonia. Actually it has been
expanded to BC Bogorodica, border located on corridor X (for the continued collection of data, the
Government has proposed that the MCA itself take on this function according to an expansion plan that
would gradually be applied to all borders and inland terminals within one year). In May 2005, the MOF
expressed Macedonia's commitment to be part of the second regional Trade and Transport Facilitation
Program, agreeing with its extended objectives for improving the customs procedure and increasing the
cooperation between all border agencies.

The TTFSE regional website is likely to continue, and several of the PRO committees underlined their
intention to commercialize the site to facilitate its sustainability. The updating of the site is not yet assured
however at this stage. Likewise, the Training Program will be continued beyond the project life. Regarding
border crossing facilities, appropriate funds are ensured for maintenance. The MCA has committed and
will continue to commit in the future appropriate funding (operation and maintenance) to maintain the
border crossing facilities improved under the project.

However, to ensure the long-term sustainability of the project, continuation of Customs reform,
continuation of cooperation among border agencies, communication with the trade community, and
enhancement of the role of MAKPRO Committee are very important.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
See Section 6.1.



                                                       - 16 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project was
satisfactory, especially in view of the setting of the project within a regional program. The identification
process focused on critical gaps and opportunities for interventions in the region's trade and transport
sectors and then sought to match these with the specific needs and interest of the GOM and the evolving
private sector. The identification and preparatory phase, however, took longer than planned because the
Bank team in charge of the TTFSE's overall program changed in the summer of 1999.

The project objectives were consistent with the CAS and Government's development priorities. The Bank
considered the adequacy of the project's design and technical, economic, institutional aspects, procurement
and financial management. Project design also took into account efforts with Customs reforms elsewhere
(e.g. crucial importance of software aspects), and was also built on similar projects which were undertaken
in parallel in six neighboring countries. In addition, the Bank assessed the project's risks and benefits.

The Bank had a consistently good working relationship with the Borrower during preparation and
appraisal. Consultation with and participation of major stakeholders was a key strength of the project.
Various public institutions in Macedonia as well as the business community were consulted during
preparation and were closely involved in project implementation arrangements. Further, close collaboration
and cooperation with neighboring countries and the EU was another key feature of the project.

The extensive stakeholder consultations and participatory approach used by the team were productive,
initiating a process of ownership that proved useful at the implementation stage, and introducing elements
for gradual incorporation into the work culture of MCA.

7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was satisfactory. The task
team was very proactive in the management of this project. Sufficient budget and staff resources were
allocated, and the project was adequately supervised and closely monitored. The Bank's relationship with
the client was cordial and productive. Review teams included specialists in transport, trade facilitation,
Customs, environment, financial management, and procurement. External consultants were used for
specific aspects of project components. Supervision was regularly joined by the US Customs Assistance
Team (STAT) at country and regional levels; the US expert deployed in Skopje brought his knowledge and
expertise in the Customs institutional reforms assessment, data collection, monitoring of performance
indicators, and selectivity. In addition, the US Customs support in Macedonia was strengthened by the
constant visits of the STAT regional manager located in Sofia.

The Bank team mission maintained constant contact with the representative of CAFAO, which was in
charge of implementing the EU assistance to the MCA funded by the CARDS program. The overall goal of
CAFAO was to assist the MCA in implementing the EU blueprint covering all thirteen aspects of customs
activities and procedures. The Bank and CAFAO regularly shared information on Customs assistance.

Project implementation progress was adequately reported, and implementation problems were identified
early and addressed proactively. Performance ratings given in the ISRs were realistic, and sufficient
attention was paid to the project's likely development impact. The Bank enforced credit covenants and
remedies were duly exercised. The task team showed flexibility in suggesting or approving needed modifications,
and successfully worked with the Government, implementing agencies, cofinanciers and other partners.




                                                     - 17 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory. Overall, the Bank performance was satisfactory during project preparation, appraisal and
implementation.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. The Borrower's performance in the preparation of the project was satisfactory. The Borrower
displayed the required level of commitment to the objectives of the project and covered the adequacy of
design and all major aspects, such as, technical, financial, economic, institutional, environmental and
sociological factors, including stakeholder commitment. The government officials and staff of the PIT
worked in full cooperation with the Bank's project team.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. The Government implementation performance was satisfactory. It was fully committed to
supporting the reforms and implementation of Customs and border management. MCA, which was
responsible for the overall implementation of the project, consisted of senior policy makers and experienced
managers. They were very responsive to take corrective implementation measures, and were effective in
dealing with outstanding operational issues. Appropriate levels of review and approval were usually in
place; financial accountability and follow-up was observed, and expenditures were duly authorized before
they were incurred; and documentation was maintained properly for periodic review. There were no
problems related to counterpart funds.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. The performance of the PIT in project implementation was satisfactory. The PIT consisted of
competent staff and it was adequately funded. It was capable of managing the project, under the
supervision of and with the support of the Minister of Finance. The PIT served as liaison between MOF
and MCA and secured the continuity of project implementation during the various changes in Customs
management. The PIT was actively involved in the implementation of the Action Plan, and the monitoring
and reporting to the Bank in this regard were satisfactory. The PIT maintained a good financial
management system with detailed internal controls, satisfactory accounting and reporting systems, and
auditing arrangements.

Local Project Teams (LPTs). The LPTs met on average once per month, and were strongly supported by
the MCA's coordinator. All the administrations represented at the border usually participated.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory. The overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

A. Project and Program-related Lessons

   Interagency Cooperation at Border Cross Points. Trade facilitation is always a multi-sectoral and
multi-agency activity. For a project of this type where seven to eight agencies are involved, their active
participation and cooperation are essential for successful implementation and achievement of the project
objectives and also for ensuring sustainability. In addition, delegation of authority to agents at the border
crossing is also essential for enabling sustainable change and promoting pragmatic approaches to the
resolution of problems. A cooperative culture should be encouraged and promoted from the top down by
management of regulatory agencies.




                                                    - 18 -

   Replication of Procedures at Pilot Sites. The lessons learned and the success experienced at the more
progressive border crossing points provide a model for replication in Macedonia as well as in other TTFSE
countries. The economic returns from such replication could be considerable, multiplying the economic
returns to date by several times.

   Customs control is expected to become more effective and efficient under streamlined procedures,
based on selectivity and risk analysis, but this requires a change of culture since the actual perception is
that the more vehicles that are inspected, the higher the detection rate of irregularities. Experience from
elsewhere shows that targeted, in-depth inspections that are based on risk analysis of intelligence data yield
much better results, both in terms of detection and efficiency. In parallel, improvement of national and
international control procedures must be introduced to reduce delays and backlogs at BCPs. Adoption of
the International Convention on the Harmonization of Frontier Control of Goods can yield significant
benefits.

   Support for the TTFSE Website. Further cooperation and commitment from government agencies,
especially in the area of updating data in website are essential to make the regional website sustainable and
successful. Having an updated, informative website can contribute significantly to enhance transparency of
border crossing procedures and to reduce solicited `informal payments' at border crossings.

   Procedures on Border Stations. It is important to continue the modernization of procedures at all
border stations using as much as possible the rules and recommendations of the revised Convention on the
simplification and harmonization of Customs procedures (Kyoto Convention). Ultimately, it will be
important to create a one-stop office supply chain information system. For example, introduction of
electronic data interchange (EDI) based information flows, not only between border agencies but also
across borders with neighboring countries is an important first step, especially when freight forwarders and
shippers use EDI based cargo systems as well.

   Multifunctional Border Inspection Facilities. While constructing border crossing facilities,
innovative designs that allow future conversion into logistic centers, warehouses, etc, must be encouraged.
In addition, design of new facilities should reflect the available human resource capacity avoiding
constructing expensive overcapacity.

   Comprehensive Solutions for Border/Clearance Delays. The long lines of vehicles waiting to be
processed at border crossing points are symptomatic of the need for trade facilitation. Too often
governments cite physical deficiencies as the primary cause of the delays. Although the infrastructure at
border crossing points and internal clearing houses may need to be upgraded in support of trade facilitation,
such a physical investment by itself is not sufficient to solve the problems causing delays and hindering
trade facilitation. Factors such as constrictive regulations, policies, redundant or duplicative data entry and
procedures, and lack of coordination of border processing need to be addressed in a comprehensive manner.

   High Level Support. Building a tradition of inter-agency communication and information sharing as
well as building the mechanisms on which such communication can be based, needs a high-level
government commitment and ideally a champion. Such a champion needs to be able to direct concerns to
the highest levels of management in the ministries responsible for the agencies engaged in border control.
This implies knowledge of the national political system and the power to navigate through that system.

   Cumbersome visa procedures and requirements for professional drivers are slowing down road
freight transport. Development of an international drivers' permit, similar to the International Seafarer's



                                                     - 19 -

ID would speed up processing and could ensure application of common professional standards.

B. Bank-related Lessons

    The Bank's Focus in the Future Programs. The Bank must include `behind the border' issues in new
trade and transport facilitation programs. Most regulatory, administrative, and operational non-tariff
barriers at borders require some kind of reform at the institutional level. Good coordination with other Bank
projects, focused at improving the business climate in countries, is therefore required. In addition, programs
need to address legitimate security concerns and anti-terrorism considerations such as the recent ISPS and
IMO codes. Further, the Bank should recognize that, when the project involves several innovative reforms,
it is normal to have higher risks and higher rewards.

    Holistic Corridor Approach. In order to optimize the benefits of transport and trade facilitation
activities, taking into account the actual and projected trade patterns, a more holistic corridor approach at
the regional level is warranted. Such an approach must include targeting both the physical and functional
`bottlenecks' of transport corridors to optimize their use and capacity, and must complement the EU policy
of transport corridor development.

    Policy Dialogue. It is important to start the policy dialogue at the very beginning of the project, and to
involve all important stakeholders, especially the private sector, in order to identify trade and transport
needs and opportunities.

    Flexibility in Project Design. In a post-conflict situation, it is important that the design of the project
is flexible enough to adapt to the rapidly changing circumstances and priorities, and evolving expectations.

    Regional Approach. To further optimize the benefits of transport and trade facilitation through the
abovementioned corridor approach, synchronization of proposed activities at the regional level is required.
Trade and transport data show that most trade in the SEE region is not with neighboring countries, but with
the EU, Turkey and Central and Eastern European (CEE) countries, for which a uni- or bilateral approach
would not do much. Furthermore, a regional approach can create peer pressure among the participating
countries, which in turn would generate competitive spirit and motivation amongst them to perform better.

C. Miscellaneous

    The contribution of the US as a parallel financier contributed to the success of the project. The
USAID Grant was instrumental in improving public-private partnership, especially in light of the
Government's reluctance to borrow for technical assistance to the private sector. Likewise, US Customs
financed a permanent presence of Customs advisors in Macedonia (and the whole TTFSE region), to help
with data collection, monitoring indicators, and improving the risk-management system in the MCA.

    It is important to avoid overlaps with EU's Integrated Border Management. This will require close
coordination with the EU so as to complement the Bank's activities and avoid any overlapping.

    As the Bank works more on multi-country operations, there must be a simple organizing principle to
help implementation/supervision. Over time, however, the need grows to address other systemic issues and
work increasingly with other agencies, as gains cannot be pushed further without doing so; but the first
demonstration effects are critical to generating momentum.




                                                     - 20 -

It is important in multi-country operations to use the same project team across countries, and effectively
draw on cross country agencies as available (joint cross border trade and Customs facilities, the RSC and
IT Coordinating Committee), while working across the Bank's own internal boundaries between country
departments.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
(i) Comments to the Bank's ICR
No comments.

(ii) Borrower's Evaluation Report
See Annex 8.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N.A.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N.A.

10. Additional Information

A. The Bank's ICR Team Consisted of the Following Members

1. Zarko Bogoev                     Task Team Leader
2. Sati Achath                      Consultant
3. Madhu Nair                       Consultant
4. Marie Laygo                      Program Assistant

B. List of Task Team Leaders of the Project in Chronological Order

1. Anca Dumitrescu
2. Zarko Bogoev

C. Persons Interviewed for the Preparation of the ICR

1. Sandra Bloemenkamp               Country Manager
2. Paulus Guitink                   Program Team Leader
3. Anca Dumitrescu                  Former Task Team Leader
4. Ilija Iloski                     Director General, MCA
5. Ilija Janoski                    Head, International Cooperation Department, MCA
6. Tomislav Stojanov                Assistant Director, MCA
7. Goran Ancevski                   Head, International Finance, MOF
8. Sladjana Damjanoska              Project Manager, PIT
9. Sanja Metodievska                Procurement Specialist, PIT
10. Borce Gelevski                  Financial and Disbursement Specialist
11. Ljubico Nuri                    Deputy Director, The Economic Chamber of Macedonia




                                                   - 21 -

D. Footnotes

1www.gfp-dli.org : Global Facilitation Partnership for Transportation and Trade-Distance Learning
Initiative.
 2The survey covered five main issues, in dynamic: (i) Customs Legislation; (ii) Communication; (iii)
Customs Procedures; (iv) Personnel; and (v) Logistics.




                                                 - 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                    1
               Indicator/Matrix                 Projected in last PSR          Actual/Latest Estimate
Revenue Collected/Customs Staff (000)    297                             680
Total MCA Cost/Revenue Collected (%)     2.1                             1.67
Salaries/Revenue Collected (%)           1.5                             1.14
Trade Volume/No. of Officers (US$ mil.)  4,100                           4,891
Annual Number of Declarations/Customs    324                             414
Staff


Output Indicators:
                                                                    1
               Indicator/Matrix                 Projected in last PSR          Actual/Latest Estimate
KUMANOVO PILOT INLAND TERMINAL
Import Clearance Time (min.)             <60                             100
Physical Examination (%)                 <40                             34.5
Trucks cleared in less than 15 min. (%)  >30                             0
Irregularities/No. of Examinations (%)   >12                             40.5


TABANOVCE PILOT BORDER CROSSING
Truck Examination (%)
Irregularities/No. of Examinations (%)   <35                             18
Average Border Exit Time (min.)          >10                             1
Average Border Entry Time (min.)         <10                             6
                                         <30                             20


DEVE BAIR PILOT BORDER CROSSING
Truck Examination                        <35                             8
Irregularities/No. of Examinations       >10                             20
Average Border Exit Time                 <10                             7
Average Border Entry Time                <30                             35
KAFASAN PILOT BORDER CROSSING
Truck Examination                        <35                             45
Irregularities/No. of Examinations       >10                             0
Average Border Exit Time                 <10                             7
Average Border Entry Time                <30                             15

1End of project




                                                      - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million   US$ million
Part A: Customs Administration Institutional Reform          1.90            0.80            42.1
Part B: Trade Facilitation Development                       0.40                               0
Part C Integrated Customs Information System                 5.00            6.10             122
Improvement
Part D. Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities            5.10            6.98             134
Part E. Program and Project Implementation                   0.40            0.40             100

Total Baseline Cost                                         12.80          14.28
 Physical Contingencies                                      1.10
 Price Contingencies                                         0.60
                          Total Project Costs               14.50          14.28
                  Total Financing Required                  14.50          14.28


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            6.10            0.00         0.00         0.00          6.10
                                   (4.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (4.00)
2. Goods                            5.00            0.10         0.00         0.00          5.10
                                   (4.20)          (0.10)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (4.30)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00         1.20         2.00          3.20
Consultant Services &              (0.00)          (0.00)      (1.00)         (0.00)       (1.00)
Equipment and Training
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.10         0.00          0.10
Incremental Operating              (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.10)         (0.00)       (0.10)
Costs
5. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                           11.10            0.10         1.30         2.00         14.50
                                   (8.20)          (0.10)      (1.10)         (0.00)       (9.40)




                                                - 24 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB                 NCB                    2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 9.10                0.00             0.00             0.00              9.10
                                           (5.80)              (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)            (5.80)
   2. Goods                                 3.56                0.02             0.00             0.00              3.58
                                           (2.90)              (0.01)           (0.00)            (0.00)            (2.91)
   3. Services                              0.00                0.00             1.20             0.00              1.20
   Consultant Services &                   (0.00)              (0.00)           (1.10)            (0.00)            (1.10)
   Equipment and Training
   4. Miscellaneous                         0.00                0.00             0.40             0.00              0.40
   Incremental Operating                   (0.00)              (0.00)           (0.20)            (0.00)            (0.20)
   Costs
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00                0.00             0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)              (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00                0.00             0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)              (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)
       Total                                12.66               0.02             1.60             0.00              14.28
                                           (8.70)              (0.01)           (1.30)            (0.00)           (10.01)
   * Note: NBF = Not Bank Financed (includes elements provided under parallel cofinancing procedures, consultants
   under trust funds, any reserved procurement and any other miscellaneous items). The procurement arrangements
   for items listed under "Other" and details of the items listed as NBF need to be explained in footnotes to the table.



     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.       CoF.      Bank      Govt.    CoF.
Part A: Customs                 0.40         0.10         1.50        0.60         0.20                  150.0     200.0     0.0
Administration
Institutional Reform
Part B: Trade Facilitation                                0.40                                                               0.0
Development
Part C: Integrated              4.40         1.30                     4.60         1.50                  104.5     115.4
Customs Information
System Improvement
Part D: Improvement of          4.20         1.70                     4.78         2.20                  113.8     129.4
Border Crossing Facilities
Part E: Program and             0.30         0.10         0.10        0.20         0.20                  66.7      200.0     0.0
Project Implementation




                                                            - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

1. Project Costs

For the Trade Facilitation Component, the original estimates were kept. Civil work costs are equivalent to
ICR cost less taxes.

2. Key Parameters

Kept as per the original evaluation except for time value. After review of the parameters, the time value of
a truck (includes driver, truck) involved in international transport operations was adjusted to US$300 per
day which reflects the regional level and is comparable to the cost in Bulgaria (see also TTFSE Progress
Report 2004).

                   Trade Related Benefits/Transport Savings                    20%
                   Time Value (US$/day)                                         300
                   Traffic Growth                                             2.5%


3. Summary Results


                                          COSTS              BENEFITS
                       FY                                                       Net Benefits
                                      (in US$ million)     (in US$ million)   (in US$ million)
                      2001                            0.5                 0.0               -0.5
                      2002                            1.3                 0.7               -0.6
                      2003                            3.0                 2.5               -0.5
                      2004                            3.2                 2.5               -0.7
                      2005                            2.7                 2.2               -0.5
                      2006                                                1.7                1.7
                      2007                                                1.8                1.8
                      2008                                                1.8                1.8
                      2009                                                1.8                1.8
                      2010                                                1.9                1.9
                      2011                                                1.9                1.9
                      2012                                                2.0                2.0
                      2013                                                2.0                2.0
                      2014                                                2.1                2.1
                      2015                                                2.1                2.1
                      2016                                                2.1                2.1
                      2017                                                2.1                2.1

                     Total                           10.7                31.3               20.7

                Internal Rate of Return                                            34%


                Discount Rate                                   12%

                NPV @ 12%                             7.2                11.9                4.7




                                                         - 26 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              01/22/1999                6    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER              S               S
                                             (1); CONSULTANT (5)
              10/10/1999                5    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER              S               S
                                             (1); SR. CUSTOMS SPEC. (1);
                                             OPER. OFFICER (2);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              02/10/2000                3    SECTOR MANAGER (1);              S               S
                                             PROGRAM TEAM
                                             LEADER (1); OPER.
                                             OFFICER (1)

 Supervision
              12/12/2000                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             SR. CUSTOMS SPEC. (1);
                                             OPER. OFFICER (1)
              12/21/2000                1    LEAD SPECIALIST (1)              S               S
              06/03/2001                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1); SR.        S               S
                                             CUSTOMS SPEC. (1); OPER.
                                             OFFICER (1)
              12/06/2001                1    OPER. OFFICER (1)                S               S
              02/01/2002                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1); SR.        U               S
                                             CUSTOMS SPEC. (1); OPER.
                                             OFFICER (1)
              06/25/2002                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            U               S
                                             OPER. OFFICER. (1); SR.
                                             CUSTOMS SPEC. (1)
              05/22/2003                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             CONSULTANT (1); OPER.
                                             OFFICER (1)
              05/22/2003                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             CONSULTANT (1); OPER.
                                             OFFICER (1); PROGRAM
                                             TEAM LEADER (1)
              05/12/2004                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             CONSULTANT (1); OPER.
                                             OFFICER (1)
              11/29/2004                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              04/25/2005                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             CONSULTANT (1)

 ICR
              10/2005                   1     CONSULTANT (1)




                                              - 27 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                          Actual/Latest Estimate
                                          No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                       N.A
  Appraisal/Negotiation                           N.A.                            92.3
  Supervision                                     N.A.                          325.6
  ICR                                             N.A.                            20.0
  Total                                           N.A.                          517.9

Identification/Preparation/Appraisal/Negotiation: Incorporated as Lending Stage.
SAP no longer provides information on staff weeks.




                                                      - 28 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
   Macro policies                       H        SU      M       N       NA
   Sector Policies                      H        SU      M       N       NA
   Physical                             H        SU      M       N       NA
   Financial                            H        SU      M       N       NA
   Institutional Development            H        SU      M       N       NA
   Environmental                        H        SU      M       N       NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction           H        SU      M       N       NA
            Gender                      H        SU      M       N       NA
            Other (Please specify)      H        SU      M       N       NA
   Private sector development           H        SU      M       N       NA
   Public sector management             H        SU      M       N       NA
   Other (Please specify)               H        SU      M       N       NA
Ratings for Achievement of Objectives: Relates to the objectives specified in the SAR.
Outputs by Components: Relates to the outputs specified in the PAD.




                                                      - 29 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Aide-Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports.

2. Project Progress Reports.

3. Consultant Study Reports financed under the Project.

4. Borrower's Evaluation Report dated November 2005.

5. Project Appraisal Document for Macedonia Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe
   Project, dated June 21, 2000 (Report No. 20493-MK).




                                               - 31 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report

INTRODUCTION

The Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project (TTFSE) formed a part of the Regional
TTFSE Program that aimed to strengthen and modernize the customs administrations and other border
agencies in Macedonia, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, and the Republic of
Romania, and subsequently, in Moldova and Serbia and Montenegro. All these countries seek to promote
more efficient and less costly trade flows across the borders and provide EU-compatible customs standards.
This requires the cooperation of the participating countries and a mutual sharing of concerns for the reform
of their Customs services. To assist such cooperation and facilitate the sharing of information, a Regional
Steering Committee (RSC) has been created, where all participating countries are represented and have
signed a Memorandum of Understanding detailing its role and activities.

The TTFSE Project was related to two priority objectives 1) to reduce non-tariff costs to trade and
transport; and 2) to reduce smuggling and corruption at border crossings. The project achieve these
objectives by: (i) supporting customs reform; (ii) strengthening mechanisms of interaction and cooperation
between private and public parties at regional, national and local levels; (iii) disseminating information and
providing training to the private sector; (iv) financing infrastructure and equipment at pilot border
crossings; and (v) implementing, at pilot sites, an integrated set of new customs procedures, information
technology, human resource management techniques, supporting infrastructure, and cooperation
mechanisms* for agencies at border crossings.

*Including shared access to information and intelligence systems, and training for interagency awareness.

PROJECT DATA

1. Development Objectives

  a) To reduce non-tariff costs to trade and transport; and
  b) To reduce smuggling and corruption at border crossings.

2. Project Components and Sub-components

A. Customs Administration Institutional Reform

             Component                                            Sub-component
 1. Improvement of Customs Procedure    1.1 Assistance to monitor Customs administration performance
                                        1.2 Assistance in designing and implementing new
                                        customs procedure at the pilot sites, between all agencies
                                        which are part of clearance procedure
                                        1.3. Assistance to streamline operations at three border
                                        post and one inland terminal on a pilot bases
                                        1.4. Training on new procedures and techniques
                                        1.5. Assistance in realizing study visit and training
                                        activities on new procedures
                                        1.6. Training for interagency awareness and cooperation
 2. Organizational Restructuring of     2.1 Strengthening of preventive and investigation services
 Customs




                                                     - 32 -

B. Trade Facilitation Development

                   Component                                          Sub-component
1. Strengthening of Private-Public Partnership   1.1 Improvement of cooperation between public and
                                                 private sector ( creation and maintaining of a regional
                                                 web site that will enable transparency on legal and
                                                 regulatory framework through Macedonian Economic
                                                 Chamber) and provision of equipment to support
                                                 information availability.
2. Improvement of the Performance of Trade       2.1 Provision of technical assistance and advisory
Facilitation Agents                              services related to trade and international transport
                                                 trough Economic Chamber


C. Improvement of Integrated Customs Information System (ICIS)

                   Component                                          Sub-component
1. ICIS Monitoring Assistance                    1.1 Implement electronic data interchange and payment
                                                 of duties
                                                 1.2 Implement the digital signature
                                                 1.3 Implement selectivity of the examination of goods
                                                 1.4 Final design and implementation of ASYCUDA
                                                 compatible national transit system
2. Equipment for ICIS Improvement                2.1 Introduce servers, PC and printers according to
                                                 current standards
                                                 2.2 Purchase equipment for advance transit
                                                 monitoring
                                                 2.3 Bar code equipment for clearance management
3. Civil Works                                   3.1 Build special locations in such manner as to allow
                                                 for un uninterrupted service
                                                 3.2 Build and ADP Center
4. Telecommunication Equipment                   4.1 Installment and updating local and wide area
                                                 network in Headquarter, Customs Houses and border
                                                 crossings
5. ICIS Personnel Training                       5.1 Provide specialized training to customs staff in the
                                                 use of computer based Customs system
                                                 5.2 Prepare and carry out an urgent training program
                                                 for the IT staff
                                                 5.3 Training equipment
                                                 5.4 Regional experience sharing program




                                                - 33 -

D. Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities

                    Component                                           Sub-component
 1. Tabanovce Border Construction                   1.1 Upgrading of the existing facility
                                                    1.2 Improve the power supply
 2. Deve Bair Border Improvement                    2.1 Improve the existing facilities
                                                    2.2 Improve the power supply
                                                    2.3 Advance signaling
 3. Kafasan Border Improvement                      3.1 Make the newly built BCP operational
                                                    3.2 Furnish new building
 4. Design and Supervision of Works                 4.1 Design of works at three border crossings
                                                    4.2 Supervision of works
 5. Enhancement of Processing Capacity at Customs   5.1 Surveillance equipment
 Stations
                                                    5.2 Inspection equipment


E. Program and Project Implementation

                   Component                                           Sub-component
 1. PMU and Auditors                                1.1 PMU staffing, FMS establishment, training, and
                                                    procurement consultants to PMU
                                                    1.2 Consulting services for audit
 2. RSC Secretariat and Procurement Advisors        2.1 Consulting Services


3. Financing Plan (US$ million)

             Source                        Local                Foreign                    Total
 Government of Macedonia                    3.1                    0.0                       3.1
 USA                                        0.1                    1.9                       2.1
 IDA                                        1.8                    7.5                       9.3
 Total                                      5.1                    9.5                      14.5

4. Legal Agreements and Subsequent Amendments

An Advance for Preparation of the Proposed TTFSE Project in an amount of US$75,000 has been granted,
based on the Agreement Letter Q219-0-MK, signed by the International Development Association (IDA)
on April 7, 2000 and by the Government of R. Macedonia, through the Ministry of Finance, on April 20,
2000.

The Credit Agreement between Macedonia and International Development Association has been signed on
January 10, 2001, and entered into effectiveness on February 26, 2001.

On March 1, 2004 World Bank gave No Objection for first extension of the Closing date of the Project,
from June 30, 2004 to June 30, 2005. The extension was requested due to the delays in the implementation
of the civil works contracts for construction of border crossing points Tabanovce, Deve Bair and Kafasan.
The reason for the delay was completed administrative procedure for issuing construction permits for civil
works at the border crossing points, which lasted more than 6 months and was beyond decision or control
by the MCA.



                                                   - 34 -

The second extension of the closing day of the Project was caused by the same reasons as first extension,
delays in the implementation of civil works. The final closing date of the project was December 31, 2005.

In October 2004 the Bank approved requested reallocation, which was result of the savings made in the
categories goods, incremental operating costs and project preparation advance, in benefit of the category
civil works.

                                Amount of the Credit                                      Proposed Reallocation
                                Allocated (Expressed          % of Expenditures            (Expressed in SDR
 No.           Category         in SDR Equivalent)              to be Financed                 Equivalent)
 1.      Works                        2,720,000          65%                                  4,091,705
 2.      Goods                        2,940,000          100% of foreign expenditures,        2,124,646
                                                         100% of local expenditures
                                                         (ex-factory costs) and 84% of
                                                         local expenditures for other
                                                         items procured locally
 3.      Consultants' Services         680,000           100%                                   757,132
         and Training
 4.      Incremental                   80,000            90%                                     2,868
         Operating Costs
 5.      Project Preparation           60,000            Amount due under section 2.02          23,649
         Advance                                         (b) of Credit Agreement
 6.      Unallocated                   520,000                                                     0
         Total                        7,000,000                                               7,000,000


PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND COORDINATION

Institutional and Implementation Arrangements

Macedonia, through its Ministry of Finance, has been the borrower for the World Bank loan. The
implementation arrangements included the following elements: (i) a project manager and a project
implementation team; (ii) a project coordinator; (iii) a facilitation coordinator; (iv) a website coordinator;
and (v) a regional steering committee (RSC).

The implementing agency was Customs Administration (CA) within the Ministry of Finance. The Customs
Administration management has appointed a Project Manager and established a Project Implementation
Team (PIT) covering procurement, loan management and reporting functions acceptable to the Bank. The
Project Coordinator has been the General Director of Customs Administration, who chaired coordination
meetings of the various border control agencies and managed their input, and represented the country at the
Regional Steering Committee. The Economic Chamber managed the Trade Facilitation Component, and
provided a Facilitation Coordinator and Website Coordinator, who interacted with the Project Manager
for the implementation of the component.




                                                   - 35 -

PROJECT COSTS  USE OF FUNDS

1. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (in US$ million equivalent)*

     Expenditure                 Procurement Method                           Procurement Method
      Categories                  Appraisal Estimate                         Actual/Latest Estimate
                          ICB    NCB    Other   NBF      Total    ICB        NCB      Other    NBF      Total
 1. Works                  6.1                            6.1      9.0                                   9.0
                          (4.0)                          (4.0)    (5.8)                                 (5.8)
 2. Goods                  5.0    0.1                     5.1      3.5        0.02                      3.52
                          (4.2)  (0.1)                   (4.3)    (2.9)      (0.01)                    (2.91)
 3. Consultant Services                  1,2     2.0      3.2                          1.2               1.2
 & Equipment and                        (1.0)            (1.0)                        (1.1)             (1.1)
 Training
 4. Incremental                          0.1              0.1                          0.4               0.4
 Operating Costs                        (0.1)            (0.1)                         (0.2)            (0.2)
 Total                     11.    0.1    1.3     2.1     14.5     12.5        0.02     1.6              14.28
                          (8.1)  (0.1)  (1.0)            (9.3)    (8.7)      (0.01)   (1.3)            (10.18)
* Note: NBF = Not Bank Financed (includes elements provided under parallel co-financing procedures, under trust
funds from the Government of USA).



2. Project Financing by Components and by Financiers - Use of Funds (in US$ million equivalent)

         Component               Appraisal Estimate       Actual/Latest Estimate      Percentage of Appraisal
                                                Co-                          Co-                           Co-
                                              financier                   financier                    financier
                               Bank   Gov't.   (USA)     Bank    Gov't.     (USA)     Bank    Gov't.     (USA)
 Part A: Customs               0.4    0.1        1.5      0.6     0.2
 Administration Institutional
 Reform
 Part B: Trade Facilitation                      0.4
 Development
 Part C: Integrated Customs    4.4    1.3                 4.6     1.5
 Information System
 Improvement
 Part D: Improvement of        4.2    1.7                4.78     2.1
 Border Crossing Facilities
 Part E: Program and Project   0.3    0.1        0.1      0.2     0.2
 Implementation
                               9.3    3.1        2.0     10.18    4.10



3. Use of Loan Funds (in SDR million equivalent)

     Initial Loan Amount           Amended Loan          Actual Used                  Percentage of
                                      Amount                Amount
                                                                                 Initial           Amended
               7.0                       7.0                  7.0                 100%               100%




                                                   - 36 -

4. Project Financing by Year (in US$ million equivalent)

   Financier       FY 2001       FY 2002          FY 2003        FY 2004         FY 2005             Total
IDA Credit            0.4            1.2              2.9          2.3              3.38             10.18
Government of         0.1            0.3              1.0          0.9              1.8               4.12
Macedonia
USA
Total                 0.5            1.5              3.9          3.2              4.28              14.3



PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION RESULTS - PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

Project Implementation Results by Components

       Component                       Sub-component                                       Results
                                                                                    (see bellow details)
A. Customs                1.1 Assistance to monitor Customs          A set of productivity indicators to measure the
Administration            administration's performance               performance of Customs administration
Institutional Reform                                                 enabling international comparisons has been
                                                                     refined and the monitoring systems have been
                                                                     designed.
1. Improvement of         1.2 Assistance in designing and            The main achievement is establishment of
Customs Procedure         implementing new customs procedure at      Risk Analyses Unit and implementation of the
                          the pilot sites, between all agencies      selectivity at all inland terminals within the
                          which are part of clearance procedure      automatic processing system (ASYCUDA)
                                                                     through the green, yellow and red channel
                                                                     (blue channel is still pilot). The selectivity at
                                                                     the border crossing points is implemented
                                                                     using the procedure of primary and secondary
                                                                     control of the passengers and private vehicles.
                          1.3 Training on new procedures and         Realized train the trainers program designed
                          techniques                                 to provide trainings to customs officials.
                                                                     Organized training for Mid-Level Managers
                          1.4 Assistance in realizing study visit    Realized study visit for two high ranking
                          and training activities on new             customs officials; organized training for a
                          procedures                                 large no. of customs official related of new
                                                                     procedures.
                          1.5 Training for interagency awareness     Enhanced cooperation among the border
                          and cooperation                            agencies involved in clearance procedure,
                                                                     achieved grater awareness of each other
                                                                     functions and responsibility.
2. Organizational         2.1 Strainthening of preventive and        Introduce an internal control, through Sector
Restructuring of Customs  investigation services                     for Professional Responsibility; developed
                                                                     investigative capacity; strengthen post release
                                                                     audits through implementation of blue
                                                                     channel review within ASYCUDA; provided
                                                                     training for operational staff.
B. Trade Facilitation     1.1 Improvement of cooperation between     A national website in Macedonian language
Development               public and private sector (creation and    has been created, and the information has
1. Strengthening of       maintaining of a regional web site that    been translated into English and made them




                                                    - 37 -

Private-Public Partnership will enable transparency on legal and     available on the regional website. Although
                           regulatory framework through              the website is operational, it's still
                           Macedonian Economic Chamber) and          experiencing difficulties regarding the
                           provision of equipment to support         provision of information by the various
                           information availability.                 governmental agencies involved in trade and
                                                                     international transport.
2. Improvement of the      2.1 Provision of technical assistance and Very good progress on the delivery of the
Performance of Trade       advisory services related to trade and    training programs to the private sector. More
Facilitation Agents        international transport trough Economic   than 1000 people have participated in the
                           Chamber                                   training modules delivered by the Economic
                                                                     Chamber in about 15 cities of Macedonia.
C. Improvement of          1.1 Implement electronic data             Completed
Integrated Customs         interchange and payment of duties
Information System
(ICIS)
1. Hardware and Software   1.2 Implement the digital signature       Completed
for ICIS Improvement
                           1.3 Introduce servers, PC and printers    Completed
                           according to current standards
                           1.4 Bar code equipment for clearance      Completed
                           management
2. Training                Implement selectivity for advance transit Completed
                           management
                           Final design and implementation of        Completed
                           ASYCUDA compatible national transit
                           system
3. Civil Works             3. Build an ADP Center                    Completed
4. Telecommunication       4.1 Installment and updating local and    Completed
Equipment                  wide area network in Headquarter,
                           Customs House and border crossings
5. ICIS Personnel          5.1 Provide specialized training to       Completed
Training                   customs staff in the use of computer
                           based Customs System
                           5.2 Prepare and carry out an urgent       Completed
                           training program for IT staff
                           5.3 Training equipment                    Completed
                           5.4 Regional experience sharing           Cancelled, because there was no activities
                           program                                   organized at regional level
D. Improvement of          1.1 Upgrading the existing facility       Completed
Border Crossing
Facilities
1. Tabanovce Border        1.2 Improve the power supply              Completed
Construction
2. Deve Bair               2.1 Upgrading the existing facility       Completed
                           2.2 Improve the power supply              Completed
                           2.3 Advance signaling                     Completed
3. Kafasan Border          3.1 Make the newly built BCP              Completed
Improvement                Operational
                           3.2 Furnishing new building               Canceled
4. Design and Supervision 4.1 Design of works at three border        Completed
of Works                   crossings



                                                     - 38 -

                                4.2 Supervision of works                  Completed
 5. Enhancement of              5.1 Survelience equipment                 Completed
 Processing Capacity at
 Customs Stations
                                5.2 Inspection equipment                  Completed
 E. Program and Project         PIT staffing, FMS establishment, PIT      Completed
 Implementation                 training, IT and procurement
                                consultants to PIT, and consulting
                                services for audit

Achievements

The overall TTFSE project implementation performance and the development objectives ratings have been
satisfactory.

The table below shoes the development objectives indicators compared to annual targets. The revenue
collected per staff has significantly increased ad overshooting considerably the target. However, the
Customs cost compared to revenue collected has remained the same, while the ratio of salaries compared to
revenue collected is above the target. The productivity in terms of declarations processed per staff has
improved, but still far from the target of 800 declarations.


          Indicators              1999     2000         2001         2002      2003       2004      2005
                                   Act. Targ. Act.   Targ.  Act. Targ. Act. Targ. Act. Targ. Act. Targ Act.
                                                                                                   .
 1. Development Objective Achievements
 Revenue Collected/ Customs        297   300   442   330    381   360  586   400   578  400  800  400  680
 Staff (000)
 Total MCA Cost/Revenue            2.1    1.9  1.3    1.8    1.4   1.7  1.4  <1.5  1.7 <1.5  1.4  <1.5 1.67
 Collected (%)
 Salaries/Revenue Collected (%)     1.5   1.4  0.9    1.3    0.9   1.2  1.1  1.0   1.0  1.0  0.97 1.0  1.14
 Trade Volume/ Number of          4,100 5,200 2,553  5,600  2,199      3,102 N/A 2,955 N/A 3,967 N/A 4,891
 Officers (US$ mil.)                                              6,100
 Annual Number of Declarations/     324   400 353    550    317   650        800   355  800  434  800  414
 Customs Staff
 Value of Recorded Imports (US$ 1,795 2,110 1,582 2,287     1,296 2,477      N/A 1,833 N/A 2,290 N/A 2,794
 mil.)
 Value of Recorded Exports (US$ 1,19 1,515 660       1,696  573 1,895        N/A   733 N/A 1,032 N/A 1,393
 million)


 2. Pilot Sites Clearance Performance
 1. MCA Performance
 Kumanovo Pilot Inland Terminal
 Import Clearance Time (min.)      280   240   196   150    244   100  173   <60   103  <60  120  <60  100
 Physical Examination (%)          100   100   100    80     70    60   83   <40   32.6 <40  35.4 <40 34.5
 Trucks Cleared in less than 15     0      0   4.9    10      0    20    1   >30    0   >30   0   >30   0
 min. (%)
 Irregularities/No. of              3      5    0      8      0    10    0   >12   22.6 >12  41.4 >12 40.5
 Examinations (%)
 Tabanovce Pilot Border Crossing
 Truck Examination (%)              100   80   100    65     N/a   50   58   <35   41.2 <35  18   <35  18
 Irregularities/ No. of             8      8    0     10     N/a   10    0   >10    0   >10   0   >10   1
 Examinations (%)




                                                        - 39 -

 Average Border Exit Time (min.) 20  18           16     N/a    13     30    <10    9    <10    6     <10   6
 Average Border Entry Time       60  50    61     40     N/a    30     74    <30    24   <30    20    <30  20
 (min.)
 Surveyed Occurrence of
 Corruption (%)
 Deve Bair Pilot Border Crossing
 Truck Examination               100 80           65     N/a    50     32    <35   28.3 <35     7.5   <35   8
 Irregularities/No. of           8    8           10     N/a    10      0    >10    0    >10    25    >10  20
 Examinations
 Average Border Exit Time        20  18    18     16     N/a    13      6    < 10   7    < 10   8     < 10  7
 Average Border Entry Time       60  50   333     40     386    30     167   <30    38   <30    37    <30  35
 Surveyed Occurrence of
 Corruption (%)
 Kafasan Pilot Border Crossing
 Truck Examination               100 80           65     N/a    50     100   <35   100   <35   50.5   <35  45
 Irregularities/ No. of          8    8           10     N/a    10      0    >10    0    >10    0     >10   0
 Examinations
 Average Border Exit Time        20  18    12     16     N/a    13     12    <10    10   <10    7     <10   7
 Average Border Entry Time       60  50   285     40     N/a    30     20    <30    19   <30    33    <30  15
 Surveyed Occurrence of
 Corruption (%)



The above table provides the results of data collection at pilot sites. At the border crossings all performance
targets have been met, except for the rates of detection at Kafasan and Tabanovce, which have been around
zero, and the entry time at Deve Bair which has been slightly above the target. Although the recorded
performance is among the best in the region, there is still room for improvement in performance in areas
where the targets have not yet been met and in particular at Kumanovo.

Borrower/Implementing Agency Performance

The Borrower's (namely the Ministry of Finance) performance in the preparation of the project was
satisfactory. It consistently maintained its commitment throughout the project's implementation. The
Customs Administration's performance, which was responsible for the overall implementation of the
project, was also satisfactory. The management's and the PIT's staff worked closely with the Bank's
project team, in taking corrective implementation measures and solving operational issues. The PIT was
very effective in dealing with procurement, loan management, disbursement and reporting functions. It
proved commitment, flexibility and ability to identify practical solutions and meet tight deadlines. During
the project's life, the Project Implementation Team has prepared timely quarterly progress reports on
project implementation, and furnished to the Bank timely audit reports on the Project Financial Statements,
prepared by an independent auditor in accordance with the International Standards on Auditing, which were
considered acceptable to the Bank.




                                                    - 40 -

Bank's and Co-financiers' Performance

The Bank's performance in the preparation, appraisal, review and supervision of the project was
satisfactory. During the project's implementation, the project was closely monitored by review teams
providing flexibility, responsiveness, and extensive assistance, and through the supervision missions with
regularly prepared and transmitted Aide-Memoires, flagging issues and defining concrete steps and agreed
actions for solving the issues. The supervision missions was regularly joined by the US Customs Advisory
Team (STAT), which brought their knowledge and expertise in the Customs institutional reforms
assessment, data collection, monitoring of performance indicators, and selectivity.

Lessons Learned

     Implementation of selectivity module, electronically via the ASICUDA customs system, in all inland
      terminals, and at the border crossing points using selectivity, was one of the major benefits of the
      Project support in the process of trade and transport facilitation.

     Training of the Customs staff on using the simplified procedures, aligned to international best
      practice, is of great importance in increasing their awareness on changing the working mentality and
      improving their efficiency.

     Close and mutual cooperation between all Border Agencies which participate in the clearance
      procedure is crucial, in order to be achieved project objectives and performance indicators.

     Support from the top management of the Customs Service, as well as from the Government of RM
      to the Project is essential for its successful implementation.




                                                      - 41 -

- 42 -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IBRD 30919
                                               15
                                                                CZECH REP.                                          20                                                                 25                                           30
  GERMANY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SOUTHEAST EUROPE REGION
                                                                                                     SLOVAK REP.                                                                                         UKRAINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TRADE AND TRANSPORT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EUROPE PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                               Exports: Imports:
                                   AUSTRIA                                                                                                                                        $491 $815
                                                                                                                                                                               190/32 190/32
                                                                                                                                                                                 $3600 $3500
                                                                                                                                                                                            To France
           Exports: Imports:     Exports: Imports:                                                                                                                       From France                                                                                   MAIN TRADE PATTERNS
              $767 $1616            $30 $136
              48/2 48/2            60/4 60/4                                                         HUNGARY                                                                                                               MOLDOVA
             $1400 $1400          $1500 $1700                                                                                                       Exports: Imports:                                                                                    IMPORT AND EXPORT PATTERNS (1998):
                                                                  Imports:                                                                           $1628 $2063
                                                                   $612                                                                             150/32 150/32                                                                                   EXPORTS (US$, Millions)                                        IMPORTS (US$, Millions)
                                                                   48/2                                                                              $2075 $2000
                                                                   $1300                                                                                                                                                                                                                Exports: Imports:     Thickness of line reflects Export amount
                               SLOVENIA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    $211 $300
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Transport Time                  192/24 192/24                       Transport Time
                                                                                 Exports:                                                                                                                                                      (between capital cities)/                  $3800 $3800                       (between capital cities)/
                                                                                   $654                                                                                                                                                         Waiting Time @ Border                                      Thickness of     Waiting Time @ Border
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           line reflects
                                      Exports: Imports:                            24/2                                                                                     ROMANIA                                                            Crossing Points (Hours)*                                    Import amount    Crossing Points (Hours)*

                                         $432 $722                                 $850                                                                                                                                                                                                     Transport
                                                                                                                                                                                                               From                                                                            Costs
                                         10/2 10/2      CROATIA                                                                                                                                          Russian Federation                                                                    (US$)
                                         $650 $650                                                                                              To USA    Exports:                 $1390                           Imports:                                                    *Average time and costs estimated
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                based on surveys and estimates.
45                                    $4520                                                                                                               $319                                                     $1062

     Exports: Imports:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
       $802 $1500
       72/2 72/2                                                                                                                                                       Exports: Imports:                                                  45
      $1900 $1900                                  Exports: Imports:                                       FED. REP. OF                                                 $1827 $2058
                                                       $141 $366             $1200                         YUGOSLAVIA                                                  130/32 130/32                                 Exports:
                                Exports: Imports:      24/2 24/2                                                                                                        $2180 $2100                                   $323                                MAIN MACRO-TRADE INDICATORS:
                                   $36 $182            $500 $650      BOSNIA AND                          (SERB./MONT.)                                                                                              80/12                                       GDP PER CAPITA, 1998 (US$)
  SAN MARINO                      40/3 36/3                                                                                                                                                                          $1015
                                  $700 $800                          HERZEGOVINA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    $4000

                                                                                                                                                                Exports: Imports:
                                                                                                                                                                   $449 $723
                                                                                                                                                                144/36 144/36
                                                                                                                                                                  $1350 $1900                                                                                                                                       $2000
                                                                                                             Exports: Imports: Exports: Imports:
                                                                                         Exports: Imports:     $240 $242          $282 $255                                                                                        Black
                                                        Exports: Imports:                   $192 $353          24/5 24/5        96/12 96/12                                                                    From                 Sea                                                                             $1000

                                                          $144 $900                         24/4 24/4          $650 $650        $1800 $1800      Exports: Imports:                                       Russian Federation                                                                                         $500
                            Adriatic                      48/4 48/4                         $700 $700                                              $551 $396
                                                         $1900 $1900                                                                              96/36 96/36                                                       Imports:
                             Sea                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Expor
                                                                                                                                                  $1700 $2300                  BULGARIA                              $1038                                                                    Impor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    240/36                                          Real
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ts                          GDP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     $1600                                              GDP           (FOB)        t (CIF)           per
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              in                                          Capita
    ITALY                                                                                                                                                                          $1230                                                                                                     in            in
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Exports:                                                               US$            US$           US$
                                                                                                                                                                                                           $339                                                                       billion        billion        billion      in
                                                                                                                                                                                                           32/5                                                                                                                      US$

                                                                                    Exports: Imports:                                                                                                      $800

                                                                                       $11 $30               Imports:               FYR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ALBANIA                             2.9            0.2               .8           810
                                                                                   192/24 192/24              $113         MACEDONIA
                                                                                     $3800 $3800              72/12                                                   Exports: Imports:                                                                 BOSNIA &                            4.1            0.8            2.5           1200
                                                                                                              $2000               $1290                                  $377 $297                                                                      HERZEGOVINA
                                                                                                                                                                         48/5 48/5
                                                                                                 ALBANIA                                                                                                                                                BULGARIA                           12.3            4.6            5.0           1230
                                                                             Exports: Imports:                                                     Exports:              $900 $850

                                                                               $130 $352                                                             $97                                                                                                CROATIA                            20.5            4.4            8.8           4520

                                                                             144/24 144/24                                                          12/2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FYR MACEDONIA                       3.5            1.3            1.9           1290
                                                                             $2100 $2800                                                 Imports:   $500

                                                                                                          $810              Imports:      $149                                                                                                          ROMANIA                            38.2            8.3          11.8            1390
                                                                                                                              $32
40     To USA                                                                                                              192/24
        Exports:                                                                                                             $2800
         $175                                                                                                 Exports: Imports:                                                                                                            40
                                                                                                                 $26 $234                                                                                                                               0                      100                        200                         300
                                                                                                               96/24 144/24
                                                                                                               $1100 $1300                                                                                                                                                              KILOMETERS
                                                                                                                                                                            Aegean
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TURKEY
                                                                                                                              GREECE                                             Sea                                                                            This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                  15                                                                                20                                                                                                                                                        endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MAY 2000

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IBRD 31003

                      Salzburg
                                                              15                                Bratislava                              20                                                                      25 Chernivtsi                                                                      30
                                                                                                                                              Miskolc
                                    A U S T R I A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Yuzhnoukrayinsk
                                                                                                                                                      Nyregyhza                                                                  W  Siret
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Siret
                                                                                                                                                                                   Satu Mare                                                                M    Balti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            U K R A I N E
                                                                                                     Gyor
                                                                                                        "                                                                                                                              Suceava                 O
                                                                                                                                Budapest                Debrecen                             Baia
                                                                                                                                                                                             Mare                                                                 L
        Lienz                                                     Graz                              Szkesfehrvr                                                                                                                                                   D
                             St Veit an                                                                                                                                                                                                                                O
                              der Glan                                                                           H U N G A R Y                                         Oradea                                                                           Iasi               Chisinau 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V
                                                                                                        V                              Kecskemt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Piatra-                                  A      Tighina
                                                            Maribor                                                   V        X      IV                                                                                         Neamt
                                                                                                                                                                                Cluj-Napoca
                                  SLOVENIA                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Targu Mures            Bacau
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Bacau        Bacau
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Odessa
                           Ljubljana                                   Macelj
                                                                       Macelj

                                                                                                           Pcs                    Szeged                                                                                                                     IX
                                                                                                                                                                Arad
                                                                        Zagreb
                  Trieste                            Jankomir
                                                     Jankomir                                                                                                                                  R O M A N I A
                                                                           X
    Venice
                                       Rijeka                                     CROATIA
                                                                  Karlovac                                  Osijek                                                                             Sibiu                                           Focsani
45                                                      Maljevac W
                                                         Maljevac                  Gradiska
                                                                                   Gradiska         Slavonski
                                                                                                    Slavonski                                                                                                               Brasov
                                                                                                    Brod
                                                                                                    Brod   Samac
                                                                                                           Samac
                                                                                   W  Novi
                                                                                      Novi            W                                Novi Sad                                                        IV

                   Pula                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Braila
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                      Grad
                                                                                      Grad                 W                                                            IV
                                                                                               Bosanska
                                                                                               Bosanska             Zupanja
                                                                                                                    Zupanja                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            45
                                                                   C  IzacicIzacic             Gradiska
                                                                                               Gradiska                                                                                       Ramnicu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Buzau 
                                                                      Bihac                                     C  W Gunja
                                                                                                                     Gunja                                                                     Valcea
                                                                                      Banja    Banja
                                                                                               Banja      Orasje
                                                                                                          Orasje
                                                                                      Luka                                                                                  Drobeta-
                                                                                               Luka
                                                                                               Luka      Doboj    Raca
                                                                                                                  Raca      C                                                                                     Pitesti Ploiesti
                                                                                                                                                                              Turnu
                                                                                                                Tuzla               Belgrade
                                                                                                                                                                             Severin
                   A                                                                BOSNIA AND

   SAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Bucharest
   MARINO                 d                                                            Jajce     Travnik
                                                                                                                                                                                       Craiova
                              r                                                   HERZEGOVINA                                            FED. REP. OF                                                                                                          Constanta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Constanta C
                                 i                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Constanta

                                     a                                              D Kamensko
                                                                                      Kamensko                                          YUGOSLAVIA                        Vidin
                                                                                                                                                                           idin W                                        Giurgiu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Giurgiu
                                                                                              Grude
                                                                                              Grude    V
                                          t                                Split                             Sarajevo                                                                                                                Rousse                                                             B l a c k
                                              i                                                       Konjic                           (SERB./MONT.)                                                        VII                  C RousseRousse
                                                 c                                                                                                                                                                                                        Dobrich
                                                                                     Gorica
                                                                                     Gorica D                                                                      X                                                            IX                                                                          S e a
                                                                                                   Mostar                                                                                               Pleven
  I T A L Y                                                                                                                                                          Nis
                                                                                                                                                                                     IV

                                                                                               D Doljani
                                                                                                 Doljani                                                                                                                                                              Varna
   Terni                                                                                                                                                                    X                        B U L G A R I A
                            Pescara
                                                                                            Dubrovnik                                                                                                            Plovdiv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Plovdiv                Sliven
                                                                                                                                                          Pristina
                                                                                                                                                                               Sofia                                                               VIII         Bourgas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Bourgas
                                                                                                                                                                           Pernik                                                                            W
      SOUTHEAST EUROPE REGION
Rome                                                                       S                                 Podgorica                                                                                         Stara Zagora                                    Bourgas
    TRADE AND TRANSPORT                                                            e                                                                Tabanovce
                                                                                                                                                     abanovce
                                                                                                                                                                           C  Gyueshevo
                                                                                                                                                                              Gyueshevo
FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST                                                              a                                       Shkodr                           C      C
                                                                                                                                           C
                                                                                                                                      Qafe
                                                                                                                                      Qafe        Tetovo               Deve
                                                                                                                                                                       Deve
         EUROPE PROJECT                                                                                                              Morina
                                                                                                                                     Morina   Kumanovo
                                                                                                                                              Kumanovo        Skopje Bair
                                                                                                                                                                       Bair
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Kapitan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Kapitan      W
            (FYR MACEDONIA)                              Foggia                                                                               Gostivar          FYR                       Cotse                                                 Edirne
                                                                                                                                                                                         Delchev                         Andreevo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Andreevo

                                                                                                                DurresDurres                  VIII
              PROJECT*:                                                                                                         Tirana               MACEDONIA                           KulataKulata
                                                                                  Bari                            Durrs             Tirana
                                                                                                                                     Tirana                                            W                                                                      IV
          W                                                                                                                                     Kafasan
                                                                                                                                                Kafasan
             Naples
               INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT                                                                                                        C   Struga        Prilep
                                                                                                                                                          X
          D    DESIGN PROJECT                                                                                                              W
                                                                                                                             Elbasan              Ohrid
                                                                                                                                      Qafe
                                                                                                                                      Qafe                                                                                                                                                        Kadiky
               PILOT BORDER STATIONS                                                                                                                      Bitola
                                                                                                                                     Thane
                                                                                                                                     Thane                                                                                                                                    Istanbul                                       Sakarya
                                                                                                                                                                                    IV
               PILOT INLAND TERMINALS                                                                                        ALBANIA                                        X

          C    COMBINED PILOT AND INFRASTRUCTURE
                                                                                       Taranto                                          Kor俉                                                                                                                                                                 Golck
                                                                                                                                                                                 Thessaloniki
40                                                                                                               Vlor
          II  PAN EUROPEAN TRANSPORT CORRIDORS                                                      Lecce                                                                                                                                                                                                 T U R K E Y
              MAJOR ROADS                                                                                                            Ersek                                                                                                                                                       Bursa
              MAJOR RAILROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               40
    Mediterranean
              MAIN CITIES                                                                                                                          G R E E C E
                                                                                                                            Sarand
             Sea
              NATIONAL CAPITALS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                               0       50     100     150     200                                                                                                                                         Balikesir     shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                 15                                                                                              20                                     Larisa                                   25                                                        Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         30
              *Subject to change as other projects are finalized.                                KILOMETERS                                            Trikala                                                                                                                endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        JUNE 2000

