Report No. PIC2076
Project Name              Mexico-Financial Sector Restructuring...
Adjustment Loan
Region                    Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                    Private Sector Development and Finance
Project ID                MXPA40497
Implementing Agency       Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
Address: Insurgentes Sur 826
Colonia del Valle
03100 Mexico, D.F.
Tel: 52.5.543.3390
Fax: 52.5.228.1685
Contact: Direccion General de Credito Publico
PID Prepared              April 1995
Projected Board Date      June 1995
Objectives
The proposed loan would support the Government of Mexico's
Financial Sector Restructuring Adjustment Program (FSRAP), which is
designed to: (a) restore the solvency and soundness of Mexico's banking
system and improve confidence in the financial system; (b) reform the
accounting standards and prudential regulations for banks, and
strengthen supervision to prevent future recurrence of systemic
problems; (c) improve management of the provision of liquidity by the
Banco de Mexico (Central Bank) and development banks; and (d) initiate
reforms in accounting practices and regulation of financial groups.
Description
The proposed loan would support actions to: (a) improve discipline
and manage systemic risks in the provision of liquidity support by the
Central Bank and development banks to banks; (b) determine the health of
the banking system through intensive inspection of commercial banks and
review of the situation of banks entering the temporary capitalization
program (PROCAPTE); (c) restructure banks that have experienced
exceptional decapitalization; (d) initiate reform of accounting
standards and prudential regulations for banks; (e) strengthen bank
supervision; (f) improve the regulatory framework to facilitate
corporate work-outs and debt restructuring; (g) remove obstacles to
securitization and secured lending; and (h) initiate formulation of a
revised set of prudential regulations for financial groups and non-bank
financial institutions.
Implementation
To ensure adequate coordination of all Government agencies
responsible for implementation of the FSRAP, a Financial Sector Working
Group is being established by the Government with representation from
the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, the CNBV, the Central Bank,
the Insurance and Bonding Commission and the Retirement Savings



Commission. In addition, the Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan
(Loan No. 3838-ME) would be redesigned to support the technical
assistance needed to implement the FSRAP.
Program Financing
The proposed loan of US$1,000 million is to be disbursed in two
tranches of US$600 million and US$400 million. The Inter-American
Development Bank is processing a parallel Sector Adjustment Loan in the
amount of US$750 million on similar terms. Other program costs would be
financed independently by the Government of Mexico.
Poverty Category
Not applicable.
Environmental Aspects
The project is expected to have no adverse environmental impact.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 2 -



