Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6616-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$1,000 MILLION
TO
NACIONAZL FINANCIERA, S.N.C
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
MAY 24, 1995
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          =              New Peso (NP)
US$1.00               =              5.885 New Pesos (May 22, 1995)'
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABM                   Asociacion de Banqueros Mexicanos (Mexican Bankers Association)
BANOBRAS              Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios (National Public Works Bank)
CD                    Certificate of Deposit
CETES                 Mexican Treasury Bills
CNB                   Comision Nacional Bancaria (National Banking Commission)
CNBV                  Comision Nacional Bancaria y de Valores (resulting from merger of CNB and CNV)
CNSF                  Comision Nacional de Seguros y Fianzas (National Insurance and Bonding Commission)
CNV                   Comisi6n Nacional de Valores (National Securities Commission)
CONSAR                Comision Nacional del Sistema de Ahorro para el Retiro (National Commission of the
Retirement Savings System)
DVP                   Delivery versus Payment
DFI                   Direct Foreign Investment
ESF                   Economic Stabilization Fund
FAMV                  Fondo de Apoyo al Mercado de Valores (Securities Market Support Fund)
FOBAPROA              Fondo Bancario de Proteccion al Ahorro (Bank Fund for Savings Protection)
FONATUR               Fondo Nacional de Turismo (National Tourism Fund)
FOVISSSTE             Fondo para la Vivienda de los Trabajadores del ISSSTE (Govermment Workers' Housing Fund)
FSAL                  Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (3085-ME)
FSRL                  Financial Sector Restructuring Loan
FSRP                  Financial Sector Restructuring Program
FTAL                  Financial Technical Assistance Loan (3838-ME)
GAAP                  Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
IDB                   Inter-American Development Bank
IDP                   Institutional Development Plans
IMSS                  Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social (Mexican Social Security Institute)
INDEVAL               Instituci6n para el Deposito de Valores (Securities Depository Institute)
INFONAVIT             Instituto del Fondo Nacional de la Vivienda de los Trabajadores (National Workers' Housing
Fund Institute)
ISSSTE                Instituto de Seguridad y Servicios Sociales de los Trabajadores del Estado (Institute of Security
and Social Services for Government Workers)
NAFIN                 Nacional Financiera, S.N. C.
NAFTA                 North American Free Trade Agreement
PECE                  Pacto de Estabilizacion y Crecimiento Economico (Economic Stabilization and Growth Pact)
PROCAPTE              Programa de Capitalizacion Temporal (Temporary Capitalization Program)
PROSSE                Programa de Servicios Sociales Esenciales (Program of Essential Social Services)
SAR                   Sistema de Ahorro para el Retiro (Retirement Savings System)
SECOFI                Secretaria de Comercio y Fomento Industrial (Ministry of Commerce and Industrial
Development)
SHCP                  Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico (Ministry of Finance and Public Credit)
SIC                   Sistema Iniernacional de Cotizaciones (International Share Quotation System)
SOFOL                 Sociedad Financiera de Objero Limitado (Limited Purpose Bank)
SPEUA                 Sisrema de Pagos Electr6nicos de Uso Ampliado
UDI                   Unidad de Inversion (Investment Unit)
VAT                   Value Added Tax
' Conversions in the text of this report are hased on NP6 per US dollar.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pare No.
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY.11i
I.   MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT.1
A.     Causes of the Crisis.1
B. Government Response .2
C. Prospects .2
II.    THE FINANCIAL SECTOR                                                                              3
A. Background .3
B.     Recent History
(Nationalization, Consolidation and Re-privatization).                                   3
C.  Sector Policy Since Privatization .4
D.   Problems of the Banking System Before the Crisis.                                           7
E.   Impact of the Devaluation on the Banking System .11
F.  Recent Govemnment Measures .15
Hi.  THE GOVERNMENT'S FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM ..17
A.   Actions Already Taken by the Govermnent .17
B.   Principles Guiding the Government's Program .18
C.   Maintaining Operations and Containing Losses .18
D.  Policy and Institutional Reforms .24
E. Development Banks .27
IV.  BANK GROUP STRATEGY IN MEXICO'S FINANCIAL SECTOR .28
A. The Bank .28
B. The IFC .30
C.  Coordination with the IMF .31
V. THE PROPOSED LOAN    ..31
A. Background .31
B.  Tranching and Conditions .                                                                  31
C.  Implementation Arrangements .34
D.  Procurement and Disbursement .34
E. Accounts and Audit .35
F.  Monitoring and Reporting .35
G. Benefits and Risks .36
VI. RECOMMENDATION .37
This report is based on the findings of joint IBRD/IDB missions that visited Mexico from March 6-10 and April
2-8, 1995. The IBRD team included: Sri-ram Aiyer (Director, LAT, Mission Leader); Surendra K. Agarwal (AF2DR);
K.K. Framji (AF4CO); Roy Karaoglan (IFC); Thomas S. Glaessner (LA2PS); Mike Lubrano (LATPS); Daniel Crisafulli
(LA2PS); and Miguel Navarro (LA2PS). Arist6bulo de Juan, Peter Jones and T. N. Dinh were consultants to the IBRD
team; Jorge Serraino assisted in the processing of the report. The IDB team included: Hans U. Schulz; Kim Staking;
Jorge Requena; Emilio Cueto; and Adolfo Diz (consultant). Messrs. Edilberto L. Segura and Robert M. Lacey are the
IBRD Department Director and Division Chief, respectively, for this operation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
TABLE OF CONTENTS (contd.)
Page No.
ANNEXES
I.       Government's Letter of Financial Sector Development Policy
(with three attachments: Policy Matrix; Operating Guidelines for Bank Restructuring;
and Statement on Development Finance Entities) ................................. 38
H.   Matrix of Policy Actions .................................................. 64
III.   Key Economic Indicators . ................................................ 75
IV.      Balance of Payments  . .................................................. 77
V.       External Capital and Debt (including External Financing Requirement) .................. 78
VI.      Aggregate Data on the Mexican Banking System  ................................. 79
VII.    Summary of Principal Financial Sector Legislation   ............................... 88
VIII.   Significant Differences between CNB's Accounting Practices for Banks
and Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States ..................... 92
IX.      Structure and Powers of FOBAPROA  ........................................ 96
X.       English Translation of PROCAPTE Scheme
(Banco de Mexico Circular of February 24, 1995) ................................. 98
XI.      Principles of Corporate Debt Restructuring under the UDI Scheme .................... 101
XII.    Legal/Regulatory Obstacles to Securitization and Secured Lending  .................... 109
XIII.   Status of Bank Group Operations in Mexico ................................... 111
XIV.   Supplementary Data Sheet  .            ............................................. 115



-iii-
MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
BORROWER:                Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (NAFIN)
GUARANTOR:               United Mexican States
AMOUNT:                  US$1,000 million equivalent
TERMS:                   Repayment in 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the standard
variable rate
OBJECTIVES:              The proposed loan would support the Government of Mexico's
Financial Sector Restructuring Program (FSRP), which is designed
to: (a) restore the solvency and soundness of Mexico's banking
system, restructure banks, and improve confidence in the financial
system; (b) reform the accounting standards and prudential
regulations for banks, and strengthen supervision to prevent future
recurrence of systemic problems; (c) improve discipline in the
provision of liquidity by the Banco de Mexico (Central Bank); and
(d) initiate reforms in development bank lending, accounting
practices and regulation of financial groups, and the deposit
protection system.
DESCRIPTION:             The loan will support actions to: (a) improve discipline and
manage systemic risks in the provision of liquidity support by the
Central Bank and resources from development finance entities; (b)
determine the health of the banking system, inclusive of diagnostic
studies, with the assistance of independent auditors, of banks and
financial groups intervened by the former National Banking
Commission (CNB) and the newly merged National Banking and
Securities Commission (CNBV), banks and financial groups that
have come under the control of the bank support fund
(FOBAPROA), and banks entering the temporary capitalization
program (PROCAPTE); (c) restructure troubled banks with the
assistance of investment banking advisers; (d) reform accounting
standards and prudential regulations for banks; (e) strengthen bank
supervision; (e) improve the regulatory framework to facilitate
corporate work-outs and debt restructuring; (f) remove obstacles
to securitization and secured lending; and (g) formulate a revised
set of prudential regulations for brokerage houses, and a revised
scheme for deposit protection.
BENEFITS:                Immediate actions included under the program will help contain
the losses of the banking system while enabling continued
functioning of the credit and payments system which is essential
for the real sectors. Successful implementation of the program
will lead to increased confidence in the financial



-iv-
system, and restructuring of banks will restore their financial
soundness and operating efficiency. The revision in accounting
practices and disclosure requirements will improve the quality of
information on banks, thereby enabling early recognition of future
problems besides allowing market regulation. Improvements in
prudential regulation and supervision and the legal/regulatory
framework for lending will lead to a more efficient, sound and
stable financial system. Together these actions will enable the
financial system to mobilize increasing amounts of domestic and
foreign capital.
RISKS:                   The principal risks are: (i) failure to maintain a satisfactory
macroeconomic framework and the resulting continuation of high
inflation and interest rates; (ii) political intervention in the
implementation of policy and institutional reforms in the financial
sector or in decisions on restructuring of banks; and (iii) shortage
of technical capacity in government entities or poor coordination
among them leading to delays in implementation. These risks are
mitigated by the Government's strong support for the program.
The loan contains safeguards to stop disbursement in the event of
deteriorating macroeconomic conditions or unsatisfactory
performance under the program. The implementation of diagnostic
studies and establishment of a transparent framework and criteria
for restructuring of banks will reduce the risks of political
intervention. Provision of technical assistance under the recently
approved Financial Technical Assistance Loan (FTAL) will help
ensure timely availability of the additional skills required for
implementation. To improve coordination among Government
agencies, an ad hoc Financial Sector Working Group has been
established with participation from the CNBV, the Central Bank
and the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit.
POVERTY CATEGORY:    Not Applicable.
COFINANCING:             The Inter-American Development Bank is processing a parallel
Sector Adjustment Loan in the amount of US$750 million with
conditionality identical to this loan.
ESTIMATED
DISBURSEMENT:            The loan will be disbursed in two equal tranches.  The first
tranche will be disbursed upon loan effectiveness, and the second
will be released upon compliance with tranche release conditions
expected to occur about 9 months after effectiveness (March/April
1996). Retroactive financing up to an amount of US$200 million
will be permitted for eligible imports made before the date of the
loan agreement and after March 9, 1995.
IDENTIICATION No:        MX-PA-40497



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO NATIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
1.1   I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Sector Adjustment Loan to Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. with the guarantee of the United
Mexican States for the equivalent of US$1,000 million in support of a program for restructuring
of the financial sector. The loan would be at the Bank's standard variable interest rate with a
maturity of 15 years, including three years of grace, and would be disbursed in two tranches of
US$500 million each. The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is cofinancing the program
with a Sector Adjustment Loan in an amount equivalent to US$750 million, to be disbursed in
two tranches.
I. MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT
1.2   Facing near-depletion of its foreign exchange reserves, Mexico was compelled on
December 20, 1994 to allow the peso to depreciate beyond the limits of the band that it had
previously defended. A currency crisis has ensued and, as a result, the economy is contracting
sharply this year. This section summarizes a more complete discussion of recent economic
developments which appears in the 1995 Country Assistance Strategy (Report No. 14518, May
22, 1995). Key economic indicators, and information on balance of payments and financing
requirements, respectively, are given in Annexes III. IV and V.
A.   Causes of the Crisis
1.3   The Mexican crisis was precipitated by a year-long series of domestic and external
shocks. First, with 1994 a presidential election year and the economy in recession in the second
half of 1993, the Government approved an expansionary budget for 1994. Then on January 1,
1994 the Chiapas revolt erupted, followed by several other political disturbances, including the
assassination of the Presidential candidate of the ruling party, which increased uncertainty about
the outcome of the August presidential election. On the external front, increases in U.S. interest
rates beginning in February 1994 made U.S. assets relatively more attractive than before.
1.4   The negative reaction of investors to these shocks and the peso devaluation has been
sharp, reflecting both the relative vulnerability of the economy when the shocks began and the
macro policy response in 1994. Since 1987, Mexico had pursued a plausible but high-risk
economic strategy, the main elements of which were: (i) the use of the exchange rate as a
nominal anchor, which successfully reduced inflation to single-digit levels; and (ii) an aggressive
program of structural reforms, designed to attract productivity-enhancing investment and thereby
strengthen Mexican competitiveness. The risks were that this exchange rate policy would cause
a real appreciation of the peso, and that the current account deficit would therefore grow and
have to be financed by increasing foreign capital inflows. However, the Government believed
firmly that increased investment and productivity gains would improve the economy's
competitiveness sufficiently to bring the current account deficit back down to a sustainable level
over time.



-2-
1.5   As expected, the real exchange rate did appreciate strongly, but sufficient increases in
investment and productivity failed to materialize. Further, although important structural changes
were made, other refonns proceeded too slowly to have the desired impact on productivity and
competitiveness. Absent rapid productivity gains, the peso appreciation made it increasingly
difficult for Mexico to compete internationally, and so the current account deficit ballooned from
an average of 3 percent of GDP in 1989-90 to 7 percent in 1992-94, with no indication that a
decline was beginning.
1.6   Although such large current account deficits would not be sustainable in the long-term,
prior to 1994 Mexico was able to rely on surging private foreign capital inflows to finance them.
Then in 1994, foreign capital inflows slowed -- responding to the shocks and to growing concern
over the sustainability of Mexico's economic strategy -- and fell far short of the level needed to
finance the current account deficit, so that reserves declined precipitously.
B.   Government Response
1.7   Following the December devaluation, financial markets were unsettled by the
Government's initial delays in announcing an economic program, and again by the limited scope
of the program that was eventually announced on January 3, 1995. Recognizing the need for
a more comprehensive economic program, the Government announced a revised program on
March 9, which included strong fiscal and monetary adjustment, a program to deal with problem
banks and prevent future banking problems, and a strengthening of the social safety net, with
the program supported by a large international financial package.
C.   Prospects
1.8   Although important risks remain, financial markets have begun to respond positively.
Mexico's macroeconomic strengths -- a competitive real exchange rate, a balanced government
budget, a manageable ratio of debt to GDP, a vigorous export sector, and the North American
Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) -- are permitting a delicate stabilization with a projected
current account deficit of under 1 percent of GDP in 1995. Mexico's economic program is
based, correctly, on the premise that the immediate problem is largely one of short-term cash-
flow, and not of insolvency, and so its first objective is to restore stability by rebuilding
international confidence. The program's international financial support package will enable the
Government to convert its large portfolio of short-term debt to longer maturities. Moreover,
the crisis has led the Government to accelerate structural reforms in the areas of infrastructure
privatization, decentralization of public services, the legal and judicial systems, and the design
of social programs.
1.9   The key risks for medium-term economic recovery are long-standing problems that have
been exacerbated by the crisis: the fragility of the banking system, the slow pace of certain
structural reforms, and the social pressures arising from rising unemployment and poverty. If
not addressed adequately, any of these risks could erupt and so undermine economic recovery
and investor confidence. The proposed PROSSE (Programa de Servicios Sociales Esenciales -
- Program of Essential Social Services) aims to improve the social safety net and so ease social
tensions, while the Bank's policy dialogue with Mexico is initended to assist Mexico's program
of structural reform. Finally, strengthening the banking system is precisely the objective of this
loan. Assuming that each of these risks can be contained (as discussed in the Country Assistance



-3-
Strategy), economic growth is expected to resume and the risks will gradually diminish.
II. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
A.   Background
2.1   Structure and Size. Mexico's financial sector comprises 34 commercial banks, 7
development banks and several trust funds operating at the second tier level, over 340 credit
unions, 28 securities brokerage houses that are members of the Mexican Stock Exchange, 44
insurance and re-insurance companies, 19 bonding companies, 28 warehousing companies, 60
leasing companies, 58 factoring companies, 45 foreign exchange houses and a number of other
non-bank institutions.
2.2   As of December 1994, total assets and total deposits of the banking system were NP857
billion and NP414 billion, respectively. Total outstanding loans amounted to NP594 billion.
At the end of 1994, the three largest commercial banks accounted for 70% of commercial bank
assets, received 72% of commercial bank deposits and operated 65% of commercial bank
branches. Annex VI contains aggregate data on Mexico's commercial banks and on their
performance.
B.    Recent History (Nationalization, Consolidation and Re-privatization)
2.3   Commercial Banks. In September 1982, Mexico nationalized 58 of its 60 private
commercial banks.2 Thereafter, the banking sector went through a major consolidation and
restructuring process: 9 institutions were closed or liquidated, 20 regional institutions were
merged with mid-size banks, and by 1986 only 18 commercial banking institutions remained (6
national banks, 5 regional and 7 multi-regional banks). In addition, the non-bank financial
holdings of the commercial banks were returned to private ownership. The nationalization of
banks granted the Government a monopoly on the provision of banking and credit services.
Coupled with administrative actions to merge and downsize development banks and trust funds,
this led to a fall in commercial bank credit extended to the private sector from 40 percent of
total bank credit in 1980-81 to only about 25 percent in 1986. During the 1985-1987 period,
the Government used commercial banks to finance the public sector deficit.
2.4   From 1988 to 1992, as Mexico's public finances began to improve and the Government's
demand for funds decreased, the Government introduced a wide range of financial reforms
culminating in the re-privatization of commercial banks in 1991-1992.
2.5   To establish a clear legal and regulatory framework for the provision of banking and non-
banking financial services by the private sector, a new Credit Institutions Law was adopted in
1990. The Financial Groups Law was also enacted in 1990, allowing for the establishment of
a conglomerate banking regime permitting separate commercial banking, brokerage and other
financial service companies to be controlled by a single holding company. (Annex VII describes
the key laws governing Mexico's financial sector.) At the same time, several measures were
taken to deregulate important areas of the Mexican financial system: (i) liberalization of deposit
2 The two exceptions were Banco Obrero, controlled by Mexican labor unions, and Citibank, the only foreign bank then
allowed to operate branches in Mexico.



-4-
and lending interest rates; (ii) elimination of reserve requirements; (iii) elimination of the
liquidity coefficient; and (iv) elimination of regulations requiring commercial banks to hold long-
term government paper until maturity.
2.6    On June 28, 1990, the Constitution was amended to remove banking from the list of
activities reserved for the state, thus allowing for the re-privatization of the commercial banks.
By July 1992 controlling shares of the 18 institutions previously owned by the Government had
been auctioned for US$12.5 billion equivalent. Eleven commercial banks were acquired by
securities brokerage houses and the rest were bought by industrial groups or individuals.
Currently, 13 of these banks are subsidiaries of financial groups.3 Non-bank financial services
also benefitted from liberalization policies. Regulation of insurance premiums and policies was
simplified, as were the rules governing mutual funds. Following the market crash of October
1987 (in the U.S. and Mexico), the laws governing Mexican capital markets were modified with
the aim of reducing transaction costs, boosting transparency, and providing stronger penalties
against insider trading. Reforms were enacted to liberalize pricing, permit product innovation,
and rationalize taxation policies for the entire financial sector.
2.7    Development Banking. As of December 1994, assets of the development finance entities
(DFEs) were about NP369 billion equivalent, with outstanding credits of NP294.2 billion
equivalent. The sector is composed of seven development banks (NAFIN, BANCOMEXT,
BANCOMINT, BANRURAL, BANOBRAS, FINASA and BANJERCITO) and several trust
funds operating at the second-tier level (including FIRA, FONAVIT, FONATUR, FOVI and
FIDEC). These banks and funds are assigned to sectors, with substantial overlap.' While the
institutions depend on the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (SHCP) and are subject to
regulation by the National Banking and Securities Commission (CNBV), the trust funds are
under the auspices of the Central Bank.
2.8   In recent years, the public development banks have aggressively shifted their operations
from  the first-tier to the second-tier level.  The outstanding financial resources for the
consolidated development finance sector (including trust funds) to private financial institutions
grew from NP21.8 billion at the end of 1990 to roughly NP123.9 billion by 1994. Of this total,
NP107.6 billion was held by commercial banks.' This compares with the total capitalization
of the commercial banking sector of NP44.7 billion, and does not include liquidity provided
through interbank and other short term operations, portfolio finance investments or loan
guarantee programs. During the recent crisis, some DFEs increased their provision of liquidity
to commercial banks, operating daily volumes of several hundred million dollars.
C.    Sector Policy Since Privatization
2.9    Financial Conglomerate Model. With the enactment of the Financial Groups Law in
Excluding two banks, Union and Cremi, which were intervened in September 1994.
Besides acting as a fiscal agent for international loans of the Federal government, NAFIN provides first and second-tier
financial services to small and medium sized companies in industry, commerce and services. BANCOMEXT promotes extemal
trade; BANCOMINT - domestic commerce; FIRA and BANRURAL - agriculture; FOVI - housing; FIDEC - commerce; and
FONATUR - tourism.
I Equivalent to approximately 16% of total commercial bank credit outstanding to the non-financial private sector.



-5-
1990, Mexico adopted the financial conglomerate model followed in one form or another by
numerous European countries, including Germany, Spain and the U.K. Under the Financial
Groups Law, commercial banking, securities brokerage, investment banking, leasing, factoring,
foreign exchange, mutual fund management and insurance activities may be conducted by
separate subsidiaries of a common holding company. In addition, a number of non-bank
financial services, such as leasing, factoring, and trading in debt instruments, may be carried
out directly by the commercial bank subsidiary of a financial group. This model was adopted
to make Mexico's financial system more efficient and competitive, permitting financial groups
to exploit economies of scale and scope, enter new markets and cross-market services. The
NAFTA chapter on financial services and the Financial Groups Law both provide for the
possibility of foreign-controlled financial groups with the same basic conglomerate banking
structure as domestic financial groups.
2.10 As noted above, the adoption of the conglomerate banking model resulted in substantial
concentration in the financial services markets. The purchase of privatized banks by groups with
substantial holdings in other financial services industries (particularly brokerage and insurance)
clearly raised competition concerns for the Government. The Government has sought to mitigate
the negative effects of this concentration by permitting limited foreign competition, by
deregulation and by fostering greater exchange of information among financial service providers
(for example, through the encouragement of credit information bureaus).
2.11 Foreign Participation and Competition. The Credit Institutions Law, the Capital
Markets Law and the Financial Groups Law provide for a special category of foreign-controlled
fmancial holding companies, commercial banks and brokerage houses, where provided for by
treaty (e.g., NAFTA). Foreign-controlled commercial banks are ordinarily subject to individual
and aggregate market share limitations.  Initially, no single foreign-controlled bank may
represent more than 1.5% of the capital of the banking system and all foreign banks taken
together may have no more than 8%. The aggregate ceiling will gradually increase to 15% by
1999. After January 1, 2000, the market share limits will no longer apply. However, the treaty
provides that Mexico may take certain safeguard actions to prevent a surge of competition from
foreign-controlled financial entities.
2.12 The Government expected that gradually increased competition in financial services from
foreign-controlled entities would provide incentives for Mexican-controlled commercial banks
to become more efficient, adopt new techniques and technologies and gradually reduce
intermediation costs. Even after privatization in 1992, bank intermediation spreads in Mexico
remained extremely high, averaging 8% through 1993, declining to about 6% in 1994 following
conclusion of NAFTA. The charters for the first foreign-controlled financial institutions and
holding companies were approved beginning in August 1994. Thus, the direct effects of foreign
competition on the Mexican financial services industry were not yet apparent before the
December 1994 devaluation.
2.13 On February 15, 1995, in the aftermath of the devaluation, Mexican laws were modified
to permit foreign individuals and companies as a group to hold up to 49% of the voting shares
of a Mexican-controlled financial holding company, commercial bank or brokerage firm. More
importantly, as an incentive for foreign financial institutions to come to the rescue of
undercapitalized Mexican banks, the amendments now permit foreign financial institutions to
purchase a controlling interest in a Mexican commercial bank with a market share of up to 6%,



-6-
four times higher than the initial NAFTA limitations (Annex VII). Thus far, only Spain's Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya has expressed interest in taking advantage of the amendment, and is currently
negotiating to increase its substantial minority stake in the Probursa - Mercantil financial group
to majority control.
2.14 Improved Regulation. Since the privatization of the commercial banks, the Government
has taken several important steps to further modernize the framework for regulation of the
financial sector. In June 1993, the Constitution was amended and legislation went into effect
to grant the Central Bank far greater autonomy with more clearly defined functions (e.g., in the
conduct of monetary policy and regulation and supervision of the payments system and foreign
exchange market). In July 1994, legislation was enacted creating the National Commission for
the Retirement Savings System (CONSAR), with responsibility for supervising Mexico's
retirement savings system.
2.15 Refinements were also made to the principal legislation governing the financial sector.
Amendments to the Credit Institutions Law and the Financial Groups Law effected in July 1993
broke down some of the divisions between the services that could be provided by different
entities in a financial group, permitting a greater variety of services (including leasing and
factoring) to be offered by commercial banks. The laws governing the operation of insurance
companies, bonding companies and auxiliary credit institutions (e.g., warehouses) were modified
in the same month to clarify the capital adequacy requirements for such entities. In July 1993
and in the following year revisions were made to the Capital Markets Law to encourage greater
competition (liberalization of brokerage firm operations abroad and introduction of a system for
quotation of securities originally issued abroad).
2.16 The authorities with jurisdiction over the financial sector (the Central Bank, SHCP and
the Commissions) have also issued important new regulations over the past few years in such
areas as regulatory treatment of newly-introduced financial instruments (including exchange
coverage contracts), marketing of financial services (including mutual funds) and securities
trading practices of banks and brokerage firms. The authorities have also taken limited steps
to encourage greater competition to minimize the negative effects of Mexico's highly
concentrated market for financial services. In February 1995, new regulations were issued by
SHCP to foster the development of credit information bureaus (which maintain data on credit
transactions). The goal is to require the sharing of information on individual and corporate
credit transactions, formerly treated as proprietary by financial institutions.
2.17 Merger of Commissions. The Mexican financial system is regulated and supervised by
the SHCP, the Central Bank, the National Banking and Securities Commission (CNBV, created
out of the merger of the National Banking Commission (CNB) and the National Securities
Commission (CNV)), the National Insurance and Bonding Commission (CNSF) and CONSAR.
The primary regulators for commercial and development banks are the Central Bank and the
CNB, with the latter taking primary responsibility for supervision of banks and enforcement of
applicable laws and regulations. Following the recent merger of the CNB and CNV, (para.
2.20), the merged body (CNBV) is now responsible for supervising virtually all financial holding
companies as well as banks and brokerage firms. This should permit more efficient and
effective supervision of financial groups.



-7-
2.18 Effective supervision requires comprehensive inspection procedures covering all aspects
of bank operations, skilled and experienced supervisory staff, and an institutional development
strategy. The adoption of the financial conglomerate model and the privatization of the
commercial banks took place before a strengthened supervisory infrastructure could be put in
place. In particular, CNB staff were inexperienced in the types of deregulated activities in
which banks were now permitted to engage. It was also recognized by the Government that
consolidated supervision of financial groups as a whole needed to be strengthened. In April
1994, the CNB was substantially reorganized and an institutional development plan was initiated
to rationalize responsibility for on-site and off-site supervision and to modernize the training of
inspectors and other staff. Implementation of the institutional development plan also involved
the hiring of a substantial number of new staff at the management level. The Financial Sector
Technical Assistance Loan (Loan No. 3838-ME) signed in March 1995 is to assist the Banking
and Securities, and Insurance and Bonding Commissions to modernize regulations and
supervisory techniques and improve permanent training programs for their staffs.
2.19 The CNB had a staff of about 110 full time on-site examiners for commercial banks at
the time of its merger with the CNV (para. 2.20). Additional examiners are employed in the
Commission's off-site and special supervision departments. Since the reorganization of the CNB
in April 1994, on-site examiners typically work in teams of approximately 25 and conduct annual
examinations of each of the 18 principal commercial banks. The examination staff of the CNB
has been receiving intensive training under the direction of a Field Office Supervisor of the U.S.
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) seconded to the CNB since October 1994 under
the FTAL. In light of the increased demands being made on the examination staff, the FTAL
will support additional training in on-site and off-site supervision for CNBV staff from the U.S.
FDIC, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) and the Federal Reserve System.
2.20 In early December 1994, for the purpose of improving the effectiveness of the
supervisory authorities, the Government announced that the CNB and the CNV would be
merged. The merger became effective on May 1, 1995. The President of the CNB was
appointed President of the CNBV, the new body resulting from the merger. The merger is
expected to facilitate consolidated supervision of financial groups and to better employ human
and technological resources in financial sector supervision.
D.   Problems of the Banking System Before the Crisis
2.21  Rapid Growth.  Prior to the peso devaluation, and in the aftermath of the re-
privatization of the banks during 1991/92, the Mexican commercial banking system had gained
in depth and had recorded significant growth. Between 1991 and 1994, aggregate assets of
commercial banks (including intervened banks, see para. 2.48) increased by 111.3 % in nominal
terms, or by 64.6% in real terms, equivalent to a real annual growth rate of 18.1 %. In 1994,
assets of the commercial banking system averaged NP735 billion, equivalent to 58.8% of GDP,
as compared to a ratio of 42.5% in 1991. By the end of 1994, aggregate bank assets reached
the record level of NP857 billion. However, as a result of the steep devaluation of the peso in
December, aggregate bank assets decreased by 25% in U.S. dollar terms, from the equivalent
of US$215 billion at the end of September 1994 to about US$161 billion by year-end.
2.22 The growth rate of the banks' loan portfolios was even higher than that of assets. During
the three-year period 1991-94, aggregate gross loans (excluding discounted loans) increased by



-8-
142.9% in nominal terms, or by 89.2% in real terms, equivalent to an annual real growth rate
of 23.7%. This is equivalent to at least eight times the rate of growth of real GDP during the
same period.
2.23 High Ratio of Loans to Deposits. Although deposit mobilization also improved
significantly during the period under review, with the ratio of average deposits to GDP
increasing from 21.4% in 1991 to 31.3% in 1994, the rate of growth of the loan portfolios
outstripped that of deposits. Consequently, the ratio of loans to deposits increased steadily from
94.1% at the end of 1991 to 113.8% by 1993, and still further to 124.0% by 1994. This
resulted in an increasing reliance on interbank funding, the bulk of which consisted of lines of
credit from foreign banks. In fact, the aggregate amount of interbank borrowings increased from
the equivalent of NP34 billion at the end of 1991 (of which NP23 billion were denominated in
foreign currency) to NP124 billion at the end of 1994, of which the equivalent of NP92 billion
(US$17.3 billion) were denominated in foreign currency. These figures imply that the ratio of
aggregate interbank borrowings to aggregate shareholders' equity increased from 155 % in 1991
to 278% by 1994.
2.24 Deterioration in Loan Portfolio Quality. The rapid rate of growth of loan portfolios,
coupled with the banks' generally lax monitoring guidelines and procedures, and with the
ineffective supervision undertaken by the CNB (until mid- 1994), resulted in a noticeable
deterioration in loan portfolio quality. Whereas at the end of 1991, aggregate past due loans
(including both principal and interest) of commercial banks (excluding Union and Cremi),
accounted for 4.09% of gross loans (including discounted loans), by the end of 1993 the ratio
stood at 7.25%. During the first half of 1994, the ratio increased further to 8.30% before
decreasing to 7.33% by year-end (see Table 2.1 on the following page), largely due to a 27%
increase in gross loans during the second half of the year. At the same time, the ratio of non-
performing credits (defined as the 3 lowest of the 5 credit categories)6 to gross credits (which
include loans plus off-balance sheet exposures) increased steadily from 5.20% at the end of
1991, to 6.65% by 1992, to 8.15% by 1993, and finally to 8.80% by 1994.
2.25  The above two indicators of loan quality understate the extent of the deterioration of the
loan portfolios. The ratio of past due loans to gross loans reflects the amount of arrears, rather
than the amount of outstanding loans affected by arrears, which is usually significantly larger,
especially for installment loans. The ratio of non-performing credits to gross credit risks is also
understated to the extent that, in practice, banks tend to upwardly adjust the overall classification
of their major debtors, in order to reduce the amount of loan loss provisions to be made.
Secondly, rollovers or rescheduled loans, which should be presumed problem loans in most
cases, are classified as performing loans or loans with minimal risk.  Because of these
shortcomings, published classifications do not accurately represent the true risk profiles of the
banks' loan portfolios.
2.26 Inadequacy of Loan Loss Provisions. Mexican banks generally have not allocated
sufficient provisions to cover their actual and potential loan losses (see Table 2.1 on the
following page).
6 The five categories are: minimal risk (A); low risk (B); moderate risk (C); high risk (D) and loss (E), with the latter three
categories considered as the non-performing component of the portfolio.



-9-
Table 2.1: Deterioration in Loan Portfolio Quality and Inadequacy of Loan Loss
Provisions of Commercial Banks', 1991-94
(in million of NP and percentages, as of year-end)
1991         1992         1993         1994
Gross loans2                         240,153      336,907      421,126      594,205
Past due loans                         9,828       18,757       30,527       43.544
Loan loss provisions                   4,994        9,072       13,045       20,849
Equity                                21,336       28,802       37,383       44,667
Ratios (%)
Past due/Gross loans                    4.09         5.57         7.25         7.33
Non-Performing credits/Gross            5.20         6.65         8.15          8.80
credit risks3
Provisions/Gross loans                  2.08         2.69         3.10         3.51
Provisions/Past due                    50.81        48.37        42.73        47.88
Open loan exposure4/Equity             22.66        33.62        46.77        50.81
Open loan exposure/Adjusted            40.86        53.97        71.47        73.91
stockholders' equity'
Net capital/Risk-weighted assets        7.73         9.01         9.94         9.60
l Aggregates exclude two banks, Cremi and Union, which were intervened in September 1994.
2 Including discounted loans.
3 Gross credit risks include gross loans and off-balance sheet risks (i.e., discounted loans, guarantees and irrevocable letters
of credit). Non-performing credits comprise loans classified in categories C, D, and E. Figures of gross and non-performing
credit risks actually relate to the preceding quarter.
4 Open loan exposure is defined as the difference between past due loans and loan loss provisions.
5 Defined as stockholders' equity less revaluation surplus.
Source: CNB
Although aggregate loan loss provisions increased from NP5.0 billion at the end of 1991 to more
than NP13.0 billion by 1993, the ratio of provisions to past due loans actually decreased from
50.8%  to 42.7%  during the two-year interval. The coverage decreased further to 40.7%  by the
end of September 1994, before rebounding to 47.9% by year-end, primarily in response to the
adverse effects of the peso crisis.
2.27   One important indicator of the adequacy of a bank's portfolio provisions is the ratio of
its open loan exposure (i.e., the difference between the level of past due loans and that of
provisions) to its stockholders' equity. As shown in Table 2.1, the ratio for the commercial
banking system as a whole (excluding Cremi and Union) more than doubled during the period
under review  from  22.7%  at the end of 1991 to 50.8%  by 1994.  And if the banks' equity is
adjusted downward by excluding the revaluation surpluses, the ratio of open loan exposure to
equity increases significantly, from 40.9% at the end of 1991 to 73.9% by 1994. These ratios
imply that even prior to the peso crisis, the level of the Mexican banks' provisions was
inadequate. However, an accurate estimate of the shortfall in the banks' provisions cannot be
derived without obtaining additional information relating to the true risk profile of the banks'
loan portfolios, the aging of arrears, and the amount of loans affected by arrears (para. 2.25).



-10-
2.28 Overstated Capital Adequacy Ratios and Profitability. Notwithstanding the shortfall
in the banks' provisions, the banks' capital adequacy ratios improved during the period 1991-
1994, in response to the phased raising of the minimum required ratio of net capital to risk-
weighted assets, from 6% at the end of 1991 to 7% by the end of 1992, and then to 8% by the
end of 1993. As shown in Table 2.1 above, the average ratio increased from 7.73 % at the end
of 1991 to 9.94% by 1993, and still further to 10.27% by the end of September 1994, before
decreasing to 9.60% by year-end, due to the losses incurred during December in the wake of
the peso devaluation.
2.29 Financial statements of Mexican banks are prepared in accordance with CNBV guidelines
which are based on Mexican Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("Mexican GAAP").
These differ in a number of important respects from U.S. GAAP, including the definition and
treatment of non-performing loans, of provisions and of the accrual of interest income on loans
(Annex VIII). The main shortcoming of the Mexican banks' financial statements is the
overstatement of bank profits, and  hence  of stockholders' equity.   In  addition  to
underprovisioning (paras. 2.26 and 2.27), two other factors distorted the banks' profitability
ratios, namely, the accrual of interest on past due loans and the creation of loan loss provisions
through a charge on capital reserves without passing through the income statement, which
together resulted in overstating profits by some 40% during 1993-1994. It is estimated that
during the two-year period 1992-1993, the amount of provisions created through capital charges
totalled at least NP2.8 billion, which is equivalent to about 35 % of the additional net provisions
made by the banking system during the period, and to more than 18% of the net profits
(including undistributed earnings from subsidiaries) generated by the system.
2.30 During 1993 and 1994, the amount of past due interest outstanding of the whole banking
system (including all intervened banks) increased by about NP9.3 billion, to reach NP14.2
billion, which is equivalent to 25.7% of the system's past due loans. (Table 2.2 below.) This
increase in past due interest accounted for 13.5 % of the system's net interest income during the
same period. Consequently, the banks' reported figures on net interest income are overstated.
However, since banks are required to make provisions on their past due interest, presumably
averaging about 48% of amounts past due, the extent of the overstatement of net operating
income is reduced. Nevertheless, it is estimated that the banks' overstatement of net operating
income during 1993 and 1994 was of the order of NP4.8 billion, equivalent to almost 40% of
the system's aggregate net profit.
Table 2.2: Evolution of Past Due Interests of Commercial Banks, 1992-94
(in million of NP, as of end year/month)
Dec        June        Dec         June         Dec
1992        1993        1993        1994        1994
Past due principal                 14,729     21,434      24,362      31,044       40,888
Past due interest                  4,862       6,836       8,320       10,581     14,1562
Past due loans'                    19,591     28,270      32,682      41,625      55,0442
These figures are higher than those indicated in Table 2.1, since they include Cremi and Union.
2 Partly estimated.
Source: Derived from data published by CNB and the Direcci6n de Investi2aci6n Econ6mica. Banco de Mexico.
2.31 Supervision. The institutional development plan initiated by the then CNB in mid-1994
(para. 2.18) was only just being implemented by its new management when the devaluation



-11-
occurred. Thus, important deficiencies in banking supervision remained, although some
improvements have been achieved since. Although the basic framework for implementing new
policies and procedures for bank inspections is in place, there is not yet an adequate number of
sufficiently trained and experienced inspectors to be fully effective. In particular, the CNBV's
capacity to assess the level of risk in individual bank portfolios and the quality of banks' risk
management needs to be improved. Since the devaluation, the former CNB and the recently
merged CNBV's focus has been principally on asset quality and it has received technical
assistance from the World Bank, foreign bank supervisors and others to improve its staff's
capacity in this area. However, in the longer term, staff will need to improve their skills in
treasury management (interest rate and foreign exchange rate risks), securities activities (market
risk and market practices) and international financial activities. Improvement of the overall
supervision of financial groups should also be a priority. The CNBV does not yet conduct
formal consolidated supervision of financial groups or apply a capital adequacy rule for holding
companies. These important regulatory and supervisory tools remain to be adopted.
E.    Impact of the Devaluation on the Banking System
2.32 The banking system was severely shaken by the peso crisis following the December 1994
devaluation. The two immediate adverse effects were the foreign exchange losses incurred by
several banks on account of their open short positions, and the impairment in the value of the
banks' investments (consisting mainly of fixed-income securities) resulting from the sharp rise
in interest rates which followed the collapse of the peso. In addition to these losses, banks are
facing, on the one hand, significant liquidity pressures which substantially increase their funding
costs and, on the other, an accelerated deterioration in the quality of their loan portfolios, the
extent of which will depend on the duration of the excessively high interest rates currently
prevailing.
2.33 Exchange Losses. Mexican banks are subject to two fairly restrictive limits on the
relative size of their foreign currency-denominated liabilities and their net open foreign currency
exposure. Under prevailing regulatory guidelines, banks are required to limit their foreign
currency liabilities to no more than 20% of total liabilities, and their net open short or long
foreign currency positions to 15% of their net capital. Despite these restrictions, and despite
the fact that some banks recouped part of their losses by converting their net short positions into
net long positions shortly after the devaluation, but before the further collapse of the peso, the
net foreign currency losses incurred by the banking system were not negligible. Published
financial statements indicate that at least eight banks (including the three largest) recorded
significant fourth quarter losses. For the system as a whole, fourth quarter foreign exchange
losses totalled about NP4.6 billion, equivalent to more than 10% of equity. No additional
foreign exchange losses are anticipated in 1995, unless banks speculate on currency markets,
since data published by the Central Bank indicates that at the end of 1994, the commercial
banking system had an aggregate net long position of US$911 million.
2.34 Interest Rate Exposure. The banks' aggregate investment portfolio increased by about
84% in 1994 to reach the level of NP85.9 billion at year-end. The bulk of these investments
consisted of fixed-income securities (NP55.8 billion), whose market value has been impaired by
the significant hike in interest rates. In the aftermath of the peso devaluation, the CNB issued
in January 1995 a new regulation requiring banks to value their securities at market prices and
to disclose their unrealized gains or losses on their financial assets and liabilities in their off-



-12-
balance sheet accounts as of end-1994.  Published financial statements indicate that only
Banamex realized losses on its securities portfolio, totalling NP869 million, equivalent to 7.9%
of its equity at year-end. Most of the other banks showed unrealized gains, since the valuation
method adopted by CNB (which differs from U.S.GAAP) takes into account both financial assets
and financial liabilities. Thus the banking system, excluding Banamex, showed an aggregate
unrealized gain of NP209 million, equivalent to 0.6% of equity. Including Banamex, the losses
(both realized and unrealized) amounted to NP660 million, equivalent to 1.5% of the system's
equity at year-end.
2.35 Liquidity Problems. At the end of 1994, aggregate deposits with the commercial banks
(excluding Union and Cremi) totalled NP413.9 billion, of which 18.3% was denominated in
foreign currency and 73.6% consisted of time deposits. The latter comprised promissory notes
(NP164.6 billion), fixed deposits (NP89.2 billion), bank bonds (NP38.0 billion), and
subordinated obligations (NP13.0 billion). About 15.6% of time deposits, or the equivalent of
NP65.4 billion, were raised by the 13 banks that operated branches (28 in total) outside Mexico.
The bulk of these time deposits consisted of U.S. dollar-denominated CDs, which reportedly
amounted to about US$8 billion.
2.36 As a result of the peso crisis, the banks have come under heavy liquidity pressure, as
they are finding it extremely difficult to roll-over maturing CDs. In fact, during the first three
months of 1995, aggregate foreign currency-denominated deposits with the commercial banks
(including Union and Cremi), decreased by 23% or by more than US$3.5 billion, to stand at
end-March 1995 at US$11.8 billion, which is equivalent to 15.8% of total deposits.
2.37 The pressure on the banks was for awhile compounded by the Government's difficulty
in dealing with the Tesobono problem. The liquidity assistance provided by FOBAPROA to the
commercial banks (para. 3.5), which amounted to US$3.3 billion during the first quarter of
1995, has significantly improved the banks' liquidity position. However, the liquidity crunch will
have significant adverse effects on the banks' average cost of funds and, hence, on their
profitability during the first half of 1995.
2.38 Loan Portfolio Quality. As a result of the rapid rate of growth of their loan portfolios
during a period of relatively slow economic activity in the country, Mexican banks were already
saddled with high levels of non-performing loans when the peso crisis ensued (para. 2.24). The
banks' concern with the rapidly deteriorating quality of their loan portfolios is reflected in the
additional loan loss provisions made. In fact, aggregate new loan loss provisions made during
the fourth quarter of 1994 amounted to more than NP5.3 billion, as compared to NP5.5 billion
for the first three quarters combined. As a result of these heavy charges, coming on top of the
foreign exchange losses, the impairment in the value of the securities portfolio, and the
unrealized losses from the banks' subsidiaries, the banking system (excluding Cremi and Union)
recorded during the fourth quarter of 1994 an aggregate loss before tax of NP3.5 billion, which
is, equivalent to 43% of their profit (before tax) during the first three quarters of the year, and
to 7.9% of the equity at year-end.
2.39 Since most loans are repriced monthly, the prevailing high interest rates have quickly
diminished borrowers' ability to service their debts. As part of the Government's revised
economic program, monetary policy was tightened substantially, causing nominal interest rates
on peso-denominated Treasury bills to rise to an average of 70 percent for the first four months



-13-
of the year. Yet in real terms, these interest rates are low, since the rate of inflation in the four
months of 1995 was equivalent to 84 percent on an annualized basis. Since mid-April, interest
rates on short-term Government obligations have declined from a peak of more than 80% to a
current rate under 60%. It has been projected that the economic program will steadily restore
confidence and reduce inflation to less than half of current levels by the end of the year, so that
nominal interest rates should fall by a similar magnitude. Should inflation remain stubbornly
high or confidence resume only very slowly, high nominal interest rates would continue to exert
a negative impact on bank loan portfolios.
2.40 The accelerated deterioration in the quality of the loan portfolios of 19 major commercial
banks is illustrated in Table 2.3 below. In fact, the ratio of past due loans to gross loans
(including discounted loans) of the group (which excludes Cremi and Union), increased from
7.4% at end-1994 to 8.4% by the end of January 1995, and further to 9.3% by the end of
February 1995. If Cremi and Union, whose combined gross loans at the end of February 1995
stood at NP35.8 billion, of which 41.6% was past due, are included in the group, the ratio of
past due loans to gross loans increases to 11.1 %. Although banks increased substantially their
loan loss provisions during the first two months of 1995 by an aggregate amount of NP7.9
billion, the ratio of provisions to past due loans remained inadequate at the end of February
1995: it stood at 50.5%  for the group of 19, and at 45.7%  if Cremi and Union are included.
The increasing inadequacy of the banks' loan loss provisions is demonstrated by the jump in the
group's ratio of open loan exposure to equity, from 53.4%  at the end of 1994 to 74.3%  by the
end of February 1995.
Table 2.3: Accelerated Deterioration in Loan Portfolio Quality
of Selected Commercial Banks'
(in million of NP and percentages)
End Dec      End Jan     End Feb
1994        1995         1995
Gross loans2                      587,012     602,533      611,834
Past due loans                     43,491       50,477     56,9244
Loan loss provisions               20,813      22,466       28,735
Equity                             42,436      42,578      37,9265
Ratios (%)
Past due/Gross loans                 7.41         8.38        9.306
Provisions/Gross loans               3.55         3.73        4.70
Provisions/Past due                 47.86       44.51       50.487
Open loan exposure3/Equity          53.44        65.79       74.33
Net capital/Risk-weighted assets     9.40         8.66        7.75
l Aggregates relate to the largest 19 banks (excluding Cremi and Union, which were intervened in September 1994), accounting
at the end of 1994 for 95.0% of the system's equity and for 98.8% of the system's gross loans (excluding Cremi and Union).
2 Including discounted loans.
3 Open loan exposure is defined as the difference between past due loans and loan loss provisions.
4 With Cremi and Union, past due loans amounted to NP71,818 million new pesos.
5 Partly estimated.
6 Ratio increases to 11.09% if Cremi and Union are included.
7 Ratio decreases to 45.70% if Cremi and Union are included.
Source. CNB



-14-
2.41  Eroding Capitalization. The significant new loan provisions taken and the increased
funding costs have impacted negatively on the banks' capital position. During the first two
months of 1995, the aggregate equity of the group of 19 banks decreased by NP4.5 billion or
by 10.6%. Consequently, the group's average ratio of net capital to risk-weighted assets
decreased during the interval from 9.40% to 7.75%. In fact, at the end of February 1995, 9
out of the 19 banks had ratios below 8%, as compared to only 3 at the end of 1994. The latest
statistical data show that the banks' aggregate past due loans (including Cremi and Union),
increased to around NP80 billion by the end of March 1995. This highlights the system's need
for additional capital, which is supported by the Government's recent actions. The scarcity of
capital would become considerably more acute if the prevailing high lending rates were to
continue for a relatively long period of time, and the recession deepen.
2.42 Estimates of Potential Bank Portfolio Losses and Fiscal Impact. Estimating the
overall cost of bank restructuring (including cleaning-up non-performing portfolios and
recapitalizing banks) is important for the design of appropriate fiscal policy and for ensuring the
preparedness of the authorities in responding to the financing requirements of bank restructuring.
Any such estimate, however, is likely to be extremely tentative for several reasons. First, it is
difficult to quantify potential losses of individual banks prior to completion of detailed portfolio
audits, which are scheduled to start shortly. Second, it is difficult to estimate the extent to
which such losses might be subsequently recovered (through loan collections and/or sale of
assets), since these recoveries would depend on the macroeconomic outlook as well as the
effectiveness of the recovery efforts to be pursued by the authorities and the banks. Third, it
is equally problematic to estimate the magnitude of capital injection which could be expected
from the private sector (existing and/or prospective shareholders) as the bank restructuring
program unfolds, and which would correspondingly reduce the ultimate losses. Fourth and
finally, in the present dynamic Mexican context, the condition of banks and firms is likely to
change rapidly, and some losses will reveal themselves only over time. For these reasons, the
loss estimate given below will need to be updated from time to time to reflect changing
circumstances, and to take account of up-to-date information as it becomes available, in
particular the results of diagnostic audits.
2.43  The loss estimate presented in Table 2.4 on the following page is based on available
actual data as of end-March 1995 (i.e., gross loans outstanding, reported past due loans, actual
provisions), supplemented by a number of adjustments (to take account of under-reporting and
assets classification guidelines, etc.) and assumptions (e.g., 20% increase in gross loans, varying
percentage increases in past due loans between March and September 1995). The basis for
adjustments and underlying assumptions are explained in the footnotes to the Table. The data
shows that, as of end-March 1995, the likely shortfall in portfolio provisions for the banking
system (after some necessary adjustments), would range from NP24 billion to NP48 billion, with
the median estimate at around NP36 billion (US$6 billion equivalent). Projections of the
potential shortfall in provisions for the situation as of end-September 1995, based on varying
assumptions of deterioration of the portfolio for planning purposes, show that this could increase
from NP38 billion to NP96 billion, with the median estimate at NP65 billion (US$11 billion
equivalent).
2.44 The Government will seek to mitigate the fiscal as well as the monetary impact of
banking system losses through the application of appropriate financial modalities in carrying out
the bank restructuring program (e.g., in cleaning up portfolio losses and recapitalizing banks).



-15-
Table 2.4: Potential Loan Portfolio Losses of Commercial Banks
(in billion of NP)
Low Scenario     Intermediate Scenario          High Scenario
End March 1995
Gross loans (1)                         666.0                    666.0                   666.0
Reported past dues (1)                    80.0                    80.0                    80.0
Actual Provisions (2)                    48.0                     48.0                    48.0
Adjusted past dues (3)                   120.0                   140.0                   160.0
Shortfall in Provisions                  24.0                     36.0                    48.0
Percentage of Gross loans                  3.6                     5.4                     7.2
End September 1995
Projected Gross loans (4)                800.0                   800.0                   800.0
Assumed Increase in Past                 20.0                     35.0                    50.0
dues (%)
Projected past dues                      144.0                   189.0                   240.0
Required Provisions                       86.4                   113.4                   144.0
Potential Shortfall in                    38.4                    65.2                    96.0
Provisions (5)
Percentage of Gross loans                 4.8                      8.2                    12.0
1 Including Cremi and Union. Gross loans include discounted loans, partly estimated.
2 As required by prevailing prudential regulations (60% of past due loans).
3 Taking into account loans affected by arrears (rather than the amount of the arrears), revised loan classification guidelines,
and rollovers.
4 Assumed to be 20% over end-March level.
5 Assuming, conservatively, that no additional provisions will be made during March-September 1995.
These modalities are discussed in the "Operating Guidelines for Bank Restructuring" (Attachment
II of Annex I) and in paras. 3.19 - 3.21. It is envisaged in particular that, while paying
attention to the liquidity needs of restructured banks, the Government would minimize cash
injection and instead issue bonds with maturities spread over several years. The median estimate
of banking system losses of NP65 billion (approx. US$11 billion) would correspond to 4.0% of
projected 1995 GDP while the high scenario loss estimate of NP96 billion (US$16 billion) would
amount to 5.9% of GDP. The magnitude of banking system losses in relation to GDP for some
other countries which have faced similar problems to Mexico are as follows: Ghana 6%,
Hungary 10%, Finland 8%, Sweden 4.5%, and Norway 4%. If spread out over ten years, the
annual burden of the high scenario losses for Mexico, including principal and interest (at 10%
p.a. real), would be manageable as it would represent 0.9% of projected 1995 GDP.
F.     Recent Government Measures
2.45 Strengthened Supervision. After the CNB was reorganized in mid-1994, it began to
perform its duties of regulating and supervising banks with increased vigor. Thus, even before
the December 1994 devaluation and the ensuing financial crisis, the CNB had intervened in two



-16-
banks along with the financial group controlling such banks. A third financial group was
intervened in February 1995 following inspection of its commercial bank by the CNB. (para.
2.50)
2.46 Role of FOBAPROA. Many of the Government's programs for providing support to the
banking sector are channelled through FOBAPROA, the support fund for banks administered by
the Central Bank. As described in Annex IX, FOBAPROA's role goes beyond simple deposit
insurance. The fund has broad powers to extend credit to banks to permit them to meet their
obligations to depositors and other liability holders. Since the December 1994 devaluation,
FOBAPROA has maintained a dollar liquidity window for commercial banks (para. 3.5) and is
the entity through which the Government administers the PROCAPTE scheme (paras. 3.12 -
3.13).
2.47 Credits granted by FOBAPROA to assist a bank in meeting its obligations to the public
are referred to as "preventive support." FOBAPROA's operations are funded through annual
and special contributions from commercial banks and from lending extended to FOBAPROA by
the Central Bank.  In return for preventive support (other than through PROCAPTE),
FOBAPROA may require a pledge of the shares of the bank receiving such support, or of its
financial holding company. FOBAPROA is also empowered to exercise the voting rights of
shares that have been pledged to it. If amounts extended as preventive support are not repaid
or if serious undercapitalization or irregularities are uncovered in a bank, FOBAPROA may vote
the shares it has received in pledge, take majority control of the bank or financial group, replace
management, write down the bank's capital in accordance with the results of a full audit and sell
the bank.
2.48  Interventions. In June 1994, as a result of the discovery of irregular transactions in the
course of regular bank inspections, the CNB ordered the administrative intervention of Banca
Cremi and Banco Union, both commercial bank subsidiaries of the Grupo Financiero Cremi-
Union. On September 6, 1994, after discovering numerous additional irregularities and evidence
of fraud involving related party transactions affecting the soundness and solvency of these banks,
the CNB removed the management of both banks and appointed a management intervenor for
the group and its subsidiaries.7 Since the appointment of the intervenor, losses of NP4,750
million from bad loans, fraud and the effects of the devaluation have been recognized and an
additional NP2,350 million of capital were injected by FOBAPROA. The board of directors of
the CNB approved the creation of an intervention committee to assist in resolving the intervened
subsidiaries of Grupo Financiero Cremi-Union. The committee's goals include reassuring
depositors and creditors that the intervened banks, with the support of FOBAPROA, will
continue to comply with their obligations.
2.49 On February 16, 1995, immediately upon the effectiveness of the amendments to the
Credit Institutions Law and Financial Groups Law clarifying FOBAPROA's power to vote the
shares of financial institutions pledged as collateral for preventive support, this was done to
' The CNB take-over of Cremi-Union was the first such intervention since the privatization of the banking system.
Earlier in 1994, the CNB and FOBAPROA negotiated an arrangement with Banco Obrero (a bank owned by Mexican labor
unions, which was never nationalized) under which FOBAPROA made a capital infusion of NP 300 million in exchange for
a majority interest. Inspections of Banco Obrero had exposed insufficient capitalization and certain past management
deficiencies.



-17-
effect a reduction of capital of each of the banks to zero and to issue to FOBAPROA new shares
of capital stock in exchange for its preventive support. Thus, the original shareholders of the
financial group and its subsidiary banks lost their entire equity in these entities and FOBAPROA
became their sole shareholder.
2.50 In February 1995, the CNB ordered an immediate management intervention of Grupo
Financiero Banpais - Asemex after inspections turned up sharply increased past due loans, a
shortage of capital and irregular related party transactions. An intervenor and an intervention
committee were appointed. The real condition of the financial group's bank (Banpais) and its
other subsidiaries is currently being determined. Although this process is not yet complete,
losses of approximately NP4,000 million are expected to be recognized.
III. THE GOVERNMENT'S FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
A.    Actions Already Taken by the Government
3.1   During the first quarter of 1995, the Mexican authorities overseeing the banking system
(the Central Bank, CNB, and SHCP) initiated a number of actions to mitigate the negative
impact of the peso crisis on the banking system. These included provision of liquidity, intensive
inspections of banks resulting in increased provisions, and a temporary recapitalization scheme
for banks. Since that time, in discussions with the Bank, these actions have been coordinated
into an integrated program, and additional safeguards and policy reform measures identified to
restructure the financial sector. The technical assistance necessary to enhance the authorities'
capacity to manage and implement this far reaching program has also been reviewed. The
Government has now put into effect a number of holding actions to reduce Central Bank credit
risk in liquidity provision, and systemic risk in the payments process, and to contain losses and
minimize risky behavior by troubled banks. The latter include: (i) prohibition of dividend
payments by PROCAPTE banks; (ii) strict enforcement of the 8% capital adequacy rule; (iii)
increased provisions; (iv) separate reporting of rollovers; and (v) limits on new lending and large
exposures. The Government will keep these holding actions in effect throughout implementation
of the program. In addition, the CNB will use moral suasion to restrict dividend payments by
other banks in 1995.  The CNB has also prepared an inventory of additional operating
restrictions to be required of banks by the supervisory authorities, depending on the particular
circumstances of individual banks (e.g., discontinuation of lending to adversely classified
borrowers, limitation on new lending, establishment of internal control mechanisms, sale of non-
core assets). These holding actions are shown in Box II of the Matrix of Policy Actions (Annex
II) and in an annex to the Operating Guidelines for Bank Restructuring (attached to Annex I
hereto).
3.2   The actions outlined above are being carried out during a time when the Government is
also engaged in a major effort to build up the institutional capacity of financial sector authorities,
particularly the CNBV. As noted earlier, in April 1994, the CNB was substantially reorganized
and an institutional development plan was initiated to rationalize responsibility for on-site and
off-site supervision and to modernize the training of inspectors and other staff. Implementation
of the institutional development plan has also involved the hiring of a significant number of new
staff at the management level. The CNB has recently been merged with the CNV (para. 2.20),
so as to enable the consolidated supervision of financial groups including banking institutions and



-18-
to achieve greater efficiency and coordination. The FTAL (Loan No. 3838-ME), signed in
March 1995, is to assist CNBV and the Insurance and Bonding Commissions to modernize
regulations and supervisory techniques and improve permanent training programs for their staffs.
B.    Principles Guiding the Government's Program
3.3   The Government's program is guided by several important principles:
(a)   the need to ensure the continued functioning of the credit and payments system
while taking strong measures to contain losses;
(b)   taking decisions on recapitalization of selected banks after determining their
financial condition;
(c)   putting in place a transitional program for recapitalization of banks to avoid
further instability and allow time for shareholders to infuse additional capital;
(d)   requiring diagnostic studies for intervened and PROCAPTE banks for clear
recognition and sharing of losses;
(e)   formulating and adopting a comprehensive set of guidelines ("Operating
Guidelines"), setting out the basic principles and methodology for bank
restructuring, including the treatment of bad assets;
(f)   promoting credibility and market confidence through transparency in the
procedures followed;
(g)   restructuring loans of potentially viable borrowers in the real sectors facing short
term liquidity problems; and
(h)   reforming and modernizing the policy and institutional framework to enable the
mobilization of increasing amounts of domestic and foreign capital, while putting
the system on a sound footing to prevent future recurrence of similar problems.
3.4   The Government's program to restructure the financial sector is embodied in the attached
Letter of Financial Sector Development Policy (Annex I), and described in the following
paragraphs. The Letter of Financial Sector Development Policy is supplemented by three
substantive technical papers: a Policy Matrix; the Operating Guidelines for Bank Restructuring;
and a Statement on Development Finance Entities.
C.   Maintaining Operations and Containing Losses
3.5   Provision of Liquidity to Banks. In the aftermath of the December 1994 devaluation,
a number of Mexican commercial banks experienced extreme difficulty in renewing their
maturing dollar obligations. The Government responded by establishing in early January 1995
a special window (as part of FOBAPROA) to provide short-term dollar liquidity at interest rates
of up to 25%, secured by acceptable collateral. The total outstanding balances drawn by 10 of
the commercial banks were about US$3.3 billion by March 31, 1995. After the December 1994



-19-
devaluation, the Central Bank began providing peso liquidity on an unsecured basis through
special credit auctions as some banks were experiencing a shortage of eligible collateral.
Outstanding balances stood at the equivalent of US$3.0 billion by March 31, 1995 and 15 banks
had participated in such auctions.
3.6   In order to ensure that liquidity provision does not become a means to delay revelation
of insolvency, since March 20, 1995 the Central Bank requires banks to post Government
securities, NAFIN securities, and loans provided to prime borrowers as collateral in peso credit
auctions. This provision will remain in place throughout the implementation of the program,
and liquidity support from the Central Bank will take account of solvency considerations. The
Government has also agreed to undertake studies to reform development bank lending to serve
as a basis for the preparation of action plans for implementation (para. 3.32).
3.7    The Payments System and Daylight Overdrafts. The volume of intra-day credit or
daylight overdrafts extended to commercial banks by the Central Bank immediately after the
devaluation was unlimited. Thus, during the day its credit risk grew as the liquidity crisis
worsened and some banks maintained daylight overdrafts greater than several times their capital.
An organized system of risk safeguards was not in place to prevent the failure of one bank (e.g.,
with large peso daylight overdrafts) from causing a potential systemic problem. To improve
operation of the payments system while implementing explicit safeguards to reduce its credit
risk, a Circular issued on March 3, 1995 requires pricing of Central Bank intra-day credit on
a real time basis, pledging of collateral by banks that maintain large and frequent daylight
overdrafts with the Central Bank, and debit caps for the portion of daylight overdrafts not
subject to collateralization. Finally, the Central Bank has indicated that commercial banks will
be required to hold special non-interest earning clearing balances if daylight overdrafts are
deemed to be too frequent. These actions will limit both credit risk and systemic risk. They
will make solvency problems at commercial banks more apparent, triggering early decisions on
continued intra-day or longer-term liquidity support.
3.8    To limit the risk of contagion through interbank transactions, the Central Bank issued a
circular in March 1995 establishing the Sistema de Pagos Electr6nicos de Uso Ampliado
(SPEUA), a special clearing house for settlements of large value payments between Mexican
commercial banks or between them and their foreign correspondents.8 The system for netting
of payments over this system (i.e., multilateral netting), combined with the imposition of
bilateral credit limits, will substantially reduce the risks of contagion within Mexico's financial
system. The Central Bank will also eliminate FOBAPROA coverage of settlements through
SPEUA by March 1996. This will reduce the risk that participants in SPEUA do not implement
proper risk safeguards because of the government's (FOBAPROA) guarantee of all bank
liabilities (paras. 2.46 and 3.26). These measures, taken together, substantially minimize the
systemic risk arising from inter bank transactions.
3.9   Intensified Inspection. In order to quickly assess the health of the banking system,
beginning January 1995, the CNB initiated a program of intensified on-site inspection of
8 The hardware and software of SPEUA are provided by the Central Bank while the risk safeguards are implemented by
the commercial banks participating in the transfer of large value payments over the system.



-20-
commercial banks based on the CAMEL9 system focussed on asset quality and provisions.
These are being done on a targeted basis, beginning with the more vulnerable banks. This has
revealed the precarious financial situation of some banks, whose capital would drop below the
8% required under the regulations if they were to set aside adequate provisions. Under the
program, the CNBV expects to complete on-site inspections of all but four privatized banks by
September 30, 1995, and the remaining four by December 31, 1995. The CNBV will continue
to conduct such on-site inspections annually. Satisfactory progress in the completion of annual
on-site inspections of banks is a requirement for the release of the Second Tranche.
3.10 Monitoring Rollovers/Reschedulings/Large Exposure. In order to prevent troubled
loans from being automatically rescheduled with interest being capitalized and enabling banks
to avoid provisions on them, on January 11, 1995, the CNB required all banks to separately
identify roll-over loans for monitoring. In addition, the CNB required banks to maintain or
reduce large exposures to return to compliance with applicable prudential regulations.
3.11  Increased Provisions. On February 22, 1995, the CNB required all banks to increase
the level of provisions to the higher of: (a) 4% of the loan portfolio; or (b) 60% of past due
loans; or (c) provisions required from quarterly loan classification. This led all banks to raise
provisions, but in doing so, several banks fell short of the requirement for 8% capitalization.
3.12 Temporary Recapitalization Program (PROCAPTE). On February 24, 1995, the
Government introduced a program for temporary recapitalization (PROCAPTE, administered
through FOBAPROA), for those banks which are unable to mobilize additional equity capital
from existing shareholders to meet the 8% requirement. The principal characteristics of the
PROCAPTE scheme are set out in Annex X. The program involves the issuance of subordinated
convertible debentures up to an amount sufficient to raise each participating bank's net capital
to 9% of its risk-weighted assets. The proceeds from the issuance are deposited in a special
account in Banco de Mexico that carries an interest rate equal to that paid on the debentures.
Whenever in the future a participatory bank's capitalization ratio falls below 8.5 %, FOBAPROA
will subscribe for an additional amount of subordinated convertible debentures sufficient to
restore the bank's 9% level. If, however, a bank's capitalization ratio exceeds 9%, the bank
has the option to redeem (partially or in full) the subordinated debentures held by FOBAPROA.
FOBAPROA is required to convert the subordinated debentures outstanding at the end of five
years into equity. However, the convertibility feature could be invoked earlier by FOBAPROA
if a participating bank's equity capital falls below 2% of its risk-weighted assets, or if bank's
capitalization (excluding the PROCAPTE obligations) varies more than 25 % from the trend of
average capitalization of all the banks participating in the program. Following discussions with
the Bank, it has been agreed that FOBAPROA will, in any event, exercise the conversion and
take over the ownership of any bank whose capital falls below zero percent.
3.13 Six of the nine banks that had deficient capitalization ratios at the end of February (i.e.,
Serfin, Comermex, Internacional, Centro, Confia and Oriente), joined the scheme at the end of
I Capital adequacy; Asset quality; Management; Earnings; and Liquidity, asset and liability management.



-21-
March10. The combined equity of these six banks, which amounted to NP10.2 billion at the
end of 1994 (equivalent to 22.8% of the system's total equity), decreased by almost NP3.0
billion during the first two months of 1995. Consequently, the group's average capitalization
ratio declined from 8.13 % to 5.82%  (Table 3.1). During March, four of the six banks managed
to raise only a small amount of capital privately, totalling NP443 million. As shown in Table
3.2, the PROCAPTE obligations issued totalled NP6.5 billion, thereby enabling the banks to
raise their average capitalization ratios to 9.60%.
Table 3.1: Ratio of Capital to Risk-Weighted Assets of PROCAPTE banks
(in percentages)
Bank                    End December             End February              End March
1994                    1995                    1995
Serfin                                    7.99                    4.84                    9.77
Comermex                                  7.95                    6.86                    9.70
Internacional                             8.40                    6.74                    9.37
Centro                                    8.08                    7.91                    9.60
Confia                                    8.55                    6.60                    9.06
Oriente                                   9.14                    -0.79                   9.00
Group of six                              8.13                    5.82                    9.60
Table 3.2: Increase in Equity of PROCAPTE banks during March 1995
(in million of NP)
Bank                   New capital             Convertible   PROCAPTE    Increase in
injection                  debt      obligations      equity
Serfin                             240                       --          3,200        3,440
Comermex                            30                       --          1,400        1,430
Intemacional                                                              700           700
Centro                                                       --           452           452
Confia                              28                       35           425           488
Oriente                              --                     110           311           421
Total                              298                      145          6,488        6,931
3.14   Debt Restructuring - UDI Scheme. The doubling of the NP-dollar exchange rate, the
fourfold rise in interest rates, and the onset of recession are making it difficult for corporate
borrowers in the non-export sector and many other debtors (e.g., consumers, home owners, state
and municipal governments) to service bank loans. To minimize the risk of bankruptcy of firms
that are viable in the long-run, the Government is: (a) reviewing means to reduce legal, tax, and
10 Of the remaining three banks, one (Banpais) had already been intervened in February 1995, another (Mexicano) raised
enough capital through a share capital increase and issuance of subordinated debt to improve its capitalization ratio above the
8% level, and a third (Probursa) was granted an additional month to meet the minimum capital adequacy requirement since
negotiations with a foreign financial institution regarding a substantial capital injection had reached an advanced stage.



-22-
regulatory impediments to voluntary debt restructurings; and (b) actively promoting debt
restructurings, given the acute nature of the crisis. The Government has introduced a number
of Support Programs (Programas de Apoyo) to permit the restructuring of loans on the balance
sheets of commercial banks and some development banks up to an aggregate ceiling of NP 170
billion (or about US$ 28 billion) including loans for: (a) industry; (b) housing; (c) states and
municipalities; and (d) certain development banks loans. (Annex XI.) These programs use the
Unidad de Inversion (UDI), a real unit of account. The Central Bank periodically adjusts the
UDI's NP value based on an index of national consumer prices. Short-term NP-denominated,
nominal interest rate loans would be converted into long-term UDI-denominated loans that have
constant real interest rates, whose use is aimed at eliminating the inflation-uncertainty component
of floating peso interest rates. The Government will lend funds to the banks to finance the
restructured loans at a real rate of 4 percent (UDIs+4%) and borrow from the banks at market
determined nominal interest rates based on the 28 day CETES rate. Thus, if the ex-post real
CETES interest rate is higher than 4 percent (as is likely, particularly in the short-term), there
will be a subsidy which will translate into a fiscal cost.
3.15 The Government has analyzed the potential fiscal cost of the UDI scheme, taking into
account its inflationary impact. Additionally, the Central Bank has issued a circular to banks
setting out basic criteria, modalities and procedures for the UDI scheme. It has been agreed that
beginning January 1, 1996, CNBV will review the classification of assets in the UDI trusts as
they evolve, and re-classify them every quarter, and require banks to build necessary provisions
immediately.  The CNBV  will also, before March 31, 1996, (i) analyze the initial
implementation experience of the UDI scheme and associated fiscal costs, and formulate
changes, as appropriate; (ii) review the results with the Bank; and (iii) implement the revised
scheme.
3.16 Legal/Regulatory Framework for Corporate Workouts. Containing the real impact
of financial distress requires preventing closure of illiquid but ultimately solvent enterprises as
well as efficient winding up of insolvent businesses. Unfortunately, the Mexican legal/regulatory
framework is not conducive to corporate restructuring. Bank regulatory provisions limit the
options available for restructuring. Legal, notarial, re-registration and other costs associated
with restructuring can also be quite high. Bankruptcy reorganization procedures are outdated,
time-consuming, costly and seldom lead to efficient workouts. There is also a general lack of
confidence in how well the court system is equipped in terms of skills and processing capacity
to handle what may turn out to be a large number of defaults.
3.17 The Mexican Bankers Association (ABM) has established a committee to develop
initiatives for removing legal/regulatory obstacles to corporate restructuring. These include
means of more rapidly and cheaply notarizing restructured loan and security agreements,
facilitating registration of amended mortgages and initiating pre-default consultations among
creditors. The ABM is also developing an arbitration procedure for resolving disputes among
creditors in corporate restructurings. The Government recognizes that legal and regulatory
changes are desirable to facilitate re-organization of troubled enterprises. The Ministry of
Commerce has already begun work on improving the bankruptcy code. Accordingly, the
Government will conduct a study of the obstacles to voluntary corporate debt restructuring
(including recognition, execution and enforcement of out-of-court workouts and arbitration
awards), review the findings with the Bank before December 31, 1995 and agree with the Bank
on a plan of action by March 31, 1996 for removing unnecessary impediments to voluntary debt



-23-
restructuring, through appropriate changes in regulations and/or the legal framework.
3.18 Diagnostic Studies of Banks. The inspections by the CNBV provide better information
than was available hitherto on a bank's financial condition including capital adequacy under
present Mexican accounting standards. However, the CNBV's inspection capacity is limited and
its staff lacks experience in some technical areas (para. 2.31). In order to obtain accurate and
consistent financial information, uniform accounting standards, consistent with U.S. GAAP, for
loan classification and provisions need to be applied. Availability of such information is also
essential for banks to be able to mobilize equity capital from the financial markets. Therefore,
under the program, the CNBV has agreed to recruit an independent auditing firm under terms
of reference acceptable to the Bank to assist the CNBV in conducting detailed diagnostic studies
of intervened and PROCAPTE banks, and initiate the diagnostic study of at least one intervened
bank before Effectiveness. The CNBV will complete the diagnostic studies and review results
with the Bank: (a) by September 30, 1995 for two intervened banks; and (b) by December 31,
1995 for all intervened banks and PROCAPTE banks as of May 31, 1995. The CNBV has also
agreed to initiate diagnostic studies of banks (not in the PROCAPTE/FOBAPROA programs as
of May 31, 1995) within 90 days of their joining PROCAPTE or being intervened by CNBV or
coming under the control of FOBAPROA, to complete such studies within a maximum of four
months from the starting date, and to review the results with the Bank. Reviews of the results
of the completed diagnostic studies with the Bank are requirements for the release of the Second
Tranche.
3.19 Bank Restructuring. The initiation of detailed diagnostic audits for selected banks
(para. 3.18) constitutes only the first step in formulating and implementing a comprehensive
bank restructuring program. The Government recognizes the need to put such program on a
sound, methodical and transparent basis. For that purpose, and following discussions with the
Bank, it has formulated and approved a framework document entitled "Operating Guidelines for
Bank Restructuring" (attached to the Letter of Financial Sector Development Policy, Annex I).
The document (and the three technical papers annexed to it) sets out the main objectives,
methodology and criteria for the restructuring of troubled banks. The four principal objectives
of the restructuring framework are:
*     to minimize the overall fiscal cost while adequately meeting the financial
requirements of the restructured banks;
*     to ensure an attractive environment for both domestic and international investors
to participate in the capitalization of banks;
*     to limit (financially and over time) the role of the public sector in the bank
recapitalization process; and
*     to promote the consolidation of the banking system through selective mergers or
liquidations.
3.20 Experience demonstrates that for the rehabilitation of troubled banks to be successful,
three goals should be pursued: first, losses should be covered in full, both in terms of stocks and
of income flows; second, management responsible for the losses should be changed; and third,
ownership structure should be changed.  Experience also shows that successful bank



-24-
restructuring usually entails: (a) on a system-wide basis, some consolidation through selective
mergers or liquidations; and (b) at the level of individual banks, significant reduction in
operating expenses through staff retrenchment and rationalization of the branch network.
3.21  The bank restructuring program  should therefore encompass: (a) the closure and
liquidation of those banks identified as fundamentally non-viable; (b) the merger of banks in
order to improve their financial condition and operating efficiency; and (c) the
organizational/managerial restructuring and recapitalization of troubled but potentially viable
banks. In all these cases, two of the most important issues facing the authorities are the method
of financing losses (including loss allocation between the Government and other parties) and the
treatment of non-performing loans. To render a bank more attractive to prospective investors
the non-performing loans would likely have to be removed from the bank's balance sheet. In
the case of the Mexican banks that have already been intervened or those that would be
intervened in the future, FOBAPROA could purchase these loans at book value (i.e., gross value
less provisions already taken), thereby itself taking the loss. These assets should then be
recovered or sold as quickly as possible, through auctions, securitization or any other appropriate
market mechanism. The assets could either be lodged with the new bank or alternatively in a
special trust fund (fideicomiso) for recovery or liquidation. A performance-based commission
could be envisaged as an incentive for the recovery institution. An alternative method could be
the creation of a "bridge bank" for every intervened bank. The "bridge bank" would take over
the sound portion of the bank's portfolio, and then be sold as a clean bank, while the bad assets,
contingencies and litigation liabilities are left in the bad bank for liquidation. The financial
modalities/instruments to be used by the Government/FOBAPROA for cleaning up the banks'
losses and their recapitalization should consist of an appropriate mix of cash and non-cash
(offsetting of cross assets/liabilities; issuance of medium-term bonds), which would take into
account the fiscal implications for the Government as well as the liquidity needs of the
restructured banks. These modalities for financing the bank restructuring program and for the
treatment of non-performing assets are described in the technical papers of the "Operating
Guidelines" (Annex I - Attachement II).
3.22 The Operating Guidelines for Bank Restructuring (with its technical papers) have been
approved by the Government prior to Board Presentation. Recruitment of investment banks
and/or specialized consultants to assist in preparing specific restructuring plans for individual
banks will be a condition of Effectiveness. The Government will submit and review with the
Bank, restructuring plans including implementation strategies, approved by CNBV, SHCP and
FOBAPROA, by September 30, 1995 for two banks under FOBAPROA control, and for any
remaining banks within three months of the date of FOBAPROA taking control. Submission of
the restructuring plans prepared in accordance with the Operating Guidelines, including
implementation strategies, and approved by CNBV, SHCP and FOBAPROA, for all banks under
FOBAPROA control, for review with the Bank, and continued satisfactory implementation of
these plans are conditions of Second Tranche release.
D.   Policy and Institutional Reforms
3.23 Revision of Accounting Standards and Disclosure. Financial statements of Mexican
banks are prepared in accordance with CNBV guidelines, which differ significantly from U.S.
GAAP. The principal differences are in the treatment of interest income on loans (and on
rescheduled debts), and repurchase agreements, valuation of fixed assets, disclosure



-25-
requirements, and the definition of non-performing assets. The accounting procedures used are
thus not internationally comparable. In November 1994, CNB began preparation of draft
guidelines reconciling Mexican and U.S. GAAP, with assistance from  the Bank and in
consultation with the U.S. Federal Reserve, FDIC and the corresponding bodies in Canada. The
draft guidelines are now being discussed with the Mexican Institute of Public Accountants and
Auditors after which they are to be reviewed with the Mexican Bankers Association. The
Government recognizes the need to adopt uniform accounting principles for banks consistent with
U.S. GAAP for use by auditors. It also plans to revise the accounting standards for financial
groups. Therefore, under the program, the CNBV will formulate uniform accounting principles
(including consolidation of financial statements), consistent with internationally accepted
principles (U.S. GAAP) and acceptable to the Bank, and consistent across all transactions and
activities, for financial statements and regulatory reports of banks by Effectiveness; and it will
issue the revised standards to banks by September 30, 1995, requiring them to use the new
accounting standards beginning January 1, 1996 for completion no later than year end-1996
accounts. Implementation will also be a condition for Second Tranche release. The CNBV will
require auditors to strictly follow the guidelines for conducting audits issued under Circular 1222
of November 14, 1994 for banks, and under Circular 10-165 of January 4, 1993 for brokerage
firms, and monitor auditors' performance, beginning with the audits of 1994 accounts. The
CNBV will: (a) formulate, by September 30, 1995, draft acceptable uniform accounting
principles, consistent with internationally accepted principles (U.S. GAAP) and consistent across
all transactions and activities, for financial statements and regulatory reports non-bank financial
institutions that are affiliates of financial groups with bank affiliates; and (b) issue these by
December 1, 1995. The issuance of revised acceptable accounting standards for non-bank
financial institutions is a condition of Second Tranche release. The CNBV has agreed to
strengthen disclosure by banks to supervisory authorities requiring banks to submit new
regulatory reports and special reports, and review progress with the Bank by September 30,
1995. The CNBV will also continue the ongoing efforts to improve disclosure to the public, and
review progress with the Bank by September 30, 1995. In addition, the CNBV will complete
by March 31, 1996, a study of ways to improve real estate appraisal standards, and to identify
an institution that can undertake the regulation of appraisers.
3.24 Reform of Prudential Regulations. Prevailing prudential and supervisory regulations
applicable to Mexican banks and financial groups need strengthening. Prudential regulations do
not apply to financial groups, and conglomerates are not required to publish consolidated
financial data, and submit consolidated regulatory reports; this has often led to regulatory and
supervisory "arbitrage. " The recent crisis has also highlighted weaknesses in such areas as asset
classification, valuation standards for trading portfolios, troubled debt restructuring guidelines,
capital adequacy standards for different entities within financial groups and on a consolidated
basis for the entire group. Similarly, over the medium term regulations relating to large
exposures on a group-wide basis, to consolidation of financial statements and reporting are also
in need of substantial revision. There will be a need to formulate enforceable trading practice
regulations in such areas as insider dealing, front running, dumping of securities (i.e., sale of
securities by brokers to mutual and pension funds managed by such brokers or their affiliates),
best execution of securities trades, and conflicts of interest. The new regulations should be
conceived in a manner that promotes self-monitoring of financial groups by market participants
or self-regulatory organizations such as the Mexican Stock Exchange. Finally, it is important
to harmonize these standards to the degree possible with those adopted in other NAFTA
countries and internationally.



-26-
3.25  To remedy the existing deficiencies in prudential regulations, the CNBV will issue
supplemental internal instructions prior to Second Tranche release, acceptable to the Bank, for
inspection of banks (including development banks), covering, inter alia, asset classification and
provisioning, exclusion of defacto treasury stock (stock owned or financed directly or indirectly
by related entities, or covered by repurchase agreements) for purposes of capital adequacy
standards, composition of Tier I capital, large exposures and concentration, and related party
lending. The CNBV will also, prior to Second Tranche release: (a) review with the Bank the
need for the issuance of new prudential regulations for banks and issue such new regulations to
the extent necessary; and (b) issue new prudential regulations with respect to capital adequacy
standards for brokerage firms.
3.26 Deposit Protection Scheme. A savings protection scheme should primarily protect
small, uninformed savers and accumulate reserves commensurate with potential risk. The
present Mexican scheme leaves significant uncertainty regarding both the role and scope of the
liabilities covered by FOBAPROA (the commercial bank support fund) and FAMV (the support
fund for brokerage firms). While FOBAPROA is not a formal deposit insurance scheme and
although there is no enforceable legal obligation of FOBAPROA or FAMV to support bank and
brokerage firm liabilities beyond the funds' accumulated reserves, the Government has clearly
indicated that the funds will support all bank and brokerage firm liabilities except subordinated
debt (Annex IX). This sweeping support clearly reduces incentives for large creditors and
depositors to monitor the performance of banks and brokerage houses.  Moreover, the
accumulated funds in FOBAPROA and FAMV clearly will not cover the losses of the current
crisis. This means that fiscal expenditures will ultimately support the liabilities of failing banks
and brokerage firms to the extent that depositors and other creditors are protected. Thus, over
the medium term, Mexico needs to overhaul its current savings protection policy.
3.27 While the system needs to be changed in the medium term, the Government is rightly
reluctant to do this in the midst of a crisis. Past experience in some other countries showed that
reversing earlier pronouncements might instigate panic and capital flight, damaging economic
recovery and financial development. Available data show that, in fact, deposits in Mexico's
commercial banks rose by over 10% between end December 1994 and end March 1995. Peso
deposits rose by 12% (from NP375.2 billion to NP422.8 billion), far exceeding 1.6% decline
in foreign currency deposits (from NP 81.7 billion to NP80.4 billion equivalent) in the same
period. Thus, during the remainder of 1995, the Government does not intend to change the
coverage afforded to liability holders, although technical work towards reforms would begin.
3.28 The Government will complete by December 31, 1995, a study of liability coverage
including a set of options for implementing an appropriate level of coverage for large liabilities
of financial entities and their affiliates. The study will be reviewed with the Bank by March 31,
1996. The Government will adopt the revised protection scheme for phased implementation
beginning January 1, 1997.
3.29 Modernization of Legal/Regulatory Framework for Lending. Although the overall
framework for the financial sector was overhauled by the introduction of the Credit Institutions
Law, the Capital Market Law and the Financial Groups Law and subsequent amendments, the
Government recognizes that important shortcomings remain in the legal/regulatory framework
for the business of mobilizing and allocating resources. Impediments to securitization restrict
the amount of credit and other financing available to a number of sectors (in particular, housing



-27-
finance). The lack of a comprehensive legal framework for lending secured by movable
property distorts credit allocation and limits the availability of credit to small and medium
enterprises. Unless remedied, these shortcomings will also importantly limit the scope for rapid
improvement in the quality of credits originated by banks and the options available for
restructuring and disposing of the assets of troubled banks. Details on the issues to be addressed
to reform the framework for securitization and secured lending are in Annex XII. Under the
program, the Government will conduct a study to identify remaining regulatory obstacles and
legal impediments to asset securitization, and make the recommendations for removing such
obstacles and impediments available to the Bank by December 31, 1995. Thereafter, CNBV and
SHCP will initiate the process of removing such legal and regulatory obstacles. In the area of
secured transactions, the Government will conduct a study to identify shortcomings of, and
propose changes to, the legal/regulatory framework for secured lending and make
recommendations available to the Bank by December 31, 1995. Thereafter, the Government will
initiate the process of improving the legal/regulatory framework for secured transactions on the
basis of such recommendations.
E.    Development Banks
3.30 Each development finance entity (DFE) in Mexico utilizes its own eligibility criteria to
determine access of private financial institutions to its funds. The criteria used, which are
generally lax, differ across DFEs and even within different units of the same institution.
Exposure limits are established by each operating unit for its respective operations, but the total
financial obligations outstanding are not monitored in a centralized and consistent manner. This
facilitates access in amounts that by far exceed the capital of certain commercial banks and might
absorb substantial portions of a bank's liabilities. For example, BANPAIS and Mercantil -
PROBURSA" had outstanding obligations with NAFIN and BANCOMEXT in excess of 200%
of their capital at the end of 1994.
3.31   The pricing of financial products offered by DFEs is based on administered rates and
does not reflect risk differentials or market funding costs. In domestic currency, intermediaries
of different credit quality have access to public funds at uniform rates that are generally below
the opportunity cost of private sector funds. In addition, the respective rates are based on a flat
or negative yield curve, thus undermining the development of medium and long term private
sector funding. The spread to be charged by the intermediary to the final borrower is generally
fixed at the second tier level12.
3.32   Overall, DFEs provide a rich variety of arbitrage opportunities to private financial
intermediaries (FIs) through credit, liquidity and portfolio investment that have contributed to
the lack of discipline and market clearance which partially accelerated the financial weakening
of many private intermediaries during recent years. If unchecked, development finance could
undermine the discipline of a rational resolution process. In addition, the fiscal impact of
" BANPAIS has been intervened recently and Mercantil-PROBURSA is currently negotiating the sale of the majority
shareholdership with a European bank in a move to avoid entering into PROCAPTE.
12 The credit unions generally do not operate a variety of financial products, which makes it much more difficult to charge
a higher rate by adding fees on other products. Besides, they do not have significant private sources of funds and therefore
cannot average out the interest rate charge on loans like commercial banks.



-28-
uncollectible assets with weak private FIs could become a sizeable fiscal burden in the near
term. Arbitrage opportunities among sources of capital from DFEs therefore need to be reduced
and demand driven selectivity fostered, based on the principles of consistency, transparency and
efficiency. Also, lending and other financial exposure of the DFEs should be limited to private
FIs that demonstrate solvency. Prior to Effectiveness, SHCP will present terms of reference,
satisfactory to the Bank, for studies of: (a) the impact of establishing risk-based exposure limits
for the liabilities of each Fl to DFEs; (b) the establishment of eligibility criteria for Fl
participation in DFE second-tier operations (such study to include an analysis of the impact of
establishing rating requirements from qualified private agencies); and (c) the current interest rate
policy in domestic and foreign currency, including an evaluation of its incentive structure and
impact on financial markets and final borrowers. SHCP, prior to release of the Second Tranche,
will also review results of the above studies with the Bank, prepare an action plan and take the
necessary official action to implement such action plan.
IV. BANK GROUP STRATEGY IN MEXICO'S FINANCIAL SECTOR
A.   The Bank
4.1   The Country Assistance Strategy paper being distributed along with this document sets
out in detail the Bank Group strategy in Mexico. It also covers IMF and IDB activities. Annex
XIII provides the status of Bank Group operations in Mexico.
4.2   The World Bank supported Mexico's adjustment program during the FY 1986-1991
period with loans totalling almost US$ 11.4 billion. Half of this amount was committed under
sector adjustment loans in trade, finance, agriculture, transport, industry, and for an interest
reduction loan linked to Mexico's external debt reduction package with commercial banks. The
FY89 Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL) supported important policy reforms to
deregulate Mexico's financial system, which proved critical to the recovery that ensued. The
FSAL supported the deregulation of interest rates on deposits, elimination of forced lending, and
reduction of the role of special trust funds as intermediation channels for Government resources
and elimination of reserve requirements on peso deposits. The FSAL also supported efforts to
begin to modernize banking regulation and supervision. Since FY 92, annual lending has
averaged US$1.4 billion, with no adjustment loans proposed until now. By FY 91, adjustment
lending fell to 25 percent of total commitments; and the forms of operations shifted to poverty
reduction, human resource development and environment, while maintaining a strong program
in infrastructure.
4.3   The Country Economic Memorandum: Fostering Private Sector Development in the
1990s (Report No. 11823-ME, May 16, 1994), addressed the remaining constraints to financial
sector development in Mexico. The Bank, jointly with the IMF, subsequently undertook a
review of the Mexican financial system. The Bank continued to develop this diagnostic work
through informal sector work during FY93 and FY94. In the second half of 1994, the Bank
prepared policy options papers for the incoming administration that addressed the financial
sector, contractual savings and commercial law reform.
4.4   The $23.6 million equivalent Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan (FTAL No.
3838-ME), approved on January 24, 1995 and signed on March 9, 1995, was intended to meet
three interrelated objectives: (a) to improve the safety and soundness of the financial system



-29-
through improved prudential regulation and supervision, and through greater incentives for self-
regulation of market participants; (b) to support the development of the pension system; and (c)
to strengthen public investment evaluation and budgeting. The loan was a logical extension of
previous efforts to emphasize transfer of specialized human capital and institution building to
support the modernization of Mexico's regulatory framework and supervisory capacity. The
loan is designed to support a flexible program addressing the emerging issues of concern in
development of the Mexican financial sector. The FTAL is being restructured in order to
provide the technical assistance required to accelerate support in areas of immediate need such
as inspections and diagnostic studies of banks and to assist the Government in selecting advisors
to prepare bank restructuring plans. However, to ensure the implementation of the essential
elements of the original FTAL program, as well as address technical assistance needs for the
development of financial markets in Mexico in the medium-term (e.g., completion of
consolidated prudential regulation and supervision across all financial intermediaries,
improvements in contractual savings schemes inclusive of the SAR accounts, and further
development of the legal and regulatory framework for asset-backed securities (securitization)
and capital markets more broadly), a supplemental loan is also planned for the restructured
FTAL.
4.5   The onset of the current economic crisis required the Bank to intensify its analytical and
diagnostic work on the causes of the problems and their evolution, drawing upon experience of
similar system wide operations in other countries. The objective was to ensure that the
acceptable actions are taken by the Mexican authorities to restore the safety and soundness of
the banking system. In collaboration with the Mexican authorities, the Bank assisted in
identifying measures additional to those already initiated and in accelerating the schedule in order
that the problem is managed and its eventual costs contained. The main focus was on ensuring
that long standing regulatory, legal and institutional impediments are removed, to permit the
financial system to more efficiently mobilize and allocate resources. This proposed first
operation is aimed at dealing with the immediate problems through speedy recognition of the
problems and potential losses through intensified inspections and diagnostic studies, and disposal
of troubled banks. Subject to satisfactory progress of the immediate program, a follow-on
operation of $500 million is planned during this calendar year to address medium term policy
and institutional issues facing the sector including development of contractual savings.
4.6   The proposed operation is designed as an adjustment loan with two tranches.  The
proceeds of the loan are intended to help the Government support the cost of restructuring its
financial sector so as to overcome the current crisis, to enable the continued functioning of
enterprises in the productive sectors, and to lay the basis for the development of a healthier
financial system.
4.7   In the context of recent experience in financial sector operations in Mexico and other
countries, the Bank has drawn several important lessons that have been taken into account in
designing the reforms under the proposed loan. The main lessons of recent experience relevant
to this operation are the following:
*     Programs to restructure troubled financial institutions are successful only when designed
to promote institution building, the strengthening of market forces, and improved
oversight by reform-oriented governments.



-30-
*     Restoration of macroeconomic stability and early progress in implementing reforms are
critical for establishing investor and consumer confidence.
*     Government ownership, project design, and quality at entry are enhanced when the Bank
and the government have developed a close policy dialogue supported by strong economic
and sector work.
*     Conditions for tranche release should be clearly defined and easily monitored for
compliance.
*     Priorities for technical assistance should be carefully identified and supported with
rigorous supervision.
B.   The IFC
4.8  In recent years, IFC's operational strategy in Mexico has supported the private sector in
adapting to the opening of the economy and in re-entering the international financial markets.
Although greater emphasis is presently being given to second-tier companies, IFC's investments
in Mexico have in the past been primarily directed at the large corporate firms and have mainly
involved capacity expansions and modernization. Mexico's capital markets, tourism, food
processing, general manufacturing, and, to a lesser extent, petrochemicals have benefitted most
from IFC's recent operational activities. Operations in infrastructure have remained modest due
to the slow progress achieved by the Government in resolving outstanding regulatory issues.
4.9   The special problems confronting Mexico today will give IFC a unique opportunity to
increase the pace of its investments in that country. Besides the opportunity to build on the
corporate restructuring experience that IFC acquired in Mexico in the mid-1980s, the recent
events will provide the Corporation with renewed opportunities to diversify its local equity at
a time when these had become largely limited to quasi-equity transactions among second-tier and
unlisted companies. Based on the emerging needs of the local private sector, the anticipated
portfolio growth will be primarily driven by new investments in the general manufacturing,
capital markets, and infrastructure sectors. The Bank and IFC will closely collaborate through
the proposed loan to identify banks and companies for financial assistance. IFC is similarly
working with the Bank through the proposed Infrastructure Privatization Technical Assistance
operation in exploring ways to support the privatization process and to arrange financing and
securitization for new investment projects. The IFC's Foreign Investment Advisory Service
(FIAS) is providing advice to SECOFI on strengthening Mexican producers of parts, components
and intermediate goods in the post-NAFTA context.
4.10 In the manufacturing sector, IFC will continue to give priority to second-tier companies.
However, the special circumstances facing Mexico will also dictate that it provides selective
support to those larger industrial groups which it had helped graduate to the international
financial markets in recent years and which now face unusual investment financing constraints.
In capital markets, IFC will focus on providing liquidity to give stimulus to sectors such as
SMEs, infrastructure, and housing at a critical time when the Government's response to current
economic imbalances is likely to be recessionary. Additionally, it will seek to enhance the
Mexican securities markets through underwriting facilities and institution-building activities. In
the infrastructure sector, IFC will respond to the Government plans to accelerate privatization



-31-
in power, satellite communications, ports, airports, railways and highways. To that effect, it
will assist the local private sector in remedying some of the financing constraints which have
thus far adversely affected the pace of infrastructure privatization in the country. However,
IFC's success in diversifying its activities in this sector will depend heavily on Government steps
to establish shortly the regulatory framework required to attract private investors into
infrastructure services.
C.   Coordination with the IMF
4.11 The Bank has been working closely with the IMF in monitoring the macroeconomic
situation in Mexico and advising the Government in this area. Given the IMF's direct role in
financing the stabilization program, their team has naturally led the dialogue on macroeconomic
stabilization measures, exchange rate policy, and liability management issues. In fiscal policy,
the IMF has concentrated on developing macro-level targets, while the Bank's sectoral
background has enabled us to advise on sectoral policies. In the financial sector, the Bank has
a lead role, due to our experience through our lending for banking sector reform in other
coutries, and in preparing the FTAL. The IMF and the Bank will coordinate especially closely
in implementing the Financial Sector Restructuring Loan, because of the inter-dependence of
financial and macroeconomic stability. The impact of macroeconomic adjustment on social
programs is of concern to both institutions, and the Bank is sharing with the IMF its analysis
in this area during the course of the stabilization program. Finally, macroeconomic stability will
depend critically on Mexico's ability to increase domestic savings and productivity. The Bank's
planned analytical work in these areas will be shared with the IMF, so that it can feed into the
evolving macroeconomic framework.
V. THE PROPOSED LOAN
A.   Background
5.1   The proposed operation is a strong response to the current economic crisis, and would
help ensure that acceptable actions are taken by the Mexican authorities to restore solvency and
soundness of the banking system. The loan is also a critical element in the coordinated response
of the World Bank, IMF, IDB, the US Treasury and other multilateral and bilateral lenders to
assist Mexico in resolving its macroeconomic and financial sector crisis. The program design
is an outcome of intensive discussions between the Bank and Mexico's financial authorities
between January and April 1995. As noted earlier, it builds on significant actions initiated by
the Government immediately following the crisis. Basic agreement on the strategic approach for
program design was reached in early March 1995. The IDB staff also participated in discussions
in Mexico City in March and April, and took the lead in the area of development banks and trust
funds. The IDB is also preparing a separate project mainly to strengthen NAFIN's institutional
capacity to carry out its many functions.
B.   Tranching and Conditions
5.2   Tranches. The proposed Bank loan of US$1,000 million is to be disbursed in two equal
tranches of US$500 million each. The first tranche will be available for disbursement upon loan
effectiveness. The second tranche is expected to be released about nine months following
effectiveness. The tranching is based on the: (a) substantial policy and institutional reform



-32-
measures taken by the Government to arrest further deterioration and restore solvency to the
system; (b) associated costs already incurred to date and the anticipated costs in the immediate
future; (c) balance of payments and financing needs for the rest of this year; and (d) need to
provide a clear signal of support to the markets.
5.3   The Government's Letter of Financial Sector Development Policy (Annex I) and the
Matrix of Policy Actions (Annex II) describe the program, actions already taken, and future
actions for restructuring of the financial sector. The actions taken prior to negotiations and
Board presentation, and the main conditions of loan effectiveness and release of Second Tranche
are summarized below.
5.4   Before negotiation of the loan and presentation to the Executive Directors, the Guarantor
has:
(a)    provided the Bank with a signed letter of Financial Sector Development Policy
(para 3.4);
(b)   submitted to the Bank the approved "Operating Guidelines" for bank restructuring
(para. 3.19);
(c)   created an inventory of operating restrictions for use by the supervisory
authorities as necessary vis-a-vis selected banks depending on their individual
condition (para. 3.1);
(d)   analyzed the estimated fiscal costs of the UDI scheme (para. 3.15); and
(e)    provided a statement on development finance entities (para. 3.4).
5.5    Conditions of Effectiveness. Before the effectiveness of the loan, in addition to ensuring
continued implementation of the economic stabilization program described in the Letter of
Financial Sector Development Policy, and progress in the execution of the FSRP, the Guarantor
will have or caused to have taken the following actions, acceptable to the Bank:
(a)   recruited an independent auditing firm to assist in the preparation of diagnostic
studies of banks, and initiated the diagnostic study of at least one intervened bank
(para. 3.18);
(b)   recruited investment banks or specialized consultants or firms to assist in the
preparation of restructuring plans of banks (para. 3.22);
(c)   formulated uniform accounting principles (including consolidation of financial
statements) consistent with internationally accepted principles (U.S. GAAP), and
consistent across all transactions and activities for financial statements and
regulatory reports of banks (para. 3.23); and
(d)   furnished terns of reference for studies on: (i) the impact of establishing risk-
based exposure limits for the liabilities of each Fl with regard to the DFEs; (ii)
the establishment of eligibility criteria for FI participation in DFE second tier



-33-
financial operations and the impact of establishing rating requirements by
qualified private agencies; and (iii) the interest rate policy in domestic and foreign
currency, including an evaluation of its incentive structure and its impact on
financial markets and final borrowers (para. 3.32).
5.6    Conditions of Second Tranche Release.  Before release of the second tranche, in
addition to ensuring continued implementation of the economic stabilization program described
in the Letter of Financial Sector Development Policy, and progress in the execution of the
FSRP, the Guarantor will have or caused to have taken the following actions, acceptable to the
Bank:
(a)   reviewed with the Bank the results of all completed diagnostic studies for
PROCAPTE banks and intervened banks (para. 3.18);
(b)   made satisfactory progress in executing CNBV's inspection program of banks and
reviewed the results with the Bank (para. 3.9);
(c)   submitted to the Bank for its review the restructuring plans of banks under
FOBAPROA control (including implementation strategies), prepared in
accordance with the Operating Guidelines and approved by CNBV, SHCP and
FOBAPROA (para. 3.22);
(d)   made satisfactory progress in the execution of the bank restructuring plans (para.
3.22);
(e)   issued  regulations  for revised  uniform  accounting  principles  (including
consolidation of financial statements) for banks, consistent with internationally
accepted accounting principles, for application beginning January 1, 1996 and
completion no later than for year-end 1996 accounts (para. 3.23);
(f)   issued revised accounting principles (including consolidation of financial
statements) for non-bank financial institutions that are affiliates of financial groups
with bank affiliates, consistent with internationally accepted accounting principles
(para. 3.23);
(g)   issued supplemental internal instructions, for inspection of banks (including
development banks) covering, inter alia, asset classification and provisioning,
exclusion of de facto treasury stock (stock owned or financed directly or
indirectly by related entities, or covered by repurchase agreements) for purposes
of capital adequacy standards, composition of Tier 1 capital, large exposures and
concentration, and related party lending (para. 3.25);
(h)   reviewed with the Bank the need for the issuance of new prudential regulations
for banks and issued such regulations to the extent necessary (para. 3.25);
(i)   issued new prudential regulations with respect to capital adequacy standards for
brokerage firms (para. 3.25); and



-34-
(j)   (i) reviewed the results of the studies (para. 5.5(d)) with the Bank; (ii) prepared
an action plan on the basis of such reviews; and (iii) taken all necessary official
action for the implementation of such action plan on the basis of a phased
implementation schedule (para. 3.32).
C.   Implementation Arrangements
5.7   Program Coordination. To ensure adequate coordination of all Government agencies
responsible for financial sector regulation, supervision and resolution of troubled banks and
timely implementation of the program, an ad hoc Financial Sector Working Group has been
established by the Government. The President of the CNBV serves as Chairperson of the
Working Group, which includes officials of the SHCP, the Central Bank (including
FOBAPROA), the CNSF, and the CONSAR. The Working Group would also serve as the
primary counterpart for all communications with the Bank regarding program implementation
and would provide periodic progress reports to the Bank.
5.8   Technical Assistance. The FTAL is being redesigned to support the now urgently
needed technical assistance support for implementation of the FSRP (e.g., for diagnostic studies,
additional assistance from FDIC and OCC to the CNBV inspection teams, and design of
restructuring plans for troubled banks). A coordinated, timely and transparent process is being
established for the selection of investment banking advisors that will assist the CNBV and
FOBAPROA in bringing intervened or FOBAPROA owned banks quickly to the point of sale.
Assistance from such advisors should also enable the Government to transfer ownership at less
cost than through other means.
D.   Procurement and Disbursement
5.9   No recent Country Procurement Assessment on Mexico is available. However, Mexico's
procurement regulations (Ley de Adquisiciones y Contrataciones, December 1993), include a
special provision authorizing the application of procurement procedures of international financial
institutions in the procurement of goods, works and services financed by such organizations.
Private sector procurement is generally conducted on the basis of competitive procedures. Loan
proceeds would be used to finance the foreign exchange cost of general imports, with the
exception of goods financed by other bilateral and multilateral agencies, luxury goods, military
equipment and other goods specifically prohibited in a negative list defined under the Standard
International Trade Classification or equivalent classification. Goods imported by public and
private sector entities valued at US$10 million or more would be procured through simplified
international competitive bidding procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines (January 1995),
using Bank-issued standard bidding documents, and commonly traded commodities may be
procured through other channels of competitive procurement acceptable to the Bank. Contracts
for imports valued at less than US$10 million would be awarded by government entities
following public sector procedures, and by other purchasers, in accordance with established
commercial practice. For commodities under existing contracts, Bank retroactive financing
would not exceed the average price per unit for such commodities as posted in the recognized
international markets. All contracts above US$10 million will be subject to prior review by the
Bank.



-35-
5.10  Disbursements would be made in two tranches.  Nacional Financiera, S.N.C., the
borrower and financial agent for the Loan, would be responsible for submitting withdrawal
applications and would maintain separate records and accounts for all transactions under the
Loan. Retroactive financing would be permitted for eligible imports as of March 9, 1995 up
to a maximum of US$200 million equivalent. Retroactive financing is justified given the reform
measures already undertaken by the Government. The aggregate value of expenditures for
petroleum products and food-stuffs will not exceed US$50 million equivalent. The minimum
contract size under the loan will be US$50,000 equivalent. Disbursements would be made
against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) for contracts below US$10 million. For contracts
valued at US$10 million or more, disbursements would be made against full documentation.
The minimum value for each SOE submitted would be US$10 million equivalent.
Documentation for withdrawals under SOEs would be retained by NAFIN and made available
for the required audit, and for review by the Bank during supervision. The loan closing date
would be December 31, 1996.
E.   Accounts and Audit
5.11  NAFIN will maintain separate records and account for all transactions under the Loan.
An audit report by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank will be submitted to the Bank
within four months after the last disbursement under each tranche. Audit reports would include
a separate opinion from the auditor with respect to withdrawals made against SOEs.
F.    Monitoring and Reporting
5.12 Monitoring of and reporting on the implementation of the overall program described in
the letter of financial sector development policy will involve the follow-up of each of the
program's multiple components. The assessment of the health of the banking system will
require that relevant government agencies report on the findings of intensive inspections and
diagnostic studies of individual banks. In cases where conditions relate to restructuring or sale
of individual banks, monitoring will involve detailed reviews by the Bank of the restructuring
plans for each institution. Monitoring of procedural changes and design of regulations will be
undertaken through supervision and through periodic reports submitted to the Bank that indicate
the status or represent drafts or final regulations.
5.13 Monitoring and reporting will be facilitated through the close coordination of activities
and implementation agencies supported by the FTAL. Under the FTAL, technical assistance
will be provided to. assist the Government in implementation of the overall program. To ensure
a timely response, the ad hoc Financial Sector Working Group will coordinate compliance with
all reporting requirements. Within the Bank Group (and the IDB), monitoring of the overall
program will require intensive supervision, which will be provided by an inter-disciplinary team
comprising both suitable Bank Group staff (at the Regional and Central level, and IFC) and
external experts with requisite experience in specific areas (bank restructuring, asset
management, financial workouts). A significant part of the supervision work will be carried out
from the field, through the assignment of suitable staff to the Resident Mission in Mexico City.
One important objective of supervision should be to help achieve a degree of integration of the
overall program, apart from monitoring its individual components.



-36-
G.   Benefits and Risks
5.14 Benefits. Immediate actions included under the program will help contain the losses of
the banking system while enabling continued functioning of the credit and payments system
which is essential for the real sectors. Successful implementation of the program will lead to
increased confidence in the financial system, and restructuring of banks will restore their
soundness. The revision in accounting practices and disclosure requirements will improve the
quality of information on banks, thereby enabling early recognition of future problems besides
allowing market regulation. Improvements in prudential regulation and supervision and the
legal/regulatory framework for lending will lead to a more efficient, sound and stable financial
system. Together these actions will enable the financial system to mobilize increasing amounts
of domestic and foreign capital.
5.15 Risks. The principal risks are: (i) failure to maintain a satisfactory macroeconomic
framework and the resulting continuation of high inflation and interest rates; (ii) political
intervention in the implementation of policy and institutional reforms in the financial sector or
in decisions on restructuring of banks; and (iii) shortage of technical capacity in government
entities or poor coordination among them leading to delays in implementation. These risks are
mitigated by the strong support of the Government for the program. The loan contains
safeguards to stop disbursement in the event of deteriorating macroeconomic conditions or
unsatisfactory performance under the program. The Government's macroeconomic stabilization
program is being supported by close collaboration with the IMF and an IMF Standby Agreement
equivalent to 688 percent of quota. In the event of a significant setback in the results of this
program (for example, if inflation or interest rates fail to decline in line with the trajectory
envisaged in the program), the IMF would assist the Government in revising the program
appropriately. The implementation of diagnostic studies and establishment of a transparent
framework and criteria for restructuring of banks will reduce the risks of political intervention.
Provision of technical assistance under the FTAL will help ensure timely availability of the
additional skills required for implementation. To improve coordination among Government
agencies, an ad hoc Financial Sector Working Group has been established with participation
from the CNBV, the Central Bank and the SHCP.
5.16 Social Impact. In the short term there is likely to be some loss in employment in the
privatized banks. However, as the restructuring program proceeds and the capital base of the
banks improves, employment levels should stabilize. The employment losses come at a time of
a downturn in economic activity in general and weak overall employment growth. The
Government has taken measures to strengthen the social safety net, particularly with respect to
support for the unemployed (1995 Country Assistance Strategy). The Government's Program
of Essential Social Services is supported by a separate Bank loan (Report No. 14392-ME, May
22,1995).
5.17 Environmental Impact. There are no negative environmental impacts associated with
this loan, which therefore, has an environmental rating of "C".



-37-
VI. RECOMMENDATION
6.1   I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the
Bank, and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Richard H. Frank
President ad interim
Washington, D.C.
May 24, 1995
Attachments






-38-
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
Government's Letter of Financial Sector Development Policy
(English Translation of Original Document in Spanish)
May 19, 1995
Particular Secretariat
Mexico, D.F., Mexico
MR. RICHARD H. FRANK
President ad interim
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.
In the last few years, Mexico has carried out far-reaching structural and macroeconomic reforms which will make
it possible to set the basis for the achievement of a sustained economic development. However, in recent years the
improvement in economic performance has been accompanied by a reduction of private domestic savings and a
persistent increase in the current account deficit, even though public finances remained at a healthy level.
Moreover, even though the growth in exports, particularly manufactured goods, has been extraordinary, imports
increased dramatically, stimulated by abundant private capital flows, the increase in real income, commercial
liberalization, and the appreciation of the real exchange rate.
At the beginning of 1994, the combination of adverse political events, increased interest rates in the U.S., and
investor concerns over the sustainability of the exchange rate regime and the current account deficit began to
generate pressures in the exchange and financial markets. In order to stem these pressures, the authorities raised
interest rates, placed a greater amount of Tesobonos (Treasury bonds indexed to the exchange rate), implemented
greater exchange rate flexibility within the floating band, and made use of international reserves. However, these
measures calmed the markets only until early November. In the middle of that month, new pressures in the market
and political events produced a substantial fall in international reserves that culminated in an exchange crisis and
led to the floating of the Mexican peso after December 22.
The change in the exchange regime did not contribute to a restoration of confidence and foreign investors in the
market began to sell their holdings in financial instruments denominated in pesos, as well Tesobonos. Also, in the
context of this speculative attack against the peso, concerns arose over Mexico's capacity to repay maturing short-
term foreign obligations. Under normal circumstances, such obligations would have been renewed, but given the
uhcertainty prevailing in the market, the Government found it difficult to place new securities at the same time as
the maturity of the foreign currency liabilities of some commercial banks was approaching. At the end of December
the new peso had devalued by 44 percent and the CETES interest rates reached a level in excess of 30 percent.
For this reason, on January 3 of this year, the Unity Agreement to Overcome the Economic Emergency (Acuerdo
de Unidadpara Superar la Emergencia Econ6mica) was signed. Despite the announcement of this Agreement, the
markets did not react as expected, which contributed to the continued devaluation of the exchange rate. For this
reason, on March 9, 1995, the Government of Mexico announced the Action Program to Strengthen the Unity
Agreement to Overcome the Economic Emergency (Programa de Acci6n para Reforzar el Acuerdo de Unidad para
Superar la Emergencia Econ6mica -- PARAUSEE). This agreement contains specific measures to strengthen the
financial system.



-39-
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
In parallel, negotiations were conducted on a loan package with the international financial community to support
the country's economic strategy. These culminated in obtaining an unprecedented financing for a total among of
US$52 billion, of which the U.S. Treasury Department contributed US$20 billion, the International Monetary Fund
US$17.8 billion through a contingent credit agreement (Stand-by), the Bank for International Settlements US$10
billion and the rest coming from other bilateral and multilateral sources.
I.     IMPACT OF THE ECONOMIC CRISIS ON THE BANKING SYSTEM
Before the present economic crisis, the banking system already showed certain signs of weakness, among the most
notable of which were the inadequacy of preventive reserves and the increase in non-performing loans, which
became more acute with the economic crisis, further weakening the banking system. Accordingly, it was necessary
for the Government to design a Program for Restructuring the Financial Sector (Programa de Reestructuraci6n para
el Sector Financiero -- PRSF), with the objective of maintaining its stability and the effective functioning of the
payments system. It is the Government's desire that such program be partially financed with resources from the
World Bank and Inter-American Development Bank.
The main short-term impacts of the economic crisis on the banking sector were the absence of liquidity in foreign
currency and the deterioration of the quality of assets as a consequence of the increase in non-performing loans, as
well as the decline in the value of securities held by the banks.
As for the liquidity crisis, mechanisms were established to assure the timely performance of the obligations of the
banks, without permitting such mechanisms to be used to hide insolvency problems of credit institutions.
The uncertainty generated in the markets over the economic situation of our country made the refinancing of
liabilities of banks in foreign currency difficult. In order to guarantee the timely repayment of these obligations,
the Bank Fund for Savings Protection (Fondo Bancario de Proteccion al Ahorro -- FOBAPROA) established lines
of credit in favor of the banks without sufficient resources to cover their obligations in foreign currency.
For its part, the Bank of Mexico issued new criteria to limit its risk as lender of last resort, as well as to eliminate
the risk of interbank contagion, requiring collateral from banks to cover their overdrafts if these are of important
amounts. These policies are part of a permanent effort to make the payments system more efficient.
The increase in interest rates and contraction of the economy have caused a substantial increase in the levels of non-
performing loans of the banking system from 8.3 percent in September 1994 to 10.2 percent in March 1995'. It
is* expected that the deterioration of non-performing loans will continue for some time. In virtue of the foregoing,
the Mexican banking system recorded a significant decapitalization, for which it was necessary to adopt measures
to guarantee the strength and solvency of the banking system which are contained in the Financial Sector
Restructuring Program.
H.   ACTION PROGRAM TO STRENGTHEN THE UNITY AGREEMENT TO OVERCOME THE
ECONOMIC EMERGENCY (PARAUSEE).
To confront the economic crisis, the Mexican Government adopted the PARAUSEE, which contains, among others,
specific measures to strengthen the financial system.
The purpose of PARAUSEE is: to reduce the current account deficit to levels commensurate with the availability
of external financing availability; to limit the inflationary impact of the devaluation; to maintain the Government's
social programs; and to recover, in the shortest time possible, economic growth, price stability and employment
levels.
I These figures exclude Cremi and Uni6n.



-40-
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
The fundamental elements of this Program are: (i) an increase in the Value Added Tax (IVA) by 50 percent
beginning April 1, from a 10% to a 15% rate (a zero percent rate is maintained for processed foods and medicines
to protect the lower-income population); (ii) an increase in the price of goods and services provided by the public
sector to reflect their cost structure after the devaluation (gasoline, electricity and other energy products); (iii) a
reduction of programmable public spending by 9.8 percent in real terms, compared to 1994; (iv) the establishment
of a limit of 2 percent limit of GDP on net loans granted by development banks to the private sector (half of its
recorded level in 1994); (v) the protection of essential social spending; (vi) setting of a NPIO billion limit on
domestic credit from the Banco de Mexico for 1995; (vii) maintenance of the floating exchange rate regime
determined by the market; and (viii) deepening of structural change measures, particularly through privatizations
of infrastructure and telecommunications.
Even though inflation during the first semester will be high, with the implementation of this Program, the
Government hopes a rapid deceleration will occur during the second semester with a rate of about 5 percent
achieved for the last quarter with this pattern continuing during 1996. Similarly, an interest rate reduction is
expected, as well as a surplus in the trade balance of US$5.4 billion, which will be reflected in a reduction of the
current account deficit from approximately 8 percent of GDP during 1994 to 4.3 percent by the end of 1995. Even
though negative growth in the economy is expected for 1995, recovery is expected for 1996.
HIl.    PROGRAM FOR RESTRUCTURING THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM (PRSF)
During the first semester of 1995, the Mexican authorities have undertaken a series of measures to address the
banking crisis. These include: higher preventive reserve requirements; a temporary capitalization program; a
strengthening of overall financial institution supervision, including the merger of the National Banking and Securities
Commissions into a single entity; reforms to financial legislation to increase foreign and domestic investor
participation in holding companies, banks and brokerage firms, as well as their acquisition by foreign financial
institutions; a reduction in the limit on related credits from 20 percent of total portfolio to an amount equal to net
capital; creation of investment units; and establishment of asset restructuring schemes. Among the more noteworthy
of these measures are:
Temporary Capitalization Program: In response to the increase in reserve requirements for credit risks, and as a
result of the decapitalization of the banking system, the Mexican Government, through FOBAPROA, established
the Temporary Capitalization Program (Programa de Capitalizacion Temporal -- PROCAPTE).
The purpose of PROCAPTE is to facilitate the capitalization of banks that have levels below 8 percent of risk assets.
Under this Program, FOBAPROA will acquire mandatory convertible subordinated debentures issued by
participating banking institutions in amounts sufficient to increase their capitalization to 9 percent. The subordinated
debentures must be converted by the fifth year. However, FOBAPROA will be able to convert earlier if basic
capital is less than 2 percent (excluding PROCAPTE debentures) or when the capitalization level deteriorates by
a percentage greater than 25 % relative to the rest of the PROCAPTE banks. The duration of the program will be
five years and there will be no fiscal impact.
In practice, it has been observed that PROCAPTE has created incentives for voluntary capitalization by bank
shareholders.
Restructuring Program in UDIs: The Mexican Government, in coordination with the Mexican Bankers Association,
has agreed to programs for restructuring into Investment Units (Unidades de Inversi6n --UDIs). The programs are
based on the restructuring of credits in domestic currency into obligations denominated in UDIs with longer
maturities.
UDIs are units of account in which commercial contracts may be denominated, principally deposits and banking
credit. Its main characteristic is the maintenance of its value in constant real terms, since UDIs are adjusted daily
by inflation.



-41-
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
Restructuring credits into UDIs permits the elimination of accelerated anortization due to inflation and reduces
significantly the cash flow that the debtors must pay, since in credits denominated in these units inflation is
capitalized and debtors have to pay only the real interest rate, permitting very important cash flow relief. This will
also translate into an improvement in the quality of the banks' credit portfolios.
Finally, the fiscal impact of this scheme will be monitored and, if necessary, appropriate adjustments will be made.
Additional Measures: At the end of 1994, in the interest of availing itself of international experience, the Mexican
Government agreed with the World Bank on a technical assistance loan for the financial sector which will support
supervision and regulatory activities. Notwithstanding the measures taken during the first semester of 1995, it is
believed necessary to continue deepening the restructuring of the financial system to guarantee its strength and
efficiency. Accordingly, the Mexican Government has adopted the PRSF and has decided to modify the above-
mentioned loan in order to adapt it to new circumstances and support the PRSF. It is expected that the PRSF will
include a first phase with the immediate technical and financial support of the World Bank and the Inter-American
Development Bank. Additionally, a second phase is foreseen to give continuity in the medium term to actions to
strengthen the banking system, which would be supported by these financial institutions and other bilateral creditors.
The objectives of the PRSF are the following: (i) support the restructuring of those banks that require it, thereby
containing the impact of the crisis and minimizing its fiscal costs; (ii) strengthen the capitalization of the commercial
banks; (iii) modify accounting principles to make them consistent with international standards; (iv) reform prudential
regulation to the extent necessary; (v) strengthen banking supervision; and (vi) change the regulatory framework
in order to modernize the banking system. The principal measures contained in the PRSF are described in Annex
I to this letter and include:
1) Holding actions: The CNBV has established measures to prevent banks from taking on excessive risks that may
increase their losses. Such measures, which are described in Annex 1, will remain in force throughout the crisis.
2) Assessment of the banking system: In order to more quickly understand the current situation of the Mexican
banking institutions, the CNBV has accelerated the conduct of on-site inspections, based on CAMEL procedures.
Additionally, special diagnostic studies will be undertaken to provide a more thorough diagnosis of banks intervened
by the CNBV, those under FOBAPROA control and those participating in PROCAPTE.
3) Banks restructuring: In order to correct the capitalization problems of some commercial banks and assure that
they remain under private sector ownership, general restructuring criteria have been approved to be utilized in
accordance with the particular circumstances of each bank, which are included in Annex 2 of this document.
Specialized consultants will be hired to participate in the design and implementation of the plans for restructuring
and sale.
4) Accounting principles and gualitv of financial information: Since accounting principles applied to the Mexican
banks differ from international accounting practices, these principles will be modified to make them consistent with
such practices. The foregoing will improve the quality of financial information available to the authorities and the
general public.
5) Prudential regulation: In order to improve the security and soundness of financial institutions, compliance with
prudential regulation in banking supervision will be strengthened. In addition, necessary modification will be made
to such regulation so as to make it consistent with international practices.
6) Amendments to the legal regime: Studies will be undertaken to analyze the need for modifying the legal regime
in order to: (1) determine the extent of FOBAPROA coverage in the future; (2) eliminate obstacles to restructuring
and securitizing credits; and (3) facilitate secured transactions.
7) Development banking: The Government of Mexico believes it appropriate to achieve greater consistency in the
application of criteria and, in general, improve the transparency of relations of development banks with commercial



-42-
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
banks. Accordingly, studies will be undertaken to analyze eligibility criteria, concentration of risk and interest rate
policy in order to strengthen the development banking system. Annex 3 describes the actions taken in this area,
as well as the expectations for the next few years.
The Government of Mexico believes that the implementation of the PRSF will strengthen and continue the process
of modernizing the banking system and that, taken together, these measures will contribute to placing the financial
system in a healthy position that accords with a modern economy. In order to ensure the success of the program,
close coordination among the responsible authorities will be maintained.
Finally, it is of fundamental importance to underline the Government's willingness to carry forward the necessary
changes that will allow for the development of a financial sector in general and for the banking system in particular,
in such a way that these will support the national productive sector.
Signed
Guillermo Ortiz
Minister of Finance
Attachments






MEXICO
INANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING LOAN
Policy Matrix
1. MACROECONOMIC POLICY lFRAMEWORK
Issues, Objectives and Action Program                                                      Prior Actions/Actions to be Taken
1. 3lecause of the unsustainable current accounit deficit, tlie Mexican peso was allowed to float  *I. Satisfactory progress in implementing the macroeconomic
on l)ecember 22, 1994. Willt the support of an IMF stantd-by arrangement, lthe Government is    program announced on March 9, 1995.
implementing a comprehlensive set of economic measures to stabilize the economy and improve
confidence. The economic program covers tight fiscal and monetary policy; a floating exchange
rate; acceleration of some structural reforms; and measures to address the financial sector's  2. Maintenance of the macroeconomic policy framework consistent
difficulties; the program is being implemented with substantial financial support of the IMF, the    with the objectives of the Financial Sector Restructuring Program
U.S. and others.                                                                           (FSRP) and throughout the FSRP.
11. IIOLO ING ACTIONS TO LIMIT FINANCIAL LOSSES
Issues, Objectives and Action Program            Prior Actions/Actions to be Taken
1. There could be substantial risks Ihat some of  *1. CNBV prohlibitcd payment of dividends by banks jhat receive PROCAPTE/FOBAPROA funds.                               4
the troubled banks could belhave in ways tiat    *2. CNBV will use mnoral suasion to slop privatized' banks (outside PROCAPTE) from distributing dividends in
would maginify and propagate financial losses.   1995.
'3. Required banks with a capitalization ratio below 8% to raise additional capital or enter PROCAPTE.
2. CNBV has implemented a set of holding         *4. Provisioning requirements for privatized banks increased to the greater of: (a) 4% of the loan portfolio; (b)
actions to immediately address ithe financial    60% of past due loans; or (c) the provision required from loan classification (Circular 13254-1137, dated February
difficulties and limit financial losses.         22, 1995).
*5. Roll-over loans separated for enhanced monitoring to insure that banks do not automatically capitalize interest
3. Action Program:                               and thereby avoid provisions (Circular 1229, dated January 11, 1995).
Keep holding actions in place at least until     *6. Limits placed on new lending by PROCAPTE banks (i.e., the increase in the capitalization ratio due to
cotnpletion of oin-site MACRO' inspectionis of tlhe    PROCAPTE ftunids can not be used to extend new lending).
healtIi of all banks, diagnostic studies of thie  *7. CNBV has required banks to reduce large exposures and related party exposures.
banks, and satisfactory preparation and          *8. CNBV and FOBAPROA created an inventory of operating restrictions for use depending on the condition of
implementation of bank restructuring plans.      banks.
* Actions already taken.
1. MACRO is the Spanish acronym of CAMEL (capital adequacy; assel quality; manatgeineti; earinings; and liquidity, asset and liability managemenit).
2. The ierni1tRiivalized banks' rerers to tihose baniks tlhat were returted to private ownership in 1991/92 and does not include baniks operating under new charlers granted since the



MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING LOAN
Policy Matrix                                                                                  X
111. DISCIIPLINE IN TIIE PRIOVISION OF LIQUIDITY SUPPORT AND OTfIER RESOURCES
Issues, Objectives and Action Program                         Prior Actions/Actions to be Taken                                                                          -
1. Achieve greater discipline and transparency in the         *1. Banks required to post collateral in peso credit auctions per Banco de Mexico Circular telefax
provision of liquidily and ollier resources to the financial  23/95, daled March 20, 1995.
systenm                                                       2. SIICP to prescnt terms of reference, satisfactory to the Bank, for studies of: (a) the impact of
establishing risk-based exposure limits for the liabilities of each financial intermediary (Fl)4 to DFEs;
2. Action Program:                                            (b) the establishment of eligibility criteria for Fl participation in DFE second-tier operations5 (such
Policies, guidelines and procedures that will result in greater  study to include an analysis of the impact of establishing rating requirements from qualified private
discipline in the provision of liquidity and other resources to    agencies); and (c) Ihe current interest rate policy in domestic and foreign currency, including an
banks from (i) Banco de Mexico, and (ii) development finance   evaluation of its incentive structure and impact on financial markets and final borrowers.
entities (DFEs).3                                             3. SIICP to prepare an action plan on the basis of such studies and take the necessary ofricial action to
implement such action plan.
IV. MANAGEMENT OF TIIE CENTRAI, BANK'S CREDIT RISK AND RISK OF CONTAGION IN TIIE INTERBANK MARKET
Issues, Objcctives and Action Program                                               Prior Actions/Actions to be Taken
i. 'riTe Central Bank liad borne substantial credit risk and exposure as lender of last  *1 . Banco de Mexico lias implemenied a series of mcasures to reduce risk or
resort due to inadequate controls on intra-day credit extended to banks. Tllere was  contagion and the Central Bank's exposure to credit risk in extending daylight
also risk of contagion from  failuire by insolvent banks to perform thleir obligations to    overdrafts.
solvent institutions. Reform of Ilte intra-day market to make it a self-liquidating
mechanism would eliminate the risk to the Central Bank and solvent participating     *2. Banco de Mexico has undertaken measures: (a) under Circular-telefax
banks.                                                                               16/95, dated March 3, 1995, regarding steps to reduce its credit risk6; (b)
under Circular 2016/95, dated March 7, 1995, regarding steps to limit the risk
2. Action Program:                                                                  of contagion in the inter-bank market7; and (c) under Circular 2017/15, dated
A program  of actions to reduce the Banco de Mexico's credit risk and risk of        Match 10, 1995, requiring delivery versus payment in the trading of
contagion in the inter-bank market.                                                  commercial banks liabilities.
3. The term development finance entities NAFIN, Bancomext, FIRA, FIDEC, and FOVI.
4. The term financial intermediary includes all institutions such as banks, leasing and factoring companies, credit unions, etc.
5. The term second-tier operations refers to loans, guaranlees, investment portfolio. interbank market operations and other risk assets of DFEs witl Fis.
6. Pricin of intra-da  credilt,uenuirelrent of collateral for daylighlt overdrafts, debit caps for uncollateralized portion of daylight overdrafts, and requiring special non-ituterest
earnumug emearung nsances, ii uaymIgl overdra are requenr.
7. Establishment of clearing house for large value transfers (Sistema de Pagos Electr6nicos de Uso Ampliado - SPEUA).



MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTORt RESTRUCTURING LOAN
Policy Matrix
V. ASSESSMENT OF IIEALTII OF TIIE BANKING SYSTEM
Issues, Objectives and Action Program               Prior Actions/Commitments
1. The peso devaluation and its aftermath have had a  1. Inspections:
severe impact on the banking system. High interest  (a) Completion of on-site MACRO inspections, focusing on asset quality, on a targeted basis: (i) by
rates have affected both corporate and individual private   September 30, 1995, for all privatized banks except four banks; and (ii) by December 31, 1995 for the
borrowers. An accurate assessment of the true healtih of  remaininig four privatized banks.
banks is essential to develop measures to restore   (b) Conduct aniual inspections tiereafter.
solvency and soundness of financial institutions and  2. Diagnostic Studies:
thereby improve confidence in the financial system.  (a) CNBV or FOBAPROA will employ an independent auditing firn for assistance in diagnostic studies of
2. Action Program:                                  banks.
(a) MACRO inspections to verify asset quality and   (b) For Intervened and PROCAPTE banks: CNBV and FOBAPROA to complete diagnostic studies
provisions. Examiners from the US FDIC, OCC and     (applying uniform accounting standards consistent with intemationally accepted standards (U.S. GAAP) and
Federal Reserve to begin training CNBV staff by June    loan classification) with the assistance of independent auditing firm(s) of (i) two intervened banks by
15, 1995 with financing under FTAL. Additional      September 30, 1995; and (ii) all intervened banks and PROCAPTE banks as of May 31, 1995.
technical assistance on supervision policy, asset   (c) For Banks not vet in PROCAPTE: CNBV to (i) initiate diagnostic studies of banks (not in the
classification criteria, manuals and training will be  PROCAPTE/FOBAPROA programs as of May 31, 1995) within 90 days of their joining the PROCAPTE
provided under the restructured FTAL.               scheme, being intervened by CNBV or cotning under the control of FOBAPROA (without the bank going
(b) Diagnostic studies to ensure an accurate assessmneit   throughi PROCAPTE scheme); and (ii) complete suchi studies within four mtontihs froin the starting date.
of the financial and operating condition of intervened
and PROCAPTE banks.
VI. RESTRUCTURING OF BANKS
Issues, Objectives and Action Program                   Prior Actions/Actions to be Taken
1. In light of the deterioration in the financial condition of  * 1. CNBV, SHCP and FOBAPROA have defined principles, processes, procedures, organizational
banks, tightening of regulations on asset classification as  arrangements, and methodologies for restructuring of banks including approaches to the treatment of
well as inspectioins, and deterioration of thc enterprise  non-performing loans ("operating guidelines").
sector, more banks may see their capital decline to levets  (*I 2. SIICP has put itto effect the final operating guidelines (see Attachmenit 2).
below the minimum limits, and their ownership could then  3. CNBV or FOBAPROA to retain/recruit investment banks and/or specialized consultants or firms to
come under the control of FOBAPROA.                     assist in the preparation of restructuring plans of banks.
2. Legal changes to further liberalize shareholding by  4. The Government to prepare restructuring plans including implementation strategies in accordance
domestic and foreign investors made on February 15, 1995.   with the operating guidelines: (a) by September 30, 1995, for two banks under FOBAPROA control';
3. The Government will prepare the bank restructuring plans   and (b) for any remaining banks under FOBAPROA control within three months from the date of
and implement thereafter agreed plans (i.e., liquidation,  FOBAPROA taking control. The restructuring plans will be approved by CNBV, SHCP and
merger, or offer for sale) for the intervened banks quickly in  FOBAPROA.
a transparent manner according to market mechanisms.    5. Implement the bank restructuring plans.
S. Includimig PROCAF`TE banks, takeni over by FOBAPROA.
s t 



MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECrOR RESTRUCTURING LOAN
P'olicy Matrix                                                                          .    -
VIl. CORPORATE AND OTIER DEBT RESTRUCTURING
Issues, Objectives and Action Program                                 Prior Actions/Actions to be Taken
1. Entcrprises havc been undergoing structural reforms over the past  1*j 1. Analyzed the estimated riscal costs of the UDI scheme (including subsidy and tax
several years, and a significant number of smaller enterprises in particular   revenue implications).
were experiencing difficulties in 1994. Financial distress in the corporate
sector expanided rapidly in early 1995 due to high interest rates and effects   2. (a) Conduct a study of obstacles to voluinary debt restructuring (includinig recognition,
of the devaluation, and intensified due to a decline in the value of assets  execution and enforcement of out-of-court workouts and arbitration awards); and (b) adopt
used as collateral, and lack of access to alternative forms of financing.  a plan of action by March 31, 1996 for removing unnecessary impediments to voluntary
corporate debt restructuring, through appropriate changes in regulations and/or legal
2. The Government has introduced a series of loan restructuring programs    framework.
based on the Unidad de lnversi6n (UDI) to enable banks to refinance loans
to viable borrowers facing liquidity problems. The programs include   3. Beginning January 1, 1996, CNBV to review classification of assets in the UDI trust as
industrial loans, housing loans, loanis to states and municipalities, and loans  they evolve, and re-classify every quarter, and require banks to build necessary provisions
financed through developnment banks.                                  immediately.               .
3. Action Program:                                                    4. CNBV to: (i) review by January 31, 1996 adequacy of criteria applicable to debt
(a) Facilitate corporate and other debt restructuring based on sound  restructuring; (ii) formulate changes, as appropriate; and (iii) issue a circular with
guidelines and market discipline, with due consideration to fiscal costs.  revisions, as necessary, to banks by March 31, 1996.
(b) Continue work on improvements in guidelines for supervision of
restructured debts.                                                   5. Before March 31, 1996: (i) analyze the initial implementation experience of the UDI
(c) Keep continuing watch during inspections of 1995 on the sound use of    scheme and associated fiscal costs; (ii) formulate changes, as appropriale; and
the UDI scheme by banks.                                              (iii) publicize the revised scheme.



MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING LOAN
Policy Matrix
VIII. STIANDARtDS FOR ACCOUNTING, DISCLOSURE AND QUALITY OF FINANCIAL INFOItMATION
Issues, Objecfives anid Action Program                       Prior Actions/Actions to be Taken
1. Mexican Cenerally Accepted Accounting Principles          1. CNIBV to forimitlate uniform accouniting principles (includinig consolidation of financial statements),
(GAAIP) differ in some significanit respects from           consistent with interinationially accepted principles (U.S. GAAP) and consistent across all transactions and
inierniationally acccptcd stanidar(ds (U.S. GAAIP). The     activities, for finaicial stateinenits and regulatory reports of banks.
principal (liffercnces for bank accouniing are in the
treatment of interest income on loans (and on restructured    2. Issue, by September 30, 1995, revised, uniforn accointing principles for banks, and require banks to
debt) and repurchase agreements, valuation of fixed          use new accounting stamdards (including consolidation of financial statements) beginninig January 1, 1996,
assets, disclosure requirements and the definition of non-   for completion no later than for year end-1996 accounts.
performing assets. Mexican banks generally prepare their
financial statements according to CNBV guidelines           3. Formulate, by September 30, 1995, uniform accounting principles, consistent with internationally
reporting in accordance with the forn of general ledger     accepted principles (U.S. GAAP) and consistent across all transactions and activities, for financial
and rules published in CNBV circulars.                      statements and regulatory rcports for non-bank financial institutions that are affiliates of financial grotips
with bank affiliates (first draft).
2. Draft regulations reconcilinig tlhe U.S. and Mexican
GAAP are under preparation. FTAL will provide TA as         4. Issue, by December 1, 1995, revised accounting standards (iticluding consolidationi of financial
needed.                                                     statemiienits) for noni-banik finanicial itislitutions that are affiliates of finanicial groups withi bank affiliates.
3. Action Program:                                          5. Continue strengthening disclosure by banks to supervisory atitlorities requiring banks to submit new
regulatory reports and special reports.
(a) Formulate uniform, accounting stanidards consistent
with intemationally accepted principles (U.S. GAAP) and    6. Continue ongoing efforts to itnprove disclosure by CNBV to the public9.
acceptable to the Bank, and require their use.
(b) Strengthening of disclosure requirements.               *7. All credit bureaus required to provide services to all providers of credit (financial and non-financial
(c) Enforce audit guidelines.                               institutions).
(d) Strenglhen appraisal standards for real estate inclisive
of meitodology for determiniing derived investment value.   8. Improvements in quality of financial information:
(a) CNBV to require auditors to strictly follow audit guidelines for audlits of banks and brokerage firms,
and monitor auditors' performance, begininig with audils of 1994 accounts';and (b) CNBV to complete,
by March 31, 1996, a study of ways to improve appraisal standards for real estate, and to identify
institution that can undertake the regulation of appraisers".
9. Including related party lending by banks.
10. Audit guidelines have been issued for brokerage firnis (Circular 10-165 issued January 4, 1993), anid banks (Circular 1222 issued November 14, 1994).
11. CNBV mitaimitaitis register and has current qualification criteria.
-I--~



MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING LOAN
Policy Matrix
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r -
IX. REFORM OF PRUDENTIAL REGULATIONS AND STRENGTIIENING OF SUPERVISION                                                     |
Issues, Objectives and Action Program                                   Prior Actions/Actions to be Taken
1. Improve safcly and sountiness of Rmancial institu(ionis throughi     1. CNBV has begun work on revisions required for supervisory purposes in asset
nmodcrnizatio,n of prudential regulations, as necessary, and strengithened  classification and provisioning, and related party lending. Work is also underway on
supervision based on accepted intemationial practices. These measures will  composition of Tier I capital for purposes of capital adequacy.
eniance ihe transparency of healtil of the financial institutions an(l thereby
help prevent recurrence of systemic problems, as well as enhance the    2. CN11V to issue supplemental internal instructions, for inspection of banks (includiig
confidence of the international investment community in Mexico's financial  development banks) covering, inter alia: asset classification and provisioning, exclusion
system. They should also increase incentives for commercial bank        of de facto treasury stock (stock owned or financed directly or indirectly by related
management to measure and better manage exposure to risk. Carefully     entities, or covered by repurchase agreements) for purposes of capital adequacy
drafted regulations can also encourage self regulation and self-policing by  standards, composition of Tier I capital, large exposures and concenitraion, and related
rttancial institutions.                                                 party lending.
2. Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project (Loan No 3838-ME) is   3. CNBV will review the need for the issuance of new prudential regtilations for
providing teclinical assistance.                                        banks, and thlereafter will issue such new regulalions to tlie extent necessary.
3. Action Program:                                                      4. CNBV to issue new prudential regulations with respect to capital adequacy standards |
Revised standards for asset classification including provisioning.      for brokerage firms.
X. LIABILITY PROTECTION SCHEMES
Issues, Objectives anid Action Program           Prior Actions/Actions to be Taken
I. There is a need to review the extent of liability  1. Complete a study of liability coverage, by December 31, 1995, and formulate a set of options for
protection provided by FOBAPROA and FAMV         implementing the appropriate level of coverage provided on large liabilities of covered financial entities and their
(types of entities that should be covered and tile  affiliates, by March 31, 1996.
appropriate degree of coverage) in order lo reduce
moral hazard and overall liability.              2. Approve and adopt revised protection scheme for phased implementation beginning January 1, 1997.
3. Regulations approved to eliminate FOBAPROA coverage of settlements through SPEUA by March 31, 1996.



MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESI'IWCTURING LOAN
Iolicy Mntrix
XI. MOD)ERNrZATION OF LEGAI/REGULATORY FRAMEWORK FOR LENDING
Issues, Objectives andt Actiom  Program                                               Prior Actions/Actions to be Taken
Securitizatlon of Bank and Non-Bank Originated Assets                                 Securitization of Bank and Non-Bank Originated Assets
1. Impediments to efFicient sccuritization schemes importantly restrict the amount of credit  1. Conduct a study to identify remaining regulalory obstacles and legal
available to some sectors (in particular, housing finance) and limit the market-oriented options   itnpedimeits to asset securitization and recommend by December 31,
available for restructuring and disposing of troubled bank assets.                    1995 actions to remove such obstacles and impediments.
2. Improved framework for securitization of bank and non-bank originated assets will help  2. CNBV and SHCP to initiate the process of removing legal and
improve the efficiency of the financial system.                                       regulatory obstacles.
3. Action Program:                                                                    Secured Transactiotis
(a) Establish clear legal/regulatory framework for securitization of bank atid non-banik  1. Conduct a sttidy to idenlify shortcomings of, and propose changes
originated assets, including mortgages.                                               to, tlite legal/regulatory framework for secured transactions by
December 31, 1995.
Secured Tratisacilons                                                                 2. Initiate the process of improving the legal/regulatory framework for
1. Existing legal framework does not permit lending secured by manty types of movable  secured transactions.
property, restricting credit availability and reducing the potential value of bank assets.
2. Improved framework for secured transactions will enhance the efficiency of the financial
system.
3. Action Program:
(a) Make necessary chaniges to the legal/regulatory framework for secured transactions.
(b) Improved system of registries.



ANNEX I                                              -50-
Attachment 1I
Page 1 of 4
MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
Operating Guidelines for Bank Restructuring
I.     Background
In 1987 the Mexican Government established a trust, FOBAPROA (Fondo Bancario de Protecci6n al Ahorro),
administered by Banco de Mdxico. The purpose of this fund is to take actions to avoid and remedy fnancial problems that
may arise in banks, as well as encourage the fulfillment of the obligations of such institutions. In order to comply with its
objective, FOBAPROA plays the following roles: (a) bank restructuring; (b) deposit insurance; and (c) in some cases, lender
of last resort.
FOBAPROA is financed by ordinary and extraordinary contributions, which are set on an annual basis and paid
monthly by the banks. At the present time, the ordinary contributions are equal to 0.3% of the liabilities which are subject to
the fund's protection, however this percentage could rise up to 0.5%. Extraordinary contributions may not exceed 0.7% of
such liabilities. In addition, the Central Bank is authorized to extend loans to FOBAPROA.
In the area of bank restructuring, FOBAPROA has been performing the following roles:
1.     It lends to banks under Government intervention (e.g., Cremi, Uni6n and Banpais, at present). In such
cases its loan is equivalent to the sum of the estimated loss. In such cases, FOBAPROA may take as
collateral all or a portion of the shares of the bank or the financial group affected. FOBAPROA has the
right to vote the pledged shares (even without foreclosure) to write-off the capital and issue and subscribe
new capital. In that event, FOBAPROA replaces former shareholders (who lose their equity) and tries to
sell the bank to suitable investors.
2.     It provides financial support to banks that have applied for capital where there were capital deficiencies but
not irregular behavior. In these cases, FOBAPROA supplies capital, against a restructuring program agreed
with the bank in question.
Before the current economic and financial crisis, the authorities were taking actions to modify several bank
prudential regulations. At the present time, the Comisi6n Nacional Bancania y de Valores (CNBV) is tightening its
regulations on asset classification as well as its inspections. Eighty percent of the 18 commercial banks which were
privatized since 1992 will be inspected by September 30, 1995, and the rest by December 31, 1995. Also, banks have been
instructed to make provisions of: (1) 60% of past-due portfolio, or, (2) 4% of total portfolio as of March 1995, or (3) based
on classification of assets, whichever is higher.
II.    Current Situation
The difficulties that the Mexican economy is facing will have a negative impact on the banks' financial condition.
This is why several mechanisms that go from debt restructuring to complete bank restructuring have been designed and will
be adopted, depending on the specific problems of each institution.
The first of these mechanisms is the PROCAPTE (Programa de Capitalizaci6n Temporal) which was created under a
Circular in February 24, 1995, with the purpose of providing core capital to under-capitalized banks, as well as improving
the quality of their assets. This mechanisms can assist banks whose capital level is below 8% of risk weighted assets, and
where shareholders have not recapitalized the bank due to the current economic conditions. Participation in the program is
voluntary for banks with capital under 8%. However, for those banks with a ratio below 8%, the authorities will either
impose recapitalization by FOBAPROA or suspend/revoke the charter. In both cases, the core capital is injected through the
subscription of subordinated mandatory convertible debentures (term: 5 years), which are acquired by FOBAPROA with



-51-                                         ANNEX I
Attachment II
Page 2 of 4
financing obtained from Banco de Mexico. The proceeds of the subscription are deposited in the Central Bank. The size of
the issue will be such that the capital level will rise to 9%.
The debentures can be retired if the shareholders inject the equivalent capital into the bank. FOBAPROA can
accelerate convertibility and become a majority shareholder if the core capital level of the bank falls below 2% (excluding
PROCAPTE debentures) of risk weighted assets or if its capitalization ratio trend deteriorates at a rate exceeding 25 % of the
rate of deterioration of the rest of the PROCAPTE banks. Once FOBAPROA becomes the majority shareholder, it dilutes or
replaces entirely the previous shareholders and restructures the institution.
PROCAPTE banks will be subject to tighter supervision from the CNBV, discontinuing dividend payments and
limiting new loans. Additionally, with the objective of avoiding further deterioration, the authorities will impose some of the
holding actions to the banks (AnneJL-A), as well as reporting requirements depending on the specific problems of each
bank.
The basic criteria for imposing the holding actions and the reporting requirements will be the capital level without
considering the capital obtained through PROCAPTE, as well as the rate of deterioration of each bank in particular according
to its capability to generate cash flows.
To date, the banks under PROCAPTE mechanisms are: Serfm, Inverlat-Comermex, Bital, Confia, Centro and
Oriente. Another bank, Mercantil Probursa, has a capitalization ratio below 8%, but has obtained from the Government a
two month exemption while negotiating with Banco Bilbao Vizcaya to recapitalize it, becoming majority shareholder.
Due to the deterioration of the real sector, it is likely that more banks will enter the PROCAPTE program and that in
some cases FOBAPROA will exercise its conversion rights on the subordinated debentures, becoming the potential majority
shareholder of those banks. This institution will then have to restructure (i.e., recapitalize, close, liquidate, sell or merge)
those banks. To minimize this transitory situation, principles and programs for the restructuring and sale of those banks and
the other intervened banks will be established as set forth below.
HI.    Objectives, Principles and Methodology to be Followed by FOBAPROA and the Authorities in Resolution and
Restructuring of Banks.
A.     All bank restructuring methods will follow a set of public interest objectives that will govern the authorities' actions.
These objectives are:
* Reducing systemic risk.
* Ensuring safety and soundness of banking institutions.
* Saving institutions and not shareholders.
* Promoting public confidence.
* Minimizing the overall cost of restructuring.
* Preventing intervention by the timely application of other methods.
* Minimizing the participation of the public sector.
Actions for bank restructuring will be based on the following princiiles that are drawn from the lessons of experience in other
countries:
a. The basic principles for successfully restructuring insolvent banks are the joint achievement of: (1) the full
coverage (compensation) of the losses, both in terms of stock and/or flows; (2) the change of the management
that has been responsible for the insolvency; and (3) dilution or change of ownership.
b. The reconstruction of the capital base should initially be sought from the existing shareholders, especially if
ownership is rather concentrated. If they are unable or unwilling to do so, FOBAPROA will do it, thereby
eliminating or strongly diluting their ownership position.



ANNEX-I                                               -52-
Attachment II
Page 3 of 4
c. The bank restructuring program will be conceived and implemented with reasonable speed (the need for
thoroughness notwithstanding), since experience shows that delays usually increase the ultimate restructuring
costs.
d. When recapitalization by FOBAPROA takes place, keeping the same management and ownership is likely to be:
(1) unfair and perverse, because this would provide incentives for bad management; and (2) ineffective, since
the same problems are likely to recur.
B. The methodology to be followed given the legal constraints in the Mexican context would be as follows:
a. When a bank proves to have a capital base below 8%, before being recapitalized via the PROCAPTE
mechanism, shareholders will be explicitly requested to submit a satisfactory plan within a month to
recapitalize the bank. If they do not respond affirmatively, PROCAPTE will undertake capitalization, but:
*  The shareholders should be requested to formulate a short term turn-around plan containing immediate
safeguard measures to arrest deterioration and improve the safety, efficiency and profitability of the
bank; the execution of this plan will be subject to close supervision by the Government.
-  The asset classification guidelines will be enforced promptly and stringently to the bank's accounts.
b. In the case banks whose capital adequacy ratio falls below zero percent, their ownership will be removed
through the conversion of the subordinated debentures by FOBAPROA, and it will also become the owner
of the intervened and insolvent banks through the write-off of the previous capital and the subscription of a
new capital issue.
c. When FOBAPROA or CNBV decides to take control of an institution, either through
FOBAPROA/PROCAPTE or by an intervention, management would be replaced fully or partly.
d. In this context, FOBAPROA will establish a program to recapitalize/rehabilitate, close, liquidate, sell or
merge the banks under its control (Banco Obrero and already intervened banks will also form part of this
program).
e. The sale or merger of banks will be carried out over time as banks are intervened or, if within
PROCAPTE, when the debentures are converted. This would allow for a more manageable operation,
experience will be gained and specialized teams could be developed for this kind of operation. The use of
investment advisers is envisaged.
f. If the capital shortfall proves to be so severe (for instance, significant negative net worth) as to make the
bank fundamentally financially non-viable, liquidation could be considered as an appropriate solution. The
possible negative impact on the image of the banking system would be offset by the message of discipline
sent to the market.
g. If liquidation is ruled out, acquisition or merger would be sought, but the conditions for a successful
operation in either case would be: (1) recapitalization (after compensating losses) of the insolvent bank,
prior or simultaneous to the sale or merger, (2) loss sharing mechanisms or equivalent process, and (3) sale
to suitable investors (i.e., with requisite financial and managerial capacity, as well as moral character).
h. Insolvent banks could be sold as a legal entity to a single investor or split into two or more units for sale to
more than one investor.



-53-                                         ANNEX I
Attachment II
Page 4 of 4
i.  The institutions' recapitalization would be carried out by either of two means: (1) recapitalization by new
owners, and (2) recapitalization by FOBAPROA. In both cases, the Government through FOBAPROA (or
other entities) could acquire the non-performing loans or guarantee contingencies.
j.  In case FOBAPROA (or other entities) acquires the non-performing loans portfolio, the attractiveness of the
bank to sound investors for acquisition or merger, will be increased. Otherwise, the potential investors
attracted would not be desirable and would likely try to use the bank to obtain dividends based on cosmetic
accounts or to lend money to themselves.
k. The purchase of non-performing loans by FOBAPROA would generally be at book value, so that the full
loss is removed from the insolvent bank and transferred to FOBAPROA (or another entity) as the
restructuring institution. (However, if there is a loan loss reserve, the assets will be sold at market value as
soon as possible, through auctions, securitization, or any other market mechanism, thus resulting in a loss.)
1.  The non-performing assets removed from the balance sheet of the insolvent banks would either be
transferred to the acquiring bank or to a special trust fund for recovery or disposal. Among possible
incentives for better recovery, the recovery institution could be offered a commission. If the resources
recovered exceed the estimated value of the assets bought by FOBAPROA, an arrangement would be
established to return a part of that excess to FOBAPROA.
m. As an alternative to the acquisition of non-performing loans, FOBAPROA could guarantee a purchase price
for a given period of time (put option), so as to facilitate the merger or acquisition process.
n. An additional alternative could be the creation of a "bridge bank" for each insolvent bank. The bridge bank
would take over only the sound part of the insolvent bank and would then be sold. Bad assets,
contingencies and litigation would be left with the bad bank for disposal/liquidation over a period of time.
o. Any restructuring plan will also have to ensure a sharp reduction in operational costs and rationalization of
the branch network by interim management or the new owners.
p. Care will have to be exercised in the selection of individual banks susceptible of successful rehabilitation,
and on the other hand, those fundamentally non-viable banks for which liquidation, merger or other
modalities could be envisaged.
r.  Pending the preparation of specific restructuring plans for those banks intended for
rehabilitationlrestructuring, short-term turn-around plans would be formulated and implemented by the
banks' management, to arrest deterioration and contain losses.
The modalities for financing the bank restructuring program are discussed in the attached Annex -IIB. The
organizational           for implementing the bank restructuring program are described in Annex 11-C. The
treatment of Non-Performing Assets is outlined in Annex 1l-D.
23 May, 1995



-54-
ANNEX I
Attachment lI-A
Page 1 of 3
MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
Inventory of Holding Actions to be Required of Banks'
Management                                                 .   Creation of a special taskforce to deal with problematic
assets.
. Creation of a risk management unit, with guidelines and
internal limits established in conjunction with the
Supervisory Authorities, (further control on market,
credit and other risks).
* Strengthen internal controls.
* Strengthen management.
Expenditure                                                *   Present a plan to reduce operating costs.
(including staff cuts)
Assets                                                     *  Discontinue lending to adversely classified borrowers
(D and E).
c New lending to be limited to loan recoveries.
* Prohibit any increase, interest capitalization or
preferential treatment in related-party loans.
* Envisage the sale of non-core assets.
. Certain operations to be subject to approval by the
Board:
1. Sale, acquisition or leasing of assets above a certain
amount.
2. Credits above a certain amount. (to be determined by
Supervisory Authorities)
Capital                                                    .   Require satisfactory recapitalization plan, including time
schedule.
Liabilities                                                *   Control dependence on volatile deposits.
Other                                                      *   Prohibit Owners/Directors and other related parties from
trading services with the bank, as well as other
transactions involving conflict-of-interest.
These actions are applicable, at the discretion of the Supervisory Authorities, to commercial banks which encounter financial and/or
operational difficulties, whether they are intervened or not.



-55-
ANNEX I
Attachment II-A
Page 2 of 3
In addition to the above, the Supervisory Authorities may impose any other Holding Action that they consider adequate.
Steps to be Followed During the Intervention in Credit Institutions
The CNBV has the legal power to intervene any credit institution in which severe irregular situations are found, so in
these cases it is not necessary to wait for the institution to participate in the PROCAPTE program or for the
conversion of the subordinated debentures.
Some of the characteristics of the intervention process are:
* The bank shall be intervened for the shortest possible time, with the understanding that the period of intervention will
necessary be longer than that of those insolvent banks that do not present irregularities in their management.
* Professional interventors should be hired, and the use of other bank's personnel should be avoided. The CNBV is
currently developing a list of possible candidates (former bankers) that could head the intervention.
- The intervention team should be well paid, and it should propose a scheme of performance-based incentives
appropriate to the objectives to be achieved, which will be submitted to the authorities for review and approval.
* It is not advisable that the interventor act as sole administrator; a board of directors formed by the intervention team
and/or by officers of other institutions should be used to provide guidance and some control.
*  A mechanism through which the bank can triangulate its funding through FOBAPROA should be utilized.
 Good and bad assets should be isolated as soon as possible.
Independently of the causes that lead to the intervention, the authorities will notify the affected institution, pointing out
the reasons and its legal foundation. Simultaneously an intervention team or an Interventor-Manager will be
designated and will be in charge of managing the intervened institution with all its implications (procurement, dealing
with debtors and creditors, human resources management, supervision of daily transactions, etc.) and reviewing the
assets and liabilities in order to obtain, as soon as possible, a reasonable assessment of the economic and financial
situation of the institution.
The intervention team will take the following steps:
1. Obtain a provisional balance sheet with figures updated to the previous day if the intervention begins during the
opening of operations, or to the same day if the intervention begins at the closing of the day. If delay exists in the
formulation of the provisional balance sheet, the most recent one available will be required and the preparation of the
following will be supervised.
The temporary balance sheet should be certified by the institution's officers as regards the accounting accuracy of all
the operations.
2. Once the temporary balance sheet is obtained, a list of all the accounts contained in it will be required, and then
verified.
3. The data system will be evaluated and taken under control, safekeeping the data basis and existing information.
Specialized personnel will be used.



-56-
ANNEX I
Attachment II-A
Page 3 of 3
4. Liquid or easily marketable assets will be controlled; as well as expensive goods such as jewels, works of art and cars;
and the accounting ledgers, minutes of the Board of Directors and shareholders meetings.
5.  The intervention will be notified to all the institutions that hold checking or investment accounts with the intervened
bank, and the signatures of the leading interventor and/or his associates should be registered.
6.  The institution's officers should be informed about their responsibilities, including the need for them to consult with or
seek approval from the interventor on certain types of decisions. Likewise, a decision should be taken regarding the
replacement of the management, fully or in part.
7. The powers (to take actions related to management, procurement, litigation, etc.) given by the institution will be
evaluated and, as necessary, should be canceled.
8.  A cash flow projection should be prepared for the first month of the intervention, and subsequently be extended to the
following months.
9. The quality of the portfolio will be evaluated, establishing its degree of soundness and liquidity and estimated term for
recovery, using the following procedures:
*   Verify the operations' supporting documents, selectively or in full.
. Send letters to the bank's debtors verifying the acceptance of their debt. All major loans should be included, as
well as a selection of the rest.
*   Visits should be made, with the intention of verifying addresses and collecting information.
*   Reviewing important loans for which there is little or no documentation in the files.
*   Identify if there are non-performing loans registered as performing and investigate the situation of transactions that
have been renewed continuously.
*   Stop renewals until the characteristics and situation of the borrower have been satisfactory established.
24 May, 1995



-57-
ANNEX I
Attachment 1I-B
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
Operating Guidelines for Bank Restructuring
Financing of Bank Restructuring
The financing of bank restructuring should take into account the following guidelines:
(a)   The present funding of FOBAPROA with contributions from the banking
system is by far insufficient to cover the restructuring needs already
identified and those that are likely to be identified in the future. As a
supplement, the Central Bank currently provides advances to
FOBAPROA. Current financing is still insufficient. One or more of the
following additional funding formulae should be contemplated:
(i)   Increase the lending by the Central Bank to FOBAPROA.
(ii)  Increase of the current contributions of 0.3% of annual deposits
from the banking community, within the limit authorized of
1.2%.
(iii)  Advances from the banking community against future
contributions.
(iv)   Bonds to be issued by FOBAPROA or another Government
agency (bearing market interest rates).
(v)   Other arrangements, as appropriate.
(b)   As regards fiscal implications, the Central Bank advances will be
reimbursed overtime by FOBAPROA, through the future contributions
of the banking community and the proceeds of the liquidation of assets.
Reimbursement to the Central Bank should be a priority. Any lending
of last resort supplied by the Central Bank or FOBAPROA should be
recognized and reimbursed overtime.
While FOBAPROA, as a restructuring agency, is supposed to bear the
loss as a result of the cleaning up of the banks, this loss will also be



-58-
ANNEXI
Attachment II-B
Page 2 of 2
recovered overtime from the collection of the banks' contributions and
the proceeds from the liquidation of assets.
(c)   The monetary impact of restructuring should be diminished and spread
overtime by the use of bonds rather than cash, whenever possible. In
the short term, the impact will be limited to the interest payments. The
impact of bond redemption can be phased out over a long period of time.
If cash is used to inject capital and/or to clean up bad assets, it could be
earmarked for the restructured bank to immediately place it in
Government securities available on the market, in order to mop up the
liquidity provided by FOBAPROA.
23 May, 1995



-59-
ANNEX I
Attachment II-C
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
Operating Guidelines for Bank Restructuring
Organizational Arrangements
FOBAPROA presently has different degrees of control over a number of banks, i.e.,
intervened banks in which FOBAPROA has taken control, PROCAPTE banks and
Banco Obrero. It is expected to take over control of an additional number of banks,
under the PROCAPTE scheme, in the near future. Intervention of other banks in the
future is also not to be excluded. The above participation in the supervision of banks
involves several types of managerial activities:
1) interim management (or intervention gerencial) of intervened banks;
2) management of banks once FOBAPROA has become majority shareholder;
3) monitoring of turn-around plans for PROCAPTE banks;
4) supervision of banks under FOBAPROA ownership;
5) organization of sales and mergers of banks; and
6) monitoring of assets recovery and liquidation carried out by the restructured
bank under new ownership.
These activities can be grouped in two levels: a) the management team itself
which should be located in the banks, and b) monitoring or supervision of
various managerial activities, as well as organization of sales and mergers, which
should be located in FOBAPROA. The following guidelines are suggested for
both levels of activity:
(a) Bank Management. It should be borne in mind that some time may
elapse between intervention or take-over of a bank's ownership
and sale to other shareholders. In this interim period, banks
should be run as a normal institution, rather.than frozen while
waiting for sale. At least normal commercial activities and
verification of the real situation of the bank in question are
required, through the proposed diagnostic audit studies.
Additionally, turn-around plans can be put in place if the sale of
the bank takes a long time. To this effect, a small team of
managers should be appointed in each bank, rather than a single
interventor. This team of managers could primarily be recruited
from the market (including secondments from others banks) and



-60-
ANNEX I
AtachmentIC
Page 2 of 2
can be supplemented by some managers from the ranks of the
bank in question. Having those teams available requires an early
and systematic search activity, in order to ensure that new
appointments can be made expeditiously.
(b) Monitoring of Various Managerial Activities (as described above) and
Sales or Mergers. These tasks would involve the formation of a
small but strong management team in FOBAPROA. These
managers should be ideally recruited from the market, at salaries
that would ensure their competence and independence. They
should have experience in:
-  Banking operations, (including bank analysis and assets
evaluation).
-  Legal matters.
-  Mergers and acquisitions.
-  Administration.
24 May, 1995



-61-
ANNEXI
Attachment II-D
Page 1 of 1
MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
Operating Guidelines for Bank Restructuring
Treatment of Non-Performing Assets
Removal of some or all bad assets from the balance sheet of insolvent banks could be an alternative
to make such banks more attractive to potential purchasers, making it easier for new management to
concentrate on building a sound institution. Consequently, a set of mechanisms will be established to
manage the recovery or liquidation of non-performing and lower quality assets of restructured banks. The
more dubious assets (i.e., those most likely to represent losses and those least amenable to valuation) would
be removed from insolvent banks, while better assets would remain on the balance sheet of the restructured
banks. The mechanisms will include one or more of the following:
e purchase of bad assets by FOBAPROA or by the Federal Government of Mexico. This
mechanism is currently in place and FOBAPROA has already purchased impaired portfolios
from intervened banks.
*  establishment of one or more special purpose mechanisms to purchase such assets. Such entity
or entities will be established and controlled by FOBAPROA, and be governed by commercial
law. Arrangements may be established between the special purpose entity or entities and
private parties (including banks) for management and disposal of assets.
*  transfers of such assets to a "collecting" bank (which may be the now-restructured bank), asset
liquidator or liquidating trust. Such transfers may be subject to partial guarantees or loss
sharing by the Government or FOBAPROA, which would be tantamount to a discount.
*  agreement of FOBAPROA to share some of the losses on such assets with the shareholders of
the restructured bank.
*  securitization of such assets.
The funding for the purchase of bad assets from banks should consist of an appropriate mix of cash
and non-cash modalities (e.g., issuance of medium-term bonds bearing market interest rates) so as to
minimize its monetary impact while still paying due attention to the liquidity needs of restructures banks.
To the extent that non-performing or lower quality assets are managed by FOBAPROA, or a
special purpose vehicle or vehicles controlled by FOBAPROA, such entity or entities should be staffed with
first class professionals from the market with experience in asset management, recovery and liquidation.
Market-oriented approaches (such as auctions and securitization) will be favored.
23 May, 1995



-62-
ANNEX I
Attachment III
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
Policy Guidelines for Development Banking
During the Current Administration
(English translation of original document in Spanish)
Over the course of the past few years, the country has witnessed a profound process of economic reforms. This have
covered all sectors of the economy, among which the financial sector has been characterized as one of those experiencing
the greatest changes.
The development finance system was not exempt from this process of reform. Notable among the measures that were
taken to modernize it were its rationalization to operate increasingly as a second-tier system and the application of very
strict prudential regulations.
The rationalization of the system involved the dissolution, closing or merger of those entities that had completed the
mission that justified their creation or those that duplicated functions. With this, unnecessary competition among entities
was eliminated in substantial measure.
The restructuring of the development banking system into a second-tier system brought several benefits. One of these
was that it improved the allocation of resources, since by transferring risk to private intermediaries incentives were
generate to adequately assess the profitability of projects.
Prudential regulation was intensified with the introduction of the Capital Rules and the Portfolio Classification Rules for
development banks. It is important to note that their application is stricter than that of commercial banks. The capital
ratio for development banks required by the financial authorities is 10% of risk assets, while for commercial banks it
is 8%. Preventive provisions for credit risk rise to 10, 45, 80 and 100%, respectively for credits classifies from B to
E, while for commercial banks these are 1, 20, 50 and 100%, respectively.
At the same time that the process of restructuring the operations of the development banks was advancing, these
measures also better oriented the development system toward serving sectors that, due to market failures, were not
adequately served by commercial banks.
In addition to the measures already mentioned, several tasks remain to be undertaken that would result in improving the
capacity of the development banking system to meet its objectives. However, the implementation of these actions must
be effected in an appropriate manner given the current economic situation.
In the short term, development bank operations will be limited due to the need to create preventive reserves to cover
the requirements associated with the recent deterioration of credit portfolios as well as the financial ceilings that permit
development banks to channel to the private sector a maximum net credit flow equivalent to 2% of GDP.
To overcome this situation, and so that projects that are viable in the medium and long term may continue to advance,
in 1995 an ambitious program of debt restructuring with different schemes will be put into effect, most notably, the
Investment Unit. In addition, new loans will be granted this year, mainly to those sectors most affected by the current
economic emergency.
The current administration has set a series of objectives within a broader policy umbrella that seek to improve the
capacity of development banks to fulfill their mission of promoting development. To perform these actions and achieve
better results, diagnostic studies of the operations of development banks will be carried out, in light of the successful
experience of other countries. The main lines of actions supported by the results of these studies are as follows:



-63-
ANNEX I
Attachment III
Page 2 of 2
a)      Further the strategy of liberalizing intermediation margins with the goal of avoiding a poor allocation of credit
in the least vulnerable sectors. In particular, the process of liberalizing margins in foreign currency operations
will continue, and in a gradual fashion the same process will be initiated for non-bank financial intermediaries,
since in these cases the incentives and monitoring possibilities exist to prevent the application of oligopolistic
rates to the final borrower.
b)      Deepen the policy of specialization of development banks to avoid the waste of resources due to competition
among entities that seek the same goals. In those cases where it is impossible to avoid duplication of functions,
given that it is more efficient to integrate operations in a chain of production, equal rates and margins among
similar programs of different developments banks will be fostered to avoid arbitrage.
c)     It is necessary to analyze in depth the effects on the efficient operation of the market and the control of financial
margins applied to commercial banks, to identify alternatives that both meet the objective of channeling
resources to sectors that do not have access to commercial banks and reduce distortions generated in the capital
markets by such controls.
d)      Continue the trend of decreasing the risk exposure of development banks. For this, in addition to continuing
the trend towards increasing second-tier operations and maintaining the current capital and reserve requirements,
as well as the individual exposure limits of the development banks with each financial institutions, the
establishment of aggregate exposure limits for the entire development credit system with each financial
intermediary will be sought.
e)      Further, in addition to the rules that entered into force in 1994 to regulate the granting of credit by NAFIN and
BANCOMEXT to non-bank financial intermediaries, it will be necessary to design a methodology for
development banks to rate such intermediaries, as an aid in determining if they are appropriate candidates for
credit.
f)      Continuance of the trend of development banks limiting their operation to sectors that as a result of the presence
of market failure evidence private benefits that are lower than the social benefit will be an objective. In
particular, greater emphasis will be placed on attention to micro, small and medium firms, to housing of social
interest, and to low income agricultural producers.
g)      The process of reducing fiscal transfers will continue. These currently support less than 3% of the total
portfolio of the development banks. This will be achieved by promoting more efficient operations.
h)      The CNB will conduct analyses to promote the clarification of portfolios of non-bank financial intermediaries
and the creation of appropriate reserves.



MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESITRUCTURING LOAN
Matrix of Policy Actions'
1. MIACROECONOMIC POLICY FRAMEWORK
Issues, Objectives anid Action Program              Prior Actionis/Comitiiniiicitts                     Effcctivcncss/Scconid Tranchc Actions
1. Because of the unsustaiinabic currcnt account    *1. Satisractory progrcss in impieleiinting the     1. llefore Loan Effectiveness:
dcricit, the Mexican peso was allowcd to float on   InacrocconorIic programi afniouCec(I on March 9,     'llie macrocconornic policy fralimcwork is consistcnt
December 22, 1994. Witi tlhc support of an IMF      1995.                                                withi the objectives of the Finanicial Scctor
stand-by arrangement, the Government is                                                                  Restructuring Program (FSRP)
implementing a comprehensive set of economic
measures to stabilize the economy and improve       2. Before Board approval:
confidence. The economic program covers tiglt       The macroeconomic policy framework is consistent     2. Before Second Tranche release:
fiscal and monetary policy; a floating exchange rate;    with the objectives of the Financial Sector     The macroeconomic policy framnework is consistent
acceleration of some structural reforms; and measures   Restructuring Program  (FSRP)                    with the objectives of tihe Financial Sector
to address the financial sector's difficulties; the                                                       Restructuring Program (FSRP)
program  is being impiemented with substanitial
financial support of hic IMF, Ihe U.S. and others.
* Actions already taken.
1. The IDB loan has the same conditionality as the World Bank loan, and, therefore, references to 'ttle Bank' in the matrix should be read to mneai "time World Bank and ilie IDBl.



MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING LOAN
Matrix of Policy Actionis'
II. HOLDING ACTIONS TO LIMIT FINANCIAL LOSSES
Issues, Objectives and Action Program                Prior Actions/Commitments                                    Effectiveness/Second Tranche Actions
1. There could be substantial risks that some of the  *1. CNBV prohibited payment of dividends by banks (hat
troubled banks could behave in ways tliat would      reccivc PROCAPTE/FOIBAPROA funds.
magnify and propagate finaicial losses.              *2. CNBV will usc moral suasioni to stop privati7ed3 banks
(outside PROCAPTE) from distributing dividends in 1995.
*3. Required banks with a capitalization ratio below 8% to
2. CNBV has implemented a set of holding actions to   raise additional capital or enter PROCAPTE.
immediately address the financial difficulties and limit  *4. Provisioning requirements for privatized banks increased
financial losses.                                    to the greater of: (a) 4% of the loan portfolio; (b) 60% of
past due loans; or (e) the provision required from loan
3. Action Program:                                   classification (Circular 13254-1137, dated February 22,
1995).
Keep holding actions in place at least until       *5. Roll-over loans separatcd for enhianiced monitorinig to
completion of on-site MACRO' inspections of the      insure that banks do not automatically capitalize initrest and
health of all banks, diagnostic studies of the banks,  thcrcby avoid provisions (Circular 1229, dated January 11.,l
and satisfactory preparation and implemcntation of   1995).                                                                                                               CN
bank restructuring plans.                            *6. Limits placed on new lendiig by PROCAPTE banks                                                                   Y 
(i.e., the increase in the capitalization ratio due to
PROCAPTE funds can not be used to extend new lending).
*7. CNBV has required banks to reduce large exposures and
related party exposures.
*8. CNBV and FOBAPROA created an inventory of
operating restrictions for use depending on the condition of
banks.
2. MACRO is the Spanisli acronymiy of CAMEL (capital adequacy; asset quality; managemiett eariniigis; anid liquidity, asset anid liability nianiagemileoit).
3. The (cmi 'privatized hanks" refers (o iltosc banks that were returned to private ownershiip in 1991/92 and does niot include banks operating under-
new charters granted since the privatizations.



MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING LOAN
Matrix of Policy Actions'
111. DISCIPLINE IN TIIE I'ROVISION OF LIQUIDITY SUPPORT AND OTIER RESOURCES                                                              o
Issues, Objectives and Action Program                   Prior Actions/Commitments                               Effectiveness/Second Tranche Actions
1. Achicvc grcaler disciplinie and transparency in tlie    * 1. Banks rcquircd to post collaleral in peso credit  1. Loaai Effectiveniess:
provision of liquidity and othlr resources to thc       auctionis per Banco de Mexico Circular tcIcfax 23/95,    SIICP to present cerins of reference, satisfaclory lo
rinianicial sysiciii                                   dated Marchi 20, 1995.                                   the Bank, for studies of: (a) the impact or
establisihing risk-bascd exposure limits for the
2. Action Program:                                                                                              liabilities of each rinancial intermediary (Fl)5 to
DFEs; (b) the establishment of eligibility criteria for
Policies, guidelines and procedures that will result in                                                        Fl participation in DFE second-tier operations6 (such
greater discipline in the provision of liquidity and                                                            study to include an analysis of the impact of
other resources to banks from (i) Banco de Mexico                                                               establishing rating requirements from qualified
and (ii) development finance entities (DFEs).'                                                                  private agencies); and (c) the current interest rate
policy in domestic and foreign currency, including an
evaluation of its inicentive structure and impact ont
financial markets and final borrowers.
2. llefore Second 'I'rmnclie release:
StlCP to review results of studies with the Bank and
prepare an action plan on the basis of sucl studies
and take the necessary official action to itnplement
such action plan.
4. The term developmeit finanice entities includes NAIPIN, lanu20exwnst, FIRA, NIDEC, and l;OVI.
5. The term financial intermediary includes all institutions, such as banks, leasing and factoring comtpanies, credit unions, etc.
6. The term second-tier operations refers to loans, guarantees, investmcnt portfolio, interbank market operations and otlier risk assets of DPIs witli lIs.



MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING LOAN
Matrix of Policy Actions'
IV. MANAGEMENT OF THE CENTRAL BANK'S CREDIT RISK AND RISK OF CONTAGION IN THE INTERBANK MARKET
Issues, Objectives and Action Program               Prior Actions/Commitments                                    Loan Effectiveness/Second Tranche Actions
1. TIe Cciitral Banik lhad boric substantial crcdit risk    * I. Banco dc Mcxico has implecictled a scrics of measurcs to
and exposure as lcndcr of last rcsort due to        rcducc risk of contagion and thc Ccntral Bank's cxposure to
inadequate controls on intra-day credit cxtindcd to  credit risk in cxtcnding daylight ovcrdrafts.
banks. Tlhere was also risk of contagion fromt failure
by insolvent banks to perform their obligations to  *2. Banco de Mexico has undertaken measures: (a) under
solvent institutions. Reform of the intra-day market    Circular-telefax 16/95, dated March 3, 1995, regarding steps
to make it a self-liquidating mechanism would       to reduce its credit risk7; (b) under Circular 2016/95, dated
eliminate the risk to the Central Banik and solvent  Marcih 7, 1995, regarding steps to limit the risk of contagion
participating banks.                                in the inter-bank market'; and (c) under Circular 2017/15,
dated March 10, 1995, requiring delivery versus payment in
the trading of commercial banks liabilities.
2. Action Program:
A program of actions to reduce the Banco de
Mexico's credit risk and risk of contagion in the
inter-bank market.
7. Pricing of intra-day credit, requirement of colilaeral for daylight overdrafls,
debit caps for uncollateralized portioni of daylight overdrafts, and requiring special non-inittcrst carinig clearing balances, if daylight ovcrdraft are frcquent.
8. Establishment of cicaring house for large value transfers (Sistcinia de l agos Electr6nicos de Uso Aiipliado - SPEUA).



MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING LOAN
Matrix of Policy Actions'
V. ASSESSMENT OF IlEALTH OF THE BANKING SYSTEM
Issues, Objectives and Action Program              Prior Actions/Commitmentis                                Effectiveness/Second Tranche Actions
1. The peso devaluation and its aftermatl have had a    1. Inspections:                                      1. Before Loan Effectiveniess:
severe impact on the banking system. Hligh interest    (a) Complete on-site MACRO inspections, focusing on asset
rates have affected both corporate and indivi(iual  quiality, on a targeted basis: (i) by September 30, 1995, for  CNBV or FOBAPROA has employcd an
private borrowers. An accurate assessmncit of tlie  all privatizid banks except four banks; (ii) by l)ecember  indepcndent auditing firm, according to tcrmis
IItIC hcaltih Orf banks is esseiial to it develop nicastires    31, 1995 for the rcintaininig four privatize(I Naniks; and (iii)    of refcrencc salisfactory to tIhC 1ank, for
to restore solvency and soundncss of financial     review results withi the Bank.                            assistanice in diagnostic studies of banks, and
institutions and tihereby improve confidence in the  (b) Conduct annual inspections thereafter.              initiated diagnostic study of at least one
financial system.                                                                                            intervened bank.
2. Diagnostic Studies:
2. Action Program:                                 (a) For intervened and PROCAPTE banks: CNBV and           2. Before Second Tranche release:
FOBAPROA to coniplete diagnostic studies (applying
(a) MACRO inspections to verify asset quality and  uniform accounting standards consistent with internationally   (a) CNBV and FOBAPROA to review results of
provisions. Examiners from the US FDIC, OCC and   accepted standards (U.S. GAAP) acceptable to tlhe Bank,    completed diagnostic studies of intciveined adl
Pederal Reserve to begin training CNBV staff by    and loan classificationt) wilit the assistance of independnet  PROCAPITi banks witlt the Banik.
June 15, 1995 with financing under FTAL --         auditing firm(s) of (i) two intervecied banks and review
Technical Assistance on supervision policy, asset  results witih tlhe Banik, by September 30, 1995; antd (ii) all   (b) Satisfactoty cxecutiott of CNBV's inspection
classification critcria, manuals and training re(luested,   iniervened banks and ['ROCAPTE banks as of May 31,  program of baniks, and rcview rcstults witlt tlte   C
and will be provided uider the restructurcd lITAL.  1995, atid review results willt t(le Batik, by Decemb)er 15,    Batik.                                          9o
1995.
(b) Diagnostic studies to ensure an accurate       (b) For banks not yet it PROCAPTE: CNBV to (i) initiate
assessment of the financial and operating condition of   diagnostic studies of baiiks (not in the
intervened and PROCAPTE banks.                     PROCAPTE/FOBAPROA programs as of May 31, 1995)
witiniil 90 days of thcir joining thie PROCAPTE scheme,
being intervened by CNBV or coming under the control of
FOBAPROA (withou (lhe batik going through PROCAPTE
scheme); (ii) complete such studies withlinl four nionths from
hlie starlinig date; and (iii) rcview results witih the Bank soon
thereafter.



MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING LOAN
Matrix of Policy Actions'
VI. RESTRUCTURING OF BANKS
Issues, Objectives and Action Program   Prior Actions/Commitments                                        Effectiveness/Second Tranche Actions
1. In light of the deterioration in the  *1. CN13V, SIICP and FOBAPROA have defined principles,          1. Blefore Effectiveness:
financial con(litionl of banks, tigihteninig of   processes, procedures, organizational arrangements, and  CNBV or FOIAPROA to retaini/recruit
regulations on asset classification as wcl    methiodologies for restructuring of banks including approaches to the   investmenit banks and/or specialized
as inspections, and dcterioration of t(ie  treatimieit of noni-perforiuiiig loans ("opetating guidelines"); and  consultants or firms, with satisfaclory
enterprise sector, more banks may see   have submitted to tlie Bank thie draft document for discussion at  terms of reference, to assist in lice
their capital decline to levels below the  negotiations.                                                 preparation of restructurinig plans of
minimum limits, and their ownership                                                                      banks.
could then come under the control of    2. Before Board Approval:
FOBAPROA.                               *SHCP has put into effect the final operating guidelines, acceptable    2. Before Second Tranche release:
to the Bank.
2. Legal changes to further liberalize                                                                   (a) The Government to fumish the
shareholding by domestic and foreign    3. The Government to furnish for review with the Bank            restructuring plans prepared in
investors made on February 15, 1995.    restructuring plans including implementation strategies prepared in    accordance witlh lie operatinig guidelinies
accordance witli the operating guidelinles, approved by CNBV,   including implemilenitationi strategics
3. Ilhe Government will prepare lhe bank    SIICP and FOBAPROA: (a) by September 30, 1995, for two batiks   approved by CNBV, SIICI' and
restructuring plans and impliment       uider FOBAPROA control9 and (b) for aniy remaininig banks wider    FOBAPROA, for review with the 13ank,
thereafter agreed plans (i.e., liquidationi,   PFIOAPROA control withliii ihrcc mointilis froni the (latc of  for all banks tindter FOIJAPROA con(rol.
merger, or offer for sale) for tihe     FOBAPROA taking control.
intervened banks quickly in a transparent                                                                (b) Continued progress, satisfactory to
manner according to market mechanisms.   4. Implement the bank restructurinig plans.                    the Bank, in implementation of t1le bank
restructuring plans.
9. Including PROCAPTE banks, taken over by FOBAPROA.



MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING LOAN
Matrix of Policy Actioiis'
VII. CORPORATE AND OTHER DEBT RESTRUCTURING
Issues, Objectives and Action Program             Prior Actions/Commitmnits                                                          Effectiveness/Second  
Tranche Actions
1. Enterprises have been undergoing structural    1. Beforc Board approval:
reforms over tIIe past scvcral ycars, and a       *Analyzc and review with the BaDik estimnated fiscal costs of the UDI schcme (including
significant iiuiiber of smallcr cnterprises in    subsidy and tax revenue implicationis).
particular were experiencing difficulties in 1994.
Financial distress in the corporate sector expanded  2. (a) Conduct a study of obstacles to voluntary debt restructuring (including
rapidly in early 1995 due to high interest rates and    recognition, execution and enforcement of out-of-court workouts and arbitration
effects of the devaluation, and intensified due to a  awards); (b) review findings with the Bank before December 31, 1995; and (c) agree
decline in the value of assets used as collateral, and    on a plan of action by March 31, 1996 for removing unnecessary impediments to
lack of access to alternative forms of financing.  voluntary corporate debt restructurinig, through appropriate changes in regulations
and/or legal framework.
2. The Government has introduced a series of loan
restructuring programs based on the Unidad de     3. lBegininiig Jainuary 1, 1996, CNBV to review classificalioni of assets in the UDI
Inversi6n (UDI) to enable banks to refinance loans    trust as tlhey evolve, and re-classify evcry quarter, and require banks to build necessary
to viable borrowers facing liquidity problems. The    provisions immnediately.
programs include industrial loans, h1ousing loans,
loans to stales and municipalities, and loans financed   4. CNBV to: (i) rcview by January 31, 1996 adequacy of criteria applicable to debt
through development banks.                        restructuring; (ii) review findings with the Bank by February 29, 1996; (iii) formulate
changes, as appropriate; and (iv) issue a circular with revisions, as necessary, to banks
3. Action Program:                                by March 31, 1996.
(a) Facilitate corporate and oilier debt restructuring
based on sound guidelines and market discipline,  5. Before Marcih 31, 1996: (i) analy7e the initial implementationl experience of the UDI
with due consideration to fiscal costs.           scheme and associated fiscal costs; (ii) review findings withi the Bank; (iii) formulate
(b) Continue work on improvements in guidelinies  chaniges, as appropriate; and (iv) publicize the revised schemc.
for supervisiont of restnmettred debts.
(c) Keep conlitnuinig watchi during inspections of
1995 on the sound use of the UDI scheme by banks.



MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING LOAN
Matrix of Policy Actioins'
VIII. STANDARDS FOR ACCOUNTING, DISCLOSURE ANI) QUALITY OF FINANCIAI, INFORMATION
Issues, Objectives and Action Program          Prior Actions/Comnmnittnents                                                          Etlectiveness/Secnd 'ldratichie Actiotns
1. Mexican Generally Accepted Accounting    1. Issue, by Septemiber 30, 1995, revised, uniform accounting principles,                1. Before Loan Effectiveness:
Principles (GAAP) differ in somIle             acceptable to the Bank, for banks and require binks to use new accounting             CNBV to formulate uniforin
significant respects from internationally      standards (including consolidation of finiancial statements), beginnillig January 1,   accounting principles (including
acceptedl standards (U.S. GAAP). The           1996, for comple(ion no later than for year enl-1996 accounts.                        consolidation of financial
principal differences for bank accountiiig                                                                                           statemncs), consisteit wili
are in the treatmenit of interest inicomile oni  2. Formulate, by September 30, 1995, uniforin accountinig principles, consistenit   internationally accepted principles
loans (and on restructured (lebt) and(         witih inierinationially accepted principles (U.S. GAAP) acceptable to the Bank, and   (U.S. GAAI') acceptable to the
repurchase agreemenits, valuation of fixed     consistenit across all transactions auid activities, for finianicial stateimients and  Banik, and consistent across all
assets, disclosure requirements and the        regulatory reports for non-bank financial institutions that are affiliates of financial   transactions and activities, for
definition of non-performing assets.           groups with bank affiliates (first draft).                                            financial statements and regulatory
Mexican banks generally prepare lheir                                                                                                reports of banks.
financial statements according to CNBV         3. Issue, by December 1, 1995, revised accounting standards for non-bank
guidelines reporting in accordance with the    financial institutions tbat are affiliates of financial groups with bank affiliates.  2. Before Second Traneile
form of general ledger and rules published                                                                                           release:
in CNBV circulars.                             4. Continue strcngtlicning disclosure by banks to supervisory autliorities requiring   (a) CNBV to issue regulations
banks to submit new regulatory reports and( special reports, and review progress     acceptable to tIhe Bank for revised
2. Draft regulations reconciling Ilic U.S.     witil the Banik by Septeniiber 30, 1995.                                              uniforimi accountiiig principlcs
and Mexican GAAI) are under preparation.                                                                                             consistelit with inerinalional ly
FTAL will provide TA as needed.                5. Continue ongoinig efforts to improve disclosure by CNBV to lhe public,"' ami(l    accepted principles (U.S. GAAP)
review progress witlih lie Bank by Sepl)teiber 30, 1995.                             for banks, for aplplication
3. Action Program:                                                                                                                   beginnhig Janiuary 1, 1996, and
*6. All credit bureaus required to provide services to all providers of credit       completion no later tliani ycar
(a) Formulate uniform, accounting              (finanicial ald non-financial institutions).                                          end-1996 accounits.
standards consistent witli internationially
accepted priiciples (U.S. GAAP) and            7. Imipovemencits in (uality of finianicial inforimiationi:                           (b) Issued revised accountinig
acceptable to the Bank, anid require their     (a) CNBV to require auditors to strictly follow audit guidelines for audits of        standards (including consolidation
use.                                           banks and brokerage firms, and monitor auditors' performance, begiiniiing with        of finanicial statements), acceptable
(b) Strengilieninig of disclosure              audits of 1994 accounits".                                                            to the Bank, for non-bank finiancial
requirements.                                  (b) CNBV to complete, by Marchi 31, 1996, a stuidy of ways to iiiprovC                inistitutionis tliat are affiliates of
(c) Enforec audit guidelines.                  appraisal standards for real estate, and to identify institutioni that can undertake  finaicial groups with bank
(d) Strengthen appraisal standards for real    the regulation of appraisers2.                                                        affiliates.
estate inclusive of methodology for
determining derived investment value.
10. Includinig rela(ed party lendinig by banks.
1t. Audit guidelines have been issued for brokerage firns (Circular 10-165 issued January 4, 1993), amid lbanks (Ciicular 1222 issued Novemnber 14, 1994).
12. CN13V maintainis register aiid lias current (qualificationl cri(eria.



MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING LOAN
Matrix of l' olicy Actiots'
IX. REFORM  OF PRUDENTIAL REGULATI IONS AND STRENGTHENING OF SUPERVISION
Issues, Objectives and Actioni Program             Prior Actions/Conimitiments                          Effcc(iveness/Second Tranche Actions
1. Improvc safely and soundiness of financial      1. CNBV has begun work oii revisions re(luired for   1. Before Second Tranchie release:
institutionis iltrough modcrniization of prudenitial  supervisory purposes in asset classification and
regulations, as necessary, and strengtihened       provisioning, and related party lending. Work is also   (a) CNBV to issue supplemental internal instructions,
supervision based on accepted international practices.   underway on composition of Tier I capital for  acceptable to the Bank, for inspection of banks
These measures will enhance the transparency of    purposes of capital adequacy.                        (including development banks) covering, inter alia:
health of the financial institutions and thereby help                                                   asset classification and provisioning, exclusion of de
prevent recurrence of systemic problems, as well as  2. Before Board approval:                          facto treasury stock (stock owned or financed directly
enhance the confidence of the international investment                                                  or indirectly by related entities, or covered by
community in Mexico's finanicial system. They      CNBV to furnishi the Bank witih a complete set of    repurchase agreements) for purposes of capital
should also increase incentives for commercial bank  prudential regulationis for banks.                 adequacy slandards, compositioni of Tier I capital,
management to measure and better manage exposure                                                       large exposures and conccitration, and rclated party
to risk. Carefully drafted regulations can also                                                         leidiiig.
encourage self regulation and self-policing by
financial institutions.                                                                                (b) CNBV to review wilih the Bank iie need( for Ihc
issuancc of new pruticnlial rcgulations lor banks and(l
2. Financial Sector Tecinical Assistance Plroject                                                       to issue such new regulations to the extent necessary
(Loan No 3838-ME) is providing tecinical assistance.                                                    (such determination to be acceptabie to tlie Banik).
3. Action Program:                                                                                      (c) CNBV to issue new prudential regulations witil
Revised standards for asset classification including                                                    respect to capital adequacy standards for brokerage
provisioninig.                                                                                          firms.



MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING LOAN
Matrix of Policy Actions'
X. LIABILITY PROTECTION SCIIEMES
Issues, Objeclives and Aciioni Program           IPrior Actions/Coinimitnicnts                       Effectivencss/Sccond Tranchc Actions
1. There is a need to review the extent of liability  1. Complete a study of liability coveragc, by
protection provided by FOBAPROA and FAMV          D)cenbaer 31, 1995, and formulate a set of options
(types of entities that should be covered and the  for implementing the appropriate level of coverage
appropriate degree of coverage) in order to reduce  provided on large liabilities of covered financial
moral hazard and overall liability.               entities and their affiliates, for review with the Bank
by March 31, 1996.
2. Approve and adopt revised protection scheme for
phased implementation beginninig January 1, 1997.
3. Regulationis approved to elimiiiate  FOBAPROA
coverage of scitlements through SPEUA by March
1 31, 1996.
I!



MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING LOAN
Matrix or l'olicy Actious'
XI. MOVERNIZA'I'ION OF LEGAL/REGULATORY FRAMEWORK FOR LENDING
Issues, Objectives andl Ac(ioni Programil                        I'rior Actions/Coiniriittnciits                   Effectiveness/Second Tranchc Actions
Securitization of Batik and Nomi-Banik Originiated Assets        Sccuritizatioin of Bank and Nomi-Banik Originated
1. Impediments to efficient securitization schcimics importantly rcstrict   Assets
the amounit of credit available to somIIC sectors (in particular, housilig   1. Conduct a study to idcntify remaining regulatory
finance) and limit itic market-oricnted optioins available for  obstacles and legal impediments to asset
restructuring and disposing of troubled bank assets.             securitization and make the recommendations for
removing such obstacles and impediments available
2. Improved framework for securitization of bank and non-banik  to the Bank by December 31, 1995.
originated assets will help improve the efficicncy of the financial
system.                                                          2. CNBV, and SHCP to initiate the process of
removing legal and regulatory obstacles.
3. Action Program:
(a) Establish clear legal/regulatory framework for securitizatiotn of
bank and non-bank originated assets, including mortgages.
Secured Transactiotis
1. Cotiduct a study to idetitify shortcomiiings of, and
Secured T'ransactionis                                           propose changes to, the Icgal/regulatory framiework
1. Existing legal framework does not pertnit lending secured by tnany   for secured tranisactions and make recomtnendatiolis
types of movable property, restricting credit availability and reducing   available to the Batik by Decem)ber 31, 1995.
the potential value of bank assets.
2. Initiate the process of improving the
2. Improved fratnework for secured tranisactions will eniatice the  legal/regulatory framework for secured transactions.
efficiency of the financial system.
3. Action Program:
(a) Make necessary changes to the legal/regulatory framework for
secured transactions.
(b) Improved system of registries.



-75-
ANNEX m
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
Key Economic Indicators
Aceuao                     Esumated                        Projected
Indicator                                   1990      1991       1992       1993      1994      1995      1996       1997      1998       1999
National Accounts
(% GDP at current market prices)
Gross Domesuc Product                       100.0     100.0      100.0     100.0      100.0     100.0     100.0     100.0      100.0     100.0
Agriculture                                 7.9        7.6       8.3        8.2         -                   -          -         -
Industry                                   30.3       29.6      27.9       27.9              -         -               -         -          -
Services                                   61.8       62.8      63.7       63.9         -         -         -          -         -          -
Total Consumption                           78.3       79.7       81.0      81.4       80.8      77.4      76.8      76.9      76.7       76.1
Gross Domestic Fixed Investment              18.4      19.2      20.5       20.1      20.7       18.8      19.1      20.0      21.5       22.4
Govemment Investment                        4.8        4.5       4.1        4.1       4.0       3.9       4.0        4.2       4.3        4.4
Private Investment                         18.0       19.0      20.3       18.7      20.5       14.9      15.6      16.8      17.6       18.7
(includes increase in stocks)
Exports (GNFS)                               15.6      13.6       12.4      12.3       13.3      24.0      24.5      25.1      25.4       26.1
Imports (GNFS)                               16.7      16.8       17.9      16.5       18.6      20.1      20.8      23.0      24.0       25.3
Gross Domestic Savings                      21.7       20.3       19.0      18.6       19.2      22.6      23.2      23.1      23.3       23.9
Gross National Savings                       19.8      18.3       17.0      16.4       17.0      19.2      20.0      20.5       20.9      21.6
Memnorandum Items
Gross Dometsic Poduct                    247,057   290,529   334,356   365,857   375,471   250,303   287,301   313,573   343,247    382,354
(US S million at current prices)
Gross National Product per capita          2,580     2,976      3,425     3,722      4,006     3.259     3,017     2,913      3,234     3,547
(Current Price USS, Atlas method)
Real annual growth rates
(%, calculated from 1987 prices)
Gross Domestic Product at market prices     4.5        3.6       2.8        0.4       3.8      -4.8       2.0        4.7       5.5        5.0
Gross Domestic Income                       5.7        3.2       3.1        0.6       3.6      -4.2       2.3        5.1       5.6        4.9
Real arnual per capita growth rates
(%, calculated from 1987 prices)
Gross Domestic Productatmarketprices        2.7        1.5       0.7       -1.7       1.7      -6.5       0.1        2.8       3.6        3.0
Total Consumption                           3.2        2.6       1.6       -1.8       1.5     -13.2       0.5        3.0       2.4        1.2
Private Consumption                         3.7        2.8       1.8       -2.2       1.8      -9.6       -0.6       3.0       3.3        1.7
Public Finance
(% of GDP at current market prices)
Current Revenues                            20.4       19.0      19.8       18.4      18.9      21.8       21.1      21.5      22.0       22.3
Current Expenditures                         15.1      12.0      10.8       11.2      12.0       15.1      14.5      15.0       15.8      16.3
Current Account Surplus or Deficit           5.2        6.9       9.0        7.1       6.9        6.7       6.6       6.5        6.3       6.0
Capital Expenditure                          3.8        3.8       3.9        3.3       3.9        4.0       4.1       4.5       4.8        5.0



-76-
ANNEX m
Page 2 of 2
MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
Key Economic Indicators
Actual                      Estimated                       Projected
Indicator                             1990      1991       1992       1993       1994      1995       1996      1997       1998       1999
Monetary Indicators
M2/GDP                                26.6       31.1       31.8      33.0       34.6       n.r.       n.r.      n.r.       n.r.       n.r.
(at current market prices)
Growth of M2 (%)                      46.2       47.2      20.4       14.4       18.3       n.r.       n.r.      n.r.       n.r.       n.r.
Private Sector Credit Growth/        222.4      212.3     243.0      238.5       87.2       n.r.       n.r.      n.r.       n.r.       n.r.
Total Credit Growth (%)
Price Indices (1987=100)
Merchandise Export Price Index         111        103       104        102        109        111       114       118        121        125
MerchandiselmportPricelndex            113        114       115        116        119        120       123       126        129        132
Merchandise Terms of Trade Index        98        91         91         87         92        92         93        93         94         95
RealExchangeRate(LCU/USS)              1.3        1.2        1.1       1.0        1.1        1.6       1.4        1.4       1.3        1.3
RealInterestRates                     11.7        4.6       5.1        8.2       10.5       21.2      12.6       10.1       7.3        3.5
Consumer Price Index                  26.7       22.7       15.5       9.8        7.1       34.4      22.9      17.8       16.3       14.7
(% Growth Rate) (Period Average)
GDP Deflator                          29.7       21.8       14.8       9.7        7.1       34.8      22.9      14.5       14.4       14.8
(% Growth Rate)
n.r. = projections not required
5/22/95



-77-
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 1
MEEXCO
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
Balance of Payments
Actual                     Estmated                        Projected
dWicator                                1990      1991       1992       1993      1994      1995       1996      1997      1998      1999
Balance of Payments
(USS million)
Exports (GNFS)                        38.411    39,695    41,451      44,806    50,883    60,190    70,755    79,297    89,444   103,602
Merchandise f.ob.                    30,390    30,905    32,259    35,453    41,146    49,264    57,645    63,924    71,713    83.542
Imports (GNFS)                        41,214    49,037    59,681      59,952    71,597    52,325    61,801    74,723    86,889   102,014
Merchandsse fo.b.                    31.272    38,496    48,193    48,924    59,687    43,183    52.024    63,885    75,408    89,509
Resource Balance                       -2,803    -9,342   -18,230   -15,146   -20,714       7,864     8,953     4,574      2,554     1.588
Net Current Transfers                  3,978      2,745     3.021      2,688     4.014      3,096     3,238     3,387      3,544     3,708
(including official current transfers)
Current Account Balance               -7,450   -14,893   -24,804   -23,391   -28,863         -754      -287    -3,565    -5,660    -7,239
(after official capital grants)
Net Private Foreign Direct Investment  2,633      4,761     4,393      4,901     8,030      6,000     7,800     8,000    10,000    11,000
Long-Term Loans (Net)                  8.542      3.888      -348      3,057      1,470    19,851    .4,092    -5,075    -8,696    -5,126
Other Capial                            -491    14,381    21,932    21,475         477   -26,500          0     3,400     6,000      6,000
(Net, including errors and omissions)
Change in Reserves                     -3,234    -8,137    -1.173     -6.043    18,885      1,404    -3.422    -2,760    -1,644    -4,635
Memorandum itets:
Resource Balance                         -1.1      -3.2      -5.5       -4.1      -5.5        3.1       3.1       1.5       0.7        0.4
(% of GDP at current market prices)
Real annual growth rates
(1987 prices) (S)
Merchandise Exports fo.b.               10.3        9.3       3.4       12.5       8.2       17.6      14.2       7.3        8.7      12.9
Primary                                  5.0       3.7       -3.3      -8.1       -6.7      12.4       -5.3      -0.1       4.5       7.7
Manufactures                            12.3      12.0        9.5      20.9       13.8      20.0      19.1       8.7        9.9      14.4
Merchandise Imports c.i.f.              20.9       21.9      24.0        0.3      19.7      -28.8      18.4      19.6       15.1      15.7
5/22/95



-78-
ANNEXV
Page 1 of 1
MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
External Capital and Debt
Actua                      Esdmated                        Projected
Indicator                           1990      1991      1992       1993      1994       1995      1996      1997       1998      1999
Total Debt Outstanding           106,026   115.362   113,424   118,027   131,206   160,818   162,946   158.023   146,703    135,094
and Disbursed (USS million)
Net Disbursements (USS milion)    16,954     9,834      1,762     4,628      1,804    29,680     2,129    -4,923   -11,320   -11,609
Total Debt Service (USS million)  11,455    13,727    20,774    20,900    24,539    18,108    25,158    23,742    29,214    28,781
Debt and Debt Servic Indicators t%)
TDO/XGS                           243.0     252.8      239.8     236.6      230.2     248.9     215.4      185.2     153.1      122.9
TDO/GDP                            42.9      39.7       33.9      32.3       34.9      64.2      56.7      50.4       42.7      35.3
TDS/XGS                            26.3      30.1      43.9       41.9      43.1       28.0      33.2      27.8       30.5      26.2
IBRD Exposure Indicators
IBRD DS/Public DS                  16.0      16.4       11.2      15.9       14.4      17.1      12.4       13.3      11.2       10.8
IBRD DS/XGS                         3.6       4.0       4.0        3.8       3.5        3.6       3.4       3.0        2.6       2.4
IBRD Portfolio Share (by FY)       11.5      11.7       12.0      12.0       12.0      12.3      12.3      11.9       11.2      10.7
IFC (USS million) (by FY)
Loans                               119        69        67         53       133        190       293       304        354
Equity and Quasi-Equity             20         60        64         36        21        39         83        81        73
MIGA
MlGAGuarantea (USS million)          0          0         0          0         0         0         0          0         0          0
5/22/95



-79-
ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 9
MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
Aggregate Data on the Mexican Banking System
Table 1
Mexican Monetary Aggregates, 1991-1994
(in millions of NP, as of end year/month)
1991         1992         1993         1994
Currency in circulation               32,416       38,012        43,228       51,870
Demand deposits                       77,479       88,459       105,683      102,649
M,                                109,895      126,471      148,911       154,519
Bankers' acceptance                    8,579        15,725       25,025       31,370
Other short,term bank instruments    150,646       181,903      196,936      269,019
M2                                269,120      324,099      370,872      454,908
Cetes                                 30,047       34,818        71,204       19,258
Tesobonos (FC)                         1,001         1,046        4,498      109,483
Pagafes (FC)                              72            --           --
Bondes                                14,872        12,998       13,756        3,019
Commercial paper                       3,111        2,643         3,563        4,058
M3                                318,223      375,603      463,892      590,724
Longer-term bank instruments          20,971       30,833        52,975       79,834
Ajustabonos                           32,442       31,929        32,523       15,840
Pagares (private enterprises)          2,249        9,261        14,665       15,060
Bonos                                     23           23           23             8
Obligaciones quirografarias            8,394        10,646       10,642        7,875
Obligaciones hipotecarias                993         1,226        1,066        1,352
Ficorca                                4,687            --          --            --
Fondos del sistema de ahorro              --        5,503        16,061       28,622
M4                                387,982      465,024      591,849      739,296
Source: Banco de Mexico, Direcci6n de Investigaci6n Econ6mica, Indicadores Econ6micos.



-80-
ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 9
Aggregate Data on the Mexican Banking System
Table 2
Breakdown of Mexican Monetary Aggregates by Currency, 1991-1994
(in millions of NP, as of end year/month)
CURRENCY                                1991         1992          1993         1994
Pesos                                106,799       122,491      144,442      146,033
Foreign currency                       3,096        3,980         4,469        8,486
M,                                   109,895       126,471      148,911      154,519
Pesos                                240,117      294,783       332,441      385,111
Foreign currency                      29,003       29,316        38,431       69,796
M2                                   269,120      324,099       370,872      454,908
Pesos                                288,147      345,242       420,964      411,445
Foreign currency                      30,076       30,361        42,928      179,279
M3                                   318,223      375,603       463,892      590,724
Pesos                                344,412      423,201       537,473      542,669
Foreign currency                      43,570       41,823        54,376      196,627
M4                                   387,982      465,024      591,849      739,296
Source: Banco de Meico, Direcci6n de Investigaci6n Econ6mica, Indicadores Econ6micos.



-81 -
ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 9
Aggregate Data on the Mexican Banking System
Table 3
Composition of Mexican Internal Public Debt, 1991-94
(in millions of NP, as of end year/month)
Instrument                   1991        1992        1993       1994
Cetes                       72,375     59,338      81,014      39,701
Ajustabonos                 38,988     36,271      33,695      28,602
Bondes                      57,953     36,848      17,036       8,316
Tesobonos                     927         922       3,842      94,679
Other                          72          24         24           8
Total               170,315    133,403     135,611    171,306
Held by:
Banco de Mexico             34,668     30,123       9,865      14,825
Commercial banks'           55,450     21,054       2,460      6,123
Bondes                    41,732      17,949        396          60
Ajustabonos                5,087       3,014        434       1,199
Cetes                      8,630          91       1,226      1,237
Tesobonos                      1          --        404       3,627
Development banks             808         175         51       2,205
Other financial institutions  931       1,229       1,231          --
Non-bank public sector       2,602      4,680       4,999      6,501
entities
Private enterprises &       75,856     76,142     117,005     141,652
individuals
Cetes                     29,022      34,222     69,809      18,995
Ajustabonos               31,185      29,425     29,423      13,672
Bondes                    14,552      11,437      13,273      2,563
Tesobonos                  1,001       1,035      4,477     106,414
Other                         96         23          23           8
These figures are slightly lower than those of CNB.
Source: Banco de Mexico, Direcci6n de Investigacion Econ6mica, Indicadores
Econ6micos.



-82-
ANNEX VI
Page 4 of 9
Aggregate Data on the Mexdcan Banking System
Part I
Table 4
Aggregate Balance Sheet of Mexican Commercial Banks', 1992 -94
(in millions of NP, as of end year/month)
1992     1993     1994
ASSETS
Cash and banks                             12,996   13,402   19,921
Investment portfolio for tradinge          48,101   46,759   85,883
Investments in subsidiaries                 8,149    9,755   12,022
Loan portfolio
Current                            279,198  340,825  471,010
Past due                            18,756   30,527   43,544
Gross                              297,954  371,352  514,554
Provisions for bad debts             9,072   13,045   20,849
Loan portfolio (net)                      288,882  358,307  493,705
Receivables under repo agreements          80,729  123,653  171,114
Assets given in lieu of loan repayment      1,133    2,515    3,702
Other receivables                           2,741    3,305    6,661
Fixed assets (net)                          5,968    7,284    9,407
Other assets                               10,183   12,681   19,355
Total assets                              458,882  577,661  821,770
LIABILITIES
Demand deposits                            90,251  108,687  107,326
Savings deposits                            2,010    1,812    1,906
Time deposits                             178,579  217,468  304,708
Total deposits                            270,840  327,967  413,940
Bankers' acceptances                        4,364    5,119    6,429
Money market repo agreements               12,066    7,869   16,540
Payables under repo agreements             80,131  123,125  175,436
Interbank funds                            36,553   47,677  121,206
Due to government institutions              4,994    6,062    8,425
Other demand and time liabilities          19,149   20,587   32,656
Other liabilities                           1,981    1,872    2,471
Total liabilities                         430,080  540,278  777,103



-83-
ANNEX VI
Page 5 of 9
Part II
Table 4
Aggregate Balance Sheet of Mexican Commericial Banks', 1992-94
(in millions of NP, as of end year/month)
1992     1993     1994
Capital stock                                2,408    4,650   10,231
Reserves                                     8,953   10,656   17,211
Profit from previous years                     118       198       35
Revaluation surplus                         10,858   12,921    13,962
Profit for the year (period)                 6,007    8,392    3,661
Undistributed earnings from subsidiaries       458      566    (433)
Stockholders' equity                        28,802   37,383   44,667
Total liabilities + stockholders' equity   458,882  577,661  821,770
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
Discounted loans                     38,953   49,774   79,651
Guarantees                            1,565    2,709    4,218
Irrevocable lines of credit          13,160   12,922   20,218
Total                                53,678   65,405  104,087
Aggregates exclude two banks (Union and Cremi) which were intervened in
September 1994. At the end of June 1994, the two banks combined operated
272 branches, employed 8,542 persons, had stockholders' equity of 2,227
million new pesos (equivalent to 5.1 % of the system's total equity) and assets of
35.3 billion new pesos (equivalent to 5.2% of the system's total assets).
2 Including fixed-income securities (i.e., comprising mostly bankers'
acceptances and promissory notes or pagares), government securities and shares.
Source: Comisi6n Nacional Bancaria.



-84-
ANNEX VI
Page 6 of 9
Aggregate Data on the Mexican Banking System
Table 5
Aggregate Income Statement of Mexican Commercial Banks', 1992-94
(in millions of NP)
1992      1993      1994
Interest income                                  82,642   105,310   119,962
Interest expense                                 56,802    72,134    84,497
Net interest income2                             25,840    33,176    35,465
Other income (net)3                               7,442     8,792      7,409
Operating income                                 33,282    41,968    42,874
Staff expenses                                    9,675    12,067    14,173
Administrative expenses                          10,013     11,800    13,851
Operating expenses                               19,688    23,867    28,024
Amortization and depreciation                       668       770      1,686
Loan loss provisions                              4,101      7,441    10,829
Write-offs (loans)                                  624       272        554
Write-offs (securities)                           1,373       537      1,288
Less: Recoveries                                  1,886      1,327     2,378
Less: Other non-operational income                  619      1,066     2,183
Other expenses (net)                              4,261      6,627     9,796
Profit before tax and profit-sharing              9,333     11,474     5,054
Income taxes                                      2,580     2,389      1,121
Profit-sharing payments                             747       693        273
Net profits4                                      6,007      8,392     3,660
Aggregates exclude two banks (Union and Cremi), which were intervened in September
1994.
2 Including income from loan fees and fees paid to financial intermediaries.
3 Including net commission income, net foreign exchange income, dividends and other net
operational income.
4 Excluding undistributed earnings from subsidiaries, which amounted to 458 million new
pesos in 1992, 566 million new pesos in 1993, and a loss of 434 million new pesos in
1994. The net profits of 1992 and 1993 are overstated, since a number of banks created
loan loss reserves through a charge on capital without passing through the income
statement. It is estimated that these charges amounted to 1.1 billion new pesos in 1992
and almost 1.7 billion new pesos in 1993.
Source: Comisi6n Nacional Bancaria.



-85-
ANNEX VI
Page 7 of 9
Aggregate Data on the Mexican Banking System
Table 6
Cost of Intermediation of Mexican Commercial Banks', 1992-94
(as a percentage of average total assets2)
1992      1993       1994
Interest income                                     19.48     20.32      17.14
Interest expense                                    13.39     13.92      12.08
Net interest income                                 6.09       6.40       5.07
Other income (net)                                   1.76      1.70       1.06
Operating income                                    7.85       8.10       6.13
Staff expenses                                      2.28       2.33       2.03
Administrative expenses                             2.36       2.28       1.98
Operating expenses                                  4.64       4.61       4.01
Amortization and depreciation                       0.16       0.15       0.24
Loan loss provisions                                0.97       1.44       1.55
Write-offs (loans)                                  0.15       0.05       0.08
Write-offs (securities)                             0.32       0.10       0.18
Less: Recoveries                                    0.44       0.26       0.34
Less: Other non-operational income                  0.15       0.20       0.31
Other expenses (net)                                 1.01      1.28       1.40
Profit before tax and profit-sharing                2.20       2.21       0.72
Income taxes                                        0.61       0.46       0.16
Profit-sharing payments                             0.17       0.13       0.04
Net profits3                                         1.42      1.62       0.52
Excluding two banks (Union and Cremi), which were intervened in September 1994.
2 Estimated as the arithmetic mean of two successive end year/period figures.
3 Excluding undistributed earnings (losses) from subsidiaries.
Source: Comisi6n Nacional Bancaria.



-86-
ANNEX VI
Page 8 of 9
Aggregate Data on the Mexican Banking System
Table 7
Classification of Gross Credit Risks and of Loan Loss Provisions
Taken by Mexican Commercial Banks, 1991-94
(in millions of NP, as of end year/month)
Classification/level of risk       1991         1992         1993         1994
A   Minimal                     158,488      241,793      309,002      425,496
B   Low                          26,681       37,690       53,574       73,762
C   Moderate                      7,182       12,716       19,679       27,130
D   High                          2,651        4,958        9,367       14,921
E   Loss                          1,299        3,190        3,686        6,739
Not classified                   11,659        9,560        3,996        3,114
Exempt                            6,089        3,647        2,364        3,055
Gross credit risks'             214,049      313,554      401,668      554,217
Provisions taken by category
B                                   104          379          696          808
C                                   628        2,170        3,940        5,506
D                                   919        2,903        5,319        9,183
E                                 1,002        3,213        2,787        4,481
Past due interest                    --          407          303          870
Total provisions                 5,0722        9,072       13,045       20,848
Additional provisions
required by category
B                                   115           43            --          --
C                                   578          269            --          --
D                                   282          139            --          --
E                                    53          104            --          --
Additional provisions required    1,028          556            --
' Aggregates exclude Union and Cremi. Gross credit risks include gross loans (inclusive of
past due interest) plus off-balance sheet risks (i.e., discounted loans, guarantees and
irrevocable lines of credit). Classification relates to previous quarter.
2 Including an amount of 2,419 million new pesos in reserves for write-offs.
Source: Comisi6n Naciohal Bancaria.



-87-
ANNEX VI
Page 9 of 9
Aggregate Data on the Mexican Banking System
Table 8
Sectoral Breakdown of Gross Credit Risks and of Past Due Credits
of Mexican Commercial Banks,' 1992-94
(in millions of NP)
End December 1992                End December 1994
Gross Past due     Ratio  Gross credit    Past due      Ratio
Sector                credit risks2  credits3   (%)        risks2    credits3         %
Credit cards              28,691    2,363       8.24      31,003       4,135       13.34
Durable goods              11,592    1,132      9.76      13,080       3,503       26.78
Consumer credit           40,283    3,495       8.68      44,083       7,638       17.33
Agriculture, fisheries and
mining                    29,611    2,063       6.97      44,192       4,564       10.33
Commerce                  59,253    3,569       6.02     124,839      10,513        8.42
Industry                  90,338    3,771       4.17     158,639       9,621        6.06
Services and other
activities                49,050    1,056       2.15     121,446       6,095        5.02
Government                 8,934       23       0.26      18,812          45        0.24
Housing                   51,647      387       0.75     103,205       2,409        2.33
Other commercial banks     4,088        5       0.12      14,010           3        0.02
Not specified             22,191      360       1.62       2,143          --          --
Total                     355,395   14,729      4.14     631,369      40,888        6.48
of which:
In pesos              273,393                        444,359
In foreign currency    82,002                         187,010
Including Union and Cremi
2 Including gross loans (inclusive of past due interest) plus off-balance sheet risks (i.e., discounted loans,
guarantees and irrevocable lines of credit).
3 Excluding past due interest.
Source: Banco de Mexico, Direcci6n de Investigacion Econ6mica, Indicadores Econ6micoj.
April 27, 1995



-88-
ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 4
MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
Summary of Principal Financial Sector Legislation
Credit Institutions Law; CNBV Law
The Ley de Institutiones de Credito was introduced in July 1990 and has been amended on a number of occassions.
It replaced the earlier Ley Reglamentaria del Servicio Pziblico de Banca y Credito, which was drafted to govern the
activities of banks nationalized in 1982. The Credit Institutions Law is intended to provide an appropriate legal framework
for the capital structure, activities and supervision of the reprivatized commercial banking system. Together with the the
Financial Groups Law, it established the conglomerate banking system in effect in Mexico today. The Credit Institutions
Law also governs the activities and supervision of the seven state-owned development banks.
The Credit Institutions Law prescribes limitations on the activities of both the private commercial banks and the
state-owned development banks. It originally provided that the Comisi6n Nacional Bancaria (established under earlier
legislation) was the chief supervisory authority for both commercial and development banks. The Ley de la Comisi6n
Nacional Bancaria y de Valores, which went into effect on May 1, 1995 provided for the merger of the Comisi6n Nacional
Bancaria with the Comisi6n Nacional de Valores, the principal regulator of securities industry. The goal of the merger of
the commission was to achieve greater coordination and efficiency in the regulation and supervision of financial entities.
The CNBV's governance and powers of investigation, supervision and intervention of banks are now established in the
CNBV Law.
The Credit Institutions Law established FOBAPROA (successor to an earlier bank support fund) and defines the
legal basis for its provision of preventive support to troubled banks, which may be secured by a pledge of the shares of a
commercial bank recipient of such support or its financial holding company (see "February 15 Amendments -- Activities
and Supervision of Financial Institutions," below). The maximum contributions that may be assessed commercial banks to
fund FOBAPROA are defined in the Credit Institutions Law.
The maximum levels of foreign investment in Mexican-controlled banks and the limitations on the capital structure
and activities of foreign-controlled commercial banks are also set forth in the Credit Institutions Law. Since the February
15, 1995 amendments to Mexican financial sector legislation, foreign investors as a group may own up to 49% of the
voting shares of a Mexican-controlled commercial bank. In addition, foreign investors may hold non-voting shares which
may represent up to 40% of the voting shares (see "February 15 Amendments -- Liberalization of Investment Restrictions
on Foreign and Corporate Investment," below). Commercial bank subsidiaries of foreign financial institutions are
permitted to operate in Mexico, subject to the market share limitations negotiated under NAFTA.
Financial Groups Law
The Ley Para Regular las Agrupaciones Financieras was introduced at the same time as the Credit Institutions
Law. The Financial Groups Law provides for the formation of financial groups comprised of a single holding company
with a majority interest in two or more of the following financial service entities: commercial banks; brokerage firms;
foreign exchange houses; leasing companies; factoring companies; insurance companies; bonding companies; financial
warehouses and mutual fund managers. To qualify as a financial group, the holding company must control at least two of a
commercial bank, brokerage company or insurance company. Otherwise, it must be made up of at least three financial
entities, not including mutual fund operators. A financial group may not hold two or more of the same type of financial
entity, other than insurance companies and mutual fund operators.
Pursuant to the Financial Groups Law, a financial holding company is responsible on an unlimited basis for the
liabilities and losses of each of its subsidiaries. Since the amendments to this law published on February 15, 1995, the
supervisory commissions (CNBV and CNSF) have authority to intervene a financial group if there is cause to intervene any
subsidiary. Preventive support provided by FOBAPROA or FAMV to a commercial bank or brokerage firm subsidiary of
a financial group may be secured by a pledge of the shares of the financial group (see "February 15 Amendments --
Activities and Supervision of Financial Institutions," below).



-89-
ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 4
The maximum levels of foreign investment in Mexican-controlled financial groups and the limitations on the capital
structure and activities of foreign-controlled financial groups are also set forth in the Financial Groups Institutions Law.
These provisions are identical to those of the Credit Institutions Law applicable to commercial banks (see "February 15
Amendments -- Liberalization of Investment Restrictions of Foreign and Corporate Investment," below).
Capital Markets Laws
The Ley del Mercado de Valores was introduced in January 1975 and has been substantially amended since then.
It is the principal legislation governing the securities markets (public offerings and secondary market trading of securities)
and the activities of brokerage firms. The Capital Markets Law is intended to promote efficiency and sound practices,
encourage public confidence and domestic and foreign investment through the securities markets.
The Capital Markets Law originally established the Comision Nacional de Valores as the supervisory authority for
the capital markets and the securities brokerage firms. The CNV was merged with the CNB pursuant the CNBV Law
effecctive May 1, 1995. (see "Credit Institutions Law; CNBV Law" above). The Capital Markets Law provides for the
establishment of the Fund for Support to the Securities Market (Fondo de Apoyo al Mercado de Valores - FAMV), and
defines the legal basis for its provision of preventive support to troubled brokerage firms, which may be secured by a
pledge of the shares of a brokerage firm recipient of such support or its financial holding company (see "February 15
Amendments -- Activities and Supervision of Financial Institutions," below).
Tlhe maximum levels of foreign investment in Mexican-controlled brokerage firms and the limitations on the capital
structure and activities of foreign-controlled brokerage firms are also set forth in the Capital Markets Law. Since the
February 15, 1995 amendments to Mexican financial sector legislation (see below), foreign investors as group may own up
to 49% of the voting shares of a Mexican brokerage firm (see "February 15 Amendments -- Liberalization of Investment
Restrictions of Foreign and Corporate Investment," below).
February 15 Amendments
One component of the Zedillo administration's response to the events following the December 1994 devaluation
was the enactment of reforms to Mexican financial sector legislation published in the Diario Oficial on February 15, 1995
and effective the following day. The purposes of these amendments are to encourage additional capitalization of financial
institutions and assure continued public confidence in domestic financial markets. The two principal elements of the
reforms to the Credit Institutions Law, Financial Groups Law and Capital Markets Law are: (a) modifications governing
the shareholding structure of financial holding companies, commercial banks and brokerage firms intended to encourage
greater investment in the equity of financial institutions by Mexican corporations and foreign portfolio investors and
financial institutions; and (b) toughening of federal laws governing (i) purchase by commercial banks of shares of affiliates,
(ii) pledges of the equity of financial institutions as collateral for "preventive support" provided by FOBAPROA and
FAMV (the support funds for banks and broker-dealers, respectively), and (iii) administrative and management intervention
of financial holding companies.
Liberalization of Investment Restrictions on Foreign and Corporate Investment
Restrictions on overall and per shareholder investment in financial institutions applicable to Mexican and foreign
individuals and corporations were significantly loosened, with the goal of attracting additional Mexican and foreign capital
to the financial sector.
Mexican-Controlled Financial Institutions
In accordance with the new legislation, voting shares of Mexican-controlled financial holding companies,
commercial banks and brokerage firms are now represented by Series A shares representing at least 51 % of the voting
capital and Series B shares representing the remainder. Mexican individuals and companies majoritv owned and controlled
by Mexicans are now permitted to hold Series A shares. Both Mexican and non-Mexican individuals and corporations may
invest in Series B shares. Under earlier law, Series A shares of financial holding companies and commercial banks could



-90-
ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 4
be held only by Mexican individuals. Only companies owned exclusivelv by Mexicans could hold Series B shares.' The
amendments mean that companies that are merely maiority owned and controlled by Mexicans are now permitted to hold
voting shares of any series in financial holding companies, commercial banks and brokerage firms. The amendments
permit foreign individuals and companies as a group to hold as much as 49% of the voting capital of a Mexican-controlled
financial holding company, commercial bank or brokerage firm. Under earlier law, no more than 30% of the voting
capital of such entities was eligible for investment by non-Mexicans.2
The new legislation also increases the maximum amount of non-voting Series L shares (eligible for ownership by
both Mexicans and foreigners) that a financial holding company, commercial bank or brokerage house may issue to 40% of
the voting share capital (Series A and B) from the earlier limit of 30%.
The recent amendments loosen the per shareholder limitations on control of Mexican-controlled banks. Before the
amendments, no single individual or company could ordinary hold more than 5 % of the share capital of a financial holding
company or commercial bank. However, the Ministry of Finance was empowered to grant authorization for holdings of up
to 10%.3  The Ministry of Finance is now authorized to permit a single shareholder to hold Series A and B shares
representing up to 20% of the share capital of a bank or financial holding company.4
Foreign-Controlled Institutions
Mexican law provides for a special category of foreign-controlled financial holding companies, commercial banks
and brokerage houses, where provided for by treaty (such as the NAFTA). Foreign-controlled commercial banks and
brokerage houses are ordinarily subject to individual and aggregate market share limitations.' Before the amendments, at
least 99% of the share capital of such entities was required to be owned (directly or indirectly) by a single foreign financial
institution. A foreign financial institution is now permitted to hold as little as 51 % of the share capital of a foreign-
controlled financial holding company, commercial bank or brokerage house. The intent of this component of the
amendments is to encourage strategic alliances between foreign and Mexican financial institutions. Since the amendments
permit a foreign-owned financial holding company to hold as little as 51 % of the share capital of its subsidiary commercial
bank or brokerage firm, a foreign financial institution may therefore control a commercial bank or brokerage firm with an
investment representing little more than 25 % of the total capital of such affiliate (by holding only 51 % of the shares of the
holding company which in turn holds only 51% of the shares of the affiliate bank or brokerage firm).
The amendments now permit the Ministry of Finance to waive the market share limitations provided for in
NAFTA on a case-by-case basis for Mexican-controlled banks that are converted into foreign-controlled banks, as long as
the resulting foreign-controlled bank has no more than a 6% market share and foreign-controlled banks in the aggregate
represent no more than 25 % of the total capital of the banking system. The purpose of empowering the Ministry of
Finance to lift the NAFTA limitations in such cases is to encourage foreign financial institutions to enter the Mexican
I   By contrast, the Capital Markets Law, which governs brokerage firms, did not require that a portion of the capital
stock of a brokerage firm be reserved for Mexican individuals. Nor was there a requirement that companies investing in the
series of shares reserved for nationals be exclusively owned by Mexicans.
2   Before the amendments, the capital stock of Mexican-controlled financial holding companies and commercial banks
held by foreigners was represented by Series C shares. Series C shares will now be converted to Series B shares.
3   The corresponding limitations for brokerage firms were 10% and 15%.
4 The laws governing financial groups and commercial banks already provided an exception for investments of up to
20% by foreign financial institutions where the Ministry of Finance determined that the shareholding of the financial entity in
question was otherwise diversified.
I The initial limitations under NAFTA are, respectively, 1.5 % and 8 % of the market, measured as a percentage of the total
capital of the banking system.



-91-
ANNEX VII
Page 4 of 4
market by shoring up a troubled Mexican-controlled bank rather than establishing a new subsidiary bank. The amendments
explicitly recite that the purpose of the 6% and 25% market share limits (which were added to the legislation during its
consideration by the Mexican Congress) is to assure Mexican control of the domestic payments system. In effect, these
limitations mean that Mexico's three largest banks (Banco Nacional de Mexico, Bancomer and Banca Serfin) are not
eligible for conversion to foreign control. It remains to be seen whether foreign financial institutions will find the prospect
of exceeding the market share limitations under NAFTA a sufficient incentive to purchase an existing Mexican bank, with
its attendant risks. Spain's Banco Bilbao Vizcaya, which currently holds in excess of 20% of the shares of Grupo
Financiero Probursa-Mercantil, is currently negotiating for the conversion of its interest in this financial group into majority
ownership.
Activities and Supervision of Financial Institutions
The laws governing the activities and supervision of financial institutions were also importantly strengthened by the
recent amendments. Commercial banks are now prohibited from investing in shares of capital stock of companies that are
shareholders of the bank or its financial group or in companies related through ownership and control with such
shareholders. This prohibition was thought especially necessary in light of the loosening of restrictions on investments by
industrial companies in commercial banks (discussed above).
Pursuant to the Credit Institutions Law and the Capital Markets Law, two "support funds" (FOBAPROA and
FAMV) were created to provide "preventive support" to banks and brokerage houses to prevent defaults on obligations to
depositors, customers, counterparties and bondholders. Prior to the recent amendments, extensions of such preventive
support could be secured by a pledge of shares of capital stock of the beneficiary bank or brokerage firm.6 The new
amendments effected changes intended to facilitate the rapid intervention and disposition of decapitalized banks. Preventive
support" may now be provided directly to the bank or brokerage firm or to the financial holding company to be channeled
to such affiliate. In the later case, such support can be collateralized by a pledge of shares of capital stock of the financial
holding company.
The rules governing the pledge of shares of the institution (financial holding company, commercial bank or
brokerage firm) receiving support from FOBAPROA or FAMV have been toughened in the following two ways: (i) such
pledges now have the status of preferential liens (and in the case of commercial banks, preferential liens of public interest);
and (ii) the granting of such pledges conveys to FOBAPROA or FAMV the right to exercise all corporate and ownership
rights over such pledged shares (including voting rights). The laws continue to require shares pledged in return for
preventive support to be valued at seventy-five percent of book value for purposes of calculating the number of shares
required to be pledged as collateral for the preventive support provided by FOBAPROA or FAMV. Immediately following
the entry into force of the recent amendments, the authorities acted under the new legislation to restructure the share capital
of Banca Cremi and Banco Union (two banks intervened in September 1994 after the discovery of massive fraud that left
such banks decapitalized and in need of preventive support) to eliminate the interests of the old shareholders. The share
capital of these two banks is now wholly-owned by FOBAPROA.
The amendments also granted the Banking and Securities Commissions (now merged into the CNBV) powers of
administrative and management intervention of financial holding companies. Such new powers are similar in reach to those
the Banking and Securities Commissions already possessed in respect of commercial banks, brokerage firms and auxiliary
credit institutions. The CNBV may immediately take control of a financial holding company if in its judgment there are
irregularities affecting its stability or solvency and which put in danger the interests of the public or its creditors. In
addition, a financial holding company may be intervened if there is an intervention of any one of its affiliated financial
institutions.
May 19, 1995
6 The laws also contemplate liquidity support to solvent banks that could be secured by assets other than the shares of the
financial institution.



-92-
ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 4
MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
Summary of Significant Differences
between CNBV's Accounting Practices for Banks and
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States
("U.S. GAAP")
Principal Differences Between U.S. and Mexican GAAP
Explanatory Note
Financial statements of corporations in Mexico are prepared under Mexican generally accepted accounting
principles ("Mexican GAAP"), which differ in some important aspects from U.S. generally accepted accounting principles
("U.S. GAAP"). Accounting guidelines for financial institutions also vary from those set by Mexican GAAP for other
Mexican corporations. Mexican credit institutions generally prepare their financial statements in accordance with guidelines
established by the National Banking and Securities Commission (CNBV). Banking regulations require credit institutions to
arrange their accounts according to an authorized chart of accounts, to follow the accounting rules published in the CNBV
circulars, and at times to follow explicit authorizations issued by the authorities according to special agreements made
under special circumstances. Summarized below are the major accounting differences between the CNBV's accounting
guidelines for Mexican banks and U.S. GAAP for banks.
Loan Loss Provisions
CNBV. Under CNBV guidelines, general loan loss provisions are required to be provided, based on a
classification of individual loans of at least 80% of the loan portfolio. The criteria for classification of individual loans
encompass many factors, with payment status and collateral valuation weighing most heavily. There are also criteria to
consider certain types of loans as past due. The loan portfolio and related accrued interest is required to be classified
quarterly, and the provision is adjusted by applying certain provisioning percentages to the various credit risk
classifications, which range from "A"-minimal risk to "E"-loss (which can be written off under CNBV rules). The rules
permit the creation of loan loss provisions through a change in capital reserves (without passing through the income
statement), which results in overstating profits. Commencing February 22, 1995, the CNBV requires all banks to increase
the level of provisions to the higher of: (a) 4% of the loan portfolio; or (b) 60% of past due loans; or (c) actual provisions
required as a result of the quarterly loan classification.
The increase or decrease in the provisions is recognized in the next quarter's income. However, because of the
difficulties involved in compiling the provisions, banks are allowed to defer recognition of reserve changes for an additional
quarter. The base for the portfolio classification includes contingent credits, but excludes loans to the Mexican
Government and to Banco de Mexico.
U.S. GAAP. Under U.S. GAAP, an allowance for possible loan losses is provided based on management's estimate of the
losses inherent in the loan portfolio. The allowance analysis is usually performed periodically, with provisions being
charged to current operations. Specific reserves are provided after consideration of a borrower's financial condition and
the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral. General reserves are provided after considering such factors as the
economy in lending areas, delinquency statistics and trends, past loss experience and estimated future loss experience.
Interest Income on Loans
CNBV. Under CNBV guidelines, interest on loans is accrued and credited to income based on the principal amount
outstanding. Interest continues to accrue on all loans except loans where the entire principal balance of the underlying loan
is past due.



-93-
ANNEX VIII
Page 2 of 4
Unpaid interest is included within the loan classification and rating system for determining the amount of loan loss
provisions. No reversal of past-due interest income is permitted under CNBV rules.
U.S. GAAP. Interest on loans is accrued and credited to income based on the principal amount outstanding. The accrual
of interest on all loans is discontinued when in the opinion of management, there is an indication that the borrower may be
unable to meet payments as they become due. Upon such discontinuance, all unpaid accrued interest is reversed.
Troubled Debt Restructuring
CNBV. The accounting procedures for restructured loans are regulated by CNBV Circular No. 1229. Separate accounts
are to be maintained for such loans, and a memorandum account may also be kept for control purposes. The circular sets
out parameters to be considered for restructuring a loan, which involve changes in interest rates, maturities, amounts of
additional or new collateral. There is, however, no limit on the amount of interest eamed on restructured loans.
U.S. GAAP. Under U.S. GAAP, depending on the terms of the restructuring, recognition as interest income of unpaid
accrued interest, which is due at the time of restructuring may be limited. Recognition of cash receipts which are received
after the restructuring may also be limited.
Investments in Subsidiaries, Affiliated Companies and Other Equity Investments
CNBV. Prior to 1992, investments in shares of the subsidiaries (ownership 50% or greater) were recorded at acquisition
cost, and adjusted annually to values determined by CNBV for each individual entity. Increases in the valuation amount
were recorded as a revaluation surplus, a component of stockholders' equity, and decreases in value below cost were
charged to operations. Beginning in 1992, in accordance with changes in CNBV regulations, investments in subsidiaries
are required to be accounted for under the equity method, recognizing the equity in the net income or loss as a separate
account of stockholders' equity.
Investment in other equity investments (ownership of less than 50%) were, prior to 1992, accounted for in the
same manner as subsidiary companies described above. Since 1992, equity investments quoted on the Mexican Stock
Exchange are required to be carried at the quoted market value. Investments not quoted on the stock exchange are required
to be carried at the related equity in the book value of affiliates, when audited financial statements are available. If audited
financial statements are not available, the CNBV will determine the carrying value.
U.S. GAAP. Under U.S. GAAP, equity investments of less than 20% are to be recorded using the cost method, with a
valuation reserve for the excess of cost over market value. Decreases in market value below cost are recorded directly as a
component of equity, except for permanent impairments, which are recorded against operations. Investments of 20% to
50% are recorded using the equity method, and investments of more than 50% are consolidated with certain exceptions
related to operating control of the company.
Repurchase Agreements
CNBV. Under the CNBV's accounting principles, when a sale of securities under an agreement to repurchase the same or
similar securities takes place, the obligation to repurchase is recorded in addition to recording the transaction as a decrease
in securities. The future obligation to repurchase is recorded as a liability and an asset is also recorded for the security to
be received. The accounting treatment is similar for securities purchased under an agreement to resell. There is no
differentiation between long-term and short-term transactions. In Mexico, repo transactions are included in the balance
sheet.
U.S. GAAP. Under U.S. GAAP, short-term transactions are treated as either sales or financing transactions, depending on
various transaction criteria, especially the degree of control the seller has over the securities to be repurchased. In



-94-
ANNEX VIII
Page 3 of 4
transactions accounted for as financings, payable and receivables for the future sale or purchase obligation are recorded but
changes to the investment accounts are not recorded. Long-term transactions are treated as sales.
Fixed Income Securities
CNBV. CNBV accounting principles, introduced in December 1994, require banks to value securities at market value but
allow them to report unrealized gains or losses as memorandum items (off balance sheet). Gains or losses on the basis of
market valuation are not accounted for through the income statement.
U.S. GAAP. U.S. GAAP requires such gains or losses to be credited or charged to income in the income statement.
Revaluation of Fixed Assets
CNBV. The CNBV's accounting practices required land and buildings to be carried at the appraised value, which must be
approved by the CNBV annually. Since 1994, the revaluation of land and buildings is only required every three years.
Increases in the valuation amount (linked to inflation through CNBV price indices) are recorded as a revaluation surplus, a
component of stockholders' equity. Decreases in value first reduce any revaluation surplus, and decreases below original
cost are recorded against operations for the year. Depreciation, based on the useful life of assets, is recorded only on the
historical cost amount. Prior to 1992, these rules applied only to land and buildings. In 1992, these rules were extended
to all premises, furniture and equipment. Computer equipment is revalued only if it has been acquired in foreign currency.
U.S. GAAP. Financial statements prepared in the U.S. are not adjusted for inflation. Real estate is stated at cost less
accumulated depreciation. U.S. GAAP prohibits the write-up of fixed assets to market value. One exception is the
revaluation of assets and liabilities of acquired entities under the purchase method of accounting.
Goodwill and Acquisitions
CNBV. The CNBV guidelines do not normally' permit banks to recognize goodwill. The purchase premium associated
with the privatization of banks in 1991-92 was recorded by the parent holding company. That purchase premium is not
allocated to the assets and liabilities of the banks nor is the purchase premium amortized against income. Holding
companies can record goodwill and amortize it over a period of up to 25 years. An "accelerated amortization" is also
permisiable.
U.S. GAAP. Purchase accounting under U.S. GAAP requires the allocation of the purchase price to the fair value of assets
acquired and liabilities assumed with any unallocated cost recorded as goodwill. Goodwill should be amortized using the
straight-line method over the period estimated to be benefited, but the amortization period for banks should not exceed 25
years. Based upon various criteria, goodwill resulting may be "pushed-down" to the acquired company's financial
statements.
Loan Fees
CNBV. The CNBV's accounting practices permit the recognition of all loan fees as income when received.
U.S. GAAP. Under U.S. GAAP, loan fees, less the direct cost of originating the loan, are deferred and amortized to
income over the life of the related loan by the interest method.
Pension Costs
CNBV. Under the CNBV's accounting practices, entities recognize pension expense based on the liability determined by
actuarial computations, as approved by it. Recent changes to CNBV accounting practices have resulted in a convergence of
' Recently, an exception has been made for one new bank where goodwill was recorded in an acquisition.



-95-
ANNEX VIII
Page 4 of 4
its practices with Mexican GAAP, which are closer to the requirements of U.S. GAAP guidelines.
U.S. GAAP. U.S. GAAP requires application of the unit credit actuarial method and recognition of compensation costs of
an employee's pension over the employee's estimated service period. U.S. GAAP also requires recognition of a minimum
liability when the accumulated benefit obligation exceeds the fair value of plan assets. Gains and losses on plan assets may
be deferred if they fall within certain limits.
Extraordinary Items
CNBV. The CNBV's accounting practices do not have established criteria for distinguishing and reporting extraordinary
items.
U.S. GAAP. Under U.S. GAAP, events or transactions that are both unusual in nature and occur infrequently are
reported as extraordinary items.
Income Taxes and Employees Statutory Profit Sharing
CNBV. The CNBV's accounting practices require income tax expense to be recorded based on taxable income, with no
provision for timing differences between taxable and book income. Similar treatment is also applicable to Mexican
statutory employees' profit sharing ("PTU") as income tax accounting treatment is required for PTU.
U.S. GAAP. Under APB 11, U.S. GAAP requires deferred taxes to be provided on all timing differences, at the tax rate
in effect at the time the differences arise. Under FASB Statement No. 109, which is effective for fiscal years beginning
after December 15, 1992, U.S. GAAP requires deferred taxes on essentially all temporary differences between book and
tax bases of assets and liabilities, at the tax rate expected when the temporary differences reverse. For deferred tax assets,
a valuation allowance is recognized if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the asset will not be realized.
Earning Per Share
CNBV. An earnings per share presentation is not required under CNBV accounting practices.
U.S. GAAP. Under U.S. GAAP, public entities are required to report earnings per share, based on the weighted average
number of common shares outstanding during the period and additional common shares assumed to be outstanding, to
reflect the dilutive effect of common stock equivalents and all other potentially dilutive securities.
Financial Statement Presentation and Disclosure
CNBV. The format of the financial statements is generally set by the CNBV. The CNBV through circulars also sets
guidelines for the disclosure of certain information in financial statements (e.g. disclosure requirements for loan portfolio
classification). There are no specific rules that provide for disclosures in bank financial statements. The common practice
is to follow Mexican GAAP disclosures.
U.S. GAAP. Under U.S. GAAP, additional disclosures have to be made when preparing financial statements of banks,
such as:
(1)    Disclosure in financial statements according to FASB Statement No. 105, "Disclosure of Information
about Financial Instruments with Off-Balance-Sheet Risk and Financial Instruments with Concentrations of
Credit Risk."
(2)    Disclosure in financial statements according to FASB Statement No. 107, "Disclosures about Fair Value
of Financial Instruments."
(3)    Cash flow statements.
May 20, 1995.



-96-
ANNEX IX
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
Structure and Powers of FOBAPROA
History
The Bank Fund for Savings Protection (Fondo Bancario para Proteccion al Ahorro - FOBAPROA) is the
successor to the Preventive Support Fund for Commercial Banks (Fondo de Apoyo Preventivo a las Instituciones de Banca
Multiple - FONAPRE), which was established in 1986. FOBAPROA is governed under Article 122 of the Credit
Institutions Law (Ley de Instituciones de Credito), the principal statute governing the activities of commercial and
development banks, which went into effect on July 18, 1990. Article 122 describes the purpose of FOBAPROA as to serve
as a mechanism for preventive support to commercial banks and to protect savings.
Legal Status
FOBAPROA is a trust (fideicomiso) administered by the Banco de Mexico. After enactment of the Credit
Institutions Law, FONAPRE's trust agreement was substantially modified to comply with the requirements for
FOBAPROA set out in Article 122. This modified trust agreement now governs the powers and procedures of
FOBAPROA.
Administration and Governance
The day-to-day operations of FOBAPROA are administered by the Banco de Mexico. However, policy decisions
for FOBAPROA are made by FOBAPROA's Technical Committee. The Technical Committee is composed of nine
members. Four are named by the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, one of whom must be the Minister himself.
Three members are appointed by the Banco de Mexico, one of whom must be the Governor thereof. The last two
members are selected by the National Banking and Securities Commission (a dependency of the Ministry of Finance) and
must include the President of the Commission.
Funding
Article 122 of the Credit Institutions Law provides that the Ministry of Finance may establish regular and
extraordinary contributions to be paid by commercial banks to capitalized FOBAPROA. Regular and extraordinary
contributions are limited under the Credit Institutions Law to 0.5% and 0.7% of obligations subject to protection,
respectively. Contributions to FOBAPROA are collected by the Banco de Mexico directly from the deposits of the
commercial banks maintained with it. In addition to the periodic assessments described above, new entrants are assessed
an initial contribution based on their expected share of the market after their first three years of operations.
FOBAPROA is empowered to and has funded its activities with borrowings from the Central Bank. It may also
borrower from the Government through the Ministry of Finance. The financial statements of FOBAPROA are not publicly
available and the government does not publicly disclose the amount of capital or other resources available to FOBAPROA.
Obligations Subject to Protection
The Credit Institutions Law does not obligate FOBAPROA to explicitly guarantee or insure any obligations of any
commercial bank. However, Article 122 does provide that each year in the month of December FOBAPROA must publish
an announcement of the maximum amount of the obligations of commercial banks it intends to protect in the following
year. As noted earlier, the amount of annual contributions made by each bank is determined as a percentage of obligations
subject to protection.



-97-
ANNEX IX
Page 2 of 2
The announcements made at the end of 1993 and 1994 stated that, in accordance with the tradition of the Mexican
financial authorities, FOBAPROA would continue to endeavor, to the extent of its resources, to assure the performance of
all the obligations of participating banks, except for subordinated debt. According to representatives of FOBAPROA, the
National Banking Commission and private lawyers, that these announcements do not create a legal obligation of
FOBAPROA or the Government to insure any deposits or take any specific action in the event of the failure of a bank to
pay any obligation. Depositholders or bondholders of a Mexican bank would not be entitled to make a claim against
FOBAPROA in the event of an uncovered default by any such bank, as they might were FOBAPROA explicitly a deposit
insurance entity.
Preventive Support and Collateral
Article 122 of the Credit Institutions Law provides that FOBAPROA may require guarantees in exchange for
preventive support provided by it to a troubled bank. Such guarantees may take the form of a lien over the shares of the
bank. For such purposes, the amount of shares required to be pledged in return for such support is calculated based on a
value of 75% of the shares' book value. Amendments to the Credit Institutions Law made on February 15, 1995 provide
that FOBAPROA's lien on the shares of a commercial bank is a preferential lien of public interest (with preference over
preexisting encumbrances) and conveys on FOBAPROA the power to exercise any of the corporate rights inherent in those
shares without having to execute its lien over such shares.
PROCAPTE
FOBAPROA is the administrator of the Temporary Capitalization Program (Programa de Capitalizaci6n Temporal
- PROCAPTE) described in Annex X.
May 19, 1995



-98-
ANNEX X
Page 1 of 3
MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
English Translation of PROCAPTE Scheme (Banco de Mexico Circular of February 24, 1995)
BANCO DE MEXICO
February 24, 1995
To Commercial
Banking Institutions
Re: Temporary Capitalization Program (PROCAPTE)
We refer to the Program that the financial authorities have agreed to implement, having heard the opinion of the
Mexican Bankers Association, to strengthen the capital of the commercial banking institutions that, due to the circumstances
that the markets are experiencing and not their individual operational circumstances, are unable to meet capitalization
requirements established in the rules issued by SHCP, after the establishment of appropriate preventive reserves.
The referenced program, hereafter referred to as PROCAPTE--Temporary Capitalization Program--consists of the
placement of subordinated debentures convertible into shares of capital stock of the bank that issues them. The institutions
that enter the program must deposit the proceeds of such placement in the Banco de Mexico for a term and yield equal to
those of the debentures.
Following are the relevant characteristics and program conditions:
1.     The program will operate with financing granted by the Banco de Mexico to the Bank Fund for Savings Protection
(FOBAPROA), which in addition to acquiring the above-mentioned debentures, will handle PROCAPTE's administration
independent of its traditional programs.
2.     Application for entry into the Program must be presented in writing, by a letter signed by the institution's General
Manager, during the last week of the month preceding that in which it is intended the support be received, with the
obligation of later presenting the financial information requested by FOBAPROA and summoning the Stockholder Assembly
to approve corresponding agreements.
3.     The referenced Program will have a duration of 5 years, entering in effect as of March 31, 1995, during which time
the institutions that enter must maintain a capital coefficient of at least 9%. This coefficient may be decreased to 8.5% if this
decrease is the result of the establishment of preventive reserves. The period may be reduced if the program administrator
considers that favorable market conditions exist such that institutions can recapitalize themselves. Accordingly, the
PROCAPTE administrator reserves the right, upon one year's notice, to demand that the institution acquire all or part of the
subordinate debentures.
This mechanism has as its exclusive purpose to meet the mentioned coefficent, taking into consideration the sum of
risk assets, including accessories, corresponding to the month of February 1995.
4.     The issuer will have the right to acquire all or part of the debentures in the same proportion that it increases its
capitalization coefficient, without considering the debentures corresponding to the program.
5.     The capitalization necessary to support any future growth must come from the institution's own resources, such as
profits and surplus, and/or with subordinated debentures not convertible into stock; these last up to 50% of basic capital,
without taking into consideration the above-mentioned debentures.
6.     The debentures must be mandatorially convertible at maturity into series "A" or series "B" capital stock of the
institution, at the election of FOBAPROA. FOBAPROA may exercise the right of early conversion only if the basic part of



-99-                    ANNEXX
Page 2 of 3
the institution's net capital, without considering these debentures, reaches less than 2% of risk assets, or that the index of
individual net capital, also not considering these debentures, records a decrease superior to the percentage resulting from
algebraically subtracting from 25 % the percentage variation of the arithmetic average coefficient registered by the group of
banks participating in the Program. This measurement will be made on a quarterly basis, considering the capital coefficient
that served as the base to enter "PROCAPTE."
7.     During the program's duration, the institution may not place shares or subordinated debentures mandatorially
convertible into capital other than those discussed herein, except in the case of the acquisition of debentures by the issuer as
described herein, nor distribute dividends. These agreements must be approved by the Shareholders Assembly and the
appropriate authorities no later than the date intended for the issuance of such debentures.
8.     Yield and conversion terms: The yield should be that necessary such that the amount of the issuance maintains its
value in real terms, in accordance with the variation of the "National Index for Consumer Prices."
Conversion will be made under the following terms:
For the sum of subordinated debentures, the institution must deliver the amount of shares resulting from the
application of the following formula:
NA=  Os
cc -Os
A
Where:
NA = Number of shares obtained by conversion.
CC = The accounting capital which is the lesser of, accounting capital on the last day of the month immediately
preceding the date of conversion and the arithmetic average of the accounting capital on the last day of the
three months preceding such date. The figures must be approved by the National Banking Commission and an
external auditor.
OS = Amount of the debentures issued for purposes of "PROCAPTE" added with its yields.
A = Number of shares in circulation on the date of conversion. If an institution has issued other mandatory
convertible debentures, the number resulting from applying to this issuance the conversion formula agreed in
the corresponding documentation would be added to the number of shares; this calculation would be made on
the date of and only for effects of this calculation.
The administrator of PROCAPTE will have the right to request a review by the National Banking Commission, or an
external auditor, of the accounting records of a Program participant, while such institution remains in the Program and for 6
months thereafter. Therefore, during this period the results of conversion may be adjusted accordingly to the results of such
review.
9.     The Program has been designed in such a manner that under normal circumstances FOBAPROA will not necessarily
exercise the conversion of Debentures; in the event that the Fund exercises its right of conversion according to the applicable
provisions, it will dispose of corresponding shares as soon as possible to the investing public.
10.    The deposit which the institution establishes with the resources transferred by PROCAPTE will earn interest equal to
that generated by the debentures in question and will be considered terminated on the conversion date or acquisition date by
the issue of debentures.
Additionally, the Shareholders Assembly must adopt the necessary agreements for the issuance of the convertible
debentures, it also being required that any loss suffered by the institution must be recognized before the conversion date.



-100-
ANNEX X
Page 3 of 3
This program shall be voluntary. Application by an institution to be considered in this program as well as all
corresponding financial and legal information must be delivered to the addresses indicated below, expressing conformity with
the terms and conditions of the program shown in this paper.
The financial authorities have stated that after February 1995, exceptions will not be granted to institutions related to
capitalization requirements established in the rules issued by the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, with the exception of
those credit institutions that during the present month have expressed their interest in participating in this program. At the
same time, please be informed that the authorities will continue to give priority to the terms and conditions of the present
program.
The present communication supercedes those of January 16th and 25th of this year.
Sincerely,
BANCO DE MEXICO
In its Capacity as Fiduciary of FOBAPROA
Lic. Angel Palomino Hasbach                   C.P. Manuel Camacho Tellez
Fiduciary Delegate                            Fiduciary Delegate
Send requests to:
Banco de Mexico - FOBAPROA - Temporary Capitalization Program
Paseo de la Reforma No. 10, Piso 18 (Torre Caballito)
Col. Tabacalera
Banco de Mexico - Private Financial Intermediaries Division
Av. 5 de Mayo No. 6, 6 Piso, Col. Centro
May 21, 1995



-101-
ANNEX XI
Page 1 of 8
MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
Principles of Corporate Debt Restructuring Under the UDI Scheme
The economic crisis has made it difficult for many debtors to service bank loans. To minimize the
bankruptcy of firms that are viable in the long-run but cannot meet debt service payments under current conditions,
the Goverrnent of Mexico is reducing impediments to voluntary debt restructuring and actively promoting debt
restructuring, because of the acute nature of the crisis. The official corporate debt restructuring schemes are called
"Support Programs" (Progranws de Apoyo). The Support Programs will expedite the restructuring of loans equal to
about NP170 billion (approximately US$28 billion), which represents about 10% of Mexico's projected 1995 GDP.
These programs include the restructuring of (a) private corporate loans, (b) household mortgages, (c) development
bank loans (primarily) to final borrowers (e.g. SMEs) or to banks and non-bank financial institutions that on-lend
such funds, and (d) loans to states and municipalities
This Annex (a) describes the Investment Unit (unidad de inversion, or UDI) which is a crucial component of
the Support Programs, (b) describes each of the five Programs, (c) analyzes the lending and funding rates of the
restructuring program and the provisioning requirements, and (d) discusses the implementation risks of the Support
Programs.
1.     Investment Unit (UDI)
A.     The UDI: a Constant Value Unit of Account
A central pillar of the Support Programs is the UDI. The UDI is a unit of account that maintains a constant
real value. UDI financial instruments eliminate the inflation-uncertainty component of interest rates which should
facilitate voluntary debt restructuring at lower real interest rates. Furthermore, the UDI forms the basis of the
Government sponsored debt restructuring programs. Approximately NP170 billion of existing loans that have short-
run floating nominal interest rates will be rapidly rescheduled into UDI loans with fixed long-run real interest rates.
The key legal and regulatory documents establishing the UDI are summarized in the boxes XI. 1 and XI.2.
Box XI. 1: UDI Circular Issued by the Banco de Mexico April 3. 1995
Use,:          Banks are authorized to denominate in UDIs: (a) liabilities of greater than
three months and (b) assets of any term. Repurchase agreement terms are
limited to between three months and 360 days.
Interest:      A single rate of interest must apply.
Net Position    Net UDI positions of banks and of financial groups (excluding banks, which
Limit:         report separately) are limited to 40% of net capital, with consolidation of
all local and foreign subsidiaries required. An entity breaching the net
position limit is subject to fines and must abide by Banco de Mexico guidance
in reducing net positions within a required time frame.
Index:         The national consumer price index, applicable to UDI value adjustment, is
established with the base year of 1994 equal to 100.



-102-
ANNEX XI
Page 2 of 8
As approved by the Mexican Congress on March 30, 1995, the UDI may be used as unit of account for most
financial instruments. The UDI has not been authorized as a medium of exchange. Thus, to effect a transaction
involving UDIs, the amounts expressed in UDIs must be converted into NP. UDIs are not authorized for demand
deposits. In addition, UDIs are not authorized for use in the denomination of non-financial transactions, such as labor
contracts, purchase agreements, and commercial agreements.
Box XI.2: Congressional Decree of March 30, 1995
Article
1. Definition:        UDI: a unit of account whose NP value is published periodically
in the official gazette by the Banco de Mexico.
Use:               (a) Peso-pay financial instruments pertaining to operations
between financial intermediaries; (b) peso-pay financial
liabilities--except checking obligations and, generally, any
amounts under commercial contracts.
2. Payments:          In NP ("local currency"), calculated by multiplying the UDI
amount times the value of the UDI corresponding to the day
of payment.
3. Index Adjustment:   Banco de Mexico to determine and publish the daily value by
means of a methodology based on the national consumer price
index (indice nacional de precios al consumidor, IPNC)
4. Financial Code:    Adjustments in UDI value are defined as interest.
5. Tax Law:           (a) Adjustments in UDI value are not considered interest for
purposes of determining the inflationary component of nominal
interest; (b) adjustment in UDI value is considered as nominal
income ; (c) adjustment in UDI value does not accrue for purposes of
calculating net monetary exposure to inflation; (d) withholding is
15% on interest paid on UDI instruments, versus 20% on the first 10
percentage points of interest on instruments not denominated in UDIs.
B.     UIDI Value Indexation and Methodology
Coinciding with the introduction of the UDI, the Government will use a re-based consumer price index. The
re-based index updates the component weights within the INPC to match those resulting from the 1989 versus the
older 1978 household survey. The re-based index also extends coverage to include 48 Mexican cities, up from 37
cities while it also incorporates new goods and eliminates others. The market basket will now include 313 consumer
goods, up from 303 goods. The re-based index is set at 100 for December 31, 1994 and will provide the information
to calculate the daily UDI value.
The calculation by the Banco de Mexico of the daily UDI value is based on a 10-day lagged value of the re-
based INPC. Hence, the daily UDI value schedule published on the 10th of each month is based on the change in the
INPC for the last half of the previous month. This lagged INPC then defines the inflation rate applicable for days 11
through 25 of the current month. Likewise, the daily UDI schedule published on the 25 the of each month, for days
26 (of the current month) through 10 (of the subsequent month), is based on the change in the INPC for the first half
of the current month.
The UDI value for each day is calculated according to a non-linear interpolation of the INPC index between



-103-
ANNEX XI
Page 3 of 8
the beginning and ending dates of the published schedule. The Banco de Mexico indicates that this is essentially the
method used in Chile to calculate the Unidad de Fomento (UF), except that in Chile the household survey is carried
out monthly rather than bi-monthly.
The starting value of the UDI was set equal to NPI.00 on April 4, 1995. The NP equivalent value of the
UDI for a given date is applicable for the conversion of UDI amounts into NP at any time during that day. The daily
UDI value schedule is now published in the official gazette (Diario Oficial de la Federacion), according to the value
set by the Banco de Mexico for the prospective bi-monthly period.
As a transitionary device to immediately establish the use of UDIs, beginning on April 4, 1995, a special
UDI value schedule was published for April 4 to 10, as follows:
Date                         Value
April 4, 1995                        1.00
April 5, 1995                        1.001918
April 6, 1995                        1.003840
April 7, 1995                        1.005766
April 8, 1995                        1.007695
April 9, 1995                        1.009628
April 10, 1995                       1.011564
Hereafter, the UDI value schedule will be published bi-monthly, beginning with April 11 to 25, and then
April 26 to May 10, etc.
11.    Objectives and Approach of the UDI Restructuring Programs
The UDI restructuring initiative represents a major support action by the Government. The central objective
of the roughly US$28 billion Support Program is to rapidly restore the financial and operational health of commercial
bank debtors who, except for the ill effects of the current crisis, are viable entities. The Support Programs will
ultimately help (a) private sector companies, (b) households, (c) development banks and (d) states and municipalities.
Each of these subsidiary programs has, or will, receive UDI allocations for restructuring. Thus far the first three
support programs relating to private sector companies and households shown in Box XI.3 below have been officially
authorized in the amount of NP147 billion or US$24 billion. The additional programs for states and municipalities
and the Development Banks are estimated to be on the order of NP23 billion or approximately US$4 billion.
Preliminary allocations for these additional programs are shown in detail in Box XI.3 on the following page.
The centerpiece of the Support Program is the substitution of generally short-term floating rate loans linked
to the Cetes rate or other local benchmarks, for new long-term UDI loans that carry a fixed real interest rate. (For
household mortgages, there is a 6 percent real interest rate cap.)
A substantial number of commercial bank borrowers have insufficient cash to continue meeting the current
high nominal rates of interest that reflect the market's sudden shift to an expectation of 100% inflation in the
immediate term and 40 - 50% over the coming year. To maintain payment performance for otherwise good credit
risks, commercial banks have made new loans to cover part of the current interest payments. Re-lending of this sort
is based on the logic that in a newly evolved high inflation environment, debt repayment effectively is partially made
via payments of higher amounts of interest. High nominal interest rates compensate for the depreciating real value of
outstanding principal.
1.     Productive Plant Support Program (local currency) (Programa de Apoyo a la Planta Productiva
- moneda nacional)
This Program includes NP76 billion equivalent (about 9% of total outstanding commercial bank loans) of



-104-
ANNEX XI
Page 4 of 8
Box Xl. 3: Programas de Apovo Subsidiary Programs
(in NP billion equivalent)
UDI
Program                Allocation      Target Borrower and Type of Credit
1. Programa de Apoyo a la Planta                 Private sector corporations with
Productiva (moneda nacional)     76.0         loans denominated in local currency
2. Programa de Apoyo a la Planta    37.7          Private sector corporations with
Productiva (moneda extranjera)                loans denominated in foreign currency
(allocation is US$5.8 billion)
3. Programa de Apoyo para los       33.4          Households with mortgage loans
deudores de creditos hipotecarios
4. Programa de Reestructuracion de   11.2         States and Municipalities
los Creditos de Estados y Municipios
5. Programas de Restructuracion de la  11.8       Final borrowers (e.g. SMEs Agricultural
Banca de Desarollo                            borrowers) when the Development Bank
is a first tier lender and bank and non-bank financial
intermediaries when the Development Bank is a
second tier lender
TOTAL            170.1
UDI refinancing. The companies will be selected by the banks and subject to CNBV regulations that define the
viability of companies seeking to restructure their debts. The scheme only applies to credits within the loan portfolio
of the commercial banks as of December 1994. It also applies to all loans inclusive of those classified as D and E.
However, in these cases, viability must be demonstrated to the CNBV and D and E loan restructuring cannot obtain
the grace periods available under the stated restructuring options (see table below).
The mechanics of this scheme are illustrated in Chart I with T-accounts and include the following:
*  The debtor receives UDI loans from a new trust.
*  The trust purchases the old NP loan from the commercial bank (who remains liable for payment defaults
by the debtor).
*  The trust funds the loan purchase by issuing 4% UDI securities to the Government.
*  The Government funds the UDI loan by issuing long-term Cetes-based securities (only payable at final
maturity), with mandatory re-investment of interest to maintain the real value of the principal of these
securities (e.g., a form of zero-coupon bond). The bonds issued by the Government are of maturities
similar to that of the maturity of the restructured UDI loans in the trust.
*  These Government bonds are placed with the commercial bank that had created the UDI trust.
In this manner the commercial banks have substituted the restructured loan portfolio with holdings of
government debt. At the same time the Government is funding the trust(s) created by the commercial bank at UDI+
4% while issuing debt obligations to the commercial bank at nominal interest rates that may have realized real interest
rates of more than UDI + 4%. Repayment of the new UDI financing would be over 5 - 12 years, with up to 7 years
of grace, in six possible options where the commercial bank will have to set up a separate trust in the case of each
option provided.



-105-
ANNEX XI
Page 5 of 8
repayment              term in        grace period
option                years            in years
1.               12                   7
2.                10                  4
3.                 8                  2
4.                10                  0
5.                 7                  0
6.                 5                  0
During the repayment phase, the Government funds the difference between the stated real interest paid on its
UDI loan and the realized real interest rate paid on the Cetes-based NP securities that provide funding for the UDI
loans. The commercial banks (a) maintain a constant real value of NP invested in the Cetes-based securities, to match
the real value remaining on the UDI loan balance as it amortizes, (b) retain credit risk for the performance of the
debtor; (c) are responsible for loan supervision; (d) contribute an annual "topping up" amount, whereby they make
good on any shortfalls of cash received by the trust due to payment defaults. The commercial banks also (e)
contribute quarterly any amounts by which the rate on the Mexican social security savings accounts ("SAR" accounts)
exceeds 4%, as further explained below, and they (f) contribute immediately for the required additional provisioning
upon a downgrading of credit classification by CNBV examiners in contrast to the 90-180 days permitted on non-UDI
loans.
2.     Productive Plant Support Program (foreign currency) (Programa de Apoyo a la Planta
Productiva -moneda extranjera):
The Program equals US$5.8 billion, (about 18% of all commercial bank credit denominated in US dollars)
of UDI refinancing for private sector companies. This program is quite similar to the first program. Chart II
illustrates the initial refinancing transaction. The principal difference is that the commercial banks would invest in
Tesobonos issued by the Government, rather than in Cetes-based securities, and, in addition, they would make best
efforts to renew their external US dollar liabilities. If they cannot renew their external lines, they would replace the
amounts of such lines with borrowings from FOBAPROA. This program has been finalized.
3.     Mortgage Debtor Support Program (Programa de Apoyo para los Deudores de Creditos
Hipotecarios)
This Programa equals NP33.4 billion (about 34% of outstanding mortgages) of UDI refinancing for
households selected by the commercial banks. This is essentially identical to the first program described above,
except in three respects: (a) the borrowers are Mexican households with mortgage debt; (b) the UDI trust funding
rate is 2% rather than 4% and the borrower interest charge is capped at 6%; (c) the term of the new UDI loans is 15,
20, 25, and 30 years. This program is not completely finalized.
4.     State and Municipal Debt Restructuring Program  (Programa de Reestructuracion de los
Creditos de                   Estados y Municipios):
This Program equals NP1 1.2 billion of loans to states and municipalities selected by commercial banks. This
Program will have three unique features: (a) only credits by commercial banks to the states and municipalities
registered with SHCP will be eligible; (b) the rate of interest payable on the restructured loan will be a function of the
extent of prepayment; and (c) the term of the new UDI loan will be 5 years without grace or 8 years with two years
grace. It is expected that some states and municipalities may make use of the extra revenue realized form the VAT
(IVA) in order to prepay a greater amount of the loans to the commercial banks so as to obtain better terms. This
program has been finalized.



-106-
ANNEX XI
Page 6 of 8
5.     Development Bank Restructuring Program (Programas de Reestructuracion de la Banca de
Desarrollo)
This Programa equals NP11.8 billion equivalent of UDI refinancing for either final borrowers from
development banks such as SMEs or to commercial banks or non-bank financial intermediaries that have liabilities to
Development Banks. Specifically, NP3.4 billion will be provided to permit UDI refinancing to final borrowers in
the context of Development Bank first-tier operations where they are making direct loans to SMEs or agricultural
producers. This program will be offered under the same conditions and options as for companies (Productive Plant
Support Program). In the case of Development Bank second-tier operations, a program of NP1.5 billion will support
restructuring of the loans (or rediscounts) by Development Banks with commercial banks and NP7.0 billion will apply
to restructuring of loans by Development Banks to non-bank financial intermediaries. The maturities for the
restructuring of loans with commercial banks will range from 5 to 12 years without grace while those for non-banks
will run from 10 to 5 years without grace. This program is preliminary and subject to further revision.
mi.    Lending and Funding Rates and Provisioning
A.     The UDI Trust Lending Rate Structure
Under the UDI restructuring program for private sector companies (in local currency) the UDI Trust lending
rate is a single fixed rate, derived as follows:
UDI Trust      4% to cover            about 5 % to           3% to cover
Lending   =   the funding       +    cover credit      +    loan admin-
Rate           rate                   risk or other          istration
intermediation
risks
The 4% component is paid quarterly to the UDI trust which passes it on to the Government. The 3%
component is paid quarterly to the UDI trust and is passed on to the commercial bank who retains credit risk for the
restructured loan and who is responsible for loan supervision. The amount for credit risk and other intermediation
risks is expected to be about 5 % for restructured loans to corporations, but this will be determined by the market.
The corresponding amounts proposed for the UDI program for restructured mortgages are: 2% to cover the
UDI Trust funding rate; up to a maximum of 4% to cover intermediation and loan administration. In this way the
mortgagee is subject to a maximum real borrowing cost of 6% real.
The intermediation amount is not paid quarterly.  It remains in the UDI trust to establish additional
provisioning for the loan and is paid out to the commercial banks pro-rata with any principal maturities.
UDI loans are repaid in NP on annual maturity dates in maturities of equal real value in terms of UDIs, or in
"flat" payments (as in a standard mortgage in the US). For instance, a five-year restructured loan of 500 UDIs, to be
paid in equal maturities after one year of grace, would pay the NP value for the relevant date of 125 UDIs each year
for four years.
B.     The UDI Trust Funding Rate Structure
Under the restructuring program for private sector corporations, the UDI trust funding rate is
derived as follows:
UDI Trust                     4% real paid           ( SAR(r) - 4% ) deposited into
Funding                 =     as current        +   the UDI Trust and paid pro-rata
Rate                          interest               with principal maturity payments



-107-
ANNEX XI
Page 7 of 8
SAR(r) is the real rate of interest paid on SAR accounts, or 4%, whichever is greater. In effect, the 4%
component is paid by the borrower of the UDI trust and passed on to the Government. Any amount by which SAR(r)
exceeds 4% is paid by the relevant commercial bank and remains in the trust to establish additional provisioning.
Available cash balances are invested in UDI trust securities. In this way, the UDI trust securities purchased by the
Government to fund the UDI trust, earn at least the same rate of real interest as that paid by the Government on SAR
accounts, except that in the case of UDI trust securities, only the 4% component is paid out on a current basis.
C.      Market References for the UDI Trust Funding Rate
During the current period, the real rate of interest paid on SAR accounts, i.e., SAR(r), is 6.85%. This is
an administered rate set every two months by joint decision of SHCP and the Banco de Mexico. By contrast, the
market's real rate of interest applicable to funding (i.e., the market rate for 28-day CETES minus inflation) amounted
to an average of 5% in Mexico over 1970 to the present. However, the rate was highly volatile, with a standard
deviation of 1,600 basis points. The CETES real rate amounted to an average of 8% over the PACTO years (i.e.,
1988 to the present), with a lower standard deviation, reflecting a period of increased stability. Thus, the funding
rate applicable to the UDI trust will likely incorporate a present value subsidy.
In terms of short-term rates, current nominal rates of interest for two benchmarks in Mexico, as at April
5,1995, are as follows:
CETES           75.00 %         (28-day treasury bill)
TIIP            88.62 %         (28-day tasa de interes interbancaria)
During the month of March 1995, the inflation rate was reported as 5.9%  which, annualized, amounts to
about 100%. Based on this experience and the Government's announced price and VAT increases, the authorities are
projecting 8% inflation for April. Thus, while Mexico is currently experiencing negative short-term real interest
rates, historically Mexico has had high positive long-term real rates.
The extremely high volatility of Mexico's real rate of interest has a strong negative impact on the local
capital market, and the introduction of the real fixed-rate feature of the UDI restructuring program is considered one
of its most beneficial features.
D.      Provisioning Under the UDI Restructuring Program
Provisioning in the UDI trust is to be carried out as follows.
(a) There is an initial 15 % provision for all loans.
(b) Thereafter, the commercial bank must augment provisions when asset quality deteriorates as determined
by the CNBV or the commercial banks.
(c) Importantly, prior to restructuring "C" and "D" loans require 20% and 60% provisioning respectively.
Thus, at present, the guidelines would permit a release of reserves to be used as credits against future
provisioning requirements. However, Government authorities believe that an average number of A and B
loans will be restructured so that such a release of reserves will not be large. In addition the Government
will be undertaking special inspections of UDI restructured loans placed in trust.
Furthermore, it is important to note that commercial bank must add to the UDI trust the difference between
the SAR rate of interest and 4% (if positive) times the value of the restructured loan portfolio. Also, all amounts
paid by the debtor toward the "credit risk and other intermediation risk" component of the UDI trust lending rate are
applied to establish additional reserves in the UDI trust. At final payment and liquidation of the UDI trust, all
amounts owed to the Government are paid out, prior to making payments to the commercial banks.



-108-
ANNEX XI
Page 8 of 8
IV.    Implementation and Risks of the UDI Restructuring Program
The proposed UDI restructuring program will be implemented quickly, because it provides strong incentives
and few drawbacks for creditors and debtors to reach agreement. Some of the potential positives and negatives are
listed below:
Creditors:
+ Resolves potentially viable, but currently non performing, assets
+ May release provisions from non performing assets to build general provisions
+ Reduces administrative cost of work out of viable assets
+ Generates income
- Uncertain payment obligation to trust
- Poor use of resources if non viable companies refinance
Debtors:
+ Reduces debt service (from 80 - 100% range to 8 - 10%)
+ Subsidizes (initially) rate of interest
+ Reduces management time spent on crisis management
- Rationed, not available to all bank debt
There are two major risks associated with the Support Programs. First, some banks may seek to reschedule
nonviable borrowers to avoid recognizing losses. To mitigate this risk, the CNBV will not permit grace periods for
restructured loans originally classified D or E. In addition, special inspections will be undertaken of UDI trusts and
if such assets are found to be non-performing provisions will be required. Also, there could be large fiscal costs
associated with the Programs if the realized real CETES interest rates is higher than the SAR rate (or 4% which
ever is higher) or if the loan quality of restructured loans worsens. To mitigate fiscal surprises, the Government has
agreed to review the fiscal financing position of the Program with the Bank during the course of its implementation.
Chart I: Schematic of the Support Programs for UDIs:
Commercial Bank                                   Federal Government
Restructured                                  Trust securities       Government
Portfolio in                                  denominated in           Bonds
fl r  UDI'S                                     UDI'S          (Capitalized at 28
(Paying UDI+4%)  day CETES rate)
Government
Bonds
(Capitalized at 28                     Trust
day CETES rate)
Reestructured Trust securities
Portfolio in    denominated in
UDI'S            UDI'S
(Paying UDI+4%)



-109-
ANNEX XII
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
Legal/Regulatory Obstacles to Securitization and Secured Transactions
Securitization
Securitization is an important mechanism for providing banks with fresh resources to lend and for efficiently
allocating risks among investors with different appetites for risk. For a number of years the Mexican authorities have
worked on improving the regulatory framework of securitization in the context of fostering a market for mortgage
securities. Significant progress has already been made on the appropriate treatment for banks that securitize assets.
However, the existing regulations need to be refined to address in detail the form and treatment of specific securitization
instruments (both mortgage-backed securities and others) and legal obstacles in a number of areas at both the federal and
state levels need to be addressed before a significant market in securitized assets can develop.
Securitization can also be an important element in devising market-oriented solutions to disposing of bank assets.
Economic interests in securitized pools of assets can be prioritized, creating a range of securities with risk characteristics
appropriate for different types of investors. Healthy banks as well as troubled institutions may substantially clean up their
balance sheets and reduce their portfolio of risky loans by transferring assets through securitization schemes to different
types of investors willing to accept different degrees of risk. In addition, securitization schemes could serve as a means of
returning to the private sector assets that come into the possession of the Government in the course of the bank resolution
process.
As a step to improving the framework for asset securitization, the Government will conduct a study to identify
remaining regulatory obstacles and legal impediments to asset securitization and make the recommendations for removing
such obstacles and impediments available to the Bank by December 21, 1995. Thereafter, CNBV and SHCP will initiate
the process of removing such remaining legal and regulatory obstacles.
Secured Transactions
By all accounts, Mexico's system for pledging movable goods as collateral and enforcing such pledges urgently
needs to accommodate a broader set of permitted transactions at lower transactions costs. The types of movable goods that
may be the subject of an enforceable pledge without delivery of the collateral to the lender are limited to certain types of
identifiable property. Floating charges and enforceable pledges of after-acquired property and proceeds are in practice not
available. The public registries where security interests are recorded, which are administered by the states and the Federal
District, have historically been poorly maintained. Searching and recording such liens as may legally be filed is often
expensive and time-consuming. Uniformity of operating practices among registries is lacking.
In the absence of consistent laws and efficient procedures for securing loans by a pledge of movable goods in the
possession of the borrower, the vast majority of lending by Mexican financial institutions to small and medium-sized
enterprises, as well as to largest companies, is secured by personal guarantees and real estate. This has a number of
negative consequences for the health of the banking system and the availability of credit to borrowers on reasonable terms.
The value of bank assets is overly sensitive to movements in the residential and commercial real estate markets since real
property most often represents the only practical collateral. Lending is biased toward larger and older companies more
likely to have interests in real property that can serve as collateral. More dynamic start-ups, and small and medium
enterprises, often operate in rented or fully mortgaged premises, so potentially beneficial lending by banks to such
borrowers is limited, reducing bank profits. The attractiveness of the Mexican financial sector to investors is also limited
by the poor system of secured transactions. Foreign banks that might otherwise invest in, or directly enter, the Mexican
market find that profitable lines of business available to them in other countries are closed off. Finally, manufacturer and
dealer credit (most often secured by movable goods sold by dealers to small and medium-sized enterprises) has little
opportunity to develop and compete with bank lending.



-110-
ANNEX XII
Page 2 of 2
The Government, recognizing the importance of secured transactions to the health of a modern financing system, is
committed to updating the legal framework and improving the functioning of the registries for both real and movable
property. A study to identify the shortcomings of, and propose changes to, the legal/regulatory framework for secured
lending will be conducted and the recommendations made available to the Bank by December 31, 1995. Thereafter, the
Government will initiate the process of improving the legal/regulatory framework for secured transactions on the basis of
such recommendations.
May 19, 1995



ANNEX XIII
Page 1 of 4
MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
SUMMARY OF IBRD OPERATIONS
(As of March 31, 1995)
Amount in US$ million
(less cancellation)
CrediV             Fiscal
Loan No.           Year        Borrower                 Purpose                Bank        IDA    Undisburs
ed
114 loans fully disbursed                                                     14,551.84
Of which SECALs, SALs, Program Loans, and Interest Support
Ln. 1929-ME         1981    BANOBRAS        Railway IV                           149.88
Ln. 2331-ME         1983    BANCOMEXT   Export Development                      349.33
Ln. 2745-ME         1987   BANCOMEXT   Trade Policy Loan 1                      498.63
Ln. 2777-ME         1987    BANCOMEXT   Export Development 11                   246.37
Ln. 2882-ME         1988    BANCOMEXT   Trade Policy Loan II                    500.00
Ln. 2916-ME         1988   NAFIN            Steel Restructuring                  100.00
Ln. 2918-ME         1988   NAFIN            Agricultural Sector Loan             300.00
Ln. 2919-ME         1988   NAFIN            Fertilizer Sector                   200.00
Ln. 3085-ME         1989   BANOCOMEXT Financial Sector Adjustment               486.41
Ln. 3087-ME         1989   NAFIN            Industrial Sector Policy            497.51
Ln. 3086-ME         1989   NAFIN            Public Enterprise Reform            499.39
Ln. 3159-ME         1990   BANCOMEXT   Interest Support Loan                   1,260.00
Ln. 3207-ME         1990   BANOBRAS         Road Transport& Telecom.            380.00
Ln. 3309-ME         1991    BANCOMEXT   Export Sector                             25.00
Ln. 3357-ME         1991    NAFIN           Agricultural Sector Adj. II         400.00
Subtotal                       5,892.52
Ln. 2658-ME         1986   NAFIN            Agricultural Dev. Proderith II        88.30                 26.91
Ln. 2666-ME         1986   BANOBRAS         Municipal Strengthening               40.00                  0.34
Ln. 2669-ME         1986    BANOBRAS        Solid Waste Management Pilot          25.00                   8.24
Ln. 2824-ME         1987   BANOBRAS         Urban Transport 1                     90.98                  15.50
Ln. 2858-ME         1987   NAFIN            Small/Medium-Scale Industry IV       100.00                  0.32
Ln. 2916-ME         1988   NAFIN            Steel Sector Restructuring          321.01                  49.78
Ln. 3047-ME         1989   NAFIN            Industrial Restructuring            250.00                   9.01
Ln. 3083-ME         1989   NAFIN            Hydroelectric Development           460.00                  38.42
Ln. 3140-ME         1990   BANOBRAS         Low-Income Housing 11               350.00                   5.37
Ln. 3189-ME         1990   NAFIN            Transmission & Distribution         450.00                  66.14
Ln. 3208-ME         1990   BANOBRAS         Telecomm. Technical Assistance        22.00                  0.44
Ln. 3271-ME         1991    BANOBRAS        Water Supply & Sanitation           300.00                   0.56
Ln. 3272-ME         1991    NAFIN           Basic Health Care                    180.00                 63.80
Ln. 3310-ME         1991    NAFIN           Decentralization & Regional         350.00                   11.97
Develop.
Ln. 3358-ME         1991    NAFIN           Technical Training III               152.00                 51.27
Ln. 3359-ME         1991    NAFIN           Mining Sector Restructuring          200.00                 103.63
Ln. 3407-ME         1992   NAFIN            Primary Education                   250.00                  90.44
Ln. 3419-ME         1992   NAFIN            Irrigation & Drainage Sector        400.00                 195.71
Ln. 3461-ME         1992   BANOBRAS         Environment/Natural Resources         50.00                 35.13
Ln. 3465-ME         1992   NAFIN            Agricultural Technology              150.00                126.76
Ln. 3475-ME         1992   NAFIN            Science & Technology                 189.00                 144.58
Infrastructure
Ln. 3497-ME         1992   BANOBRAS         Housing Market Development          450.00                  137.04
Ln. 3518-ME         1993    NAFIN           Initial Education                     80.00                 66.56
Ln. 3542-ME         1993    NAFIN           Labor Market & Prod.                 174.00                  98.39



-112-
ANNEX XIII
Page 2 of 4
ME3ICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEEICO
SUMMARY OF IBRD OPERATIONS
(As of March 31, 1995 - US$ millions)
Enhancement
Ln. 3543-ME         1993   NAFIN            Transport Air Pollution Control      220.00                 187.24
Ln. 3559-ME         1993   BANOBRAS         Medium Cities Transport              200.00                 186.16
Ln. 3628-ME        1993   BANOBRAS          Highway Rehab. & Traffic Safety      480.00                335.73
Ln. 3704-ME         1994   NAFIN            On-Farm & Minor Irrigation           200.00                 180.66
Network
Ln. 3722-ME        1994   NAFIN             Primary Education II                 412.00                380.20
Ln. 3750-ME a>    1994   BANOBRAS           N. Border I Environment              368.00                368.00
Ln. 3751-ME a>    1994   BANOBRAS           Water/Sanitation II                  350.00                350.00
Ln. 3752-ME a>    1994   BANOBRAS           Solid Waste II                       200.00                200.00
Ln. 3778-ME        1995   NAFIN             Rainfed Areas Development             85.00                  75.23
Ln. 3790-ME        1995   NAFIN             Second Decentralization              500.00                460.00
Ln. 3805-ME a>    1995   NAFIN              Technical Education/Training         265.00                265.00
Ln. 3838-ME a>    1995   NAFIN              Financial Sector T.A.                 23.60                 23.60
Sub-total                       8,425.89              4,358.13
Total                          22,977.73
Of Which has been repaid        7,468.29
Total now held by the Bank     15,509.44
Amount sold          : 92.34
Of which has been repaid: 92.34
Total Undisbursed               4,358.13               4,358.13
a> Not yet effective



-113-
ANNEX xm
MEXICO                                                       Page 3 of 4
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
SUMMARY OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1995 - US$ millions)
_9nguz   oz  1,omm4nn                r.w    nasa by  untanawea
Fuscai Year                                                                   IFC      liFG    P a-                 byo pSi-  Onu
Coenmhad   Compy                                Type of Buwnas                 on       E       p        Total      IFC    pn       Pbipas)
1958          Bristol de Mexico SA/             Airciaft Engine OverhaLi         032                 -       032        -
195/59        Indstas  Prfect C!rcle SA.        Industial Equipment              0.0       -         -       0.0 -ti
1 91         Acaros Solar S.A. hA               TwAst Drills                      -        -       0.2t      0.2       -          -             -
19621618    Futididor.MontimreySA/a             Sttow                            1.81    21.45     0.48    23.74       -          -             -
1963          Cuini_ dd Rqy SA. /a              Sodium Sulphate                  0.07      -       0.a8      0.75       -
1963          Tubs de Awcro de Maxico(Tamsa /a  Stainles Steal Pipes             am        -       0.19      1.00       -
19846         IndA,ria del Hierro SA            Constucdon Eruipment              -       1.96       -       1.96       -         -             -
1970          Minwa del Ncte /a                iron Ore Mining                   0.75      -       0.75      1.*0       -         _
1971          Cdxanesa MexicansSA S.            Taxsiis                          8.00      -       4.00     12.00       -
1972         Promotor Papl Priodico SACV;a   Puip a Paper /b                      -      0.03       -       0.03       -
1973/79      Careno nVaruZS.A.h/                Cement                          11.35      -       4.50    15.85       -
1974481      Cancun Ariss HoXtl /s             Towism                             . 96    0.2        -      1.30             -                  -
197W578      Maxinox SAl./                      Stelinies Sbis                  12.00    3.18       -      15.1S       -
197195       Teratisl  Maxicane, SAI            Petocharnicars                 39.00       -      20.00    59.00    20.00      20.00        40.00
1978181/84   PaPeles Pondroe SA/a               Pulp & Papr                      8.20    4.9       4.50    1m5         -          -
19799181/87   Hotl Carnino Real L     S.A      Tourism                            -      4.20       -       4.20     4.20
i970/8       impresas Toltla. SA  /I            Cament                         30.00    795    131.00    1759          -
1979         Conduobrae Montrney SA             Eaedrical MV* & Cable            8.41      -      13.00    21.41     1.49
19890        Incuaius Rasixol, SAbia           Partici  Board                   8.00       -      17.9C    25.00       -          -             -
s190          MAnem Real deArg.laa.S.AIJS       Mining                         30.00       -      80.00    110.00      -
198O         Vidrio Pano de MexAic S.A. ad     Fi Glass                        15.00       -     99.90    114.90       -
i911/86i      Grupolndustril Aft(Gias)aJ       Pulp & Paper                    15.50       -     44.00     59.50       -          -             _
1981         Corp Agroindusil. SA(Univa) /a   Agribusiness                     6.30    3.00      5.00     14.30       -
1984        Crapiti Goods Fraiity /a           Capisi Goods Financing          34.00       -     66.00    100.00       -          -             -
198488/94   M-aLa. SA.                         Auto Chasbis                    32.00     1.40     t5.00    68.40    24.83      35.00        25.00
19i          Protoison SiA. do C.V. Ia         Agribusines                      1.9.5    O2         -       2.77       -          -             -
i9a5         Prom. lndustriaies Mazicwm. SA.    Prochemicals                   3200        -      4.40     3a.40    13.50
19g8/88      Cdluilo  Y Papal dea urango,Si.CV  FPulp & Paper                  10.00    3.07        -      13.07       -
1987         Agromex(AESA)/l                   Vag. &FruitProcessing            1.50    0.50                2 2W00     -
1967         Industrs Suamerx. Si. DE C.V. a/   Chemicals & P.tochemicals       2.00    0.50        -       2.50       -
1989         Cica Const. Guar. Fac /l           Const Guarantee Facility       20.00       -        -      20.CO       -
1988         Seaied Power at Mexico            Auto Assembly                    9.00            -           9.00     0.75
i988/95      Sigma AJimentos. SA da C.V.(Saluri) Food & Food Proces4ing        40.96    7.00    32C00      79.96    27.00      32.00         7.50
1988         Vulica Shipping Company           Inustria svi                        -        -       -       0.00    16.50
1988         Ctecent Mrket Aggregze            ConStnUtion Matrials            ,3.00       -        -      73.C0    24.14         -
1988         Apasco, SA. de C.V.                Coment & C*nxl MateriaLs       46.00       -        -      4t.00    14.33         -
1991/92193   Apasco. SAde C.V. /c              Cement&ConsL Matriais           49.91       -               49.91                  -
1994         Apaus= S.A. de C.V. /c            Cement& Conat Materils          10.00       -     40.00     50.00    10.00      40.00
1989         Banca Sertin                      Davmopment Finsrce              60.OU(               -      60.00    52.00         -             -
1989         Cmernntos MaxieLnos               Crment & Conat Mat              60.00       -      8.00     68.00    11."3        -              -
1989 gGupo FemsiVims                           Consumer Good Conglomer         80.00    2750        -    107.50    57.78         -              -
1ga9992      Polimar(ASS) SA. deC.V.           Petrochemicals                  19.10       -        -      19.10     9.58         -             -
1990         Bancorner Credit Unaela           Develpment Finance              20.00       -        -      20.00       -          -             -
1990         Banco Nacional de Mexico          Development Finance             60.00       -        -      60.00    39.5'       5.00         2.40
1990191      Catosmiex SA de.C.V. Ic           Elatomnsnufaciring              35.00     9.54    18.00     8254    24.C46       9.0             -
1990         Inoslpro, SiA. deC.V.             Petrochemicals                  31.00       -      3.C0     34.00    24.75       1.13
1991         Mexc Fund /a                      Money & Capit Markots              -        -      8.57      6357
1991         PeWOCel. SA.                      Chemicals & Petrochemicals       2.00       -        -      32.00     S.0         -
1991         Vifro Fotdo SA. de C.V.           Glass & Related Manuact.urirng  28.00       -    101.00    126.00    24.38     63.13             -
S991         Viro. SA.                         Glass&lReated Manufatuwing         -    10.17      8.04      .21    10.17         -
1992         Aidiantas Leon SA. de C.V.        BSattery Mnutaflng              10.00     7-03       -      17.03     9.50        -
1992         Banco Mreantil det Nort SN.C.     Development Finance             20.00       -        -      20.00       -         -              -
1992         Cadut de Teletona. S.A. de C.V.   Tdelommunicadons                15.00     1.00    3700      53.00    10.co     3a.73          2."8
1 992        Grupo Financiers Proburza S.A. de CV  Oevelopment Finance            -      7.50       -       7.50     7.50        -              -
1992         Grupolndustfral Sinoo.S.A. de C.V.   B krwy                       25.00       -     75.00    100.00    21.43      58.33
1992193        iOrugo PoadrLs S.A. d C.V.      Tourism                         20-00    3.72    33.50      57.22    20.00      33.50
1902         Maioco City Toluca Tall Road      Transport & Storage             13.75       -        -      13.75     9.55         -
1993         Ceulooa y Cerwados S A. de C.v.   Tertrles.Packaging              11.00       -     2e.00     37 00    11.00      24.07            _



-114-
ANNEX XIII
Page 4 of 4
MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXCO
SUMMARY OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1995 - US$ millions)
urigiru twoux tommumnts            -"ic      la uy  una
Frical Year                                                                  IFC       IFC   P.bi-                 by    Partid-  Onduldig
Camrnitted Company                             Type of Busiress    Lnan    EqusFy   pwi                 ToWa      IFC    pnb          r       )
1993         Mastarpak S.A. de C.V.            Timber, pulp & paper            12.00      -     28.00    40.00    1 200       25.93 
1994         Alimentos Naturales(Banorta-Sabrosa) Food & agribusinees            -        -        -       0.00     3.00         -              -
1944         Aurum Hellr, Factoraja            Financil Services                 -      0.98        -      0.98     0.98         -
1994         Grupo ldes, S.A. de C.V.          Chemicals &Petrochemicals       15.00    8.00    42.50    85.50     23.00      42.50        35.50
1993/94      Grupo Operador de Terminale
Maritimas S.A. (GCTM)           Industriai Swvices               4.00    2.00      8.00    12.00     3.71         -             -
1994         Internacioral de Ceramica         Cement & constr materials       21.00       -    17.50    38.50    21.00       17.50
1994         Mexicana de Cobra, SA             Nonferoous meals                25.00       -    35.00    80.00    25.00       35.00
1994         Banorte-Pyosa, SA. de C.V.        General manutacturing               -       -        -      0.00     9.70          -
1994         Banorte-Arancia                   General manufacturig               -        -        -     0.00      7.30          -           -
1995         Compania TratLdora de Aguas
Negras do Puerto Vallarh (CTAPV)   Industril Service             7.00       -        -      7.00     7.00          -          5.00
1995         Baring Venture Partnes de Mexico  Financia Services                   -    0.15        -      0.15     0.15                -
1995         Maxplus Puetos                    Infrastructure                    -      1.04       -       1.04     1.04                      -
-Tol  Gros Commi*tint-t jd-                                  -- - 1 17.7  13.   1;054.78. Z2t
Less: Cancellations, Terminations, Repayment, &Sales          5B8.35   82.24   575.97  1 24a.58
: -- .:::; ,. ;-:: : :. - .,- ......................:                                                 - .........:: .. .:...  : .-.:.:--..:.:.
f -f   -       - etComnmibns oNowHelde$                                  5903 -5J :    Z .i. 5        f- ii-  :  471.8t' :,t25.96     47.15    478.87 r1.2
Pending Commitments:
Baring Venture                   Financial Services                 -    10.00       -      10.00
.. T.olf5-: sE. Comtmen reld rn  P~nr ng Commlmi                         93    6-8    471    1 ; 35 - 
; .: : . . . .-.sxre Comlneb                                               5.2-  f          6. 0--0   f f .:     f   5 f  
3/ Investm-nts which have been fully canceliled, terminated, written-off, sold, redeemed, or repaid.
c/ Excludes placements of 530.0 millon (Apasco). 320.0 million (Vitro), and 519.8 million (Condumex)
d/ Consists of approved and signed projects (including underwriting, but excluding swap branssclions i.e.. oancea Sertin US6.5 million,
Indeipro 56.0 million, banamex S40.0 million and Grupo P'osadas 1155,.5 million).
e/ Held Commitments consist of disbursed and undisbursed inv stments



-1 15-
ANNEX XIV
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
Supplementary Data Sheet
I.     Timetable of Key Events
(a)    Time taken to prepare the program:     3 months
(b)    Missions:                              March and April 1995
(c)    Negotiations:                          May 1995
(d)    Planned date of effectiveness:        June 1995
II.    Special Conditions
(a)    Conditions of Loan Effectiveness
(i)    Satisfactory continued implementation of the economic stabilization program described in the
Letter of Financial Sector Development Policy.
(ii)    Satisfactory progress in the execution of the FSRP.
(iii)    Recruitment of an independent auditing firm to assist in the preparation of diagnostic studies of
banks, and initiation of the diagnostic study of at least one intervened bank, satisfactory to the
Bank.
(iv)    Recruitment of investment banks or specialized consultants or firms to assist in the preparation of
restructuring plans of banks.
(v)    Formulation of uniform accounting principles (including consolidation of financial statements)
consistent with internationally accepted principles (U.S. GAAP), and consistent across all
transactions and activities for financial statements and regulatory reports of banks.
(vi)    Submission of terms of reference for studies on: (i) the impact of establishing risk-based exposure
limits for the liabilities of each FI with regard to the DFEs; (ii) the establishment of eligibility
criteria for Fl participation in DFE second tier financial operations and the impact of establishing
rating requirements by qualified private agencies; and (iii) the interest rate policy in domestic and
foreign currency, including an evaluation of its incentive structure and its impact on financial
markets and final borrowers.
(b)    Conditions of Second Tranche Release.
(i)    Satisfactory continued implementation of the economic stabilization program described in the
Letter of Financial Sector Development Policy.
(ii)    Satisfactory progress in the execution of the FSRP.
(iii)    Review with the Bank of the results of all completed diagnostic studies for PROCAPTE banks
and intervened banks.



-116-
ANNEX XIV
Page 2 of 2
(iv)    Satisfactory progress in executing CNBV's inspection program of banks and review of the
resultswith the Bank.
(v)     Submission to the Bank for its review of the restructuring plans of banks under FOBAPROA
control (including implementation strategies), prepared in accordance with the Operating
Guidelines for bank restructuring, and approved by CNBV, SHCP and FOBAPROA.
(vi)    Satisfactory progress in the execution of the bank restructuring plans.
(vii)   Issuance of regulations for revised uniform accounting principles (including consolidation of
financial statements) for banks consistent with intemationally accepted accounting principles, for
application beginning January 1, 1996 and completion no later than for year-end 1996 accounts.
(viii)  Issuance of revised accounting principles (including consolidation of financial statements) for non-
bank financial institutions that are affiliates of financial groups with bank affiliates consistent with
intemationally accepted accounting principles.
(ix)    Issuance of supplemental intemal instructions, for inspection of banks (including development
banks) covering, inter alia, asset classification and provisioning, exclusion of de facto treasury
stock (stock owned or financed directly or indirectly by related entities, or covered by repurchase
agreements) for purposes of capital adequacy standards, composition of Tier I capital, large
exposures and concentration, and related party lending.
(x)     Review with the Bank of the need for the issuance of new prudential regulations for banks, and
issuance of such regulations to the extent necessary.
(xi)    Issuance of new prudential regulations with respect to capital adequacy standards for brokerage
firms.
(xii)   (a) Review of the results of the studies (see II (a)(vi) above) with the Bank; (b) preparation of an
action plan on the basis of such reviews; and (c) necessary official action for the implementation
of such action plan on the basis of a phased implementation schedule.
May 20, 1995






IMAGING
Report No: P-   6616 ME
Type; PR



