Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 18012
IMPLEMENTAT'ION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING LOAN
[Loan 3911-ME]
May 26, 1998
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure SMU
Country Management Unit 1
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =    New Mexico Peso (MexNP)
US $1.00          MexNP8.48 (May 1, 1998)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1st - December 31st
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADE                    Acuerdo de Apoyo Immediato a los Deudores de la
Banca (Debtor Relief Program)
BBV                    Banco Bilbao Vizcaya (Spanish Bank)
CAMEL                  Evaluation of Capital, Asset Quality, Management,
Earnings and Liquidity
CNB                    Comision Nacional Bancaria (National Banking Commission)
CNBV                   Comisi6n Nacional Bancaria de Valores (National Banking and Securities
Commission) (Until March 1995, CNB, Comisi6n Nacional Bancaria)
FOBAPROA               Fondo Bancario de Protecci6n al Ahorro (Bank
Fund for Savings Protection)
FSRL                   Financial Sector Restructuring Loan
FTAL                   Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan (3838-ME)
HSBC                   HSBC Holdings plc (Parent of Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation)
IDB                    Inter-American Development Bank
IFC                    International Finance Corporation
IMF                    International Monetary Fund
NAFIN                  Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
OECD                   Organization for Economic Cooperation & Development
PROCAPTE               Programa de Capitalizaci6n Temporal (Temporary Capitalization Program)
SHCP                   Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Pdblico (Ministry of Finance and Public
Credit)
SPEUA                  Sistema de Pagos Electr6nicos de Uso Ampliado (Amplified Use Electronic
Payments System)
UCABE                  Unidad Cordinadora para el Acuerdo Bancario Empresarial (Bank Enterprise
Coordination Unit)
UDI                    Unidad de Inversi6n (Investment Unit)
VVA                    Valuaci6n y Venta de Activos
:  0 00   0 00 Vice 0President      ;  0           Shahid Javed Burki
t;     0S;0 Country Managemernt UJit Director  Olivier Lafourcade
: v~~Sector Management Unit Director Danny Leipziger
0   :  ~Task Manager                       .Michele Lubrano



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECT'OR RESTRUCTURING LOAN
Loan 3911-ME
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY..............................................................................
PART I: INTRODUCTION ........................................................I
PART II: BRIEF HISTORICAL BACKGROUND ON THE SECTOR
A. Conditions Prior to the Crisis..............3
B. The Government's Response ..................................................3
C. Constraints on the Government's Response ..................................................5
PART III: STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES ................................        7
PART IV: ACHIEVEMENT OF STATED OBJECTIVES
A. Solvency and Soundness of Mdexico's Banks; Bank Restructuring;
Confidence in the Financial System .................................................. 9
B. Improved Accounting Standards; Prudential Regulations;
Strengthened Supervision; Prevention of Recurrence ................................. 18
C. Improved Discipline in the Provision of Liquidity by the Banco
de Mexico .................................................              22
D. Initiate Reforms in Development Bank Lending, Accounting
Practices and Regulation of Financial Groups, and the Deposit
Insurance System .................................................      22
PART V: MAJOR FACTORS AFFEiCTING THE PROJECT
A. Macroeconomic Environment .................................................  25
B. Socio-Political Environment .................................................  28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



PART VI: PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY                        ....................................... 29
PART VII: BANK PERFORMANCE
A. Preparation and Negotiation .....................................            31
B. Supervision ...........................................                     31
C. Inputs to Government Response; Policy Dialogue .................................... 33
PART VIII: BORROWER PERFORMANCE                           ................................... 37
PART IX: ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME                          ...................................... 39
PART X: LESSONS LEARNED
A. Responding to a Crisis ...........................................          41
B. Lessons for Operations ...........................................          41
C. Lessons for the Financial Sector ...........................................  42
PART XI. ANNEXES ...........................................                            43
A. Chronology of Important Events in the Mexican Banking
Sector 1994-1997
B. Capital Increases and Purchased Loans by FOBAPROA
C. Government Estimate of Fiscal Cost of Banking System Rescue
D. Changing Composition of Mexican Banking System, 1994-1998
E. ICR Borrower's Report



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTPOR RESTRUCTURING LOAN
LOAN 3911-ME
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Financial Sector
Restructuring Program, for which Loan 3911-ME in the amount of US$1,000 million was
approved on June 22, 1995 and made effective on July 21, 1995.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1996. It was fully disbursed, and the
second and final disbursement was approved on July 12, 1996.
This ICR was prepared by Mr. Michele Lubrano (CCMSD) and is based on
information available as of February 1998. It was reviewed by Mr. Fernando Montes-
Negret, Sector Leader, Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure, LCC 1 C and Mr. Sri-
Ram Aiyer, Task Manager of the FSRL and former Director, LAT (now Director,
EACKO). Mr. Carl Dahlman (Staff Director, DECWD), Mr. Monte-Negret's predecessor
as Sector Leader, also contributed to the preparation of the report. A draft of this ICR was
circulated to the staff of LAC, FSD, DEC, LEGLA and EXC involved in the Mexican
financial sector operations, discussions were held, and comments received have been
incorporated into this final version. Part IV. A. ("Major Factors Affecting the
Project-Macroeconomic Environment") was prepared by Mr. Ulrich Lachler, Principal
Economist, LCC1C. Ms. Andrea Semaan assisted in the preparation of Annexes A
through D to this report. The Borrower contributed to the ICR by preparing his own
evaluation of project execution, which is included as Annex E.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECT'OR RESTRUCTURING LOAN
LOAN 3911-ME
EVALIJATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Financial Sector Restructuring Loan (FSRL) was conceived as part of a set of
bi-lateral and multi-lateral measures (including assistance from the United States
government, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) collectively referred to as the "Mexican Rescue Package"
intended to reassure financial markets and restore confidence in the Mexican financial
system. The Mexican Authorities, with the help of the Bank team, developed a set of
objectives and guidelines for action. The loan was structured as a two tranche
operation-US$500 million disbursed almost immediately and a second tranche
conditional on completion of diagnost:ic audits of intervened and troubled banks,
thorough examinations of all major banks, implementation of new accounting rules and
completion of studies for the improvement of the legal/regulatory framework for private
debt restructuring, secured transactions and asset-backed securities. Developing options
for a roll-back of Mexico's over-extensive deposit protection system was included as a
dated covenant.
Project Objectives
2.    The stated objectives of the program supported by the FSRL were to: (a) restore
the solvency and soundness of Mexico's banking system, restructure banks and improve
confidence in the financial system; (b) reform accounting standards and prudential
regulation for banks, and strengthen supervision to prevent future recurrence of systemic
problems; (c) improve discipline in the provision of liquidity by the Banco de Mexico;
and (d) initiate reforms in development bank lending, accounting practices and regulation
of financial groups, and the deposit insurance system. Although, as discussed below,
objective (a) was probably an over-ambitious one and achievement of the other objectives
was not complete, the issues addressed by the stated objectives of the loan-adequacy of
bank capital, restructuring of banks, accounting standards, prudential regulation, the
incentive regime, supervision and the quality of information on banks-have proven over
time to be the critical ones and they remain the focus of discussion both among the
Mexican Authorities and between the Mexican Authorities and Bank staff.
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    The degree to which each of the stated objectives of the program has been
achieved has been varied:



ii
a) While it was not expected that a rapid and full restoration of the banking system's
solvency and soundness would be achieved in the immediate aftermath of the crisis,
more rapid progress in this direction was anticipated than in fact occurred. This
slower than expected progress is largely explained by the fact that the condition of the
banks was in reality much worse than the information available to the Mexican
Authorities indicated when the loan was prepared. The disposition of intervened
banks, while initially proceeding at a slower than expected pace, accelerated toward
the end of 1996. However, these interventions and the open-bank assistance program
that became a central element of the Authorities' strategy have created an overhang of
assets in Government hands that has ballooned to US$42 billion. A comprehensive
strategy for resolving these assets still needs to be developed along with a strategy for
financing the additional fiscal costs that are likely to be revealed in the process.
b) The FSRL can be scored positively on achievement of its objectives in respect of
accounting standards, prudential regulations and supervision. When fully
implemented and applied, the new accounting standards adopted by the Mexican
Authorities will be a big step forward for transparency. Prudential regulation has also
been importantly strengthened and those areas that require further strengthening (in
particular, classification and provisioning rules and capital composition) have been
identified as areas to be addressed as soon as practicable. The FSRL can also be
scored positively on helping the National Banking and Securities Commission
(CNBV) to establish procedures to improve internal controls in banks and to increase
the quality of information on the condition of banks now available. However,
evidence suggests that internal controls of banks necessary for accurate reporting to
the CNBV continue to be in need of significant improvement.
c) The objectives of the FSRL in respect of liquidity provision by the Banco de Mexico
were substantially achieved prior to Board approval of the operation. In March 1995
the Banco de Mexico began requiring pricing of central bank intra-day credit on a real
time basis, pledging of collateral by banks that maintain large and frequent overdrafts
with the central bank and debit caps on the portion of daylight overdrafts not
collateralized. The Banco de Mexico also established the Amplified Use Electronic
Payments System (Sistema de Pagos Electr6nicos de Uso Ampliado - SPEUA), a
large value payments system for Mexican commercial banks and their foreign
correspondents.
d) Progress toward reform of development bank lending practices, better accounting and
regulation of financial groups and a more economically rational system for deposit
insurance has clearly been made under the program supported by the FSRL.
However, greater progress was anticipated to have followed, albeit after second
tranche release, in the areas of development bank lending practices and particularly
with respect to the roll-back of FOBAPROA liability coverage.



iii
Summary of Findings, Assessment of Outcome and Lessons Learned
4.    A number of important factors had an important impact on the Mexican
Authorities' ability to respond to the crisis in the banking system and the achievement of
the objectives of the program supported by the FSRL. These included: macroeconomic
and fiscal constraints (generating a strong bias against actions that might result in large
fiscal outlays in the short-term); institutional limitations and incomplete information on
the financial condition of banks; distortions in the incentives facing bank managers and
limited managerial capacity in the financial sector; and socio-political considerations.
Each of these factors affected the design and implementation of the actions taken by the
Mexican Authorities in response to the crisis in the banking system.
5.    The actions taken by the Mexican Authorities in the aftermath of the peso
devaluation of December 1994 succeeded in restoring a degree of stability and confidence
in the Mexican banking system. Significant consolidation has taken place and strong
foreign institutions have now entered the market. The surviving banks in the system are
clearly less vulnerable than they were in early 1995. However, the system as a whole
remains fragile and does not yet appear to be on a reasonably clear and sustainable path to
full recovery. Some, partial, elements of a complete strategy for full recovery of the
financial sector are clearly in place. But these, by themselves, appear insufficient to take
the system the rest of the way towards full solvency and soundness. Accordingly, project
sustainability should be regarded as uncertain. The principal concerns about project
sustainability include: likely undercapiitalization of banks and continued doubts about
asset quality; the continued presence of excessive bank liability protection and the
distortions it creates in the incentive framework for banks; a very large overhang of
impaired assets in the hands of the Government's resolution agency; remaining
unaddressed issues in the legal/regulatory infrastructure for banking operations; and the
need for a well-articulated strategy for financing the considerable costs incurred in
rescuing the banking system.
6.    The FSRL was prepared in record time. It demonstrated the Bank's ability to
effectively respond to the needs of the client and permitted the Bank to remain engaged in
the resolution of a crisis whose implications went well beyond Mexico. With the
assistance of staff from other regions, the Financial Sector Development Department
(FSD), Development Economics (DEC) and International Finance Corporation (IFC), and
in cooperation with the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the Region's team was
able to build on the work done in connection with the Financial Sector Technical
Assistance Loan (prepared before the onset of the crisis) and to work with the Authorities
to design and prepare an operation that identified and addressed the key policy issues that
are still the focus of both the Government's and the Bank's efforts in the sector.
7.    The Bank's initial supervision efforts were fruitful and reasonably effective.
During the preparation of the FSRL, Bank staff and consultants contributed importantly
to the Government's efforts to gather accurate information on the condition of banks,



iv
develop its strategy for bank resolution and implement other key policies described in the
Memorandum of the President for the operation. After approval of the FSRL, the Bank
staff regularly met with its Mexican counterparts to discuss the progress of the various
programs and actions implemented to address the crisis. They provided periodic inputs
on the longer-term goals for the financial sector, including roll-back of FOBAPROA
liability coverage, greater transparency and disclosure, consolidation of the system,
resolution of intervened banks and disposition of assets and steps to encourage greater
reliance on market supervision.
8.    However, important shortcomings in the effectiveness of the Bank's supervision
efforts arose in the period after October/November 1995. Supervision of the FSRL
absorbed a great deal of the time of the limited number of Region staff with financial
sector experience. While the Region received important assistance from FSD and
experienced outside consultants, these resources were rarely available on a full time basis.
The CNBV commented on several occasions that World Bank staff turnover and the
Bank's use of consultants on a short-term basis limited-the Bank's potential contribution.
In addition, differences arose between the Bank staff and the Mexican Authorities. These
principally revolved around the aggressiveness and timing of implementation of policy
actions. The productivity of the dialogue between Mexico and the Bank on these points
was complicated by disagreements over the need to share non-public information on a
timely basis or to consult with the Bank prior to taking major steps to address the crisis.
9.    Two additional factors complicated efforts to maintain a fruitful dialogue during
the course of supervision. First, the World Bank's financial contribution to the Mexican
Rescue Package was much smaller than that of the IMF or the United States government,
but came with what appeared to some of the Bank's counterparts as much more taxing
conditions. Also, those Mexican officials most often charged with interfacing with the
Bank were the overworked staff of the CNBV. This agency was not the immediate
recipient of the resources disbursed under the FSRL.
10.   The Mexican Authorities responsible for the financial sector can take credit for a
number of critical steps whose successful achievement was by no means a certainty at
the time the FSRL was under preparation, including: averting a collapse of the banking
system at a time of economic contraction and great uncertainty; stabilizing the system
through mechanisms that avoided large current fiscal outlays and that attracted additional
private capital; increasing their capacity to monitor the condition of individual banks and
to analyze the strengths and vulnerabilities of individual institutions and the system as a
whole; and restructuring, liquidating and disposing of intervened banks. Areas where
borrower performance could have been better include: coordination among working level
staff of different agencies; assignment of clear responsibility among agencies (or at least
departments of agencies) and avoidance of conflict of interest; transparency; assessment
of longer-term costs and risks; and sensitivity to, and avoidance of, negative incentives.
11.   Overall, the outcome of the FSRL is assessed as unsatisfactory. A number of the
operation's major objectives have only partially been achieved. Progress toward



v
accomplishing the longer-term objectives of the program supported by the FSRL has
been slow. More importantly, the operation's sustainability remains in question. The
strategy followed thus far has prevented a generalized collapse of the financial system
and restored a degree of confidence, but at high cost and without removing the major
policy (deposit insurance) and structural (transparency and financial infrastructure)
impediments to a market-driven and sound financial system. A clearly articulated
strategy to take the Mexican financial system the rest of the way toward contributing to
economic growth on the basis of efficient and well-capitalized intermediaries has yet to
emerge.
12.   The experience under the FSRL generated important lessons for future Bank
operations in response to a crisis, sector adjustment operations generally, and Bank
projects in the financial sector:
Responding to a Crisis. The Bank should develop special standards for identification,
content, preparation, negotiation and supervision of emergency loans like the FSRL. By
definition, such loans do not benefit from the long identification and preparation periods
that characterize most other Bank operations. In preparing and supervising operations in
sensitive sectors such as the financial s:ystem during a crisis, the Bank needs to have
intelligence on the socio-political context and how it is likely to constrain implementation
of policy actions. The Bank must also be realistic about the degree of access to sensitive
information it can expect its counterparts to provide. The Bank staff must make clear to
their counterparts early on in a sensitive operation what types of information will be
required to be shared. Finally, the Ban]k's ability to contribute to the resolution of crises
like the one that occurred in Mexico would strongly benefit from a well-developed
financial sector strategy at the Global and Regional level.
Lessons for Operations. The Bank needs to develop appropriate Bank-wide strategies
for sector adjustment and other operations whose objectives can be fully achieved only
years after disbursements are complete(l. Better mechanisms also need to be developed
for maintaining continuity of staff working on large and complex operations. Undue staff
turnover hinders effective supervision, generates inefficiencies, is a burden on
counterparts and hurts client confidence in the Bank's ability to offer effective advice.
Lessons for the Financial Sector. The Mexico experience demonstrates the need for
policymakers to be sensitive to the negative incentives created by emergency programs
for the financial sector. In particular, it highlights the importance of ordinarily
conditioning relief to troubled banks on replacement of existing management. A
country's financial sector infrastructure., in particular the legal/regulatory/institutional
framework for making and enforcing credit transactions can be a critical constraint on
developing sounder banking systems and resolving banking problems. The experience of
Mexico highlights the need for greater Bank effort in this area. The Bank has
comparative advantage in bringing to bear a great deal of knowledge and expertise to
address emerging problems in the financial sector. Finally, the Bank's efforts in one area



vi
of the financial sector need to be placed in the context of an over-all strategy for policy
actions in the sector.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING LOAN
LOAN 3911-ME
PART I. INTRODUCTION
1.    The Financial Sector Restructuring Loan (FSRL) was conceived as part of a set of
bi-lateral and multi-lateral measures (including assistance from the United States
government, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB)) collectively referred to as the "Mexican Rescue Package"
intended to reassure financial markets and restore confidence in the Mexican financial
system. On February 9, 1995, following discussions with the Mexican Finance Minister,
the World Bank issued a press release welcoming the international package of loan
guarantees announced the previous week by the President of the United States and
committing the Bank to defining a program of support for Mexico in three areas:
commercial banking and financial sector reform; health, nutrition and educational
services for the poorest regions of the country; and privatization. Preparation of the
Financial Sector Restructuring Loan and other emergency operations began in earnest
following this announcement.'
2.    The Mexican Authorities, with the help of the Bank team, developed a set of
objectives and guidelines for action. However, because of the dynamic nature of the
crisis they left open the precise design Emd timing of a number of the measures that might
ultimately be employed. The loan was structured as a two tranche operation-US$500
million disbursed almost immediately and a second tranche conditional on completion of
diagnostic audits of intervened and troubled banks, thorough examinations of all major
banks, implementation of new accounting rules and completion of studies for the
improvement of the legal/regulatory framework for private debt restructuring, secured
transactions and asset-backed securities. Developing options for a roll-back of Mexico's
over-extensive deposit protection system was included as a dated covenant. From the
start, the Bank and the Mexican Goverrnment planned to negotiate a follow-on operation
to support further progress in the areas of troubled bank resolution, regulation and
supervision, the incentive regime and particularly the roll-back of Mexico's over-
extensive bank liability protection scheme. The Board of the World Bank approved the
FSRL on June 22, 1995.2 IDB approved a companion US $750 million operation on
At the request of EXC, an analysis of the World Bank's response to the Mexico crisis, "Note on the
Lessons for the World Bank of the Mexican Crisis," was prepared by the Office of the Senior Vice
President, Development Economics, and presented to the Board of the Bank on December 17, 1996.
2   At the same meeting, the Board approved an amendment to the Financial Sector Technical Assistance
Loan (FTAL; originally approved in January 1995) to provide additional funds for diagnostic audits
of banks, consultants, seconded superviso:rs, and other efforts to shore-up supervision and provide the



2
substantially the same terns. The release of the second and final tranche of the loan was
approved on July 12, 1996.
National Banking and Securities Commission (CNBV) with the information until then lacking on the
condition of banks and the system as a whole.



3
PART II. BRIEF HISTORICAL BACKGROUND ON THE SECTOR
A. Conditions Prior to the Crisis
3.    The rapid devaluation of the peso, and the period of economic recession and high
interest rates that followed, hit a newly-privatized commercial banking system. In 1990,
constitutional amendments and new banking legislation substantially liberalized the
business of banking and set the stage for the return of the commercial banks to private
hands after a period of almost ten years of state ownership. During the period of state
ownership (1982-1991), lending by the banks to the private sector was limited, with the
bulk of bank assets invested in Government securities and loans to parastatal entities.
Between June 1991 and July 1992, all of the commercial banks then in state hands (18)
were privatized, most of which became the largest subsidiaries of newly-established
financial holding companies. Purchasers paid high multiples (an average of 3.1 times) of
book value and, not surprisingly, quickly began to compete fiercely for market share in
the provision of loans, both by increasing the volume of existing lines of business and by
entering the markets for relatively new financial services, such as home mortgages and
credit cards. Rapid growth in lending 'an annual real growth rate of 23.7% between 1991
and 1994) and the proliferation of new lending products strained the capacity of banks to
maintain proper controls. Reported aggregate past due loans under Mexican accounting
climbed from 4.09% at year-end 1991 to 8.3% at the end of the first half of 1994.
4.    The banking system was severely shaken by the peso devaluation and the
recession that followed. The three immediate adverse effects were: (i) foreign exchange
losses incurred by the banks on account of their unhedged open positions; (ii) decline in
the value of the banks' non-loan assets (consisting mainly of fixed-income securities)
resulting from the sharp rise in domestic interest rates following the collapse of the peso;
and (iii) a sharp decline in capital ratios due to the increase in the peso value of the banks'
dollar-denominated assets and liabilities. In addition to these direct effects, banks faced
significant liquidity pressures, increased funding costs and even more seriously, an
accelerated deterioration in the quality of their loan portfolios attributable to high interest
rates and economic contraction.
B. The Government's Response
5.    The Mexican Government implemented a series of actions to prevent bank runs
and a general collapse of the banking s,ystem as well as to encourage restructuring of
problem loans, debtor performance and recapitalization of banks. The main elements of
the Government's program (several of which were designed and implemented subsequent
to negotiation of the FSRL) were:



4
* Establishment of a special liquidity facility (through the bank support fund -
FOBAPROA3) to provide dollar funding to banks. This facility closed towards the
fall of 1995 as confidence returned and banks were able to return to private money
markets.
* Requiring all banks to increase reserves for loan losses to the highest of: (i) 4% of
loan portfolio; or (ii) 60% of past due loans; or (iii) as required by quarterly loan
classifications under existing rules. In practice, the 60% of past dues requirement has
been the binding one. (This requirement was reduced to 45% after the new
accounting rules went into effect on January 1, 1997.)
*  The Temporary Capitalization Program (PROCAPTE), under which FOBAPROA
purchased subordinated convertible debentures from undercapitalized banks, with the
proceeds redeposited with the Banco de Mexico. Banks were permitted to count the
debentures for purposes of meeting regulatory capital requirements. The program
was wound up within a year as participating banks recapitalized from other sources or
were intervened.
*  An inflation-indexed (Unidad de Inversi6n - UDI) funding program to permit banks
to carry troubled commercial, mortgage, agricultural, state and municipal and
consumer loans restructured into long-term UDI-denominated obligations. Additional
programs to provide direct subsidies to mortgage, agricultural and other borrowers
who remained current on their payments ultimately augmented the initial program.
* An immediate debtor support program (ADE) that provided certain classes of
borrowers (principally consumers and mortgage debtors) with a direct interest rate
subsidy for one year. A number of other support programs for different classes of
debtors were established over the following year or so.
* A loan purchase/recapitalization program under which FOBAPROA purchased a
portion of a bank's loan portfolio in return for a commitment on the part of the bank
to raise additional capital. The additional capital was raised from both existing and
new shareholders and resulted in a dilution of the interest in the bank represented by
its original shares. As payment for the purchased loans, the bank received 1 0-year
non-transferable zero-coupon Government bonds. There were three waves of
transactions involving all of the surviving privatized banks with a total of
approximately US $20 billion face value of assets purchased.
3 FOBAPROA (Fondo Bancario de Proteccion al Ahorro - Bank Fund for Savings
Protection) is a trust managed by the Banco de Mexico, but whose oversight committee is
composed of representatives of the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (SHCP), CNBV and the
Banco de Mexico. FOBAPROA provides a blanket guarantee of all unsubordinated liabilities of
the commercial banks. A fuller description of the governance and activities of FOBAPROA is
included in Annex IX of the Memorandum of the President.



5
* Interventions of seriously decapitalized banks and assistance to stronger banks willing
to merge with weaker institutions. Merger assistance was usually provided in the
form of purchases of troubled assets of the weaker bank by FOBAPROA.
Interventions and mergers typically wiped out all or most of the original interest of
shareholders in intervened or weak banks.
A chronology of important eve nts in the Mexican banking sector is provided in
Annex A.
C. Constraints on the Government's Response
6.    A number of factors were regarded by officials as constraints on the
Government's ability to respond to the crisis in the banking system. These perceived
constraints explain some of the differences between what was anticipated during the
preparation of the FSRL and the actual steps undertaken:
* Macroeconomic/Fiscal Constraints. Subduing inflation levels after the devaluation
was a priority. Therefore, Government actions which caused monetary expansion
were strongly disfavored. To assure the credibility of its fiscal program, the
Government sought to postpone actions that would result in large fiscal outlays in
1995 (and 1996) even at the risk of possibly much larger costs in the long run.
- Institutional/Information Constraints. The demands of the crisis required more
trained staff than the Authorities were able to mobilize. Bank interventions in
particular severely strained resources. When the crisis erupted, the Mexican
Authorities did not yet have the supervisory systems in place to fully assess the
condition of the banks and the system as a whole. This made it difficult to
differentiate between the conditiorns of individual banks and tailor responses.
* Incentives/Bank Management Constraints. The Goverrnment guarantee of all
unsubordinated bank liabilities distorted the incentives for the banking system and
discouraged market discipline. (It also meant that in an individual case, intervention
could be a more costly option for the Government than would have been the case if
large depositors and bondholders could have been made to share in losses.) After ten
years of Government ownership, the newly-privatized banks lacked adequate
management, systems and trained personnel. Weak management is usually regarded
as justifying greater supervisory intervention. However, because the banking system
had only recently been privatized, the Government was not anxious to take more
aggressive action against bank shareholders and managers since this might be
regarded by the public as renationadization and would call into question the execution
of the still recent privatization process.
* Socio-political Considerations. Even prior to the onset of the crisis, an active debtor
movement was militating for some sort of Government relief for over-indebted firms



6
and individuals. In the aftermnath of the peso devaluation, much of the public placed
the responsibility for the economic crisis with the Government and the debtor
movement gained nationwide prominence.



7
PART III. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
7.    The stated objectives of the program supported by the FSRL were to: (a) restore
the solvency and soundness of Mexico's banking system, restructure banks and improve
confidence in the financial system; (b) reform accounting standards and prudential
regulation for banks, and strengthen supervision to prevent future recurrence of systemic
problems; (c) improve discipline in the provision of liquidity by the Banco de Mexico;
and (d) initiate reforms in development banks lending, accounting practices and
regulation of financial groups, and the deposit insurance system. Objectives (b), (c) and
(d) were not original to the program. Most of their elements had been discussed as
longer-term policy goals during preparation of the FTAL. Given that a crisis was
unfolding and that the information then available to the Authorities and the Bank on the
condition of the banking system was known to be incomplete, objective (a) was probably
an over-ambitious one. However, one of the goals of the Authorities (as well as the Bank
and other participants in the Mexican Rescue Package) was to reinforce confidence in the
banking system and demonstrate that immediate and effective steps could be taken to
address the crisis. In any case, the issues addressed by the stated objectives of the
loan-adequacy of bank capital, restructuring of banks, accounting standards, prudential
regulation, the incentive regime, supervision and the quality of information on
banks-have proven over time to be the critical ones and these remain the focus of
discussion both among the Mexican Authorities and between the Mexican Authorities
and Bank staff.






9
PART IV. ACHIEVEMENT OF STATED OBJECTIVES
8.    Although most of the concrete elements of the Government's program supported
by the loan have now been implemented, some of the program's objectives were not
expected to be fuilly achieved for several years. The degree to which the short- and
medium-term goals of the FSRL have been accomplished can be adequately evaluated at
this time. It is also possible to examine current indications and reach some early
conclusions about whether the longer-term objectives are likely to be achieved. Such an
interim assessment is essential as a guide for future World Bank operations in the sector.
A. Solvency and Soundness of Mexiico's Banks; Bank Restructuring; Confidence in
the Financial System
1. Solvency and Soundness of Mexico's Banks.
9.    Before Mexico's banking system can be said to be solvent and sound, adequate
levels of capitalization must be restored, a legal/regulatory environment that sets the
correct incentives for prudent and effective management should be in place, and a
financial infrastructure for lending based on sound practices and adequate information is
required. Important progress in each of these areas has been made by the Authorities
with the Bank's assistance, but much still needs to be done before it can be said that
Mexico is firmly on its way to restoring solvency and soundness.
a. Condition of the System. At the end of December 1997, Mexico's commercial
banking system excluding intervened banks (and other bank assets now under
FOBAPROA ownership) was comprised of 40 banks with assets of P$1,018 billion.
These 40 included 11 banks that were privatized in 1991 and 1992, 10 newly-chartered
domestic banks and 19 primarily newly-chartered subsidiaries of foreign banks.4 The
banks most affected by the crisis and the principal beneficiaries of the Government's
support have been the original privatized banks. Eleven of the original 18 have survived.
At December 31, 1997, these 11 banks reported assets of P$947 billion representing 93%
of the banking system (again excluding intervened banks and assets now under
FOBAPROA ownership).
The banking system overall rernains heavily burdened by nonperforming and low-
earning assets and still inadequate reserves for loan losses. In January 1997, Mexico
formally implemented new accounting rules that materially changed the financial
statement reporting by Mexican banks and financial groups. (See Part IV, B, 1.) The
area most affected by the changes was reporting of past due loans, which, according to
CNBV figures, increased from P$48 billion or 6.4% of loans in December 1996 to P$101
billion or 13.2% at the end of March 1997. Prior to that time, past dues had been
4  Citibank is the only foreign bank operating in Mexico that is not newly chartered or primarily the
result of the acquisition by a foreign bank of a Mexican-owned bank.



10
increasing, but at a declining rate under the old accounting rules. The more than doubling
in past due loans primarily occurred because the previous accounting rules included only
missed payments and not outstanding loan principal-unless the loan had fully or
partially matured. In anticipation of the accounting change, most of the privatized banks
worked aggressively to build reserves for loan losses, assisted in this effort by the
FOBAPROA loan purchase/recapitalization program which relieved them of troubled
assets and created incentives for the infusion of P$63.3 billion in new and committed
capital by shareholders through the FOBAPROA loan purchase/recapitalization program.
(See Part IV, 1, D.) Commercial bank and CNBV officials now indicate that the
deterioration of bank portfolios (with the possible exception of mortgage loans) has
abated. However, it will be several quarters before the extent of past dues is fully
recognized under the new accounting rules.5
b. Capitalization of Mexican Banks. Capital adequacy remains of paramount
concern for the Mexican banking system. However, the lack of transparency in bank
accounting and reporting under the old rules and the as yet not fully consistent
application by banks of the new rules make estimating the actual capital deficiency of the
system imprecise if not speculative. Despite continuing serious problems in their loan
portfolios, Mexico's banks report relatively high capital levels. At June 30, 1997, the
system's average capitalization (excluding intervened banks) was reported at 16% of risk-
weighted assets. Factors that contribute to this apparent anomaly include: (i) less
stringent capital regulation, accounting standards and classification rules than in most
OECD countries (See Part IV, B, 2); (ii) recognition in prior periods of substantial
amounts of capitalized interest; and (iii) recognition of accrued interest from doubtful
assets.6 However, in the aftermath of the crisis new rules were implemented to improve
the quality of capital by preventing the financing of bank shares with loans from the
financial group or using such shares as guarantees for loans.
c. Foreign Participation. To foster the entry of new capital, the Mexican
Congress, at the urging of the Authorities, modified bank ownership laws in April 1995
to permit foreign financial institutions to take control of troubled domestic banks. This
opened up Mexico's banking system to foreign participation far more quickly than had
5   Salomon Brothers Inc, Latin America Equity Research, "Mexican Banking System - 1997 Will Be a
Transition Year," May 13, 1997, pg. 8.
6   Government securities received by the banks under both the FOBAPROA loan
purchase/recapitalization and UDI programs represent about half of the performing loans of the non-
intervened banks. The bulk of the income on these securities is not paid in cash and the ultimate
realization of principal and accrued interest is dependent either wholly or partially on the ultimate
performance of the underlying loans. Because of incomplete access to data, the Bank staff (and
probably the Mexican Authorities as well) cannot determine the precise extent of net income
dependent on these securities nor can it assess the performance of loans sold or restructured under
these programs. If income on these securities is indeed an important source of net profits and the
underlying loans are ultimately impaired, then capital increases resulting from retained earnings may,
in the end, be partially reversed.



11
been required under the North American Free Trade Agreement. As a result, a significant
amount of foreign-sourced financial and human capital has been attracted to the Mexican
banking system. Spanish banks, Banco Bilbao Vizcaya (BBV) and Santander, now
control two formerly troubled privatized banks (Probursa and Mexicano, respectively)
and Canada's Bank of Nova Scotia manages the operations of a third (Inverlat) with an
option to assume majority ownership in the year 2000. Citibank has purchased Confia.
Each of these transactions was made possible by significant Government assistance, most
of it in the form of FOBAPROA purchases of troubled loans. Foreign investors have also
taken important positions in major banks that remain controlled by Mexicans. In the
second quarter 1996, Bank of Montreal acquired a 20% stake in Bancomer, Mexico's
second largest bank. Mexico's third largest bank, Serfin, is now operating under an
arrangement in which HSBC (the parent of Hong Kong Shanghai Bank) has agreed to
purchase a 20% shareholding7 and is taking an active role in management of the bank.
Bital also has a significant part of its ownership held by a foreign financial institution.
Foreign-controlled banks now account for about 20% of the system's assets.8 If Serfin
were to be included, this percentage would approach 30%.
d FOBAPROA Loan Purchase/Recapitalization Program. As an incentive to
recapitalize banks, beginning with the initial recapitalizations of Probursa and Serfin in
June 1995, the Authorities launched the loan purchase/recapitalization program under
which FOBAPROA agreed to purchase loans from banks in an amount equal to roughly
two times the amount of new equity (iincluding mandatory convertible subordinated debt)
that shareholders were willing to commit. FOBAPROA paid for the loans it purchased
with 10 year zero-coupon Government securities at a purchase price equal to book value
less initial provisions for loan losses. In addition, the selling bank remained responsible
for an average of 25% of any losses on the portfolio realized over the 10-year life of the
FOBAPROA security. To be eligible for the program, a participating bank had to be
deemed by the CNBV to have satisfactory management-but actual changes in
management and control were required only in exceptional cases. Shareholders had to
demonstrate substantial financial commitment, and the bank had to undergo a
management audit by an independent accounting firm and commit to strengthen systems,
management and internal controls. All of the privatized banks that had not been
intervened participated in three waves of transactions ending in December 1996. Over
the life of the program, new and comrmitted capital in the form of equity and subordinated
debt totaled P$63.3 billion (largely from existing shareholders and foreign financial
institutions) and gross loan purchases by FOBAPROA totaled P$ 142 billion (P$ 119
billion net of reserves for loan losses).
7  Conditioned on the successful completion of a public offering for $300 million in the second half of
1997.
8  This figure includes BBV/Probursa, Santander/Mexicano and Inverlat as foreign-controlled, but
excludes Serfin, in which HSBC has only a minority interest.



12
Like most open bank assistance (particularly methods not strictly conditioned on
change in management), the FOBAPROA loan purchase/recapitalization program carried
with it considerable risks, including moral hazard risks. One risk was that despite the
efforts of the CNBV, inadequate, ineffective, or otherwise deficient management teams
might remain in the banking organizations after the transactions. Another risk was that if
the capital deficiency of banks was initially underestimated and the program kept open,
repeated recourse would create moral hazard among bankers and the public and
discourage more aggressive debt collection efforts. Some of these risks became realities
(the first round of loan purchases did prove inadequate and two additional rounds
followed) and are discussed in the following section. (Part of the explanation given for
the repeated rounds was that it was felt that shareholders were not in a financial position
to make large once-and-for-all infusions in the early stages of the crisis.)
e. Incentive Framework. Mexico's broad system of bank liability coverage and
the unintended side-effects of the Government's support programs created and continue
to raise important concerns about distorted incentives and their impact on bank
management. Mexico's traditional Government guarantee of all bank liabilities has long
been recognized as an obstacle to market-based supervision of banks and a competitive
and efficient financial sector. Although some differentiation in pricing in the inter-bank
market exists, it is not commensurate with differences in risk. The private sector, and in
particular the interbank market, continues to operate on the basis of the full Government
guarantee-permitting even very poor institutions to raise deposits. The Bank staff and
the Mexican officials that prepared the FSRL recognized that there might be serious
negative consequences to significantly modify the liability protection scheme in the midst
of a crisis.9 Accordingly, the conditions of the loan required the Authorities to take only
the first steps in the development of a strategy for achieving a roll-back of coverage
without undue risk to the system. Even so, as discussed in Part IV, D, 3, progress toward
enunciating clear criteria for scaling back the guarantee has been slower than hoped.
The larger banks that proved highly insolvent have now for the most part been
intervened, merged with other institutions or otherwise restructured. However, a number
of smaller banks remain largely dependent on interbank funding. Although detailed
information on the portfolio condition of such banks is not available to the Bank or the
public, recent portfolio growth may indicate a combination of capitalization of interest
and possibly imprudent lending growth. The long-term viability of such banks in terms
of maintenance of a sound funding base and the ability to make quality loans is at least
questionable. The costs of resolving such banks, if they prove to be insolvent, can only
be expected to increase if they continue to operate under the current incentives.
The chronology set out in Annex A shows the progression of Government
responses to the banking crisis, beginning in the first half of 1995 with the PROCAPTE
program, the UDI scheme and the first loan purchase/recapitalization transactions. In the
9  Memorandum of the President, p. 26.



13
latter half of that year the ADE debtor support program was announced along with
additional UDI debtor assistance programs and the first loan purchase transactions. Two
more rounds of loan purchase/recapitalizations were carried out in 1996 and the debtor
relief programs progressively expanded (first for mortgages (May), then agriculture (July)
and then small and medium enterprise (August). The potentially negative incentive
effects of the Government's progressive expansion of the original programs was for much
of 1995 and 1996 the subject of some debate among the Mexican Authorities, the World
Bank staff and the IDB. It was argued by the staff of the multi-lateral agencies that such
an approach encouraged both banks and borrowers to believe that the Government could
be counted on come up with new incentives for recapitalization and provide borrowers
with additional relief, so long as the imamediate cash outlays are manageable. A once-
and-for-all, "drawing a line in the sand" approach-stating after the initial emergency
responses that no further debtor relief programs would be forthcoming and that open
Bank assistance would be at the cost of extreme dilution of shareholders and complete
replacement of management-might hiave been more effective at maintaining the proper
incentives. Socio-political concerns may explain this apparent reluctance to take a more
aggressive approach. A tougher line vwould also likely have resulted in more bank
interventions which would have required larger current fiscal outlays, strain institutional
capacity and appear to the public as a reversal of the privatization process.
f Financial Infrastructure. The rapid deterioration in bank portfolios after the
December 1994 devaluation highlighted the critical weaknesses of Mexico's
legal/regulatory framework for lending. The costs to Mexico's financial system of not
having a better developed infrastructure for structuring and enforcing financial sector
operations have been dramatic. An eff ective bankruptcy system is lacking and there
remain numerous legal/regulatory obstacles to private debt restructuring."0 Perhaps most
significantly, important non-bank institutions such as credit bureaus and rating agencies
are in their infancy and better business accounting and appraisal standards are needed.
Mexico's current legal framework and the poor condition of its property registries
prevents the widespread use of moveable property as collateral for loans. Legal, tax and
regulatory obstacles impede more widespread use of securitization techniques. The
underdeveloped financial infrastructure in these areas prejudices the soundness of the
asset base of banks upon which the solvency of the system as a whole necessarily
depends.
When the FSRL was under preparation, the Bank staff encouraged the Mexican
Authorities to take advantage of the opportunity to undertake concrete policy actions on
secured transactions, asset-backed securities and obstacles to private debt restructuring,
including Mexico's barely functioning bankruptcy system (problem areas identified in
preparation of the FTAL). Their Mexican counterparts preferred to first build greater
awareness, support and coordination within different parts of the Government. While
10  With financing provided under the FTAL, the CNBV recently conducted a training seminar on the
topic of bankruptcy which recognized the poor state of the existing system and the need for reform.



14
they agreed that such matters were important to resolve in the medium to longer-term, the
immediate priority was rescuing the existing system."' The Authorities produced official
studies on these topics proposing in many cases concrete reforms that might be supported
by a future Bank operation. Significant steps were taken in the area of mortgage
transferability and securitization, but there have not been similar efforts on secured
transactions and bankruptcy.
2. Restructuring of Banks
10.   The need for considerable restructuring and consolidation of the banking system
was foreseen during the preparation of the FSRL. However, the final resolution of
intervened banks and the restructuring of other troubled entities proceeded very slowly at
first. While specialized consultants (investment banks and accounting firms) were hired
(as required under the FSRL) to assist in developing strategies for the disposition of
intervened banks, the depressed market for banks and bank assets, the Authorities'
decision not to sell into such a market, Mexico's lack of experience in resolving banks,
the limited institutional capacity of the Authorities, their focus on saving the system as a
whole and an unwillingness to incur immediate fiscal costs all acted to delay final
resolutions of these entities. However, the Authorities deserve a great deal of credit for
the pace with which resolutions were carried out once the economic recovery was
underway in 1996. Today, the landscape of Mexico's banking system is significantly
different from what it was at year-end 1994. Foreign shareholders have taken control of
about 20% of the banking system and other troubled banks have been merged with less
impaired institutions (with substantial Government assistance). It is anticipated that
additional consolidation will occur in the near future, with some of the remaining weak
banks merging with the stronger ones, with additional financial support of the
Authorities.
11.   The Operating Guidelines for Bank Restructuring agreed between the Bank and
the Mexican Authorities'2 set out general conditions and methodologies for open-bank
assistance. However, the principal mechanism ultimately employed by the Authorities
(the FOBAPROA loan purchase/recapitalization program) was not explicitly
contemplated by the guidelines, nor did the Government seek the Bank's direct input into
its design or consult with the Bank in advance of structuring the initial transactions. The
key differences between the types of open bank assistance contemplated in the Guidelines
and the structure of the transactions that have actually occurred were: (i) the Guidelines
l  The Government found it necessary to sponsor a special organism (the Bank-Enterprise Coordination
Unit or "UCABE") to develop informal arrangements for restructuring the debts of the largest
borrowers to partially compensate for the inadequacy of the legal and institutional framework. This
experience, and the Government's experience with the portfolios of intervened banks and those
purchased under the FOBAPROA loan purchase/recapitalization program have fostered a much
greater awareness of the pressing need to address these problems.
12 Attachment II to the Government's Letter of Financial Sector Policy (Annex I of the Memorandum of
the President).



15
did not contemplate as systematic and general a program (open to all banks) as the
FOBAPROA loan purchase/recapitalization program, but rather individualized responses;
(ii) the Guidelines stressed the need to ordinarily condition open-bank assistance on a
change of management, and this was not imposed in most cases; and (iii) the Guidelines
were designed as an outline for a much smaller government intervention in the banking
system, not a program that would ultimately result in the Government purchasing a
quarter of the system's total loans (in addition to those acquired as part of bank
interventions). Throughout 1995 and 1996 there were discussions between the
Authorities and the Bank on the effec'tiveness of the program and ways in which
transactions might be better tailored to achieve the desired goals. The Mexican
Authorities' rationale for diverging from the Guidelines was essentially fiscal and
practical. The diagnostic studies and bank examinations revealed loan quality problems
much larger than was evident at the time the FSRL was negotiated. The loan
purchase/recapitalization program permitted the Government to pay for troubled bank
assets with zero-coupon non-tradable government securities, assuring minimal fiscal
outlays at the onset. An approach more demanding on shareholders and management or
that precluded future assistance might have resulted in the intervention of a larger
segment of the banking system, requiring more immediate recognition of losses and
larger short-term fiscal outlays. As a practical matter, more bank interventions would
also have further strained the institutional capacity of the Authorities during a time of
crisis.
a. Overhang of Intervened Assets. FOBAPROA is now the largest holder of
financial assets in Mexico and one that provides no financial intermediation. The huge
overhang of impaired assets now under its ownership impedes the effective restructuring
of the banking system in at least three ways: (i) many borrowers under the roughly one
million loans under FOBAPROA controls are unlikely to return to credit markets until
they have restructured their existing debts; (ii) the continued overhang of assets acts to
depress the market value of bank assets generally; and (iii) continued Government control
of such a large share of total indebtedness encourages continued politicization of the asset
restructuring process. The evolution of FOBAPROA into a vehicle to acquire, hold and
ultimately dispose of a large share of the impaired assets of the banking system was not
anticipated at the time the FSRL was negotiated, but it was understood that the
intervention process would leave the Government in possession of a significant amount
of bank assets.
As required under the FSRL, the Authorities developed plans for the restructuring
and disposing of banks under FOBAPROA control with assistance from investment
banking and accounting firms. The Authorities were optimistic that there would be
appetite for the purchase of whole banks and accordingly FOBAPROA continued to
operate such banks (including Cremi, Union, Oriente and Banpais) as going concerns
despite continued losses well into 1996. The Bank staff urged early disposition, noting in
the Guidelines that "experience shows that delays usually increase the ultimate
restructuring costs." In the end, liquidation strategies and sales after dramatic portfolio



16
clean-ups were the options selected by the Authorities, but only after significant time had
passed.
In early 1996, the Authorities established a new agency, Valuaci6n y Venta de
Activos (VVA), to assist FOBAPROA in managing and disposing of assets under its
control."3 However progress in actually carrying out sales was very slow. In addition to
the lack of institutional capacity, a number of factors discouraged greater progress: (i)
sales of assets at less than their acquisition prices would begin to reveal the fiscal cost of
the FOBAPROA loan purchase/recapitalization program; (ii) asset sales would also
reveal the likely amount of loss sharing for the banks and force their recognition; and (iii)
"fire sales" of VVA assets might create benchmarks for valuing the assets remaining on
banks' books, with possible negative implications for capital adequacy. After conducting
the first small (P$132 million face amount) trial auction of FOBAPROA loans in July
1997, the functions of VVA were absorbed directly by FOBAPROA.
In the aftermath of the dissolution of VVA, FOBAPROA's strategy is to retain
title to the largest share of the assets it has come to own. Consumer and residential
mortgages and loans of commercial borrowers under US $7 million will continue to be
managed by the banks for the account of FOBAPROA. A Corporate Assets Division has
been established to more actively manage FOBAPROA's larger assets. Outside
investment banking and management consultants have been hired to advise on how best
to maximize the recovery of FOBAPROA's assets through such mechanisms as
contracting management and recovery sharing. New strategies are clearly called for, but
the results of the work of the consultants have yet to be publicized.
3. Confidence in the Financial System: Prospects for New Lending
12.   The steps taken under the Government's program clearly restored a degree of
confidence to the Mexican banking system. The FOBAPROA guarantee of all
unsubordinated bank obligations is no doubt an underpinning of this confidence, but there
is also a sense in the investor and depositor communities that the steps taken have
stabilized the system and that risks are now manageable, at least for the short- to medium-
term (maturities on bank obligations continue to average below one year). However, the
intermediation function of the banks remains limited. Lending has not grown in a manner
commensurate with the recovery of the economy, reflecting the continuing low demand
for new credit given the still relatively high interest rates and concerns by the banks about
13  After the negotiation and effectiveness of the FSRL, both the Region's staff and the Financial Sector
Development Department (FSD) provided the Government with input into possible mechanisms for
disposing of assets of intervened banks and the assets acquired by FOBAPROA through its loan
purchase/recapitalization program. Bank staff, consultants and the International Finance Corporation
(IFC) discussed with the Authorities the possible structure and powers of VVA beginning in early
1996.



17
the creditworthiness of borrowers.'4 Much loan growth appears to be the result of the
capitalization of interest from negative amortization on mortgage loans, loan restructuring
and the appreciation on inflation-indexed loans (i.e., UDIs). Many bank managers are
now anticipating loan growth starting in the second half of 1997. The extent to which
this occurs will be affected by the conitinuing overhang resulting from the over US$42
billion book value of loans and other assets held by FOBAPROA.
Evaluation. The first stated objective of the FSRL proved overly ambitious and
progress has accordingly been unsatisfactory. While a full restoration of solvency and
soundness was not expected to have occurred so soon after the crisis, more rapid progress
in this direction was anticipated. This slower than expected progress is largely explained
by the fact that the condition of the banks was in reality much worse than the information
available to the Mexican Authorities indicated when the loan was prepared. The
economic recession was also deeper Emd the ultimate recovery less balanced than
anticipated. Although much additional capital was attracted to the system to compensate
for some of the large losses realized over the past three years, Mexico's banks are still in
need of additional infusions. Much of the system is fragile and the incentives facing a
number of banks overly dependent on inter-bank funding remain in question. The
Mexican Authorities' reliance on open-bank assistance and the form such assistance has
taken has created unintended negative incentives and generated substantial, but as yet
indeterminate, costs. The disposition of intervened banks, while initially proceeding at a
slower than expected pace, accelerated toward the end of 1996. However, these
interventions and the open-bank assistance program have created an overhang of assets in
Government hands that has balloonedL to over US$42 billion. As discussed above, a
comprehensive strategy for resolving these assets still needs to be developed along with a
strategy for financing the additional fiscal costs that are likely to be revealed in the
process. 15
14  Because of the unfavorable environment for increasing the level of performing assets, banks have
concentrated on reducing their overall cost of funds, which historically was dependent upon high-
cost interbank borrowings. Of late, this has materialized in a heightened competition for lower cost
deposit funding and the opening of new bank branches. While the overall level of deposits in the
banking system has likely increased as new deposits have been attracted to the banking system by
increased services and higher rates paid on savings, there has also been redistribution of deposits
among existing banks as depositors have chased after higher rates of interest.
15  Estimates of the ultimate costs of the steps taken by the Mexican Authorities to date are necessarily
imprecise because of the continued lack of reliable data on the condition and performance of assets
acquired by FOBAPROA under the loan purchase/recapitalization program, bank intervention and the
assistance provided in bank mergers ancl acquisitions. Most private analysts expect the costs to
exceed current Government estimates. See Standard & Poor's Credit Week, "Mexican Banks: The
12% Solution," August 7, 1996, pp. 9-12.



18
B. Improved Accounting Standards; Prudential Regulations; Strengthened
Supervision; Prevention of Recurrence
13.   The Bank's work in preparing the FTAL and the evident shortage of reliable
information available to the Authorities and the markets at the onset of the crisis made it
clear to Bank staff that Mexico needed to bring its bank accounting standards and
prudential regulations more into line with OECD standards and further strengthen the
supervisory function. The need for improvements in these areas was recognized by the
new leadership of the CNBV in 1994. Greater transparency, more rational prudential
norms and a stronger CNBV (along with increased exposure to market discipline through
a roll-back of deposit insurance) would go a long way toward putting in place checks and
balances to minimize the prospects for a recurrence of a banking crisis. The events
following the peso devaluation provided impetus to accelerate needed improvements and
program supported by the FSRL has clearly moved Mexico more quickly toward
international standards in all three areas.
1. Improved Accounting Standards
14.    Conditioning the release of the second tranche of the FSRL on new accounting
rules for banks compatible with international standards was perhaps the greatest
contribution of the FSRL to modernizing Mexico's banking system and minimizing the
likelihood of a recurrence of a generalized crisis. During preparation of the FSRL, the
Bank staff made it clear that imposition of new rules should not be delayed further and
had to be a central part of the operation. Accounting rules and practices at the outbreak
of the crisis obscured the true condition of banks, making effective supervision very
difficult, and precluded market analysts from reaching informed judgments. While
implementation of new rules by the banks is stretching their institutional capacity, the
Bank staff and the Authorities agree that they are a necessary condition for introducing
greater market discipline, maintaining public confidence and improving effective
supervision.
15.    The new rules, however, continue to differ from U.S. (and OECD) accounting
practices, principally in the following areas: (i) treatment of restructured loans; (ii)
inflation accounting; and (iii) the inclusion of transitional measures to permit banks to
gradually recognize the negative effects of the new accounting on certain portfolios (in
particular, their mortgage portfolios)."6 Although all banks have now released accounts
16  Under the transitional provisions, previously accrued but unpaid income derived from the
capitalization of interest on past due loans will be treated as principal if recorded as a result of a loan
restructuring before year-end 1996 and banks can continue to accrue income on 30% of the total past
due mortgage loans for an initial six month period in anticipation that they will be able to encourage
borrowers to restructure their mortgage loans under existing government support programs and
thereby eventually restore the loan to current status. However, mortgage loans that either were past
due at year-end 1996 or become past due in 1997 will require a reserve of 35%, of which 10% must



19
under the new rules, questions remaini about the accuracy and completeness of application
and comparability across banks. Hovvever, while differences from US accounting remain,
and the CNBV and the banks have much work ahead to assure correct and uniform
application by banks, there is general recognition in the markets that the new rules are
reasonably consistent with international standards and when fully applied by the banks
provide the markets with a degree of transparency that was lacking in the past.17 The
CNBV is currently preparing a uniform set of accounts for presentation of balance sheet
and income statement data that is expected to further improve the comparability of
statements under the new rules across institutions.
2. Prudential Regulations
16.   The review of existing prudential norms for banks carried out by the CNBV and
the Bank in the aftermath of the 1994 devaluation reaffirmed the need to bring regulation
in a number of areas into line with international standards. The crisis swiftly made
apparent the shortcomings of the Mexican regulatory framework and bank practice in the
areas of classification and provisioning. As part of the program of reforms negotiated
with the Bank under the FSRL, the CNIBV issued new capital rules for banks and
brokerage firms that require financial intermediaries to assign risk-weights to assets
taking into account both credit and market risk, incorporating the January 1996
amendment to Basle Capital Accord for market risk. The CNBV has also drafted, but not
yet implemented, a new methodology for loan classification based exclusively on the
application of a matrix of criteria covering payment history, documented capacity of
payment and the borrower's overall financial situation. This would, once put in place,
eliminate much of the ambiguity that has permitted banks to maintain unduly generous
classifications for underperforming loars.
17.   The methods for computing Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital under SHCP regulations
remain significantly more generous than international standards and this has contributed
to banks continuing to report higher capital ratios. Banks include in Tier 1 capital the full
amount of any outstanding subordinated debt convertible within three years issued as part
of a recapitalization agreement negotiated before year-end 1996. In the context of the
newly adopted inflation accounting, fixed assets are now adjusted according to changes in
an official price index and the full amount of the adjustment is reflected in the equity
accounts along with the net gain or loss arising from the appreciation of monetary assets
and liabilities. Previously, based on appraisals, banks included 80% of the revaluation
surplus for fixed assets and subsidiaries as Tier 1 capital with the remainder eligible as
Tier 2. Under the Basle Capital Accord, both subordinated debt and revaluation surpluses
be recognized immediately and the remaining 25% will be amortized over eight years beginning in
1997.
17  Moody's Investors Service, "Changes in Mexican Bank Accounting Principles - Transparency
Triumphs, Yet Regulatory Forbearance is Required to Ease Transition," Global Credit Research,
January 1997.



20
are only included in Tier 2. (Further, subordinated debt is subject to a general limit of
50% of Tier 1 capital and revaluation surpluses are subject to a 55% discount.) In the
case of several Mexican banks the contribution to capital from one or the other of these
items is over 50%. The Mexican Authorities should make it a policy priority to bring
standards for composition of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital up to OECD standards.
3. Strengthened Supervision
18.    The CNBV has made considerable progress over the past three years in improving
its effectiveness as a supervisor.'8 An institutional development plan was initiated by the
CNBV in mid-1994 under the CNBV's new management team, with financing of various
components provided under the FTAL.'9 At the time of the December 1994 devaluation,
the CNBV had only recently established a basic framework for implementing new
policies and procedures for bank inspections and off-site surveillance of the banking
system. There had not been sufficient time to fully prepare the CNBV's examiners and
analysts for the difficulties that were to follow.20 The CNBV's ability to supervise the
banking system at the time of the crisis was further impaired by outmoded and non-
transparent accounting and loan classification practices among Mexican banks.
19.    Developmental efforts at the CNBV have emphasized supervision instruction
through courses, seminars and on-the-job training. From 1995 through mid-year 1997,
more than 200 supervisory staff from the CNBV and the Banco de Mexico participated in
varied courses and seminars on supervision.2' Such courses range from basic
introduction to bank inspections and loan analysis to more advanced and specialized
supervision subjects such as capital markets, electronic data processing, risk management
and trust companies. Specialized on-the-job training has included participation with U.S.
bank supervisors in the examinations of Mexican subsidiaries of U.S. financial
institutions and the U.S. subsidiaries and branches of Mexican financial institutions.
With the assistance of six seconded U.S. bank examiners (Federal Reserve, Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation and Office of the Comptroller of the Currency) financed
18  A summary of the principal financial sector legislation and the powers of the financial sector
supervisors was included in Annex VII of the Memorandum of the President.
19 The Government reorganized the National Banking Commission (Comisi6n Nacional Bancaria -
CNB) in April 1994 and installed new management. In August 1994, FSD conducted a retreat for
high level staff of the CNB to discuss regulatory and supervisory issues with experienced US and
Canadian regulators. Throughout that summer and the following fall, the Bank staff worked closely
with the new management of the CNB (as well as with the Securities, Insurance and Pensions
Commissions) to identify those areas of policy, regulation and supervision that were most in need of
attention and to work out a plan of action and assistance. In March 1995, the CNB was merged with
the principal securities regulator to form the National Banking and Securities Commission (CNBV).
20  Accordingly, at the same time as the FSRL was under preparation, a supplemental FTAL was
prepared to provide the CNBV with additional assistance in key areas of supervision.
21  The Bank's participation has included the annual Seminar on Banking Supervision in Mexico
sponsored jointly with the U.S. Federal Reserve and CEMLA.



21
under the supplemental FTAL, the CNBV conducted detailed CAMEL-style inspections
of all 18 privatized banks by year-end 1995 thus initiating a program of annual
examinations of each major bank.22 Executive summaries of each inspection report were
transmitted to and reviewed by the Bank. The principal revelations emerging from these
inspections, applicable to most banks, were: (i) deficiencies in internal controls; (ii)
inadequate credit analysis and loan processing procedures and poor documentation; and
(iii) poor risk and liquidity management.
20.   In August 1995, the Banco de Mexico in consultation with the CNBV issued
minimum standards required of financial institutions prior to their participation in
Mexico's various foreign exchange, money and capital markets. The certification process
involved outside accounting firms who participated to ensure the development of a proper
internal control environment. Concurrent with this effort, the CNBV instituted a new
program for assessing risk management practices at Mexican financial institutions
associated with trading and other market activities. The CNBV routinely collects risk
management reports and position information from the banks in order to evaluate overall
risk exposures. Moreover, as part of the CNBV's permanent supervision program, it
regularly meets with risk managers with the objective of discussing regulatory issues,
commonly faced problems with the implementation of their risk models, availability of
information and instrument valuations among others.
Evaluation. The FSRL can be scored as satisfactory on achievement of its
objectives in respect of accounting standards, prudential regulations and supervision.
When fully implemented and applied, the new accounting standards will be a big step
forward for transparency. Prudential regulation has also been importantly strengthened
and those areas that require further strengthening (in particular, classification and
provisioning rules and capital composilion) have been identified as areas to be addressed
as soon as practicable. Altough shortcomings in the capacity of the CNBV remain, the
improvements from the state of the institution in 1994 are substantial.
The FSRL can be scored positively on helping the CNBV to establish procedures
to improve internal controls in banks. The information on the condition of banks now
available to the CNBV is significantly greater, and the ability to the CNBV to analyze
this data is much improved. However, evidence suggests that in practice there remain
areas where internal controls of banks are far from adequate. Since systems similar to
those necessary for effective internal controls are necessary for accurate reporting to the
supervisor, the CNBV needs to take steps to see that the banking community makes
substantial improvements in this area.
22 CAMEL - Evaluation of Capital, Asset quality, Management, Earnings and Liquidity



22
C. Improved Discipline in the Provision of Liquidity by the Banco de Mexico
21.   The objectives of the FSRL in respect of liquidity provision by the Banco de
Mexico were substantially achieved prior to Board approval of the operation. As
recounted in the Memorandum of the President,23 the Banco de Mexico in March 1995
began requiring pricing of central bank intra-day credit on a real time basis, pledging of
collateral by banks that maintain large and frequent overdrafts with the central bank and
debit caps on the portion of daylight overdrafts not collateralized. The Banco de Mexico
also established the Amplified Use Electronic Payments System (Sistema de Pagos
Electr6nicos de Uso Ampliado-SPEUA), a large value payments system for Mexican
commercial banks and their foreign correspondents. This system employs multilateral
netting and bilateral credit limits, which together substantially reduced the risks of
contagion in the payments system. These efforts substantially reduced the systemic risk
to the banking system arising from inter-bank transactions.
D. Initiate Reforms in Development Bank Lending, Accounting Practices and
Regulation of Financial Groups, and the Deposit Insurance System
1. Development Bank Lending
22.   As a condition of second tranche release, experienced consultants carried out
detailed studies of risk-based exposure limits, eligibility criteria and interest rate policy
for lending by Mexico's principal development banks to private commercial banks. The
results of these studies confirmed the need to increase the transparency, efficiency and
risk sensitivity of transactions between the development and commercial banks through
the establishment of appropriate criteria for eligibility, exposure limits and market
sensitive interest rates linked to risk.
23.    Based in part on these studies (and on other work conducted with the assistance
of the IDB), reforms were in fact initiated in several areas. Prior to second tranche
release, SHCP presented an action plan to the Bank and the IDB for reforms in the areas
of eligibility and exposure limits. The following steps have already been carried out at
Mexico's largest development banks (Nafin and Bancomext): (i) removal of limits on the
rate of interest that may be charged by first tier commercial banks to the final customer in
domestic currency (Nafin and Bancomext); (ii) implementation of differing interest rates
based on the degree of intermediary risk (Bancomext); (iii) consolidation of six second
tier lending products into one single program, substituting the rediscounting mechanism
with a secured line of credit (Nafin); (iv) establishment of a rating system for
intermediary banks (Bancomext); and (v) establishment of risk-based exposure limits for
each intermediary bank (Nafin). SHCP has undertaken to complete the remainder of the
23 Memorandum of the President, p. 9.



23
action plan, principally the establishment of a risk analysis system and implementation of
global exposure limits (taking into account loans to a single intermediary from all
development banks), by 1998.
24.   Notwithstanding the above, the ultimate economic utility of these and other
changes in development bank lending policy outside the context of a coherent
Government strategy for development banking is questionable. A well-defined strategy
for the role of development banks within the present system of private commercial banks
and increasing foreign participation has not been articulated. While conception of such a
strategy was well beyond the parameters of the operation under review, it remains
essential to fully coherent Government policies in the financial sector.
2. Accounting Practices and Regulation of Financial Groups
25.  In March 1996, as required under the FSRL, the CNBV issued revised accounting
principles to be applied by brokerage firms beginning January 1, 1997. Later that year,
the CNBV issued revised accounting principles for other non-bank financial institutions
under its jurisdiction. These new principles, generally consistent with accepted
international standards and with the corresponding provisions of the new bank accounting
rules, permit better consolidation of financial group accounting. (Insurance company
accounting has not yet been revised to accommodate the changes in accounting for other
financial sector entities, most notably in respect of inflation accounting.) Similarly, in
June 1996 the CNBV issued new prudential regulations with respect to capital adequacy
standards for brokerage firms. Such rules are substantially similar to those applicable to
banks, applying the same methodology for credit and market risk. As in the case of
banks, the new standards represent an important improvement from previous regulations
and once fully implemented and correctly and consistently applied will greatly facilitate
consolidated supervision.
26.   The package of financial sector legislation approved by the Mexican Congress in
February 1995 importantly extended the CNBV's powers of administrative and
management intervention of banks and brokerage companies to financial holding
companies as well. The CNBV may now immediately take control of a financial holding
company if in its judgment there are irregularities affecting its stability or solvency which
put in danger the interests of the public, or its creditors. Prior to the amendments, the
CNBV's powers over holding companies were more limited, critically complicating the
resolution of banks. The new legislation has facilitated the seizure and disposition of
both banks and non-bank subsidiaries of financial holding companies.
3. Deposit Insurance System
27.   The FSRL committed the Government to begin to formulate a plan to reduce the
Government guarantee of bank and brokerage liabilities. Mexico's system is extreme by
international standards, providing an implicit Govermment guarantee of all
unsubordinated bank liabilities. Even interbank loans and traded bonds are covered by



24
the FOBAPROA guarantee. As discussed in Part IV, A, 1, e, it was not anticipated that
an actual roll-back of Mexico's broad liability coverage system would occur during the
period before or soon following the second tranche release. Rather, implementation was
expected to be a key component of the expected follow-up World Bank operation in the
sector. The objective of the deposit insurance system component of the FSRL was more
limited-to identify the relevant issues and commit the Government to the principle of a
phased roll-back.
28.   The Savings Protection Report prepared by the Banco de M6xico reviewed
alternative savings protection systems and examined the options for reforming the current
Mexican system. In preparing the report, SHCP, Banco de Mexico, and the CNBV
conducted an open dialogue with the World Bank. The Bank organized a conference at
the Banco de Mexico on reforming Mexico's savings protection program that included
presentations from acknowledged international experts and that was attend by high-level
officials from all three Government agencies. The major point of disagreement was the
speed with which reform could be carried out. The Bank staff argued that Mexico could
and should move faster to reduce the extent and level of coverage. Notwithstanding
differences on the timing of implementation, Mexico's dialogue with the Bank has clearly
and publicly placed reform of Mexico's bank liability protection scheme on the policy
agenda. SHCP, Banco de Mexico and the CNBV are all now publicly committed to a
gradual roll-back. The President of Mexico noted this in his address to the 1996 meeting
of the Mexican Bankers Association. However, to date the work of the Authorities and
the assistance provided by the Bank have not yielded concrete proposals for
implementation.
Evaluation. Progress toward reform of development bank lending practices,
better accounting and regulation of financial groups and a more economically rational
system for deposit insurance has clearly been made under the program supported by the
FSRL. Accordingly, there has been generally satisfactory achievement of this objective.
However, greater progress was anticipated to have followed, albeit after second tranche
release, in the areas of development banks lending practices and particularly with respect
to the pivotal roll-back of FOBAPROA liability coverage.



25
PART V. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
A. Macroeconomic Environment
29.   The President's Report for the FSRL clearly recognized that one of the principal
risks to the success of this operation would be the failure to maintain a satisfactory
macroeconomic framework and a continuation of high inflation and interest rates.24
30.   The table below describes the macroeconomic variables most often considered
relevant in influencing the solvency of the banking system,25 together with the evolution
of those variables during 1995-96.
Table 2: Macroeconomic Variables and Bank Insolvency
Expected Effect
Macro-Variables             on Bank Solvency      Observed Values
_________=___  1994  1995   1996 1997
Real GDP growth     (%)                        +          4.4  -6.2    5.2   7.0
CPI Inflation       (Dec/Dec; %)               +          7.1  52.0   27.7  15.7
Interest rates-- nominal (28-day cetes;ann. %)  + or -    14.1  48.4   31.4  19.8
--real                             + or -       8.2  10.0    9 2   6.3
Bolsa US$ Index    (% change prev. Dec.)       +           --  -22.9   18.0  52.1
Terms of Trade     (Px/Pm, index)              +          104   112    114  n.a.
BoP Current Account  (% of GDP)              + or -      -7.4  -0.6   -0.6  -1.8
Exchange rate change  (%ave chge) - nominal              -7.7  -47.4  -15.8  -3.8
-real                     -3.8  -33.2   10.2  13.7
Fiscal balance      (% of GDP)                 +         -0.4   0.0    0.0  -0.8
31.   From the right-hand column of Table 2 it is clear that most macroeconomic
variables deteriorated dramatically in 1995 (except the Terms of Trade and Fiscal
Balances). This would certainly have undermined the soundness of the banking system.
The current account deficit of the balance of payments also improved significantly from
the values in preceding years. While part of this improvement reflected greater export
dynamism, it also reflected considerable import compression brought on by the economic
recession as well as a drastic reductiorn in external borrowing opportunities. The latter
would generally be expected to increase the risk of bank insolvency.
32.   The deterioration in the econornic situation in 1995 was more profound than was
anticipated at the time that the FSRL was prepared. However, when the economic
situation turned around in 1996 and 1997, growth was more robust than expected.
According to the FSRL President's Report, real GDP was projected to decline by 4.8
percent in 1995 and then recover gradually, by 2 percent, in 1996. The recession turned
24  Memorandum of the President, pp. iv, 36.
25  See Lindgren, Carl-Johann, Gillian Garcia and Matthew I. Saal, Bank Soundness and
Macroeconomic Policy, IMF, 1996; page 15



26
out to be much deeper in 1995, with GDP falling by 6.9 percent (or 6.2% under the 1993-
based accounts), while the recovery in 1996 and 1997 also was much stronger than
predicted, yielding growth rates of 5.1 and 7.0 percent.26
33.   The greater-than-anticipated deterioration of the economy in 1995 was clearly an
important factor discouraging the Mexican Authorities from taking more aggressive
actions in restructuring the banking system while it encouraged the expansion of debtor
support programs. The Authorities may have felt that they had already done as much as
they prudently could. There was also a perception that any disruption caused by the
closure of banks and depreciation of asset prices from an accelerated sale of the
intervened banks' assets could have exacerbated the economic contraction. However,
even through the economy began to exhibit clear signs of expansion by mid-1996, and the
resolution of intervened banks began to be accelerated, new debtor-support programs
were introduced.
34.   The economic recovery in 1996 and 1997 does not appear to have had the
expected positive effect on bank portfolios. Past dues continued to increase, albeit at a
declining rate. In 1996, this could be partly explained by the initially unbalanced nature
of the recovery (concentrated in export industries and largely financed from abroad) and
continued low real incomes. Although real exports grew by 19 percent in 1996, real GDP
grew by only 5.2%, which means that economic activity not oriented toward exports grew
much more slowly than GDP. Also, domestic incomes, which in 1995 suffered an 8.1
percent decline in per-capita terms, did not recover to their pre-crisis levels until about
mid- 1997. As the economic recovery continued into 1997, it became much more broadly
based, encompassing the construction and service sectors in addition to exports, yet bank
portfolios performance apparently failed to improve concomitantly. It should be noted
that banks increased significantly their provisions during 1997.
35.   The evolution of inflation turned out to be less positive than initially envisaged
during negotiation of the FSRL. Inflation was clearly expected to increase in 1995, in
response to the December 1994 depreciation of the peso. In October/November of 1995,
a bout of financial market turbulence led to a depreciation of the peso significantly
beyond the projected values. This unanticipated depreciation partly reflected a slow
reaction of the monetary authorities to several adverse shocks. The financial markets
eventually stabilized at the end of the year after the authorities tightened their monetary
stance and the Banco de Mexico temporarily intervened in the exchange market.
36.   The deterioration of several macroeconomic variables in 1995 clearly impinged
on the soundness of the banks, primarily through the insolvency of their borrowers. Most
important in this regard appear to be: (i) the decline in domestic demand reflected in the
26 The GDP growth figures in the FSRL report are based on the 1980-base National Income Accounts.
They tended to be about 0.7 percentage points lower than the now more commonly used 1993-base
accounts, which are shown in Table 2.



27
fall of GDP; (ii) the increase of inflation and interest rates (which are jointly determined);
and (iii) the rapid adjustment of exchange rates. The rapid exchange rate depreciation in
December 1994 and in 1995 had a detrimental effect on some banks, which had open
foreign exchange positions. While significant, this source of loss does not appear to have
been a major contributor to bank distress. Rather, a more important consequence of the
real exchange rate adjustment that resulted from these nominal adjustments was that it
drastically altered the relative price of tradables versus nontradable goods. The period of
rapid expansion of the banking system, 1991-1993, was accompanied by a significant
appreciation of the real exchange rate, encouraging the investment of resources into the
production of non-tradable goods. The real depreciation in 1995 rendered many of those
activities unprofitable. Borrowers whose investments were tied up in these activities,
together with the banks that extended credit to them, suffered dearly as a consequence.
37.   There also appears to have been an important linkage in the other direction. That
is, the weakness of the banking system contributed significantly to the deterioration of the
economy-independent of the banking, sector's share of GDP. The macroeconomic
deterioration in 1995 may have exacerbated solvency problems in the banking sector, but
those problems appear to have preceded the onset of the economic crisis. (The proportion
of non-performing/overdue loans in the banking system was already increasing at a fast
clip in 1994, in spite of stable inflation and rising GDP.) Furthermore, the weak state of
the banking system most likely inhibited the authorities from taking more concerted
policy measures to contain the economic crisis. This was the case both during the onset
of the devaluation in December 1994 as well as during the period of financial market
turbulence in October/November 1995. In both cases, more concerted action to stem the
depreciation of the peso would have required a tighter monetary contraction, which
would have translated into higher real interest rates, and greater distress among
borrowers. In other words, the fear of dLamaging the banks further may have led the
authorities to adopt less decisive macroeconomic countermeasures, thereby permitting a
greater macroeconomic deterioration than would otherwise have been the case.
Eventually, more stringent counter-measures were taken and interest rates rose
accordingly. It is not clear that the banking system benefited much from the policy delay.
38.   In sum, the economic contraction that occurred in the aftermath of the December
1994 devaluation proved to be much deeper than expected at the time of preparation of
the FSRL, while the recovery in 1996 and 1997, though much stronger than expected, did
not lead to a proportional improvement in the quality of bank portfolios. As discussed
above, these portfolios continued to deteriorate, albeit at a declining rate, throughout
1996 and 1997. This was initially expliained by the uneven nature of the recovery and a
failure of real incomes to return to 1994 levels. The rapid and better balanced growth
performance in 1997, however, cast doubts on that explanation, giving more credibility to
the hypothesis of lagging real incomes and unwillingness to repay loans by bank
borrowers. Instead, several other factors are likely to have been more important in
limiting the positive effect on loan performance of the economic upturn: (i) the initially
unbalanced state of the banking system and poor loan origination practices; (ii) the



28
existing overhang of unresolved debts (largely held by FOBAPROA) and the high loan to
value ratios characteristic of many segments of bank portfolios; and (iii) continued
availability of foreign financing on attractive terms to many of the industry's best clients
(particularly exporters).
B. Socio-Political Environment
39.   The crisis in the banking sector occurred at a very difficult socio-political
juncture. The incoming administration was in office less than a month when the crisis
erupted. Important segments of the population (particularly debtors and the financial
community) placed responsibility for the problems of the banking system with the
mismanagement of monetary, exchange rate and economic policy by the outgoing and
incoming administrations. Adversely affected sectors consequently looked primarily to
the Government for relief. An organized debtor movement that existed prior to the
devaluation ("El Barz6n" or "the yoke") became an active force in the country. It
promoted a "culture of non-payment," carried out regular and well-publicized
demonstrations and organized payment boycotts-taking advantage of the legal and
practical difficulties of enforcing obligations in Mexico. The ADE program, which
provided immediate relief to many troubled debtors beginning in August 1995,
successfully stemmed the growing popularity of this movement. However, El Barz6n
remained an active force, especially in the Federal District and major urban centers and it
still commands a considerable amount of media attention.
40.   Despite economic difficulties, the President of Mexico retained his commitment
to opening up the political system. Predictably, the increasing political openness during a
time of economic distress brought with it a resurgent political opposition and more
independent behavior on the part of Congress (the ruling party lost its 68-year majority in
the lower house in the July 1997 elections). There has been heated debate of financial
sector policy and representatives of the executive have been periodically called to report
to Congress on conditions in the financial sector. El Barz6n maintained a high profile in
the run-up to the July Congressional elections and the election of the Governor of the
Federal District (which went to a 1994 opposition Presidential candidate). These sorts of
developments are likely to continue to challenge the maneuverability of policymakers.



29
PART VI. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
41.  It was implicit in the objectives of the FSRL that the program supported by the
operation should place the Mexican system on a reasonably clear and sustainable path to
full eventual recovery. It is difficult ait this time to conclude that the system is
unquestionably on such a trajectory. While the surviving banks in the system are clearly
less vulnerable today than they were in early 1995, the system as a whole remains fragile.
There is little prospect of a sudden retrogression, absent another large exogenous shock.
However, the longer the current fragility persists the more adversely affected the system
will be by exogenous shocks should they occur.
42.   Some, partial, elements of a complete strategy for full recovery of the financial
sector are clearly already in place. Butt these, by themselves, appear insufficient to take
the system the rest of the way towards full solvency and soundness. Accordingly, project
sustainability should be regarded as uncertain. The principal concerns about project
sustainability can be summarized as follows:
* Condition of the System. The FOIBAPROA loan purchase/recapitalization program
attracted significant but still insufficient amounts of new foreign and domestic capital.
UDI restructured loans (particular]y mortgage credits) appear to have reached loan to
value ratios that make repayment on near-contractual terms unlikely in most cases.
Banks appears to be highly dependent on accrued income from government securities
issued under the UDI and FOBAPROA loan purchase/recapitalization programs.
This constrains real bank liquidity and under the worst of circumstances may lead to
phantom income (and capital).
* Incentive Framework. The continued presence of excessive bank liability protection
and the relative shortage of crediblie financial data on bank portfolios continues to
limit market discipline in the system, permitting weak banks to remain in operation.
The FOBAPROA loan purchase/recapitalization program appears to have missed
some opportunities to eliminate institutions that are not viable. Loan growth appears
greatest in the weakest banks, which may indicate either capitalization of large
amounts of unpaid interest or possibly imprudent growth in new lending.
* Overhang of Unrestructured Assets. The likely pace of dispositions of FOBAPROA
assets under the current strategy is insufficient to remove much of the overhang and
an effective strategy for effecting rnore rapid restructuring of FOBAPROA loans by
banks has yet to be formulated. Failure to work out these loans will impede economic
recovery and reactivation of the intermediation function of banks. Economic
recovery and growth is unlikely, by itself, to sufficiently improve portfolio quality in
the absence of a workout of the existing debt overhang and the prospect of new
lending.



30
Unfinished Agenda/Fiscal Costs. The Government's efforts thus far have not effected
the kind of fundamental restructuring of the financial system and realignment of
incentives necessary for self-sustaining growth in the financial sector on the basis of
well-capitalized institutions and sound practices. The remaining issues not addressed
in the legal/regulatory infrastructure for banking transactions, particularly in the areas
of bankruptcy and secured transactions, raise doubts that new lending, when it occurs,
will be on any firmer bases that prior to the crisis. Finally, the fiscal costs (and
redistribution effects) of the bank rescue, put off and to some extent obscured by the
strategy followed to date, are likely to become more apparent as time passes, and a
well-articulated strategy for financing these costs will have to be developed.
43.   Addressing these issues will require substantial human and financial resources.
But it should be possible to make reasonably rapid progress to fill in the gaps of a truly
sustainable strategy. Identifying such gaps and determining where the World Bank can
assist should be the goal of continuing collaboration with the Authorities.



31
PART VII. BANK PERFORMANCE
A. Preparation and Negotiation
44.   The Bank's performance in preparing the FSRL should receive high marks. The
operation was prepared in record time. It demonstrated the Bank's ability to effectively
respond to the needs of the client and permitted the Bank to remain engaged in the
resolution of a crisis whose implications went well beyond Mexico. Prior to the banking
crisis, the Bank's dialogue with the Mexican Government in the financial sector was
limited. It revolved around the preparation of the FTAL, an operation aimed at
improving the legal/regulatory environment and institutional capacity of the banking,
securities, insurance and pension fund regulators. The IFC, however, had prepared a
partial analysis of the overall banking system that showed that the system was under-
provisioned and that capital was therefore overstated. With the assistance of staff from
other regions, FSD, Development Economics (DEC) and the IFC, and in cooperation with
the IDB, the Region's team was able to build on the FTAL and to work with the
Authorities to design and prepare an operation that identified and addressed the key
policy issues that are still the focus of lboth the Government's and the Bank's efforts in
the sector.
B. Supervision
45.  In the immediate aftermath of the Board's approval of the FSRL, the Bank staff's
supervision efforts were fruitful. Although CNBV staff occasionally appeared reluctant
to transmit information in a timely fashion (particularly if such information indicated a
worsening of conditions), this was attributed to concerns for confidentiality and the need
for complicated internal clearances before the CNBV staff could discuss sensitive
information with outsiders. Relations between the Task Manager for the operation and
the highest level officials at the CNBV were cordial and reasonably open, particularly
given the crisis conditions. The Bank staff remained in regular contact with the CNBV
officials in charge of conducting the initial round of Bank examinations and overseeing
the diagnostic studies of troubled banks. However, citing confidentiality concerns, the
CNBV would not share the full results of the examinations and studies with the Bank.
Nevertheless, between the summary information received directly from the CNBV and
from meetings with CNBV supervisory staff and the seconded U.S. bank examiners, the
Bank staff felt confident that adequate progress was being made.
46.  In the early stages of supervision, the Bank assisted the Authorities in four
important areas: (i) exposing the CNB'V to experts in banking crisis management with
experiences in other countries; (ii) highlighting the need for greater coordination among
responsible agencies (CNBV, SHCP and the Banco de Mexico); (iii) providing advice to
the Banco de Mexico on the roll-back of bank liability protection; and (iv) developing a
strategy with SHCP for possible future Bank assistance in the financial sector, including



32
in the areas of pensions and non-bank financial services. The Bank was able to bring in
experts with experience in the United States, Spanish, Chilean and Swedish banking
crises to provide advice to the Authorities. Some of these experts were eventually
contracted directly by the Mexican Government.27 At the Bank's urging, a coordinating
committee of high level SHCP, CNBV, Banco de Mexico and FOBAPROA officials was
established to assure more efficient sharing of information and coordination of execution
of tasks. A DEC-organized seminar and periodic consultations between Bank staff and
Banco de Mexico officials provided critical inputs into that institution's understanding of
the issues and options for roll-back of deposit insurance.28 FSRL supervision efforts also
led to much of the work on preparation of the Contractual Savings Reform Loan-which
addressed the low domestic savings rate, a root cause of the financial sector's fragility.
Finally, supervision of the FSRL was also the impetus for the development with SHCP of
a strategy matrix for financial sector reforms and the role of the Bank in providing
assistance to the Mexican Government. This work was spearheaded by the Task Manager
for the FSRL who also served as task manager for the pension fund operation.
47.   However, important shortcomings in the effectiveness of the Bank's supervision
efforts arose in the period after October/November 1995 (when a further "mini-
devaluation" occurred, putting additional strains on the banking system and the
Authorities). Supervision of the FSRL absorbed a great deal of the time of the limited
number of Region staff with financial sector experience. As recounted in the DEC report
cited in Part 1, prior to the crisis insufficient resources had been allocated to financial
sector work in Mexico. The financial economist in charge of preparation of the FTAL
left the region towards the end of 1995 and there was a great deal of general staff turnover
in the Mexico department as well. Accordingly, there were few experienced staff
available to conduct or supervise production of detailed economic and sector work and
the first such post-devaluation work was not produced until mid- 1996.29 While the
Region received important assistance from FSD and experienced outside consultants,
these were rarely available on a full time basis. The CNBV commented on several
occasions that World Bank staff turnover and the Bank's use of consultants on a short-
tern basis limited the Bank's potential contribution.
27  Most notable of these were the U.S. bank supervisors (OCC, Federal Reserve and FDIC) referred to
above and Mr. Arist6bulo de Juan, forrner Head of Bank Supervision for the Bank of Spain. Mr. de
Juan was hired in early 1997 by the CNBV as a special consultant.
28  Bank staff also made significant contributions to the study of asset-backed securities required as a
condition of second tranche release, although Bank input was not sought during preparation of the
study of the secured transactions.
29  Hemant Shah, Mike Lubrano and Laura Mecagni, "Mexico: Role of Financial Markets in Promoting
Savings: Regulatory and Development Agenda," July 10, 1996. This report was prepared as part of
the 1996 Country Economic Memorandum on Savings and Growth.



33
48.   The DEC study cited in Part I notes some shortcomings in coordination between
the Region and the central units (FSD and DEC).30 Most of this occurred in the aftermath
of the October/November 1995 mini-devaluation. At that time, the Region requested
additional assistance from FSD to reexamine the effect of the deeper than expected
recession on the condition of the Mexican banking system. A mission was conducted in
January 1996 with the participation of a number of outside experts. However, lack of
access to detailed and reliable information from the Mexican Authorities limited the
ultimate utility of this exercise. As a result, a divergence of opinion developed over the
true condition of the Mexican banking sector and the Bank's proper response. These
views were debated in a series of meetings involving all areas of the Bank working on the
Mexican financial sector operations. As conditions in Mexico stabilized and as the
dialogue between the Bank and the Authorities became more clearly channeled through
the Finance Sector Leader in the decentralized country department, it became easier to
coordinate the activities of the different areas of the Bank involved in the financial sector,
build consensus and make more effective and efficient use of their varied expertise. The
progress in developing the role of the EBank-wide professional networks has also been
instrumental in this regard.
C. Inputs to Government Response; Policy Dialogue
49.   Prior to the crisis, the Bank's efforts in the Mexican financial sector were directed
toward assisting the Authorities to impirove the regulatory and supervisory framework in
connection with designing and implementing the FTAL. This useful work did not require
the Authorities to share with Bank staff sensitive information on the condition of
individual banks or the system as a whole. During the preparation of the FSRL a very
productive relationship continued, with Bank staff and consultants contributing
importantly to the Government's efforts to gather accurate information on the condition
of banks, develop its strategy for bank resolution and implement other key policies
described in the Memorandum of the President for the operation.
50.   After approval of the FSRL, the Bank staff regularly met with its Mexican
counterparts to discuss the progress of the various programs and actions implemented to
address the crisis. The Bank staff provided periodic inputs on the longer-term goals for
the financial sector, including roll-back of FOBAPROA liability coverage, greater
transparency and disclosure, consolidation of the system, resolution of intervened banks
and disposition of assets and steps to encourage greater reliance on market supervision.
The principal differences between the Bank staff and the Mexican Authorities during the
course of supervision revolved around the aggressiveness and timing of implementation
of policy actions:
* Conditions for Open-Bank Assistance/Bank Intervention. The Bank staff advocated
ordinarily conditioning all open-bank assistance on changes in management. It also
30 DEC, p. iv.



34
encouraged earlier interventions of troubled banks on the grounds that their continued
operation under the existing incentive framework would result in greater long-term
losses and fiscal costs.
*  Attention to Negative Incentives. The Bank staff favored early ternination of bank
support programs and debtor relief schemes, even if this meant larger up front costs.
It was felt that repeated recourse to the FOBAPROA loan purchase/recapitalization
program and gradual expansion of the debtor relief programs would encourage both
banks and borrowers to expect future handouts.
* Disposition of Intervened Banks. In 1995 and 1996, the Bank staff argued that the
Government should accelerate its plans to sell intervened banks and their assets, even
if that require clean-up of their portfolios and recognition of heavy losses. Two banks
intervened in 1994, just prior to the onset of the crisis, remained under government
control for more than two years.
* Liability Protection. Early announcement of the intention to roll-back Mexico's
broad liability protection scheme and development of a policy to implement such a
measure were promoted by the Bank as critical steps to introducing market discipline
to the banking system.
* Disclosure. The Bank staff encouraged the Mexican Authorities to be more
forthcoming with information on the banking system and to require banks to make
greater public disclosure of their true condition. This would promote the beginnings
of market discipline and over time increase the credibility of the Authorities and the
reliability of information in the markets.
* Capital Rules and Regulatory Forbearance. While applauding the implementation of
better prudential regulation and accounting standards, the Bank argued that strict and
short deadlines should be established for regulatory forbearance and that the effects of
such forbearance on bank financial statement should be as transparent as possible.
The Bank supported bringing the Mexican definitions of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital into
line with international (OECD) standards.
* Financial Infrastructure. The Bank staff encouraged the Mexican Authorities to give
greater priority to legal, regulatory and institutional changes needed to facilitate sound
credit transactions and debt restructuring.
51.   The productivity of the dialogue between Mexico and the Bank on these points
was complicated by the reluctance, at times, of the Mexican Authorities to share non-
public information on a timely basis or to consult with the Bank staff prior to taking
major steps to address the crisis. This reluctance prevented the Bank from serving as a
full partner in the efforts supported by the FSRL. It greatly complicated the Bank staff's
efforts to make its own assessment of the condition of the banking system and provide



35
useful inputs into the decision making process. The Mexican Authorities' reticence to
share information on a timely basis appears to have involved: (i) concern for
confidentiality and leaking of sensitive information; (ii) internal and inter-agency
differences of opinion over the accuracy of data; (iii) socio-economic conditions that
limited the options available to the Authorities and a reluctance to communicate this to
outsiders; (iv) a perception that the Bank's advice would not be timely or sensitive to
practical realities; and (v) concern that too much openness would translate into additional
conditionality in future World Bank lending. Whatever the causes, this situation at times
left the Bank staff in the position of communicating its comments on policy actions to the
Mexican Authorities only after such actions had already been announced to the public.
This was sometimes apparently perceived by the Authorities as unnecessary,
unproductive and non-collegial criticism.
52.   Two additional factors complicated efforts to maintain a fruitful dialogue. First,
the World Bank's financial contribution to the Mexican Rescue Package was much
smaller than that of the IMF or the United States government, but came with what
appeared to some of the Bank's counterparts as much more taxing conditions. Also,
those Mexican officials most often charged with interfacing with the Bank were the
overworked staff of the CNBV. This agency was not the immediate recipient of the
resources disbursed under the FSRL. Given their time constraints, CNBV staff may
simply have decided that the Bank was not a priority.






37
PART VIII. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
53.   As discussed earlier, the Mexican Authorities responsible for the financial sector
can take credit for a number of critical steps whose successful achievements was by no
means a certainty at the time the FSRL was under preparation:
*  A collapse of the banking system was prevented at a time of economic contraction
and great uncertainty.3"
*  Stabilization of the banking system was accomplished through mechanisms that
avoided large current fiscal outlays and that attracted a significant sum of additional
private capital to the system.
*  The Authorities, and the CNBV in particular, were able to greatly improve capacity to
monitor the condition of individual banks and analyze the strengths and
vulnerabilities of individual institutions and the system as a whole.
*  The CNBV, SHCP and the Banco de Mexico were effective in getting needed
supervisory powers and foreign investment legislation passed by Congress,
strengthening accounting and prudential norms and carrying out the other elements of
the Financial Sector Restructuring Program.
*  Although progress was initially slower than expected in resolving intervened banks
and disposing of assets that have come into the hands of the Government, important
strides in restructuring, liquidating and disposing of intervened banks have been made
in the last year.
54.   In assessing borrower performance it needs to be kept in mind that design of the
various debtor and bank relief progranis, negotiation of each of the loan purchase/
.recapitalization transactions and the numerous steps to improve accounting, reporting and
prudential norms were in fact directed and carried out by a very small number of initially
fairly inexperienced staff of the CNBVI, Banco de Mexico and SHCP.
55.   Areas where borrower performance could have been better include: (i)
coordination among working level staff of different agencies; (ii) assignment of clear
responsibility among agencies (or at least departments of agencies) and avoidance of
conflict of interest; (iii) transparency; (iv) assessment of longer-term costs and risks; and
(v) sensitivity to and avoidance of negative incentives. These last two points have
already been addressed in Part VI and Part IV, A, 1, e.
31  Finance Secretary Guillermo Ortiz appeared on the cover of the 1997 "Finance Man of the Year"
issue of Latin Finance in recognition of his team's efforts to rescue the Mexican economy and
banking system in the aftermnath of the December 1994 devaluation.



38
56.   At the outset it appeared to the Bank staff (and perhaps to the Mexican Authorities
as well) that although coordination at the highest levels was excellent,32 lower down there
was some duplication of effort and failure to share key information. This was an area
where the Bank suggested that greater efforts be exerted, finally resulting in the Financial
Sector Working Group being organized to address the problem. The Mexican response to
the banking crisis was characterized by a high degree of consensus building across the
various agencies. The need to develop consensus sometimes led to slowness of response.
In part this was due to a certain blurring of responsibility that developed among the
responsible agencies and importantly within the CNBV. Shortage of staff particularly
burdened the CNBV and created apparent conflicts of responsibility. Staff working on
bank supervision also worked on bank relief programs and, more importantly, the terms
of the individual recapitalizations. These staff found themselves in the awkward position
of having to criticize the practices and accounting of banks under their supervisory
authority while also publicizing the successes of the recapitalization program. This
mixing-up of functions (supervisor and also rescuer and promoter of the industry)
continues to affect the credibility of the CNBV.
57.   The continued presence of important gaps in transparency created further
credibility problems for the Authorities. An absence of transparent accounting and
financial reporting was one of the serious shortcomings of the system going into the
crisis, but is now being addressed through implementation of the new accounting rules.
However, there remain other key areas where further information could and should be
provided to the public: (i) financial condition of intervened banks; (ii) performance of
UDI and FOBAPROA portfolios; (iii) composition of regulatory capital of banks; and
(iv) details on the terms of some bank rescue packages. A number of factors contributed
to this reticence: (i) lack of reliable data; (ii) fear of causing bank runs; (iii)
confidentiality rules; and (iv) fear that information would be improperly understood or
used by the debtors movement or opponents of the Government. This has led to market
discounting of published inforrnation on the Mexican banking system (particularly as
regards capitalization) and may be leading to greater market uncertainty than would
otherwise be the case.33
32  High level officials of all three agencies served on the ruling committee of FOBAPROA as well as the
oversight boards of intervened banks.
33  See Salomon, p. 7, citing continued information disclosure problems with Banamex and Bancomer
limiting the ability to conduct accurate assessments of their condition.



39
PART IX. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
58.    Overall, the outcome of the FSRL is assessed as unsatisfactory. As discussed
above, a number of the operation's major objectives have only partially been achieved.
Progress toward accomplishing the longer-term objectives of the FSRL has been slow.
Most importantly, the sustainability of the program supported by the operation remains in
question. The strategy followed by the Government thus far has prevented a generalized
collapse of the financial system and restored a degree of confidence, but at high cost and
without removing the major policy (deposit insurance) and structural (transparency and
financial infrastructure) impediments to a market-driven and sound financial system. The
outlines of a strategy to take the Mexican financial system the rest of the way toward
contributing to economic growth on thie basis of efficient and well-capitalized
intermediaries have yet to emerge. The Bank and the Mexican Authorities have thus far
not reached agreement on the components of the expected follow-on World Bank
operation for the financial sector.






41
PART X. LESSONS LEARNED
59.   The experience under the FSR1, generated important lessons for future Bank
operation in response to a crisis, sector adjustment operations generally and Bank projects
in the financial sector specifically.
A. Responding to a Crisis
*  The DEC study cited in Part I highlighted that "The Bank needs to clarify its role in
crisis situations." 34 As part of this effort, the Bank should develop special standards
for identification, content, preparation, negotiation and supervision of emergency
loans like the FSRL. This should be a key goal of the newly-established Special
Financial Operations Unit. By definition, such loans do not benefit from the long
identification and preparation periods that characterize most other Bank operations.
Critical information may be absent and future economic performance may be difficult
to predict. Operations carried out umder these exceptional circumstances are a breed
apart that merit special attention.
*  In preparing and supervising operations in sensitive sectors such as the financial
system during a crisis, the Bank needs to have intelligence on the socio-political
context and how it is likely to impact implementation of policy actions. This will in
turn provide input into the design and content of Bank operations in the sector.
*  The Bank must be realistic about the degree of access to sensitive information it can
expect its counterparts to grant it. This requires a thorough understanding of the
political, institutional and legal obstacles to information sharing. These should be
taken into account in designing, irrmplementing and supervising operations. Indeed, it
should figure into the decision of wvhether or not to lend. The Bank staff need to
make clear to their counterparts early on in a sensitive operation what types of
information will be required to be shared.
*  The Bank's ability to contribute to the resolution of crises like the one that occurred
in Mexico would strongly benefit lrom a well-developed financial sector strategy at
the Global and Regional level. Such a pre-agreed strategy within the Bank would
give working staff a better vision of where the Bank's efforts should be focused in
circumstances similar to those encountered in Mexico.
B. Lessons for Operations
* The Bank needs to develop appropriate Bank-wide strategies for sector adjustment
and other operations whose objectives can be fully achieved only years after
34 DEC, p. v.



42
disbursements are completed. How should the objectives of such operations be
stated? What bearing should evaluations have on further efforts in the sector?
* Better mechanisms need to be developed for maintaining continuity of staff working
on large and complex operations. Undue staff turnover hinders effective supervision,
generates inefficiencies, is a burden on counterparts and hurts client confidence in the
Bank's ability to offer effective advice.
C. Lessons for the Financial Sector
*  The Mexico experience demonstrates the need for policymakers to be sensitive to the
negative incentives created by emergency programs for the financial sector. In
particular, it highlights the importance of ordinarily conditioning relief to troubled
banks on replacement of existing management.
*  A country's financial sector infrastructure, in particular the legal/regulatory
/institutional framework for making and enforcing credit transactions can be a critical
constraint on developing sounder banking systems and resolving banking problems.
The experience of Mexico highlights the need for greater Bank effort in this area.
*  The Bank has comparative advantage in bringing to bear a great deal of knowledge
and expertise to address emerging problems in the financial sector. The new
professional networks can contribute to better practices for coordinating the resources
available from the Regions, the central vice-presidencies, the IFC and outside
agencies to make more effective use of their different expertise.
*  The Bank's efforts in one area of the financial sector need to be placed in the context
of an over-all strategy for policy actions in the sector. The financial sector policy
matrix developed in the spring of 1996 and revised repeatedly since then has served
as an instrument for assisting the Bank and its counterparts to develop a more
consistent and coherent strategy in such related areas as banking, pension reform,
housing, capital markets development and rural financial markets.



43
PART XI. ANNEXES
A. Chronology of Important Events in the Mexican Banking Sector 1994-1997
B. Capital Increases and Purchased Loans by FOBAPROA
C. Government Estimate of Fiscal Cost of Banking System Rescue
D. Changing Composition of Mexican Banking System, 1994-1998
E. ICR Borrower's Report



Annex A
Page 1 of 3
Chronology of Important Events in the Mexican Banking Sector
1994-1997
1994
April       Appointment of Eduarcdo Fernandez as new President - beginning of
reorganization of CNB.
August      Seminar conducted for CNB staff by Bank's FSD.
September   Management intervention of Banco Uni6n.
Management intervention of Banca Cremi.
December   Peso devalues.
Eduardo Fernandez narned President of National Securities Commission.
1995
January     Opening of FOBAPROA special dollar window.
March       Banco Oriente placed on special situation.
Management intervention of Banpais.
Establishment of new minimum provisioning requirements.
Establishment of temporary capitalization program (PROCAPTE).
Amendments to finance sector legislation.
April       Establishment of UDIS restructuring programs.
Merger of the Banking (CNB) and Securities (CNV) Commissions.
May         Beginning of FOBAPROA portfolio purchase/recapitalization program.
Official announcement of Probursa financial group affiliation to Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya (BBV).
June        After this quarter inforrnation on Banco Obrero ceases to be published due
to being considered in special situation
FOBAPROA portfolio purchase/recapitalization agreement with Banca
Serfin.
Management intervention of three credit unions and one savings and loan
association.
August      Announcement of ADE, (immediate debtor relief) program.
September   After this quarter information on Banco del Centro ceases to be published
due to being considered in special situation.
FOBAPROA portfolio purchase/recapitalization agreement with Atlantico
and Promex.
Management intervention of Banco Interestatal.
FOBAPROA portfolio purchase/recapitalization agreement with
Bancrecer-Banoro.
October     FOBAPROA portfolio purchase/recapitalization agreement with Banorte.
Management intervention of Estrategia Bursatil as well as Leasing and
Factoring Estrategia.
November   Period of extreme currency and interest rate volatility.



Annex A
Page 2 of 3
November   Announcement of the UDI restructuring program for dollars debts.
December   FOBAPROA portfolio purchase/recapitalization agreement with
Banamex.
1996
January     FOBAPROA portfolio purchase/recapitalization agreement with Probursa
(II and III).
FOBAPROA portfolio purchase/recapitalization agreement with
Bancomer.
February    Announcement of agreement by which Bank of Nova Scotia will acquire
55% of Grupo Financiero Inverlat.
March       FOBAPROA portfolio purchase/recapitalization agreement with Confia.
April       FOBAPROA portfolio purchase/recapitalization agreement with Serfin
(II).
May         Announcement of Additional Benefits Program for housing credit debtors
(Debtor Relief Program)
Management Intervention of Banco Capital.
Management Intervention of Casa de Bolsa Bursamex.
Management Intervention of Banco del Sureste.
June        FOBAPROA portfolio purchase/recapitalization agreement with
Bancorecer-Banoro (II).
FOBAPROA portfolio purchase/recapitalization agreement with Bital (II)
July        FOBAPROA portfolio purchase/recapitalization agreement with Banorte
(II)
Announcement of Agreement for the Financing of the Agriculture and
Fishing Sector (FINAPE) (Debtor Relief Program).
FOBAPROA portfolio purchase/recapitalization agreement with
BBV/Probursa.
August      Signing of Agreement by which BBV/Probursa will acquire the branch
networks of Banca Cremi and Banco del Oriente.
Announcement of Program of Financial and Development support for the
micro, small and medium enterprise (FOPYME) (Debtor Relief Program).
FOBAPROA capitalizes Banpais and the bank separates from the
Asemex-Banpais Financial Group.
October     Signing of Agreement by which Banca Promex will acquire the branch
network of Banco Uni6n.
Announcement of Santander's take over of Invermexico (Banco
Mexicano) Financial Group.
BBV/Probursa purchases the branch network of Banca Cremi.
Banorte acquires 100% of the stock shares of Banco del Centro.
November   Management intervention of Anahuac Financial Group and CBI Casa de
Cambio



Annex A
Page 3 of 3
1997
January     FOBAPROA portfolio purchase/recapitalization agreements with
Banamex and Bancomer in respect of mortgage portfolios.
April       Announcement of HSBC acquisition of 20% share in Banca Serfin.
FOBAPROA has taken about $200 billion pesos which represent about
25% of the bank's portfolio (it includes the guarantee of Mexicano and
Serfin, as well as the credits of audited banks).
June        Citibank announces its interest on acquiring Confia.
July        The overdue bank's portfolio reaches $100,322 million pesos.
August      Overdue portfolio increased 2%.
VVA merged to FOBAPROA. Only one assets' auction sale completed.
Citibank presents its proposal for acquiring 60 - 70% of Grupo Financiero
ABACO, Confia's parent.
Management intervention of Banca Confia until the conclusion of its sale
to Citibank.
Citibank takes 100% control of Confia,-which implies a capitalization of
between $150 to 200 million dollars.
The government assumes a loss of US $1 billion in the sale of Confia.
Management intervention of another exchange house. Only 8 out of 18 are
not intervened.
September    HSBC signs understanding to acquire 19.9% of Grupo Financiero Serfin.
Restructured credits in UDI or in hands of FOBAPROA account for over
$44 billion pesos.
Managerial intervention of CBI foreign exchange house has lifted.
October     Banamex agrees to absorb Banco del Atlantico.
December   Banorte pays FOBAPROA $680 million pesos for Banpais.



Annex B
Page 1 of 1
Capital Increases and. Purchased Loans by FOBAPROA
(billion of pesos)
Capital Increase    Purchased Loans
Net      Gross
Probursa                  3.8            7.6        9.3
Serfin                   12.8           24.9       28.5
Atlantico                 3.2            6.0        7.1
Prornex                   1.7            3.0        3.4
Bital                     3.8            7.5        8.8
Bancrecer/Banoro          7.4           14.0       15.4
Banorte                   2.1            3.6        4.1
Banamex                   12.5          23.0       28.6
Bancomer                  12.7          23.6       30.1
Confia                    3.3            6.0        6.6
TOTAL                    63.3           119.2      142.0
Source: CNBV



Annex C
Page 1 of I
Government Estimate of Fiscal Cost of Banking
System Rescue
% GNP'  AMOUNT
(Million
pesos)
Debtors Program                        3.0       96,300
Interventions and Betterment           5.9       187,300
Capitalizations Schemes                2.4       77,400
Toll Roads                             0.6        18,800
Total                                 11.9      379,800
I/Estimated GNP for 1997: 3,201.8 billion pesos
Source: CNBV



Annex D
Page I of 3
Changing Composition of Banking System
Structure of Mexican Commercial Banks
(millions of pesos)
Year-end 1994                         Year-end 1995                    Year-end 1996                  Year-end 1997
~~~~~~ B.1~ .                                                             .1'.                   k                          Bes
Privatized                      17       700,502         87.3          11      845,238        76.9        9    806,065       55.1       9   796,028       79.0
Domlestically Owned             12        i5,581          1.9          15       36,510         3.3       13      43,071      2.9       14       88,359     8.8
ForeignOwned                     2        11,331          1.4          16       60,561         5.5       21   317,688 1      21.7      19      163,610    16.2
Intervened                       2        74,872          9.3           7      108,855         9.9       10    126,160        8.6      12      n.a.    l
Assets Acquired                               0                                 48,660         4.4             170,2631      11.61        |         0|
Banking System                  33       802,286        100.0          49    1,099,824       100.0       53   1,463,247    100.0       54 | 1,007,153    100.0
'Foreign bank assets have been reduced by $28.6 billion pesos to reflect the Mexicano assets which were acquired by FOBAPROA when Santander acquired
Mexicano.
2Not including Bancrecer/Banoro for being under capitalization process and Atlantico for being under merging process.
3Information on these banks ceased to be published due to being considered in special situation. Includes: Union, Obrero, Cremi, Interestatal, Capital, Promotor
del Norte, Sureste, Oriente, Anahuac, Inverlat, Confia, Industrial.
Source: CNBV



Annex D
Page 2 of 3
Mexican Commercial Bank System
Year-end 1994                       Year-end 1995                        Year-end 1996                       Year-end 1997
'GrQup  N~af No,of                                                           =-n,e
Privatized/               17  Banamex        Mexicano         11  Banamex        Mexicano          10  Banamex       Bital              9  Banamex        Bital
Domestically Owned             Confia        Oriente               Confia        Bital                  Confia       Promex                 Bancomer      Promex
(Large banks)                  Bancomer    Bital                  Bancomer       Promex                Bancomer    Banorte                  Banoro I      Banorte
Banoro       Comermex              Banoro         Banorte               Banoro        Bancrecer              Serfin        Atlantico I
Serfin       -Inverlat             Serfin                               Serfin        Atlantico                            Bancrecer2
Bancrecer    Promex                Bancrecer
Atlantico    Banorte               Atlantico
Centro       Obrero
M.Probursa
Banpais
Domestically Owned        12  Interaccione   Mifel            15  Interacciones   Mifel            13  Interacciones  Promotor N       14  Interacciones  Mifel
(Small banks)                  s  Invex      IXE                   Invex         IXE                    Invex        Mifel                  Invex         IXE
Inbursa      Quadrum               Inbursa        Quadrum               Inbursa       IXE                    Inbursa       Quadrum
Sureste      Capital               Sureste        Afirme                Industrial    Quadrum               Banregio       Afirme
Industrial                         Industrial     Capital               Banregio      Afirme                 Del Bajio     Bansi
Banregio                           Banregio       Bansi                 Del Bajio     Bansi                  Banpais 3     Alianza
Promotor N                         Promotor N     Anahuac                             Alianza                              Centro 3
Del Bajio                          Del Bajio
Foreign Owned              2  Citibank                        16  Citibank       Tokyo             19  Citibank      ABN               19  Citibank       ABN
Santander                          Boston         MProbursa             Boston        NY                    Boston         NY
Santander     Bank of Am             Santander    Chicago                Santander     Chicago
BNP           Comermex               -Mexicano   AmEx                     -Mexicano    AmEx
JPMorgan       - Inverlat           BNP           Nations                BNP           Nations
Dresdner      ABN                   JPMorgan      BNS/                   JPMorgan      BBV/
Chase         NY                    Dresdner      Inverlat               Dresdner       MProbursa
Societe                             Chase         BBV/                   Chase         Tokyo
Fuji                                Societe        MProbursa             Societe       ING
ING                                  Fuji         Tokyo                  Fuji          Comerica
Bank of Am    ING                   Bank of Am
Intervened                 2  Union                            7  Union          Banpais           10  Union         Banpais           12  Union          Sureste
Cremi                              Obrero         Oriente               Obrero        Sureste               Obrero         Oriente
Cremi                               Cremi         Oriente                Cremi         Anahuac
Interestatal                        Interestatal    Anahuac              Interestatal    Inverlat
Centro                              Centro                               Capital       Confia
Capital                             PromotorN    Industrial
Banking System            33                                  49                                   53                                   4 54
1/ Planned mergers.
2/ Foreign partner being sought.
3/ Merged with Banorte.



Annex D
Page 3 of 3
Mexican Financial System 1995-1998*
Financial Institutions         1994         1998
Privatized Banks                    19         5 (1)
NewBanks                            16           10
Foreign Banks                       8         22 (2)
Investment Banks                   n.d.         33
Storage Warehouses                  28          28
Leasing                             63          53
Factoring                           62          44
Foreign Exchange Houses             49          36
Credit Unions                      360        98 (3)
Savings and Loans                  n.d.         16
Sofoles                            n.d.         33
Mutual Funds                       n.d.         277
Afores (Pension Trust                           17
Funds)
* Data as of February 27, 1998
(1) Includes banks still belonging to original investors. Excludes Bancen and
Banpais being merged with Banorte, as well as Atlantico and Promex, the first
one recently merged with Bital and the second one, currently for sale, or
merged with Bancrecer.
(2) Includes Inverlat and Bancrecer, together with Santander, BBV and
Confia given that its control will be soon transfered to foreign institutions.
(3) CNBV registers 359 authorized unions, nevertheless, more than 250 are
on the process of liquidation.
Source: CNBV



Annex E
Page 1 of 21
ICR BORROWER'S REPORT
Executive Summary
* Almost three years have elapsed since the onset of the Mexican financial crisis. Initial
results indicate that the precarious financial situation of an important number of banks
and debtors has begun to improve.
* As of June 1997, the banking capitaLlization ratio reached 16%', without considering the
remaining capital committed as a result of the Capitalization Loan Purchase Mechanism
(CLPM) for the rest of 1997.
* The provisions created by the 12 banks that remain under private control from the
beginning of 1995 to June 1997, represent 415% of the outstanding provisions as of
December 1994. These provisions were equivalent to 213% of their equity as of
December 1994.
 Under the new accounting rules, the provisions to past-due loans have reached 57%2 in
June 1997. Additionally, the growth of past-due loans, which had been steadily
diminishing, became negative during June 1997, for the first time since the beginning of
the crisis.
* Today, most Mexican banks are better capitalized and provisioned than before the crisis.
The combination of corrective measures and the strengthening of prudential regulation
and supervision have shown promising results.
* The savings of the Mexican people were protected and the integrity of the payments
system was preserved. Therefore, the banking system remained as the most important
mechanism for the financing of procluctive investments in the economy. Hence, the basis
for future economic growth and consequently, the generation of employment and the
improvement in the well-being of the population were maintained.
* The quality of the support and advice received from the World Bank has been uneven
along the termn of the Financial Sector Restructuring Loan (FSRL). The relationship
between the World Bank ("Bank") and the Banco de Mexico, Secretaria de Hacienda y
Credito Pzublico, FOBAPROA  ancl the Comisi6n Nacional Bancaria y de Valores
("Authorities") has to be institutionalized and strengthened.
For all banks, except the ones intervened or in a special situation. It is worth noting, however, that while
the definition of net capital valid in Mexico is Ibroadly consistent with the Basle Committee standards, there
are some differences, mainly related to the use of inflationary accounting.
2  For all banks, except those that have been intervened or are in a special situation.



Annex E
Page 2 of 21
* It is crucial for the Bank to show one single and homogeneous position and philosophy
within all its Departments. We believe it is fundamental that both the Authorities and the
Bank appoint official and formal counterparts for all matters related to their institutional
relationships. Permanent, fair and impartial advise from the Bank would be extremely
useful and helpful to us. This in turn, will allow the establishment of a more trustful and
fruitful relationship.
* Nevertheless, many challenges remain, such as reducing the sources of vulnerability for
banks by fostering domestic savings, continuing to improve prudential regulation and
supervision, introducing better internal controls and market discipline and promoting
competition within the sector. While the Authorities will continue working in order to
achieve these goals, the assistance of the Bank will greatly enhance their efforts. This
partnership will ultimately benefit the Mexican financial system by strengthening it and
making it more efficient.



Annex E
Page 3 of 21
I.    Introduction
The FSRL was conceived as part of an emergency response to the Mexican financial crisis,
in order to restore the confidence in the Mexican financial system, as well as in its safety
and soundness. Accordingly, the FSRL was designed taking into account the information
available at the time, and it was basecd on the expectations that the Authorities along with
the Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank ("IDB") had then regarding the real
effects of the crisis.
Under those conditions, the Bank, the IDB and the Authorities jointly designed the main
objectives of the FSRL, which were, among others, to: i) restore the solvency and
soundness of Mexico's banking system; ii) restructure banks; iii) improve confidence in the
financial system; and iv) strengthen the prudential regulation and supervision of financial
entities.
Several, commitments were also established as part of the FSRL, all of which have already
been completely fulfilled by the Authorities, permitting the full disbursement of the two
tranches of the FSRL. It is also important to mention that the Authorities have taken all
necessary measures that were feasible under the existing conditions to restore the solvency
and soundness of the Mexican banking system. However, the Authorities will need to keep
up their efforts to achieve this aim.
This document is intended to present the Authorities' comments on the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) written by the Bank, as well as their views on the assessment of
the FSRL, the performance of the Bank and its relationship with the Authorities. It will also
outline the reforms that are still needed in order to strengthen the financial system,
concluding that the successful completion of this reform process will be greatly aided by
the Bank's assistance programs.
II.   Response to the Bank's Observations on the Authorities Handling of the Crisis
1. The Bank argues in the ICR that the Authorities should have taken orthodox and
"more effective and aggressive" solutions to the banking crisis.
It is important to stress here that modern banking crises around the world have represented
an important challenge to governments and financial authorities. The international
experience has shown that there is not a unique and unequivocal solution to these crises.
Implicit terms and costs vary broadly, since they cannot be easily estimated, specially at
their onset. It is worth mentioning that even though theoretical strategies for confronting a
banking crisis and avoiding its expansion exist, it is necessary to design and implement
adequate measures that fit the particular circumstances of each crisis.



Annex E
Page 4 of 21
It is worth mentioning that the Authorities' response to the crisis was quite swift. In fact, by
the first quarter of 1995, the Authorities had implemented four important measures aimed at
reducing systemic risk. By May of that same year, new long-term measures were introduced
to improve the solvency of the banking sector, including debtor support programs and
mechanisms aimed at creating the right incentives for capitalizing banks through loan
purchases. In fact, it can be said that, other nations facing similar circumstances have taken
longer periods (ranging from 8 months to two years) from the outbreak of the crisis to
implement similar measures'.
Accordingly, the strategy followed by the Authorities to face the Mexican banking crisis-
that emerged as a result of the negative effects of the peso devaluation on December
1994-was designed to accomplish several basic objectives, which were built upon the
ones established in the FSRL. All of them were strictly pursued in each one of the measures
and programs implemented by the Authorities. These objectives were the following:
1. Reducing the risk of a run on banking institutions and of a consequent collapse of the
financial system;
2. Supporting as many households and companies as possible in the servicing of their debts
thus, promoting a payment culture under the prevailing market conditions;
3. Minimizing the fiscal and monetary impact of the measures taken;
4. Maintaining the stability of the payments system;
5. Supporting institutions, not shareholders. The former by assuring that the control of
financial institutions-either by Mexicans or foreigners-be exercised by managers with
strong technical capabilities and high moral integrity;
6. Improving the competitiveness of the financial system by promoting the participation of
first level foreign banks in the Mexican financial sector;
7. Strengthening banks so that their condition does not hinder economic recovery.
Nonetheless, there were some important restrictions, some of which are mentioned in the
ICR, that constrained the response and the actions implemented by the Authorities.
It is then very important to fully understand the prevailing environment before and during
the crisis, including the economic and political factors that restricted some of the actions
taken by the Authorities. Among these were the following:
* Commercial banks were emerging from ten years of State ownership, characterized by a
very intensive Government intervention in the credit market. This implied that the
3 For example, Argentina, Chile, Philippines and Thailand.



Annex E
Page 5 of 21
Government,set lending policies that limited the granting of credits to the private sector,
and dictated liquidity coefficients and interest rate levels. Accordingly, credit lending
practices were severely undermined, since management information systems (MIS) and
credit analysis techniques became progressively obsolete. Therefore, the skills of the
banks' management and staff also became outdated. The period of State ownership
implied for the banks a very unfortunate loss of human resources in its management
ranks and the accumulated knowledge of sound banking practices before this period was
partly lost.
* As a result of the outbreak of the crisis and the consequent appearance of several
economic problems, investors' confidence in the viability of the long-term economic
policy was severely damaged. This situation, combined with the experience of previous
devaluations in Mexico, provoked an overreaction of the markets that exacerbated the
already weak economic situation.
* In order to avoid a further deterioration of the economy, tight monetary and fiscal
policies were established, leading to a severe contraction of the domestic market. At the
same time, the rise in interest rates and the depreciation of the exchange rate, negatively
affected the asset quality, capitalization and foreign exchange liquidity of banks.
* At the onset of the crisis, the interest of foreign and national institutions in taking control
of Mexican banks was minimal. In addition, legal restrictions regarding their
participation in the market were still valid at that time.
- The above mentioned factors, as well as the prevailing conditions of the credit
institutions before the crisis, made evident that a collapse of the banking system at the
beginning of 1995 was possible, unless urgent measures were taken.
It is important to stress that the M[exican banking crisis was particularly severe on
individuals, due to the large employment losses and the decrease in the purchasing power of
wages. Furthermore, the entities with a vulnerable financial structure, such as companies
with excessive leverage and commercial banks with low quality assets, were also severely
affected by the crisis. In addition, some sectors were badly hurt by the sensible contraction
of the domestic market.
As already mentioned, the Authorities had to face some practical difficulties in the
implementation of the planned objectives, while trying to prevent some of their potentially
perverse effects. For instance, the objective of supporting households and companies had to
be balanced with the goal of minimizing the fiscal cost of such programs. A fiscal cost
perceived as too high to be financed would have undermined the economic program,
creating volatility in interest rates, and therefore affecting the families and companies that
the Government was trying to support. Hence, the Authorities had to be flexible in the
design of the different mechanisms to face the crisis within the narrow margins set by the
economic program.



Annex E
Page 6 of 21
Within these narrow margins, the Authorities had to avoid a further deterioration of the
Mexican financial system, while building the basis for its recovery.
Such deterioration was prevented as a result of the economic program, the support package
established by the Authorities, the Government backing of almost all banking commitments
and the new capital injections to the commercial banks undertaken by the private sector,
both national and foreign.
2. The Bank Suggests in the ICR that the Authorities Should Have Implemented
"More Aggressive Measures".
1st Option: Large Government Bailout for Debtors
In order to prevent a run on banks, the Government could have implemented a partial loan
acquittal program for debtors, in which the Government would have absorbed their cost.
This extreme measure would have implied a substantial increase in the fiscal cost, creating
a very serious problem of inequity and generating perverse incentives by supporting bad
debtors. Big consortia would also have been needlessly subsidized and society would have
unrestrictedly supported bad debtors. This in turn, would have disincentivated good debtors
from servicing their obligations, against the general interest.
2nd Option: Government Take-Over of Banks
Under the difficult economic circumstances prevailing at the onset of the crisis there was no
interest from national or foreign investors in committing their capital in the Mexican credit
institutions. Hence, the only remaining alternative for the implementation of "more
aggressive measures" would have resulted in a de facto nationalization of the banking
system. The Authorities are convinced that this would have represented both-in direct and
indirect terns-a costlier alternative to the one actually followed. The 1991-1992
privatization of the banking system was a measure taken in order to strengthen the process
of economic liberalization and to promote a more efficient allocation of resources. A de
facto nationalization at the beginning of the crisis would have then led to an even greater
loss of foreign investors' confidence, worsening the already severe economic conditions.
It is also important to stress that having the Government manage banks would have been
more costly for society, due to the following factors: a) the impossibility of quickly finding
efficient personnel to manage the banks, b) the cancellation of numerous foreign credit lines
of business of the commercial banks; c) the need to use scarce fiscal resources as equity for
the banks; and d) the increase of political pressure by debtors on the managers of the banks,
requesting either the cancellation or the partial release of their debts, thus aggravating the
"non-payment culture".



Annex E
Page 7 of 21
In sum, this measure would have also been inconsistent with the liberalizing tendencies of
the past few years. A Government take-over would have required an immediate recognition
of banks' losses and their subsequent capitalization. In this case, the costs would have been
completely absorbed by the Government and not shared with the shareholders, as has been
the present strategy. Since this measure would have required an immediate disbursement of
the necessary resources, there would have been immense pressures to relax the tight
monetary and fiscal policies already in place.
III.  Response to the Bank's Comments on the Concerns Raised by the Current
State of the Banking System
3. The Bank consistently argues ini the ICR that the Mexican banking system's
fragility remains a critical issue tlhat raises significant concerns. It also considers
that it is a factor that could potentially undermine the sustainability of the FSRL.
The Authorities strongly contest the validity of these statements and consider that an
analysis of the system's evolution and its current situation reveals that major factors that
contributed to the system's fragility have been abated. The following paragraphs highlight
the main factors of this analysis.
Even before the outbreak of the crisis, the Mexican banking sector had already been facing
several problems, specially those derived from the rapid expansion of bank credit. This
expansion resulted from the following factors:
1. An optimistic economic environment: that prevailed throughout 1991-1994,
2. The increasing availability of resources to the banking sector as a result of the reduction
of the public sector's deficit,
3. Strong credit demand from companies aiming to modernize their equipment in view of
the approval of the NAFTA,
4. The scarcity of credit to the private sector during the previous ten years created a pent-up
demand for financial resources
5. The new owners' need to recover their high investments in privatized financial
institutions.
Thus, between 1988 and 1994, aggregate gross bank loans increased by 89.2% in real
terms. This is equivalent to an annual real growth rate of 23.7% and to at least eight times
the rate of growth of real GDP during tbhe same period. Needless to say, the huge increase in
credits was not accompanied by the establishment of prudent lending procedures, adequate
internal controls, or sound risk managenment policies.
As a result, the quality of loan portfolios started to deteriorate, due to a slowdown in
economic growth throughout 1994 and the inadequate credit allocation policies followed by



Annex E
Page 8 of 21
some banks. Hence, by September 1994, non-performing loans amounted to 8.27% of
banks' total credit portfolio.
The increasing level of past-due loans was not accompanied by a proper amount of
provisions, which would have allowed institutions to better face the risks derived from bad
loans. By September 1994, under the old accounting standards, banking provisions
amounted to only 40.7% (approximately 20% under the new standards) of aggregate past-
due loans, a low level compared to international levels.
Finally, the financial liberalization process in Mexico was implemented without a proper
parallel development of prudential regulations and a strengthening of financial supervisory
tools, which in turn, might have allowed the Authorities to adequately monitor the
performance of recently privatized banks and to discourage financial entities from taking
excessive risks. Nevertheless, the Authorities had already recognized this situation, and
during 1994, two banks were intervened (Cremi and Uni6n) and three more (Banpais,
Obrero and Oriente) were under special supervisory programs.
These prevailing structural problems were further exacerbated by the economic crisis which
followed the devaluation. Taking into account the economy's vulnerability and the weak
financial condition of the intermediaries prevailing before the crisis, the risk of severe
solvency problems in banking institutions and a contingent financial meltdown became
evident in the first months of 1995.
The first measure taken by the Authorities in response to the financial crisis was to open a
special credit window at the Central Bank to provide credit in dollars to the banks that faced
problems in meeting their dollar-denominated obligations.
The abo% - was followed by other measures aimed at strengthening the bank's financial
condition and to limit their credit risk exposure. In addition, new prudential regulations
were issued to compel banks to raise their level of provisions to a minimum of 60% of past-
due loans, or 4% of the total loan portfolio, whichever was higher.
The combination of higher reserve requirements, a growing volume of past-due loans,
losses in the value of the securities portfolio, increased funding costs and unrealized losses
from the bank's subsidiaries, generated aggregate losses that had a negative impact on the
banks' capital position, As a result, the capitalization level of banks started to decrease, so
that by February 1995, 9 of the 18 privatized banks had capitalization ratios below 8%.
This precarious situation required the implementation of measures aimed at fostering the
capitalization level of banks and to improve the quality of their loan portfolio. Among the
first responses from the Authorities, was the implementation of the Temporary
Capitalization Program (PROCAPTE) which was established to provide shareholders
enough time to raise the needed capital under regular market conditions, and to confirm the
Government's commitment towards the financial sector, increasing depositors'confidence.



Annex E
Page 9 of 21
By the same token, a reform easing the legal constrains to allow national and foreign
participation in Mexican banks was approved.
The measures were not limited to the direct support for banks. For instance, three months
after the outbreak of the crisis, the Authorities designed a series of measures to support
bank debtors and simultaneously contribute to the improvement of the banks' loan
portfolio. Accordingly, in April 1995, the units of investment or UDIS (inflation-indexed
units) were created as units of account to restructure commercial, mortgage and state and
municipal government loans. The Government supported this process by absorbing the real
interest rate risk, while banks bore the credit and funding risks.
This program sought to support debtors by providing them with the means to relieve cash-
flow pressures generated by the unexpected increase in nominal interest rates. The
Authorities' participation in this program allowed the massive restructuring of credits in
UDIS. In this way, anticipated amortizations were avoided by providing debtors with real
interest rates at lower levels than those prevailing in the market and by extending the
maturity of their loans.
In spite of the former, the adverse macroeconomic environment accelerated the growth of
past-due loans which, by July 1995, reached the unprecedented amount of 16% of the total
banking loan portfolio. Due to the iurther than expected deterioration of households'
income on account of rising unemployment and falling real wages, new programs to
alleviate specific loan problems were announced during 1995-964. These measures were
implemented to support bank debtors by neutralizing the negative effects of high inflation
and volatile interest rates. The implementation of these programs contributed to avoiding
the spread of a "non-payment culture" which eventually-and given the prevailing
conditions of the economy-could have led to a banking collapse.
Nonetheless, as the consequences of the crisis started to stand out more clearly, and its
effects on the Mexican financial sector became indisputable, the Authorities realized that
additional measures had to be implemented.
As a parallel measure to strengthlen banks, the Authorities then undertook the
implementation of the FOBAPROA ca]pitalization and loan purchase mechanism ("CLPM")
which was designed to capitalize banks and improve their asset quality. This mechanism
has proven successful as an incentive to promote the capitalization of the institutions.
According to this program, the Government agreed to acquire two pesos of loans for every
peso of additional capital injected by shareholders. It is important to stress that the
underlying moral hazard effect of thie program notably diminished as a result of the
inclusion of a 25-30% loss sharing agreement between the banks and the Authorities as one
of the program's conditions.
4   Small Debtor Support Program (ADE), Additional Program to Support Mortgage Loans, Program to
Support the Agricultural and Fishing Sectors (FINAPE) and Program to Support Micro, Small and Medium
Enterprises (FOPYME).



Annex E
Page 10 of 21
The CLPM was initially designed for the acquisition of Probursa by Banco Bilbao Vizcaya.
However, given their weak financial condition, other Mexican institutions requested to be
included in this mechanism in order to be able to increase their capitalization levels.
In order to avoid competitive disadvantages among the privatized banks, the program was
also extended to the stronger ones. Thus, banks such as Banamex and Bancomer also had
access to the program.
Even though most of the privatized banks required this facility twice-and in some cases
three times-the program was not designed as a permanent open window facility for banks.
Also, it was of public knowledge that the closing date of the CLPM was December 1996. In
addition, any bank interested in having access to the program had to demonstrate its
willingness to inject the stipulated amount of capital. Due to the capital injection
requirements, it was not possible to perform only one round of loan purchases per bank,
since these were undertaken by the Government only under the condition that the
shareholders were able to make the corresponding contributions of capital.
The benefits of the CLPM can be seen by analyzing on the one hand, the purchase of loans,
and on the other, the capital injections. First, the gross purchase of loans reached only 24%
of total loans outstanding as of December 1994. Second, new capital injections registered a
significant increase of 176% as a percentage of the banking system's equity, as of
December 1994.
The results of the programs implemented by the Authorities have significantly diminished
the fragility of the Mexican Banking System. For instance:
* As of June 1997, the banking capitalization ratio reached 16%5, without considering the
remaining capital committed as a result of the Capitalization Loan Purchase Mechanism
(CLPM) for the rest of 1997.
* The provisions created by the 12 privatized banks from the beginning of 1995 to June
1997, represent 415% of the outstanding provisions as of December 1994. These
provisions were equivalent to 213% of their equity as of December 1994.
* Under the new accounting rules the provisions to past-due loans have reached 57% in
June 1997. Additionally, the growth of past-due loans, which had been steadily
diminishing, became negative during June 1997, for the first time since the beginning of
the crisis.
* During the second quarter of 1997, some banks have shown a small increase -in real
terms-in their loan portfolio.
All banks, except the ones intervened or under a special situation.



Annex E
Page 11 of 21
The above can be explained by the convergence of the following factors:
1) The improvements in the payments capacity of households and companies, resulting
from the support programs implemented by the Government;
2) Banks have become more cautious in granting credits, and the availability of lending
resources has diminished;
3) Interest rates have declined in both, nominal and real terms;
4) Most productive sectors have shown real growth; and
5) Employment has increased while wages have slightly grown.
IV.   Response to the Bank's Comments on the Restructuring of Banks
4. The analysis of the ICR might give the impression that the Bank states that the
programs implemented by the Auathorities were not accompanied by a dilution of
shareholders' equity and changes in the management of the banks.
The evidence shows that this statement is not true. The banks' restructuring was undertaken
basically through three measures which resulted in very important changes in the
management of the banks and in the (lilution of their original shareholders' equity. These
three measures were: i) the legal reform to the bank's ownership structure; ii) the CLPM;
and iii) the restructuring and sale of the intervened banks.
The first measure implemented by the Authorities in order to facilitate the banks'
restructuring process was the drafting and approval of reforms to the ownership structure of
banks, as well as to the limits affecting Mexican and foreign participation. For instance, B-
Class Shares, which previously had been limited to Mexican ownership, are now of free
subscription and they can amount up to 49% of the bank's ordinary capital. In addition, the
laws regarding the composition of the capital of subsidiaries of foreign banks were
liberalized. Before the reform, 99% of the shares had to be F-Class Shares, which could
only be owned by a foreign bank. NoW, this proportion has been reduced to 51%, while the
remaining 49% is of free subscriptionr. Also, the NAFTA market share limits for foreign
banks that acquire a currently operating Mexican bank were eased. As a result, the
individual market-share limit of 1.5% was increased to 6%, while the aggregate limit -
which originally contemplated a gradual increase from 8% in 1994 to 15% in 2000- was
increased to 25%, for those Mexican banks in operation that were taken over by a foreign
institution.
The ultimate consequences of these reforms, which sometimes were accompanied by a loan
sale program, were:
* A significant increase in foreign investor's participation in Mexican banks;
* A significant dilution of the original. shareholders' equity; and



Annex E
Page 12 of 21
* Changes in the management of the credit institutions, which will be explained later in
this document.
The evolution of foreign participation in Mexican banks is summarized in the following
table:
Bank          Dec. '94 (%)~May '97 (%)
Bancomer                        0.0                20.0
Inverlat                       0.0                10.0"1
Bital                        16.6                16.6
Bancrecer-Banoro                   0.0                 3.6
Mexicano (Santander)                 0.0                51.0"
Probursa (Bilbao Vizcaya)              0.0                63.8
Serfin                        0.0        1       20.06
Confia                        n.a.                n.a.
"tThis percentage might rise in the future. See section on individual banks below.
The CLPM was another of the measures that brought about, through the capitalization of
the banks, an important dilution of shareholders' equity, and several changes in their top
management.
According to the Operating Guidelines for Bank Restructuring of the FSRL, the
reconstruction of the banks' capital base should be initially sought from existing
shareholders. In this regard, very important capital injections were made to the banks by
existing shareholders. However, the program implied their dilution when they did not
contribute to the required capital injections and new investors -mainly foreign-
participated in the recapitalization. Additionally, when the contributions were made by
FOBAPROA or when new foreign partners acquired the majority of a Mexican operating
bank, the dilution of the shareholders was almost total.
On the other hand, when the Authorities considered that the total removal of the
management of a bank was not necessary, the corresponding support program required the
participating bank to significantly strengthen its management.
Most of the privatized banks which experienced an important increase in foreign
participation were subject, in almost all of the cases, to very important changes in their
management, and, in some other cases, a total removal of the management was
implemented.
This situation is clearly reflected in the following tables, where 8 out of the 18 privatized
banks, plus Banco Obrero, still remain under the control of their original shareholders. The
shareholders of the other 11 banks lost their capital and the control of their institutions.
6  To be formalized.



Annex E
Page 13 of 21
Banks Still Under the Control of their Original Shareholders
* Banamex. As a result of its participation in the FOBAPROA loan purchase/recapitalization
program, Banamex has agreed to strengthen its internal controls and improve its
management.
* Bancomer. Bank of Montreal acquired a 20% stake in Bancomer with the consequent
dilution of existing shareholders.
* Serfin. As a result of the first round of loan sale, its top management was removed. Hong
Kong-Shanghai Bank is formalizing the acquisition of a 20% participation in Serfin.
* Bital. Banco Comercial Hispano and Comercial Portugues have injected fresh resources to
the bank in order to maintain their participation.
. Banorte. The bank is in the process to acquire Bancen and will also acquire Banpais. As a
result of its participation in the FOBAPROA loan purchase/recapitalization program,
Banorte has agreed to strengthen its internal controls and improve its management.
* Atldntico. As a result of its participation in the CLPM, Atlantico has agreed to strengthen its
internal controls and improve its management.
* Promex. As a result of its participation in the CLPM, Promex has agreed to strengthen its
internal controls and improve its management. Currently, this bank is looking for a foreign
partner.
* Bancrecer-Banoro. As a result of its participation in the FOBAPROA loan
purchase/recapitalization program, Bancrecer-Banoro has agreed to strengthen its internal
controls and improve its management,



Annex E
Page 14 of 21
Intervened Banks or Banks in Which the Control was Transferred
* Inverlat. Bank of Nova Scotia agreed to assume the management of the bank. In addition to
its current stake in Inverlat, Scotia-bank has the option of acquiring a majority of the
outstanding shares by year 2000. Dilution of prior shareholders has been important and it
will increase as a result of the option's exercise.
* Mexicano. Santander acquired the majority of the shares of the bank. The bank is now
practically administered by Santander. The former shareholders lost most of their capital
and the control of the institution.
* Confia. Citibank will acquire Confia in the near future; dilution of shareholders will be
almost total. Prior management is subject to criminal prosecution.
* Banpais. As a result of the intervention and FOBAPROA's recapitalization program,
existing shareholders experienced dilution of almost 100%. Previous management is
currently subject to legal proceeding. Banorte has agreed to acquire the bank and is now
responsible for Banpais' management.
* Uniin. As a result of the intervention, FOBAPROA assumed the ownership of the bank.
The dilution was complete. Prior management is subject to criminal prosecution. The branch
network of the bank was acquired by Promex.
* CremL As a result of the intervention, FOBAPROA assumed the ownership of the bank.
The dilution was complete. Prior management is subject to criminal prosecution. The branch
network of the bank was acquired by Bilbao Vizcaya.
. Oriente. FOBAPROA assumed the ownership of the bank. The dilution of existing
shareholders was total. The branch network of the bank was acquired by Bilbao Vizcaya.
. Bancen. It is in the process of being merged with Banorte. Shareholders' dilution amounted
to around 85%. The bank is currently managed by Banorte.
* Obrero. The branch network of the bank was acquired by Afirme.
* Probursa. The bank was acquired by Bilbao Vizcaya.
. Banoro. The bank was sold to Bancrecer at an early stage just after its privatization.
Summarizing, of the original 18 privatized banks plus Banco Obrero, 3 have been or will
be merged with stronger institutions, 4 banks have been or will be acquired by foreign
institutions, the branch network of 3 of them has been sold to stronger institutions. 10 of



Annex E
Page 15 of 21
those banks continue to operate adequately, and 4 of the 10 banks have foreign participation
in their capital.
Finally, regarding the resolution process of the intervened banks, there has never been a
reluctance on behalf of the Authorities to sell the intervened banks, as the Bank states in the
ICR. As it has already been explained in this document, the Authorities were subject to
external factors that undermined the sale process of intervened banks. In fact, legal and
corporate problems prevented the Authorities from fully taking control of these institutions,
which in turn, limited their ability to adequately capitalize the intervened banks. Another
factor that affected the sale process was the changing mood of potential buyers.
Nonetheless, this process has been accelerated in the last months and most of the intervened
banks have already been sold, sometimes as operating institutions, and, in other cases, only
their branch network has been acquired by another institution.
V.    Response to the Bank's Comments on FOBAPROA's Assets Overhang
5. The Bank stated in the ICR that one of its most important concerns is that
FOBAPROA's so-called overhang of assets has impeded the restructuring of the
banking system and the recovery of the Mexican economy. The Bank also argues
that there is an absence of a strategy to dispose of the assets under the control of
FOBAPROA.
The Authorities are conscious that, as established in the Operating Guidelines, delays in the
sale of banking assets under the ownership of the Government could represent higher fiscal
costs. However, it has never been the A.uthorities' aim to delay the sale of the assets under
FOBAPROA's control.
The main obstacles that have hampered the progress of FOBAPROA's asset sales have
been the difficulty in transferring the control of the loans to the resolution vehicle, and the
lack of reliable information about the credits, which has rendered the gathering of
information a time-consuming task.
The Authorities are convinced that FOBAPROA's so-called "asset overhang" has not
interfered in any manner with the effective restructuring of the banking system. The Bank
argues that the borrowers whose loans are under FOBAPROA's control, will not have
access to the credit markets until they restructure their existing debts. However, the fact that
their loans are under the control of FOEIAPROA is not the actual obstacle to have access to
new loans; banks would not grant loans in the short term to borrowers which are not current
in their payments, whether their loans are under FOBAPROA's or the banks' control.
The Bank also considers that this overhang of assets depressed the value of the banking
system's assets and that the price of the assets sold during the Valuaci6n y Venta de



Annex E
Page 16 of 21
Activos' first round sale is a benchmark to value the Mexican banking assets. The
Authorities are convinced that there is neither evidence nor theoretical justification to
assume such statements, because the assets under FOBAPROA's control are mainly past-
due loans and they can not be counted as a representative sample of the banking system's
assets.
Finally, the Authorities strongly deny that the lengthy process for selling assets under
FOBAPROA's control is a strategy to delay or avoid the revelation of the actual fiscal cost
of the loan purchase/recapitalization program. The Authorities have consistently disclosed
their estimations on the fiscal cost and believe that there is no reason for not disclosing this
information to the public.
VI.   Response to the Bank's Comments on Prudential Regulation and Supervision
The Authorities agree with the Bank that a very significant degree of progress has been
achieved in the development and implementation of prudential regulation, as well as in the
strengthening of the Authorities' supervisory methodologies and practices. However, the
Authorities believe that, regarding this matter, some relevant aspects should be pointed out.
Contrarily to the arguments established in the ICR by the Bank, the new accounting
standards have been fully and completely implemented. As in other countries, specially
during the course of a banking crisis, transitional measures are inevitable, given the abrupt
changes implied by the adoption of the new standards. It is likely that the transitional
measure that has created the most controversy has been the recognition of restructured loans
as current. Due to the high loan restructuring activity that has taken place in the Mexican
banking system, as well as the large amount of subsidies channeled through the
Government's programs, it was deemed appropriate to consider the restructured loans as of
December 1996 as current. However, the effects of this measure were strictly temporary,
and if as of June 1997 a debtor had not fulfilled its payments on its restructured loans, these
were recognized as past-due.
The Bank also argues that there are still some differences between Mexican accounting
principles and those of most other countries. The main difference concerns the use of
inflationary accounting. In this regard, the international accounting principles-as well as
prudential regulation standards-were developed by countries with low inflation rates. Due
to this fact, they are not concerned about the effects that inflation could have on a banks'
financial condition. For this reason, in countries like Mexico, where inflation is much
higher than international average levels, the use of inflationary accounting is deemed
necessary to reflect more accurately the financial condition of corporations and financial
intermediaries. It is important to stress here that this practice is accepted and recommended
by international authorities, such as IASC, and other regulators, such as the SEC.



Annex E
Page 17 of 21
It is also worth mentioning that non-financial finns that operate under inflationary
environments and are listed in the NYSE are required to report their financial statements
considering inflationary effects.
The Mexican inflationary accounting principles basically consist of two measures:
* The revaluation and re-expression of non-monetary items-including fixed assets and
capital accounts-according to the changes in the National Consumer Price Index
(INPC).
* The recognition of earnings or losses as a result of changes in the purchasing power of
monetary items. In this manner, a net positive position in monetary assets would
represent a loss in the purchasing power of the institution and should be recognized in
the income statement. A negative position in net terms in monetary assets would
represent an earning.
Contrarily to what the Bank says, inflationary accounting provides a clearer and more
realistic way to assess the financial condition of an intermediary. In the past, the effects of
inflation were only reflected as an increase in capital, due to the addition of the surplus
derived from the revaluation of fixed assets. Now, the effects of inflation are not limited to
increasing the capital, but can also generate either net gains or losses in the monetary
position of the intermediary.
In this regard, the incorporation of most of the revaluation effects in Tier I for the
computation of banks' net capital is consistent with the use of inflationary accounting
principles. This can be justified by considering that initial paid capital is generally used to
acquire fixed assets. Thus, if a high percentage of the revaluation of fixed assets and shares
in banking real state subsidiaries is not considered as Tier I, a non desirable capital
redistribution effect would appear-moving a portion of capital which was initially
considered Tier I to Tier II-as a result of the inflationary effects.
In the discussion regarding the definition of net capital for capitalization purposes, there
exists some disagreement about the inclusion of mandatory convertible subordinated debt in
Tier I. It is important to mention that advances have been made in Mexico regarding the net
capital definition. One of the most important ones concerns the limit of mandatory
convertible subordinated debt that could be accounted as Tier I. After the recent reforms,
such debt must have a maturity of less than three years and it must not be greater than 30%
of Tier I.
On the other hand, the Authorities recognize that there are inefficiencies in the national
Bankruptcy Law and, in general, in the legal framework of the Mexican financial system, as
stated in the ICR. Nonetheless, even umder the best legal/regulatory frameworks, it would
have been impossible to cope with the massive number of legal proceedings that arose
during the crisis. Important changes have already been made in this regard. The Credit
Institutions' Law was reformed in order to exempt from the banking secrecy provisions the
loans that are subject to a cession or discount, as well as the loans and assets that are part of



Annex E
Page 18 of 21
a transaction of equity transfer or subscription. In the same vein, the Civil Code was
reformed in order to facilitate the cession of mortgage loans and their securitization.
Finally, regarding the FOBAPROA coverage, the commitment under the FSRL was to
carry out a study about its coverage reduction. The study has been almost finished and a
scheme of gradual reduction of coverage, according to financial and economic indicators,
has been developed. However, a commitment about the dates on which the reduction should
be starting has not been agreed upon.
VII. The Authorities Comment on the Institutional Relationship with the Bank
The quality of the support and advice received from the Bank has had significant variations
along the term of the FSRL. At the beginning of the project the support offered by the Bank
was very productive to the Authorities. Advise was permanently granted, very high quality
consultants were assigned to Mexico, showing a wide knowledge about the country's
situation and its primary requirements. The good and productive relationship built between
the Authorities and the Bank during the negotiation and preparation of the Financial
Technical Assistance Loan (FTAL) was a determinant factor for a soon and efficient
preparation and approval of the FSRL. The valuable contributions of the Bank's staff at the
beginning of the banking crisis were not limited to direct advise, but also to recommending
and contacting high quality consultants.
In the middle of 1995, differences in approaches and conflicts of interest among Bank's
Departments related to the project began to appear. The amount of funds assigned to
Mexico as a result of the FSRL was so important, that it seems to us that many internal
worries began to rise within the Bank. We perceived several differences between some
areas of the Bank as to the type of measures that should have been established in our
country. The differences were related to the pace of the measures that were being
implemented at the time by the Authorities, as well as to the level of support given to the
Mexican banks. Those issues became a very important source of conflict between some
members of the Bank which led to a real internal struggle. Mexico and its financial
problems were pushed to a second level because of these conflicts. The Authorities were
forced to deal with a divided Bank, with different agendas and objectives.
In fact, while we were asked to provide the Bank's staff with all available informnation,
documents concerning the situation of the Mexican banking system were being written
within the Bank, reaching a negative diagnosis. These papers were distributed and
commented within the Bank without the knowledge of the Authorities. This situation led to
an important deterioration of the relationship between the Bank and the Authorities, who
became very cautious about the information provided to the Bank.
Another factor that has also damaged the relationship between the Bank and the Authorities
has been the continuous changes in the Bank's staff assigned to Mexico. The new personnel



Annex E
Page 19 of 21
has had to be constantly educated on the basics of the Mexican financial system, a task that
has become highly time-consuming for the Authorities.
The Authorities are convinced that the Bank has very valuable staff, wishing to play a more
active role in the decision process regarding the Mexican financial system. However, the
initial benefits brought about by the relationship with the Bank were surpassed by the costs
of the internal struggles within the Bank.
We believe it is crucial that the Bank hLas a clear chain of command. The Authorities require
having only one official counterpart, which will deal with all matters related to them.
Permanent, fair and impartial advisory from the Bank would be extremely useful and
helpful to us, and that would allow the establishment of a more trustful and fruitful
relationship.
VIII. Perspectives for the Financiall System
The Authorities are convinced that, notwithstanding the progress achieved so far, many
challenges remain. From now on, the three main issues to be addressed are:
a) The consolidation of the banking system and the recovery of interest margins and
profitability.
b) The completion of a robust framework to strengthen prudential regulation and self-
regulation.
c) The definition of the structure of the financial system.
In the short term the primary aim of the Authorities is to promote the consolidation of the
banking system. Today there are few institutions, but they are stronger and better
capitalized. Nonetheless, the establishment of foreign banking institutions has contributed
to the increased level of competition within the market. This can be seen through the
reduction of both, the asset concentration and the demand deposits and savings index
(Herfindahl Hirschman Index). We expect this trend to continue leading to a more
competitive banking system.
A gradual recovery of net interest margins and profitability will depend on several factors.
The key element for this recovery will be an increase in the interest rate spread of banks. As
far as credits are concerned, we are starting to observe an initial increase in the amount of
loans granted to small and medium enterprises and consumption credits, while loans to
bigger and exporting firms are being paid as these companies have access to less expensive
alternatives for funding. It is likely that this trend will continue, resulting in higher returns
for banks from the retail market, even though net credit is not expanding.
Regarding the sources of funding for banks, there has been an increase in competition for
core deposits. This has resulted in lower dependence on interbank funding, which by



Annex E
Page 20 of 21
definition is more expensive and volatile. Although competition is putting pressure on
individual institutions to reduce operational costs, it has also generated additional costs
related to advertising and maintaining qualified personnel. Regarding the latter, banks have
had to increase salaries in order to keep their most talented people from joining foreign
banks.
In order to increase profitability, it is important to reduce the size of the past-due loan
portfolio. So far, past-due loan growth has been considerably reduced by the
implementation of loan restructuring and mortgage debtor relief programs. This has reduced
the need to create new provisions, thereby offsetting the reduction in the interest rate
margin. Nevertheless, the authorities must continue monitoring and supervising these
indicators.
Along with the programs that have already been implemented to manage the financial
crisis, the Authorities have also taken measures aimed at strengthening both prudential and
self-regulation. However, further improvements have to be made in the following areas:
1. Consolidation of financial statements for financial groups.
2. Regulatory reports
3. Minimum standards for granting loans
4. Related lending
5. Reforms to the methodology for loan classification
6. Risk management standards
7. Deposit insurance reform
The consolidation of financial statements will permit a more accurate evaluation and
supervision of financial groups. In this sense, financial institutions have already been asked
to carry out preliminary consolidation exercises. The results of these exercises will enable
the Authorities to set a mandatory date for full compliance.
As a parallel measure for improving the regulatory framework and enhancing market
discipline through more information disclosure, the Authorities are designing a set of
regulatory reports to improve the quality of information.
In order to improve the quality of the banking system's loan portfolio, and reduce its risk, it
is necessary to: a) establish minimum standards for the credit approval process; b) redefine
related lending; and c) implement a methodology for the classification of the loan portfolio.
Regarding risk management, the Authorities are seeking to foster a "risk management
culture" by demanding that all financial institutions measure, analyze, monitor and assess
their different risk positions. This will be achieved by setting minimum requirements and
by implementing new methodologies. By analyzing credit risks, financial institutions will
be in a position to better classify their loan portfolio. This in turn, will enable them to have
an adequately valued loan portfolio, along with proper loan-loss provisions.



Annex E
Page 21 of 21
In order to induce more market discipline, the Authorities have deemed necessary a
reduction in the scope of the current deposit insurance scheme. The current scheme covers
most types of bank liabilities. Hence, depositors are relatively indifferent to the
capitalization level and financial health of these institutions.
Along the same line, the self-regulation measures that need to be carried out are: a) the
strengthening of the role of credit-rating agencies, credit bureaus and external auditors; and
b) the distribution of the National Banking and Securities Commission's quarterly
statistical bulletins through the Internet free of charge.
The above measures will contribute to providing the market will more complete, reliable
and timely information. This, in turn, will improve the efficiency of the Mexican banking
system.
Finally, the Authorities will focus their efforts on redefining certain features of the national
financial system's structure. This involves the following areas:
X The role of the Authorities in the financial system
X The role of development banks within the financial system
* The fostering of domestic private savings
* Corporate Governance (mainly minority shareholders' rights and the role of the board of
directors)
* Strengthening and promoting institutional investment
* Development of capital markets
* Strengthening legal procedures as well as the judicial system
 Reforming the Bankruptcy Law
* Defining the role of non-banking intermediaries
We believe that the Bank's assistance to the Authorities will enable them to build a more
constructive relationship that will benefit and improve the performance of the Mexican
financial system. This partnership will ultimately benefit the Mexican financial system by
strengthening it and making it more efficient.
December, 1997



