Page  1
                                                              CONFORMED COPY
                                                         LOAN NUMBER 3911-ME
                               Loan Agreement
                    (Financial Sector Restructuring Loan)
                                   between
                         NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
                             Dated June 23, 1995
                                                         LOAN NUMBER 3911-ME
                               LOAN AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated June 23, 1995, between NACIONAL FINANCIERA,
S.N.C. (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
    WHEREAS: (A) the Bank has received a letter dated May
19, 1995, from United Mexican States (the Guarantor) describing
a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
achieve restructuring and development of the financial sector
of the Guarantor's economy (hereinafter called the Program),
declaring the Guarantor's commitment to the execution of the
Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in the
financing of urgently needed imports required during such
execution;
    (B) by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect
of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set
forth in the Guarantee Agreement;
    (C) on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has
decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to
Page  2
the Guarantor by making the Loan to the Borrower in two
tranches as hereinafter provided;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Single
Currency Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated May
30, 1995, with the modifications thereof set forth below (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
    (a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
          "'Project' means the imports and other activities that
    may be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to
    the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement."; and
    (b)   Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
          "(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date
    or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
    the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor shall prepare and
    furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such
    detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the
    execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to the
    Loan Agreement, the performance by the Guarantor and the
    Bank of their respective obligations under the Guarantee
    Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
    Loan.".
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
    (a)   "CNB" means Comision Nacional Bancaria, the Guarantor's
National Banking Commission prior to the creation of the CNBV
(as hereinafter defined);
    (b)   "CNBV" means Comision Nacional Bancaria y de Valores,
the Guarantor's National Banking and Securities Commission
established pursuant to the Guarantor's Ley de la Comision
Nacional Bancaria y de Valores published in the Guarantor's
official gazette of April 27, 1995;
    (c)   "Credit Institutions Law" means the Guarantor's Ley de
Instituciones de Credito, published in the Guarantor's official
gazette of July 18, 1990, as amended;
    (d)   "DFEs" means public development finance entities
(public development banks and public development trusts);
    (e)   "FI" means any first tier financial institution;
    (f)   "First Tranche" means the portion of the Loan not
exceeding the equivalent of $500,000,000 to be released by the
Bank on or after the Effective Date;
    (g)   "FOBAPROA" means Fondo Bancario de Proteccion al
Ahorro, a trust fund established under Article 122 of the
Credit Institutions Law;
    (h)   "intervened bank" means any bank in which CNBV has
intervened since June 1, 1994 (including interventions of CNB
prior to the creation of CNBV) or in which FOBAPROA has taken
control pursuant to the powers conferred on CNBV and FOBAPROA
Page  3
under the Credit Institutions Law;
    (i)   "Operating Guidelines" means the guidelines for the
restructuring of troubled banks (as defined hereinafter) set
forth in the Annex to the letter of May 19, 1995 from the
Guarantor to the Bank referred to in paragraph (A) of the
Preamble to this Agreement;
    (j)   "PROCAPTE" means Programa de Capitalizacion Temporal,
the temporary capitalization program instituted by Banco de
Mexico under its Circular of February 24, 1995;
    (k)   "PROCAPTE banks" means banks receiving support under
PROCAPTE;
    (l)   "Second Tranche" means the portion of the Loan not
exceeding the equivalent of $500,000,000 to be released by the
Bank upon fulfillment of the conditions set forth or referred
to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (m)   "SHCP" means the Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito
Publico, the Guarantor's Secretariat of Finance and Public
Credit;
    (n)   "SITC" means the Standard International Trade
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3
(1986); and
    (o)   "troubled banks" means intervened banks and PROCAPTE
banks.
                                 ARTICLE II
                                  The Loan
    Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, an amount equal to one billion Dollars
($1,000,000,000).
    Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
    Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
    Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
    Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in
arrears on
April 15 and October 15 in each year.
    Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE III
                 Transfer of Loan Proceeds; Other Covenants
Page  4
    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall enter into contractual
arrangements with the Guarantor, satisfactory to the Bank,
providing, inter alia, for: (i) the transfer to the Guarantor
of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) the transfer by the
Guarantor to the Borrower of such funds as the Borrower shall
be required to pay to the Bank on account of principal,
interest and other charges on the Loan.  Except as the Bank may
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or fail to
enforce any provision of such contractual arrangements.
    (b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
contractual arrangements referred to in paragraph (a) above in
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
    Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to
the Guarantee Agreement.
    Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                paragraph (a) of this Section in respect of
                expenditures under each of the First and the
                Second Tranche audited, in accordance with
                generally accepted auditing standards and
                procedures consistently applied, by independent
                and qualified auditors;
          (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                any case not later than four months after the
                last withdrawal from the Loan Account has been
                made under each of the First and Second Tranche,
                a certified copy of the report of such audit by
                said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)         furnish to the Bank such other information
                        concerning said records and accounts and
                        the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
                        time to time reasonably request.
    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                accounts reflecting such expenditures;
          (ii)  retain or cause to be retained, until at least
                one year after the Bank has received the audit in
                respect of the expenditures under the Second
                Tranche, all records (contracts, orders,
                invoices, bills, receipts and other documents, or
                customs certificates, as appropriate) evidencing
                such expenditures;
          (iii)         enable the Bank's representatives to
                        examine such records; and
          (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                included in the audits referred to in paragraph
                (b) of this Section and that the report of such
Page  5
                audits contains a separate opinion by said
                auditors as to whether the statements of
                expenditure submitted, together with the
                procedures and internal controls involved in
                their preparation, can be relied upon to support
                the related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                       Additional Event of Suspension
    Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof,
will be carried out.
                                  ARTICLE V
                         Effective Date; Termination
    Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
    (a)   the contractual arrangements referred to in Section
3.01 (a) of this Agreement have been executed;
    (b)   the macroeconomic policy framework of the Guarantor is
consistent with the objectives of the Program;
    (c)   the Bank is satisfied, after an exchange of views as
described in Section 3.01 (a) of the Guarantee Agreement, with
the progress achieved by the Guarantor in the carrying out of
the Program;
    (d)   the Guarantor, through CNBV or FOBAPROA, has employed
an independent auditing firm, in accordance with terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank, to assist with the
preparation of diagnostic studies of banks as set forth in the
Program and the diagnostic study of at least one intervened
bank has been initiated;
    (e)   the Guarantor, through CNBV or FOBAPROA, has employed
investment banks or specialized consultants or firms, in
accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, to
assist in the preparation of restructuring plans of banks;
    (f)   the Guarantor, through CNBV, has formulated uniform
accounting principles (including consolidation of financial
statements) consistent with internationally accepted accounting
principles, and consistent across all transactions and
activities, acceptable to the Bank, for financial statements
and regulatory reports of banks; and
    (g)   the Guarantor, through SHCP, has furnished to the Bank
terms of reference, acceptable to the Bank, for studies on: (i)
the impact of establishing risk-based exposure limits for the
liabilities of each FI with regard to the DFEs; (ii) the
establishment of eligibility criteria for FI participation in
DFE second tier financial operations and the impact of
establishing rating requirements by qualified private agencies;
and (iii) the Guarantor's interest rate policy in domestic and
foreign currency, including an evaluation of its incentive
structure and its impact on financial markets and final
borrowers.
    Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the contractual
Page  6
arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement
have been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the
Guarantor, have been duly executed by them, and are legally
binding upon the Borrower and the Guarantor in accordance with
their terms.
    Section 5.03. The date September 25, 1995 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                 Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 6.01. The Director Internacional of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
    Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
    Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
    Direccion Internacional
          Plaza Inn, Insurgentes Sur 1971
          Torre IV, Piso 8
          01020 Mexico, D.F.
    Mexico
          Cable address:                  Telex:
          NAFIN                     NAFIME 383-1775765
          Mexico City               Mexico City
    For the Bank:
    International Bank for
     Reconstruction and Development
    1818 H Street, N.W.
    Washington, D.C. 20433
    United States of America
          Cable address:                  Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.                 82987 (FTCC)
                                           64145 (WUI) or
                                          197688 (TRT)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in Mexico, D.F., United
Mexican States, as of the day and year first above written.
                        NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
                        By /s/ Gilberto Borja
                                                   Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Page  7
                                                     Regional Vice President
                                             Latin America and the Caribbean
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
    1.    Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in
this Schedule, the proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods required during the execution of the Program and to be
financed out of such proceeds.
    2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
    (a)   expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by
notice to the Borrower:
       Group            Subgroup       Description of Items
       112                 --          Alcoholic beverages
       121                 --          Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
                                       refuse
       122                 --          Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                       or not containing tobacco
                                       substitutes)
       525                 --          Radioactive and
                                       associated materials
       667                 --          Pearls, precious and
                                       semiprecious stones, unworked
                                       or
                                       worked
       718              718.7          Nuclear reactors, and
                                       parts thereof, fuel elements
                                       (cartridges) nonirradiated, for
                                       nuclear reactors
       728              728.43         Tobacco processing machinery
       897              897.3          Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                       platinum group metals
                                       (except watches and watch cases)
                                       and goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
                                       wares (including set gems)
       971                 --          Gold, nonmonetary (excluding
                                       gold ores and concentrates)
    (b)   expenditures in the currency of the Guarantor or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Guarantor;
    (c)   payments made for goods imported prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of $200,000,000 may be made on
account of payments made for such goods imported before that
date but after March 9, 1995;
    (d)   expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
Page  8
less than $50,000 equivalent;
    (e)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance;
    (f)   expenditures for goods intended for a military or
paramilitary purpose or for luxury consumption; and
    (g)   expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount
equivalent to $50,000,000 for petroleum products and
foodstuffs.
    3.    Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the
procurement of goods estimated to cost less than $10,000,000
equivalent may be required by the Bank upon the basis of
statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions as
the Bank shall specify.
    4.    No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower
in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan
withdrawn from the Loan Account and the total amount of such
commitments shall have reached the equivalent of $500,000,000,
unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views
as described in Section 3.01 (a) of the Guarantee Agreement
based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (a) with the
progress achieved by the Guarantor in the carrying out of the
Program; (b) that the macroeconomic policy framework of the
Guarantor is consistent with the objectives of the Program; and
(c) that the actions described in Schedule 2 to the Guarantee
Agreement have been taken in form and substance satisfactory to
the Bank.
    5.    If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph
4 above, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower and
the Guarantor that the progress achieved and actions taken are
not satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the
Guarantor shall not have achieved progress and taken actions
satisfactory to the Bank, then the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part
thereof.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                 Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.  General Definitions
    For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the
following meanings.
    (a)  "Disbursed Amount" means, in respect of each Interest
Period, the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
from the Loan Account in such Interest Period.
    (b)  "Interest Period" means the initial period from and
including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the
first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the
initial period, each period from and including in Interest
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest
Payment Date.
    (c)  "Interest Payment Date" means, for each Disbursed
Amount, the first day of the Interest Period next following the
Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is withdrawn.
B.        Interest
1.  The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into
Page  9
Disbursed Amounts.  Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed
Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate based on a
floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a
fixed rate from its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph
2 of this Part B.
2.  (a)         From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each
Disbursed Amount withdrawn and outstanding, to but not
including the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount,
interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to
the applicable:
    (i)  Base Rate; plus
    (ii) Total Spread.
    (b)   From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount
until final repayment thereof, interest on such Disbursed
Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the applicable:
    (i)  Fixed Base Rate; plus
    (ii) Fixed Total Spread.
3.  For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following
terms have the following meanings.
    (a)   "Base Rate" means, for the Interest Period in which a
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn, the interbank offered rate for
six-month deposits in Dollar for value the first day of such
Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest
Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment
Date preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage
per annum.
    (b)   "Total Spread" mean, for the Interest Period in which
each Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
          (i)   one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
          (ii)  minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for
                such Interest Period, below (or above) the
                interbank offered rates, or other reference
                rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the
                Banks' outstanding borrowings or portions thereof
                allocated by the Bank to fund single currency
                loans or portions thereof made by it that include
                such Disbursed Amount for such Interest Period;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
percentage per annum.
    (c)   "Fixed Base Rate" means for each Disbursed Amount, the
equivalent of the interbank offered rate for six-month deposits
in Dollar for value on the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed
Amount, expressed as single fixed interest rate based on the
fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment
installments of such Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined
by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
    (d)   "Fixed Total Spread" means, for each Disbursed Amount:
          (i)   one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
          (ii)  minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on
                the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount,
                below (or above) the interbank offered rates, or
                other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in
                respect of the Banks' outstanding borrowings or
                portions thereof allocated to fund single
                currency loans or portions thereof made by it
Page  10
                that include such Disbursed Amount; plus
          (iii)         the Bank's risk spread applicable on the
                        Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
percentage per annum.
4.  The Bank shall notify the Borrower of Base Rate, Total
Spread, Fixed Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to
each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon the determination thereof.
5.  Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this
Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its
borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other
than as provided in this Schedule, the Bank may modify the
basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts
of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6)
months' notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The new basis
shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not
apply to the Loan.
C.  Repayment
1.  Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the
Borrower shall repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semi-
annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15,
the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th)
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such
Disbursed Amount and the last such installment to be payable on
the twenty-fourth (24th) Interest Payment Date following the
Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount.  Each installment
shall be one-eighteenth (1/18) of such Disbursed Amount.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part
C, if any installment of principal of each Disbursed Amount
would, pursuant to the provisions of said paragraph 1, be
payable after October 15, 2010, the Borrower shall also pay on
said date the aggregate amount of all such installments.
3.  After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of
the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
