Page  1
         CONFORMED COPY
    LOAN NUMBER 3911-ME
                                          Guarantee Agreement
                                 (Financial Sector Restructuring Loan)
                                                between
                                         UNITED MEXICAN STATES
                                                  and
                                 INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                                            AND DEVELOPMENT
                                          Dated June 23, 1995
                                                           LOAN NUMBER 3911-ME
                                          GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
        AGREEMENT, dated June 23, 1995, between UNITED MEXICAN
STATES (the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
        WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated May 19,
1995 from the Guarantor describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to achieve restructuring and
development of the financial sector of the Guarantor's economy
(the Program), declaring the Guarantor's commitment to the
execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the
Bank in the financing of urgently needed imports required
during such execution;
        WHEREAS (B) on the basis, inter alia of the foregoing, the
Bank has decided, in support of the Program, to provide such
assistance to the Guarantor by making a loan in the amount of
one billion Dollars ($1,000,000,000) to Nacional Financiera,
S.N.C. (the Borrower), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor
agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect
of such loan and to undertake other obligations as provided in
this Agreement; and
        WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
Page  2
so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower and to
undertake such other obligations as hereinafter provided;
        NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                               ARTICLE I
                                    General Conditions; Definitions
        Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the
Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (the General Conditions) with the
modifications set forth in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
        Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and Section
1.02  of the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
                                              ARTICLE II
                                 Guarantee; Transfer of Loan Proceeds
        Section 2.01.  Without limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the
Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor
and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and
the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, and the
punctual performance of all the other obligations of the
Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
        Section 2.02.  The Guarantor shall enter into the
contractual arrangements with the Borrower referred to in
Section 3.01 (a) of the Loan Agreement and, unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, shall not change or fail to enforce any
provision of such contractual arrangements.
                                              ARTICLE III
                                            Other Covenants
        Section 3.01. (a) The Guarantor and the Bank shall from
time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the
actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
        (b) Prior to each exchange of views as referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Guarantor shall furnish to
the Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
        (c) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Guarantor shall exchange views with
the Bank on any proposed action to be taken after the
disbursement of the First or Second Tranche which would have
the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the
Program or any action taken under the Program, including any
action specified in Section 5.01 of the Loan Agreement, in
paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement and in Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
        Section 3.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.
Page  3
        Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall provide or cause to be
provided to the Borrower, in timely manner, all documents and
records in respect of the expenditures financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan required to enable the Borrower to comply
with the provisions of Section 3.03 of the Loan Agreement.
                                              ARTICLE IV
                              Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
        Section 4.01.  The Director General de Credito Publico of
the Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
        Section 4.02.  The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
        For the Guarantor:
        Direccion General de Credito Publico
                 Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
                 Insurgentes Sur 826 (Piso 9)
                 03100 Mexico, D.F.
                 Mexico
                             Telex:
       1777313 - SHOCME
        For the Bank
            International Bank for
                 Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                 197688 (TRT)
               Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA)
                                          64145  (WUI) or
                                          82987 (FTCC)
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have cause this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Mexico,
D.F., United Mexican States, as of the day and year first above
written.
                       UNITED MEXICAN STATES
                       By /s/ Guillermo Ortiz
                                                   Authorized Representative
                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                       By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                                     Regional Vice President
                                             Latin America and the Caribbean
                                SCHEDULE 1
                                Procurement
Section I.    Procurement of Goods
Page  4
Part A:   General
     Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 (the
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section,
goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines, subject to
the provisions of paragraphs 2.63, 2.64 and 2.65 thereof.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
     Goods estimated to cost less than $10,000,000 equivalent per
contract may be procured:
1.   by purchasers required to follow the Guarantor's procurement
procedures for the importation of goods, under contracts
awarded in accordance with such procedures, provided that such
procedures shall have been found acceptable by the Bank; and
2.   by other purchasers:
     (a)          under contracts awarded on the basis of
                  international shopping procedures in accordance with
                  the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the
                  Guidelines; or
     (b)          in the circumstances described in paragraph 3.7 of
                  the Guidelines, under direct contracting procedures
                  in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph
                  of the Guidelines.
Part D:    Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Prior Review
     With respect to each contract estimated to cost more than
$10,000,000 equivalent, the procedures set forth in paragraphs
2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
           Actions referred to in Paragraph 4 (c) of Schedule 1 to the
                               Loan Agreement
1.   The Guarantor, through SHCP: (i) has reviewed the results of
the studies referred to in Section 5.01 (g) of the Loan
Agreement with the Bank; (ii) has prepared an action plan on
the basis of such reviews; and (iii) has taken all necessary
official action for the implementation of such action plan on
the basis of a phased implementation schedule.
2.   The Guarantor, through CNBV and FOBAPROA, has reviewed with
the Bank the results of all completed diagnostic studies for
PROCAPTE banks and intervened banks.
3.   The Guarantor, through CNBV, is executing CNBV's inspection
program of banks and has reviewed the results with the Bank.
Page  5
4.   The Guarantor has furnished to the Bank for its review the
restructuring plans of banks under FOBAPROA control (including
implementation strategies), said plans to have been prepared in
accordance with the Operating Guidelines and to have been
approved by CNBV, SHCP and FOBAPROA.
5.   The Guarantor has made progress in the execution of the bank
restructuring plans referred to in paragraph 4 above in
accordance with their terms.
6.   The Guarantor, through CNBV, has issued regulations for
revised uniform accounting principles (including consolidation
of financial statements) for banks consistent with
internationally accepted accounting principles, for application
beginning January 1, 1996 and completion no later than for
year-end 1996 accounts.
7.         The Guarantor has issued revised accounting principles
(including consolidation of financial statements) for non-bank
financial institutions that are affiliates of financial groups
with bank affiliates consistent with internationally accepted
accounting principles.
8.         The Guarantor, through CNBV, has issued supplemental
internal instructions for inspection of banks (including
development banks) covering, inter alia, asset classification
and provisioning, exclusion of de facto treasury stock (stock
owned or financed directly or indirectly by related entities,
or covered by repurchase agreements) for purposes of capital
adequacy standards, composition of Tier I capital (as said term
is defined in SHCP's "Reglas para los Requerimientos de
Capitalizacion de las Instituciones de Banca Multiple" dated
May 20, 1991, as amended); large exposures and concentration,
and related party lending.
9.   The Guarantor, through CNBV, has reviewed with the Bank the
need for the issuance of new prudential regulations for banks
and has issued such regulations to the extent necessary (such
determination to be acceptable to the Bank).
10.  The Guarantor, through CNBV, has issued new prudential
regulations with respect to capital adequacy standards for
brokerage firms.
