Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repor No. 7766
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THE BAHAMAS
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2089-BM)
MAY 5, 1989
Infrastructure and Energy D,Jision
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BDB     -  Bahamas Development  a4nk
BAIC    -  Bahamas Agricultural and Industrial Corporation
GTUIT   -  Grants Town Urban Improvement Team
GTUIC   -  Grants Town Urban Improvement Committee
IDB     -  Inter-American Development Bank
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit - Bahamian dollar (B$)            US$1 = B$1



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANKE
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
O°ke of ODtaxGErw
Ope,alwim Iwiilttin
May S, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT; Pass-Through Audit Report on The Bahamas -
Urban Development Proiect (Loan 2089-BM,
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Pass-
Through Audit Report on The Bahamas - Urban Development Project (Loan
2089-BM)* prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office.
Full evaluation of this project has not been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In tMe performanmc
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaten.



FR Ol FICIA.L USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THE BAHAMAS
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2089-BM)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface ..................   ... . .                   ... ......             i
Basic Data Sheet. .........  ii
Highlights... ..... iv
I.    BACKGROUND ......... ......... ..... *...                               1
II.   PROJECT ORIGIN. PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL                 .     .1
Project Origin .        ......     .      .... .  ... ...           1
Project Prepartion .  ...... .  . ... ... . ...             .       2
Project Appraisal.. ..    2
III.  PROJECT GOALS, DESCRIPTION AND IMPLEMENTATION           .......         3
Project Goals ..........   3
Project Description.                         ......   3
Project Implementation ..........        .....           . .        4
IV.   PROJECT ACHIEVEMENTS            ... .................. .                5
Land   ............................ . .. . .    ........ 0....      5
Home Improvement Loans..                                            5
New Housing ....... .                                               5
Solid Waste Management 6.. ........... .. ..........                6
Civil Works            S        .........  6
Industrial Promotion .6....       . ......                .         6
Other Activities .....................                              7
Reporting ..........  0.......*......                               7
Compliance with Loan Conditions.. .....                             8
Disbursements ........ *.  8
V.    PROJECT JUSTIFICATION ...................... .. ...................     9
Benefits ......       ..........................................    9
Affordability .............. . ...........................          9
Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR)          ................   9
Cost Recovery .............  11
VI.  OVERALL EVALUATION                                                      11........ ..   11
General...                                                         11
Role of the Government        .......... ..11
Role of Project Unit Staff                     ...                 13
Role of BAIC                     .........   13
Role of the Bank .............................. . . . .......    14
Lessons Learned ........  15
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Pg ye No.
ANNEXES
1 - Table 1 - Projected vs Actual Operations           .. ...........   16
2 - Chart 1 - Upgrading Comoonent - Institutional
Responsibiltties       ..................................    17
3 - Chart 2 - Upgrading Component - Organization Chart         8...........    i
4 - Chart 3 - Upgrading Component - Project Implementation
Schedule .....................      ......................    19
5 - Table 1 - Sources of Project Funds
- 1981 to 1987 ('000,000) ..................   ........    20
Table 2 - Timing of IBRD Loan Funds
1981 to 1988 ('000,000) .....    ......................    20
Table 3 - Actual and Projected Disbursements
To December 31, 1987 and Variations
from Al.locations ...................................    21
Table 4 - Disbursement Schedule ...............   *.* ..........       22



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THE BAHAMAS
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2089-BM)
PREFACE
1.       This Was the first Bank-assisted urban project in The Bahamas.  It
had the dual goals of addressing urban upgrading in Grants Town and
national industrial promotion. A special implementation unit was formed
within the Finance Ministry to coordinate and supervise the upgrading works
which were to be implemented by various ministries.  The industrial
promotion component was to be implemented by Bahamas Agricultural and
Industrial Corporation.
2.       The project was expected to be implemented between 1981 and 1985.
However, because of a number of administrative, legal and coordination
problems, the actual project completion date wvs 1987, with only partial
accomplishment of original project goals. For the urban component, it
appears that accomplishm6nts of tie project could have been greater if more
attention was initially paid to agency responsibilities and ways of
avoiding inter-agency conflicts. A more detailed review of land
*          acquisition issues could also have facilitated better project
implementation. The industrial promotion component also fell short of its
goals because of a variety of start-up and administrative problems.
3.       In retrospect, a well-tailored technical assistance package might
have been more appropriate for  nae country since it appears that access to
funds was not as crucial as institutional and administrative issues.
4.       In accordance with the revised project performance reporting
procedures this report has been read in the Operations Evaluation
Depertment (OED) but the project was not audited by OED staff. The draft
Completion Report was sent to the Borrower for comments; however, none were
received.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THE BAHAMAS
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2089-Z4)
BASIC DATA SHEET
Key Proiect Data                     Appraisal Estimate                 Actual
Total project cost
(us$ million)                      24.4                        23.71
Overrun (Z)                                     _                           _
Loan amount (US$ million)                     8.6                         5.8
Disbursed                                                        5.82
Cancelled                                                          _
Ditte physical components completed         12185                        6187
Proportion completed by 12(85                   -                         50X
Time overrun (X)                                _40
Ec,onmic rate of return (1Z)                  141                         131
Other Project Data                    Original Plan                    Actual
First mentioned in files
or timetables                      -                 1977
Government application                      -                  1977
Negotiations                                -                 April 1977
Board approval                                                F February 16, 1982
Loan agreement date                         -                 October 22, 1982
Effectiveness date                          -                 March 21, 1983
Closing date                     December 31, 1986            December 31, 1987
Borrower                         Government of *'he Bahamas
Executing Agency                 Finance Ministry
Fiscal year of the Borrower      January 1 - December 31
Cumulative Actual Disbursement (Bank Fiscal Year)
6/82   6183   6184   6185   6/86   6187   6188
Estimated (USS million)          0.6    1.7    3.2    4.5    5.8
Actual (US$ million)             0.0    0.5    0.6    1.3    2.6    4.8    5.8
Actual as Z of estimated          02    8e    101    222    441    83Z   1002
1/ Although actual cost figure is lsss, the physical amount of work was reduced
(see report).
2/ Approximately US$75,000 remains and is currently being disbursed.



- iii -
Man-     Date      Ptrfornance
Mo./Yr.    Weeks    Persons    Weeks    ReRort   Ratings
Identification:      10/78      1.5         3        4.5       11/78      NA
Preparation:          2/79      1.5         2        3.0        3/79      NA
7/79      1.0         1        1.0        7/79      NA
10j79      0.5         2        1.0       11/79      NA
2/80      0.5         2        1.0        3/80      NA
5/80      2.0         3        6.0        6180      NA
9/80      1.5         3        4.5       10/80      NA
Appraisals           12/80      2.0         8       16.0    12/30/81      NA
Supervision:          3;82      1.0         2        2.0        5/82      NA
7/82      1.0         3        3.0        7/82       2
10/82      1.0         2        2.0       11/82       2
2/83      1.0         1        1.0        2/83       2
3/83      1.0         2        2.0        4/8:       1
10/83      1.0         2        2.0       11/83       1
4/84      1.0         2        2.0        5/84       2
5/85      1.0         2        2.0        7/85       3
1/86      1.0         1        1.0        2/86       3
7/86      1.0         3        3.0        7/86       2
12/86      0.5         1        0.5       12/86       2
12/87      1.0         2        2.0        8/88     PCR



- iv -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THE BAHAMAS
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2089-BM)
HIGHLIGHTS
1.       This was the first Bank-assisted urban project in the Bahamas.  It
was identified in late 1978 and prepared by Government-appointed
consultants during the first semester of 1980. Bank staff assisted in
drafting terms of reference and reviewing progress of project preparation.
The loan was appraised in December 1980, with a recommendation being made
for Bank financing of US$8.6 million of the estimated US$24.4 million cost
of the overall project. During negotiations, the Bank and the Government
could not agree on onlending terms for a component of the shelter program
and so Bank financing for this was dropped although the component remained
in the project with its entire financing to be provided by the Government
(paras. 8-10). A loan for US$5.8 million was approved by the Bank in
February 1982, and it became effective in October 1982.
2.       The project had the dual goals of addressing urban upgrading and
industrial promotion. The former was designed to: (a) provide existing
residents of Grants Town with access to better housing, public utilities
and community services; (b) start revitalizing the project area; (c) build
a capability for responding to the need 'or further improvements in Grants
Town and other neighborhoods in the future; and (d) protect the Bahamas'
major industry, tourism. The industrial promotion goal was to strengthen
thte Bahamas Agricultural and Industrial Corporation (BAIC) in its promotion
activity abroad and its space development and management functions in the
Bahamas. Eighteen separate tasks were identified for the urban upgrading
works. These included lot purchases, home improvement loars, new housing
construction, equipment for improving solid waste management,
infrastructure and traffic control works, and community facilities. The
industrial promotion had only three separately identified taskss BAIC
start-up operations, consolidation of an existing industrial park, and
technical assistance for BAIC. A special project implementation unit was
formed within the Finance Ministry to coordinate and supervise the
upgrading works which were to be executed by the various ministries, while
the industrial promotion was to be implemented by BAIC (paras. 13-17 and
Annex 2). A special inter-ministerial unit was created to assist the
project unit when serious problems arose.
3.       It was originally expected that the project would be implemented
between 1981 and 1985. However, several start-up, coordination and
administrative problems arose and delayed project completion by almost two
years (paras. 18-26). Although the actual time taken to complete the
project is still shorter than the regional profile of eight years, this
comparison has to be qualified by the fact that in most cases for this
project, actual physical results fell short of appraisal targets. The BAIC
component had greater shortfalls than the upgrading one. Tne main problems
affecting the project included: (a) Government's unfamiliarity with Bank



operations, (b) doubts aboXut the role which the Bank should play, (c)
divergent views regarding onlending conditions for beneficiaries of the
bome-improvement loan program, (d) the then-upcoming national elections,
(e) integration of the project unit's role with operations of the various
agencies, and (f) land acquisition delays.
4.       Although both the Government and the Bank worked diligently to
prepare the project, it appears that the focus was more upon the short-term
issue of providing a package of services in order to arrest further
deterioration of the Grants Town area. The project unit actually assuw-d
the role of a municipality in trying to coordinate services in a task-
oriented manner (para. 42). However, unlike a municipality which usually
has direct control over the staff needed to do the works, the project unit
had to depend upon other ministries to execute the tasks. This resulted in
essentially an overlay of a new administrative structure (the project unit)
in agencies which already had such structures for their normal operations.
Conflicts then resulted from duplication of resource demands to meet normal
operations as well as those of the Grants Town area (paras. 43-45).
5.       After realizing the nature of the problem, the Government tried to
resolve it by dividing the project unit role between a newly created
Housing Ministry (urban upgrading works) and Economic Affairs Ministry
(industrial promotion). Since tht.i did not directly address the main
issues, the problems persisted (especially for the upgrading component)
until the decision was made to effect a complete handover of tasks to the
respective agencies which were normally involved in them. For the
industrial promotion component, BAIC had many financial and administrative
problems and, although it improved its industri_l park facilities, opened
an office in New York, conducted many studies and prepared orientation and
marketing material, it is yet to become a credible force (paras. 47-50).
6.       Overall, in balance, project achievements have been positive,
eppecially with respect to the upgrading works. Even though it improved
its industrial park facilities, other accomplishments of the BAIC unit have
not been impressive, and indications are that it needs to seriously
consider withdrawing from foreign recruitment and focus more upon
cultivating local entrepreneurship and managing its industrial park more
efficiently. In all components, much more could have been achieved with
the same amount of resources if coordination and planning had been better
at several levels. The project introduced many innovative alternatives for
dealing with a range of urban problems (e.g., home improvement loans, solid
waste management and flood control systems). There is need for the
Government to carefully assess and review these and make appropriate
decisions on how it would continue to work toward satisfying the needs of
low-income residents.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THE BAHAMAS
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2089-BM)
I. BACKGROUND
1.       General.  The population of the Commonwealth of the Bahamas is
currently about 240,000 people, of whom about 702 live in Nassau, the
capital. Tourism is the backbone of the Bahamian economy, contributing
over 502 of the GDP. In 1987 the country had more than three million
visitors. The economy is an open one with very high dependency upon the US
for goods and services. Of the approximately US$1 billion in imports for
1986, about 75X originated in the US.
2.       At approximately US$10,000 in per capita GDP, Bahamians enjoy one
of the highest income levels in the Caribbean. However, even though there
is little absolute poverty in the country, income distribution is highly
skewed. The unemployment rate is estimated to be about 102 and low-income
groups face many socio-economic problems such as inadequate housing, lack
of piped water and social services.
3.       Grants Town.  Within a few blocks of the main tourist zone in
downtown Nassau is Grants Town, an economically depressed area of about 620
acres with the highest population density and the largest concentration of
substandard housing and infrastructure in the country. It had been in
decline over the past decade with many abandoned and poorly-maintained.
homes. Nevertheless, at appraisal time it still had about 23,000 residents
(about 172 of the populatirn of New Providence). Greater details of land
use, infrastructure, services, etc. in Grants Town are in the Appraisal
Report for this project.
II. PROJECT ORIGIN. PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
4.       Proiect Origin.   Even with a small populaLlon, the problem of
inadequate shelter facilities has been a persistent one in the Bahamas.
Grants Town, with its high concentration of poverty and its close proximity
to the primary tourist zone, was of special concern to the Government, and
during the early part of the last decade it studied various improvement
alternatives, including that of an extensive slum clearance and
resettlement program. However, the financial cost and social disruptions
associated with such proposals made them unacceptable.
S.       In 1976, the Bank provided a US$10 million loan to the Government
to help finance a water and sewerage project in the country (Loan 1320-BM).
While a follow-up loan was being considered, the Bank was asked to assess
shelter needs of Grants Town and provide assistance. It was then decided
that instead of a second water and sewerage project, there would be one to
address the shelter and employment needs of Grants Town.



6.       Proiect Preparation.  The first project preparation mission
v.sited The Bahamas in late 1978. Shortly thereafter, terms of reference
'or project preparation were drafted by the Government with Bank
assistance; proposals were solicited from shortlisted consultants; and the
Government selected two Canadian firms to prepare a renabilitation project
and to develop an employment component for the Grants Town area. The
project was prepared during the first semester of 1980 with the Deputy
Financial Secretary acting as Project Coordinator. Approval for the
initial project recommendations made by the consultants came from the
Bahamian Parliament in April 1980. Bank staff worked closely with the
Government to develop the resulting proposal which contained a cost
estimate of US$20 million for upgrading the Grants Town area over a four-
year period. The employment component took mcce time to develop since
there were several alternatives being considered. Later, it was decided
that its focus should be national rather than only on the Grants Town area.
With the employment component, the total estimated project cost rose to
US$S4.4 million.
7.       During various phases of project preparation several options were
examined for all components. However, the focus was more upon the options
available w_.h respect to physical works, and indications are that not
enough attention was paid to various institutional aspects. At that time
this was not seen as a problem since it was expected that the Finance
Ministry was capable of obtaining the necessary staff along with the
cooperation  of other ministries for project implementation.  On the
employment sideo the institutional dimension also appears to have been
underestimated since it was assumed that restructuring of two existing
agencies was more a legal ar.d procedural matter than anything else. Some
of the delays in project implementation could be attributed to these
assumptions.
8.       Project Appraisal.  The project was appraised in December 1980,
and it was proposed that Bank financing for approximately US$8.6 million be
provided to cover the foreign exchange component of the loan.  During and
after appraisal, several issues arose and caused a rather prolonged period
of discussions before they were resolved.  While the Bank felt that the
interest rate to be charged to beneficiaries for the repair and
rehabilitation loans should be real and adjusted for inflation (then 12X),
the Government wantec to charge a fixed 10? rate (the same rate it charged
for mortgage loans). Also, the Government wanted to have the option of
making up-ecured home improvement loans, while the Bank wanted all loans to
have a mortgage guarantee. Additionally, the Bank requested prior
Government preparation of satisfactory procedures for allocation of senior
citizen houses, including a means test to ensure equal access to needy
beneficiaries; it also wanted to have detailed operation procedures for the
employment component which was to be carried out by the Bahamas Development
Corporation.
9.       Discussions on the areas of difference dragged on for over a year
before it was decided that the Government would seek local financing for
the rehabilitation component, which, though it would remain in the ptoject,
would not be financed by the Bank. Deletion of financing for this
component resulted in a loan of US$5.8 million being requested by the
Government. On the other outstanding issues, it was agreed that the



operation policies of the new Bahamas Agricultural and Industrial
Corporation (BAIC) and the allocation procedures for the senior citizen
housing would be prepared before loan effectiveness. Other delaying
complications arose because the Government was occupied with the then
upcoming elections.  There was also some confusion regarding Br'k legal
requirements and Government actions necessary for loan processing. The
question of graduation for The Bahamas was also one which had to be
addre^sed in the Bank before the loan was finally approve; in February
1982, fourteen months after it was appraised. Because of the Bahamian
election in 1982, it was not until October of that year that the loan
became effective.
10.      A retrospective analysis indicates that several factors caused the
problems mentioned above. Although there was a previous loan to the
country, Government officials were apparently still not fully conversant
with Bank procedures and requirements. They thus thought that everything
was open to negotiatio-. and they could not understand the Bank's close
scrutiny of various areas which they considered a matter of local policy
(e.g. interest rates and allocation procedures). Additionally, indications
are that there were doubts within the Government as to the role of the
Bank. It appears as if some key officials wanted the Bank's presence more
for provision of policy guidance than for access to financial resources.
Also, the then upcoming elections shifted attention to other areas.
III.   PROJECT COALS, DESCRIPTION AND IMPLEMENTATION
11.      Project Goals.   As indicated in the appraisal report, the project
had dual goals addressing urban upgrading and isndustrial promotion. In the
former, it was designed to: (a) provide existing residents of Grants Town
with access to better housing, public utilities, and community services;
(b) start revitalizing the area; (c) build a capability for responding to
the need for further improvements in Grants Town and other neighborhoods,
in the future; and (d), protect the Bahamas' major industry, tourism. For
the latter, the stated goal was to strengthen the BAIC in its industrial
promotion activity abroad and its industrial space development and
management functions in the Bahamas.
12.      Project Description.  In order to achieve the above-stated goals
for the urban upgrading component, the project included the following sub-
components: (i) purchase of 278 lots; (ii) 1,200 home improvement loans;
(iii) 250 new houses for family ownership; (iv) 150 new senior citizen
houses for rental; (v) equipment for solid waste management; (vi) fire and
storm wells; (vii) street lights; (viii) six traffic lights and 700 street
signs; (ix) 19,000 linear feet of sidewalks; (x) pest control; (xi) park and
road maintenance equipment; (xii) one community center; (xiii) grants for
community organizations; (xiv) new parks; (xv) project unit salaries; (xvi)
project unit expenses; (xvii) technical assistance to project unit; and
(xviii), start-up costs for urban services and community center. For the
industrial promotion component, the sub-components were: (i) BAIC start-up
costs; (ii) promotion in New York and Bahamas; (iii) industrial park
development; and (iv), BAIC technical assistance. Greater details of these
components along with their respective costs are presentea in Annex 1.



- 4 -
13.      Project Implementation.  Annex 2 contains greater details on
project implementation responsibilities. Because of the diverse nature of
the works to be done, the project preparation team recommended that a
special unit be formed to implement the upgrading component. It was felt
that although the physical amount of work was not great, there was need to
have a special unit to coordinate and manage its implementation. On the
employment component, the nature and dimension of the task had changed
substantially since the studies were prepared; it had become a nativaal
operation which was only partially related to the Grants Town area. However,
since it was relatively small, it was decided to continue packaging it with
the urban improvemeu.t project (a factor which would later cause some
difficulties in project supervision). In 1981, the Government decided to
combine the Bahamas Development Corporation and the Bahamas Agricultural
Corporation into a new entity, the Bahamas Agricultural and Industrial
Corporation (BAIC). This unit was assigned the task of implementing the
industrial promotion component.
14.      The Grants Town Urban Improvement Project Team (GTUIPT) was formed
in January 1981. It included several members who worked on project
preparation, including the director of the studies who became the technical
director of the project. The deputy permanent secretary of the Ministry of
Health was appointed project manager and the deputy permanent secretary of
the Finance Ministry was the project coordinator (see Annex 3). The GTUIPT
was directly responsible for the housing related investments (with approval
from the relevant agencies) and it was to coordinate implementation of the
other components through the oth.er agencies as indicated in Annex !. While
loan processing was progzessing in the Bank, the Government obtained a $1
million loan from a local commercial bank, and it began to implement the
rehabilitation program with this loan through the project unit.
15.      For the industrial and employment promotion component, although
BAIC began operations (after reorganization) in 1982, there were several
loan conditions to be met before disbursements could be made. Among such
conditions was the requirement that BAIC's financial position should be
reviewed by external auditors and its operational deficit from a chicken
farm should be eliminated. Compliance with these conditions took some time,
and it was not until early 1984 that this part of the loan was activated.
16.      Both Government and Bank officials understood that even though the
GTUIPT was within the Finance Ministry, it could have coordination problems
with the various agencies which had to do the work. The Grants Town Urban
Improvement Committee (GTUIC) was therefore created to deal with such
problems. It comprised the Ministers of Finance and Health, the Financial
Secretary and the Project Coordinator. The GTUIC was also given the task of
approving recommendations of the GTUIPT for rehabilitation loans.
17.      From the outset there was apparently some uneasiness and
uncertainty about the role and functions of the GTUIPT vis-a-vis other
ministries (e.g. Works) which had full responsibility for similar tasks
elsewhere. This became more pronounced with the creation of the Ministries
of Housing and National Insurance and Economic Affairs in July 1982. By
early 1983, the Bank and the Government agreed to have the Housing Ministry
responsible for the upgrading component, while the BAIC component fell under
the responsibility of the Economic Affairs Ministry. The Ministry of



Finance still maintained its overall coordinating role. Tnere was a further
modification to this arrangement in 1985 when the Housing Ministry decided
to assign upgrading tasks to the various %gencies which were normally
responsible for such activities. It was apparently felt that the existing
arrangements were not functioning well even with the intervention of the
Finance Ministry and the GTUIC.
IV. PROJECT ACHIEVEMENTS
18.      Annex 1 contains details of planned versus actual targets of the
project. In terms of physical accomplishments, with the exception of the
solid waste and the sidewalk components, the actual targets fall well below
expected ones. Nevertheless, some progress was made toward achieving
physical project goals and establishing an awareness of the institutional
measures which are necessary for continuing the process. A summary of the
salient factors affecting project achievements is given below.
19.      Land.  During appraisal, it was expected that the Government wotad
acquire about 278 vacant lots in Grants Town for new housing construction.
Bank officials were aware of the potential bottleneck which could arise from
land acquisition problems, and they tried to avoid this by having the
gazetting of land for acquisition done as a condition of appraisal. This
precaution was apparently not enough to overcome the complex process of land
acquisition.  Property tax records were used as the source of information
for defining lot boundaries and identifying owners. Unfortunately, these
records were incomplete, and so much complementary work had to be done
before the actual acquisition process could proceed. Additionally, in many
cases, after the acquisition was well underway and construction had begun,
claimants came to the ministry with insufficiently supported documentation.
At first the Government was willing to wait until all acquisition details
were cleared before it began construction.  However, as delays became
greater, it decided to proceed with the works while it negotiated in
parallel with the owners. About 212 lots have been acquired so far with 74
owners fully compensated and the rest in various stages of negotiations with
the Government.
20.      Home Improvement Loans.  Of the 1,200 loans expected at appraisal,
about 979 were made. The maximum amount was US$8,000, with the average
being about US$6,788 per house. Beneficiaries utilized the loans for
installing bathroom units and for general repairs. The program became very
popular soon after it began, so the Government decided to make loans to
beneficiaries in other depressed areas of the country. As a result, there
were 552 loans (of the above total) made outside the Grants Town area.
Currently, the Government has over 2,500 applications on file for home
improvement loans.
21.      New Housing.  This component consisted of two programs, one for
family ownership units (about 250 on vacant lots) and the other for senior
citizen rental units (about 150). Only 140 single family units and 36
senior citizen units were constructed under the project at average costs of
US$23,000 and US$13,500, respectively. Land availability, organizational
and administrative problems, and financing constraints have been among the
prime reasons for the shortfalls of this program.



22.      Solid Waste Management.  Under this component, expenditures
totalling about US$1.5 millJon were to be made to purchase some key vehicles
and equipment for Department of Environmental Health Services (DEHS). By
the end of 1983 most of the allocated funds were spent, but the results were
minimal, mainly because the scope of the works was much greater than
originally envisaged. In 1985, the Government decided to contract a
consultant to conduct a more thorough study of the solid waste system and
make recommendations on required actions. The resulting study recommended a
package of capital, administrative, financial and technical assistance
investments amounting to about US$1.8 million. The Bank agreed that these
actions were necessary and it approved financing of the additional work in a
loan reallocation exercise in early 1986. By late 1987, DEHS had spent a
total of about US$3.3 million and improved its operations and administrative
system significantly.  It still has much more to do (e.g. extinguish a
landfill fire and iv'rove: landfill control and management procedures, user-
charge collection, blaintenance and service coverage, etc.).  Indications are
that it is making progress in these tasks with the help of a long-term
consultant.
23.      Civil Works.  Planned works included drilling of about 100 sink
wells to relieve flooding in low-lying areas, and boring about 42 additional
firewells for fire protection, street and parks maintenance and traffic
improvement (sidewalks, traffic lights, circulation, etc.). There was
hardly any progress in these components between 1082 and 1985 when the
Housing Ministry had responsibility for managing the implementation of these
works. The main problem was one of coordinating activities and getting the
cooperation of the Ministry of Works, which had to do the actual designs and
implementation. As indicated above, in late 1985 it was decided to have the
Ministry of Works assume direct responsibility for these components, thus
eliminating the coordinating role of the Housing Ministry. By the end of
1987, the Ministry had completed 23,500 linear feet of sidewalks, 36
stormwells, 11 firewells, 150 street signs and six traffic signals. Eleven
parks and playgrounds were provided, and the ministry also bought various
drilling and transportation equipment to assist in these tasks. A training
program in road works technology was also financed under the project. There
were shortfalls from original targets because it was later decided that not
all of the originally estimated items were needed (e.g. firewells). Also,
in the case of traffic improvements, the Government decided that it did not
want to implement a partial traffic decongestion plan for Grants Town. and
so there was less need for the traffic lights, signs, etc. which were
envisaged at appraisal.
24.      Industrial Promotion.  The four primary areas of activity of this
component were: (a) start-up operations, (b) New York and Bahamas promotion.
(c) industrial park expansion, and (d), technical assistance. It took about
two years for the reorganized BAIC to consolidate its activities and meet
Bank requirements regarding establishment of acceptable operational
procedures and solving the problem involving operational losses associated
with a chicken farm, which it owned. The New York office was opened, and
UNIDO provided training for two years to one of its employees. Several
marketing and promotional studies were also undertaken and audio-visual
documents were prepared. Computing and other equipment for BAIC's offices
were purchased and the industrial park area was cleared of bushes and



-7-
abandoned vehicles, with a perimeter fence erected to control access and
secure the area. Factory space was increased with the construction of a
17,000 sq. ft. steel building in 1.35. As indicated in Annex 1, actual
expenditures for all of the activities of this component totalled US$3.6
million as opposed to US$3.8 million estimated at appraisal.
25.      All of the above components of the project were expected to be
implemented between mid-1981 and mid-1985; the majority of the physical
housing works was expected to be implemented during 1982-1985, while for the
community and infrastructure facilities, the implementation period was
expected to be 1981-1983, with the BAIC works and technical assistance
taking place between 1981 and 1985. Several actions were taken in order to
facilitate zumooth project implementation. These included prior gazetting of
land to be acquired by the Government and staff recruitment for the project
unit in late 1980 with appointment of qualified members, many of whom had
worked on the preparation team. Unfortunately, start-up and implementation
delays still occurred and it was not until 1984 that the pace improved. By
that time, it was too late to complete all the works before the original
December 1985 loan closing date, so it was extended to the end of December
1986. Later on, a further six-month extension was granted by the Bank in
order to facilitate implementation of some outstanding upgrading works. The
loan thus had a time over-run of about 401. Annex 4 contains greater
details on planned and actual project implementation.
26.      Other Activities.  Shortly after the 1982 elections, the Government
decided to combine the GTUIPT and the Housing Department of the Ministry of
Health, and to create a Ministry of Housing and National Insurance. Apart
from managing the Grants Town projec.. this Ministry assumed various other
responsibilities, including land development and housing finance
supervision, housing needs studies and construction norms and standards. In
order to encourage greater low-income housing construction, the Government
created the Bahamas Mortgage Corporation (BMC) in November 1983. The BMC
obtains funds by selling bonds which are guaranteed by the Government, and
it onlends these funds at rates varying 1.5 to 5 points below the prime
rate, depending on the income level of beneficiaries. The Government also
created an incentive program in 1984 under which all Bahamians were eligible
for a one-time grant of US$1,800 when they purchased a house costing
US$35,000 or less. This was to partially offset the customs duties levied
by the Government on the material used for such houses.
27.      Reporting.  Although progress reports were regularly sent to the
Bank initially, the frequency and quality dropped after a while but improved
somewhat during the later stages. This uneven performance could be a
reflection of the way the project unit was managed over the period. For
example, during the 1981-1983 period there was a full-time project manager
and the Bank received regular reports. However, during 1983 to 1985, there
was a part-time manager and the frequency and quality of the reports
declined. Some of the deficiencies included too much descriptive material
with not enough supporting figures, absence of realistic projections in work
programs, lack of coordination in data collection among the various agencies
and no analysis of problems and how to resolve them. One basic problem with
the entire reporting process was that it was based upon the assumption that
this was a Bank requirement to be fulfilled; ;t was not seen as a management
tool whereby stock could be taken of achievements and shortcomings, with
remedial actions proposed for resolving such problems.



28.      Compliance with Loan Conditions:  Although there were some delays
in meeting Bank conditions (e.g. in getting BAIC's action plan prepared),
and in the case of land acquisition, the original target was not achieved
(see para. 19), overall compliance with loan conditions was good. BAIC has
had problems preparing and closing its accounts and having these auZdced on
time. Even with pressures from the Bank and the Government, this problem
persisted throughout the life of the loan. The consultants who were hired
to assist the GTUIPT performed well, as did those who assisted BAIC.
29.      In the contracting of works, compliance was also generally good
since most of these was done through force account or LCB. For the solid
waste component, the first ICB tender was for about US$870,000 for vehicles
and equipment. Although DEHS had one brand of equipment operating in its
fleet, its staff believed that Bank conditions required it to take the
lowest evaluated bidder, irrespective oi this factor. it, therefore,
acquired equipment which was not compatible with its existing fleet and this
resulted in many problems with spare parts, timely repairs, etc.  This
problem was not repeated for a second tender package which later went out
for about US$1 million. In another case of procurement misunderstanding,
BAIC awarded a US$475,000 contract for its 17,000 sq. ft. shell building in
its industrial park without full local advertisement. The Bank accepted
this procedure as a special case and the problem did not re-surface since
later works were advertised in accordance with the provisions of the loan
agreement.
30.      Disbursements.  Annex 5 contains details of planned and actual
disbursements. It indicates that while initially it took almost four years
to have 50S of the loan disbursed, only about eighteen months were needed
for disbursement of the remaining amount. This is basically a reflection of
the initial slow pace of project implementation because of administrative
and coordination problems which are discussed above. During July 1986, at
the request of the Government, the Bank reallocated loan funds among the
various categories in order to utilize unallocated funds and to make
adjustments to reflect updated resource needs (Annex 5).  A residual amount
of approximately US$87,000 is currently being processed for sidewalk
construction works.
31.      In terms of financing source, it was expected that the Bank would
provide about 242 of the total project cost of US$24.4 million. The
Government was expected to finance about 59Z, and commercial banks, about
172. Actual shares of the final project cost of US$23.5 million were: Bank
252 (US$5.8 mill); Government 372 (US$8.7 mill); BMC 152 (US$3.5 mill);
commercial banks 21Z (US$5 mill); and beneficiaries, 22 (US$0.5 mill).
There was a substantial decline in the Government's share because the BMC
and commercial banks assumed a more active role than originally envisaged.
To some extent, it may be argued that the Government transformed part of its
share from a direct outlay to guarantees for BMC loans.



-9-
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
32.      Benefits.  During appraisal, it was estimated that about 842 of the
project investments would benefit residents in Grants Town while the
remaining 162 would have wider national impact. All Grants Town residents
were expected to enjoy the indirect benefits accruing from improved
infrastructure and sanitation facilities. Additionally, there were to be
direct benefits to about 1,800 households, or 7,465 individuals. As already
noted, actual achievements of the project have been less than anticipated.
For residents of the project area as a whole, there nave been some
improvements in the urban infrastructure (e.g. sidewalks, drainage wells,
etc.). However, the traffic management and overall clean-up programs were
only partially implemented because of reasons already discussed above.
Direct benefits reached only about 33Z of the original target with only 603
households or about 2,502 individuals receiving these in Grants Town, with
an additional 552 households or about 2,484 individuals receiving such
benefits in other parts of the country.
33.      Affordability.  At an average cost unit cost of about US$23,000 per
house, it is estimated that only about 602 of the national population and
about 502 of those in Grants Town could afford such houses. The US$6,788
home improvement loans were affordable to about 75Z of these households.
During appraisal, houses which were to be constructed under the program were
expected to be more modest in standards and price. Starter units were
estimated to cost US$16,000, while the two, three and four bedroom ones were
estimated at US$24,000, US$28,000 and US$30,000, respectively. It was
estimated that about 942 of these houses would be affordable to about 75Z of
the households of the project area (i.e., those earning more than about
US$5,000 per year). In retrospect, the original assumption appears to have
been rather optimistic, since even with 252 of income devoted to housing at
a loan life of 30 years at 92 rate of interest and 102 downpayment, the
value of the house which could be purchased would only be about US$14,000, a
figure which is well below what is feasible for any type of shelter unit
for families in the Bahamas. None of the units built was a starter unit and
most had two or three bedrooms. For the home improvement loans,
affordability estimates at appraisal were generally consistent with actual
figures.
34.      Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR).  In the appraisal report,
IERR was estimated for the housing subcomponents while a qualitative
assessment wis done for the others. It was assumed that units in the
project area were to be developed over a twelve year period, in line with
overall urban upgrading of the Grants Town area. Since the degree of urban
upgrading has not occurred as was anti-ipated, the IMRR has been
recalculated using the average cost of total housing construction
(US$23,000) and measuring this ahainst the imputed average annual rental
value of the unit (US$3,300). Similarly, for the home improvement loan, the
incremental average investment cost (US$6,788) was measured against its
associated imputed incremental rental value (US$900).
35.      Assuming a 20 year life of the units with residual value offsetting
repair and maintenance costs, the re-calculated IERR for these two
components is about 131. During appraisal the IERR for a 12-year



- 10 -
consolidation case was *stimated at about 17Z, while a four-year development
period yielded an estima !<a of 14?.  The recalculated IERR thus compares
well with the latter case (vith which it should be compared since the
comprehensive consolidation of Grants Town has not occurred). On an
individual basis, the IERR for the new housing is marginally higher than
that for the rehabilitated one (13? versus 12Z). In general, rehabilitation
works usually yi%'.d a higher return because the marginal investments
generally result in greater than proportional improvement and marketability
of the entire unit. However, in the case of Grants Town, many of the units
were in an advanced state of disrepair, so the incremental investments,
though beneficial, were not enough to have the effect of the major overhaul
which was required. Before continuing, it should be noted here that data on
imputed rental values were based upon limited field observations. More
accurate data were not easy to obtain and so the above IERR figures should
be regarded as best estimates.
36.      In the area of non-quantifiable benefits, the overall improvement
of the Grants Town area (in terms of drainage wells, sidewalks, some traffic
improvement, etc.) has already been noted. The other significant
improvement came from the solid waste environmental component. At first,
the intention was to focus only on the project area. However, it soon became
clear that it was not possible to have a solid waste management program only
in Grants Town since this created logistical problems (e.g., in exclusive
use of equipment in project area) and it was also not equitable.  The
equipment and staff then became part of the overall operations of the
ministry and so the whole of New Providence benefitted from improved
services.
37.      Even though the incremental investment in this component did not
have widespread benefits in all operational areas, the workshop
rehabilitation investments have helped to reduce down-time significantly,
and the acquisition of computing equipment with qualified staff has markedly
improved book-keeping and billing operations. Collections and follow-up
actions still need improvement, as does the need to improve management of
the city landfill and eliminate the fires which still burn uncontrolled.
Appointment of a fixed-term consultant should help in further improving the
technical aspects of the project. Still, even with these deficiencies, this
component has had important beneficial impact for the approximately 160,000
residents of New Providence and the tourism-based economy of the island.
38.      Unlike the other components, measurement of the benefits of the
industrial promotion component is a more difficult task. Perhaps the clean-
up and fencing of the industrial park and the construction of an additional
50,000 sq. ft. of shell space for future activities are the most visible
achievements.  Since the foreign promotion component was proposed as an
investment with long-term yields, it was not expected that there would be
significant results at this time. The New York office was opened and
staffed, training courses and seminars were organized, several studies on
procedures, potential areas of investments, etc. were conducted with audio-
visual material prepared and disseminated. By the end of 1987 BAIC had
spent US$3.6 million in its operations, but it has not yet attracted any
firm to the country and its industrial park. It has been running at an
operational loss over the entire project period.



- 11 -
39.      Cost recovery.  During appraisal, it was estimated that about 592
of the project cost would be directly recoverable from beneficiaries with
the remainder recovered from general revenues. Cost recovery was to be more
direct and clearly defined for the shelter-related components, while for
those such as urban upgrading, solid waste management, BAIC promotion and
the community facilities, it was to be indirect. For the new housing
component, the BMC and commercial banks are collecting mortgage oayments
from beneficiaries; the delinquency rate is very low (less than 12) because
of active collection and follow-up procedures and the appreciation in value
of the units. However, for the senior citizen housing where rents are based
upon income, this is barely enough to cover operating costs. Moreover,
because of poor record-keeping, collection and follow-up practices, there
has been a very high rate of arrears. For the home improvement loans, at
the end of 1987, about US$6.6 million was loaned to about 1,000
beneficiaries. BMC has been acting as the cashier agency for payments from
beneficiaries. A detailed profile of arrears was not available; however, it
is estimated that about 300 accounts (about 30Z) have chronic arrears and
the problem appears to be worsening because of lack of follow-up actions.
Some of the reasons given for this condition include lack of pressure by the
Government for fear of antagonizing beneficiaries, beneficiary
dissatisfaction with the improvements made, and inadequate staff and poor
record keeping in the Housing Minie'try.
40.      As noted above, arrears in the BAIC industrial park component has
also been a problem. In 1987, for example, instead of receiving US$439,645
in rent from industrial park tenants, receipts were only about US$140,000.
Overdue payments .;ave been a persistent problem and the administration of
BAIC has been reluctant to evict tenants for fear of causing loss of jobs
and not getting other tenants.
VI. OVERALL EVALUATION
41.      General.  Overall, considering the context within which this
project was conceptualized, prepared and executed, it should be considered a
qualified success regarding the shelter and upgrading components and a
qualified failure with respect to the promotion and employment generation
one. The basic plan was to provide a package of various services to a
depressed area of New Providence. Subsidiary goals involved some degree of
institution building in order to deal with similar problems elsewhere in the
country. However, this was not as great a priority as that of halting the
deterioration of Grants Town and providing the facilities needed for its
continued growth. The role of each of the primary actors in this project is
analyzed below.
42.      Role of the Government.  The Government was aware of the problems
of Grants Town and placed great priority on rehabilitating it and
eliminating the threat it posed from both economic and social standpoints.
Not having a municipality or similar agency to deal with the problem, the
Government decided to appoint a team to coordinate actions and manage
implementation of the necessary works. Early in the diagnosis stage, the
element of employment was seen as one which transcended the Grants Town area



- 12 -
and so that component was separated from the action package. However, since
there was no immediate prospect of having a free-standing Bank operation in
this field, it was decided to keep the original framework for administrative
reasons.
43.      Although the Government gave high priority to the needs of Grants
Town, it appears that with respect to both the project team and the Bank. it
was not sure of thLe role and relationship which it wanted. These doubts
became more pronounced during loan negotiations when Bank requirements (e.g.
on interest rates and beneficiary selection policies) were viewed as too
restrictive. Indications are that several Government officials were
primarily interested in the Bank's technical assistance role. Financing was
important to some degree; however, one indication that the Government had
alternatives could be seen in the apparent ease with which it was able to
borrow funds from commercial banks for home improvement works after it could
not agree with Bank onlending terms. In several instances the Government
under-estimated the difficulty of implementing the proJect, believing that
legal and administrative actions would be the maln hurdles to overcome.
This led to such problems as getting BAIC functioning and having land
acquisition finalized.
44.      In terms of providing funding for project works, the Government
performed well. However, it appears as if administrative details of project
implementation were not well thought through and, as a consequence, the
project implementation unit was not able to get the various agencies to
provide their services to implement the works. Theoretically, at this point
the inter-ministerial unit (GTUIC) should have been able to intervene to get
the various infrastructure works underway after the project unit began to
have problems. This did not occur, primarily because of apparent *turfs
issues and pressure upon the agencies to give priority to their own work
program before doing the project works. Not having a full-time project
manager throughout the period also created additional problems.
45.      In retrospect, it may be argued that since the primary aim was task
oriented and included so many components, the Government felt that having
coordination done through the Finance Ministry would be the most effective
way of doing it, especially since there was no other single ministry which
could do all the tasks. It should have given greater consideration to the
solution which finally arose, viz., that of allocating each subcomponent in
the package to its respective ministry for full execution. Had it done this
from the outset, perhaps the project would have been implemented within a
shorter period of time. To its credit, the Government tried to make some
mid-course adjustments and expand the focus of its operations. It created
the Housing and Economic Affairs Ministries in 1982 along with the Bahamas
Mortgage Corporation. Several studies on housing, solid waste, employment
generation, etc. were also undertaken with the view of establishing long-
term action programs and streamlining operations. Unfortunately, many
needed follow-up actions to these studies have not been taken, e.g.,
analysis of the implications of the study on building standards for low-cost
housing, and elimination of duplication of responsibilities among ministries
(Works and Housing, for example).  Their impact would be minimal without
such actions. Meeting the needs of truly low-income residents (those below
the 50 percentile range of household income) without subsidies is also a
challenge which the Government still has to face.



- 13 -
46.     tIole of Project Unit Staff.  Indications are that the staff of the
project unit was a well-motivated and capable group who understood the
problem and formulated an appropriate response. However, the perspective was
a short-term one. This was basically in line with the assigned task of
focussing on improving Grants Town but the institutional arrangements were
not conducive to harmonious short- or long-term relations with the other
participating agencies, each of which saw the unit as a potential competitor
which wanted its works done on a priority basis, and at the expense of the
normal tasks of the agency involved. The unit staff worked well, given the
constraints they had. However, when the manager's position became a part-
time one in 1983. this reduced the effectiveness of the unit, especially in
areas of coordination and reporting.
47.      Role of BAIC.  After the scope of the employment component became
larger, the Bank and the Government worked to lay the proper groundwork for
BAIC. Two existing institutions were merged and detailed terms of
references and operating procedures were prepared. At that time it was felt
that the country had locational and several other advantages over competing
ones in the region. While it is true that many of BAIC's problems were
inherited from its parent organizations (e.g. the chicken farm which it had
to lease to reduce losses), indications are that BAIC could hive done much
more in order to make itself viable and relevant to the needs of the
country. Its industrial park investments appear to be well made insofar as
they provide space for commercial activities. However, BAIC should have
been more aggressive in  managing this asset by embarking upon a more
intensive program to attract local tenants, implementing a realistic rental
fee structure (to reflect its costs), and improving rental collections from
existing tenants, all of whom appear to be earning profits in their
operations. It should also have made appropriate modifications after seeing
early indications that the overseas promotion operations may not provide the
pay-back it was expecting. Instead, it stuck to its original action plan
and oriented its targets more at preparing a given volume of brochures or a
given number of seminars, for example, without fully evaluating the
effectiveness and results of such actions.
48.      While it is true that this component was expected to have long-term
results, indications are that the probability of success is very small and a
policy re-examination and modification may be needed. The i@sue of the
merits and effectiveness of recruitment of footloose companies to a country
through incentive packages has been extensively debated without any clear-
cut results. In the world today there are exceedingly generous incentive
packages being offered by almost every country (including states in the US)
to attract investments. For many of them (e.g., Jamaica, Panama, Dominican
Republic), the Government absorbs many explicit as well as implicit costs in
order to subsidize employment creation. In the Dominican Republic, for
example, workers are paid -.xty cents per hour and about 70,000 workers are
employed by foreign corporations which are located in eight industrial
parks. The Government is currently constructing an additional eight
industrial parks, but apart from the salary of workers, it receives no
additional benefits from these companies, and its capital investments are
substantial.
49.      BAIC has requested additional resources in order to open other
publicity offices in the US. At this juncture, it may be beneficial for the



- 14 -
Govermment to conduct a full cost-benefit analysis of BAIC's operations with
a view of reformulating its goals. In some areas there is an obvious need
for BAIC to be more accountable, e.g., in managing its industrial park more
efficiently and having its financial reports prepared and audited in a
timely manner. Initial indications are that there is need for the
comprehensive and up-to-date documentation which BAIC prepared, showing the
comparative advantage of the count v to potential investors. However, this
material could be publicized in the media and managed by designated staff in
the Bahamian embassies overseas rather than having special offices of BAIC
to do so. BAIC's primary role would then be to improve management of its
industrial park and try to nurture and develop local budding enterprises.
For BAIC to succeed, it must be fully staffed at all times with qualified
personnel, and it must be insulated from non-economic factors in its
decision-making process, with no duplication of its functions by other
agencies.
50.      Role of the Bank.  The Bank responded to the expressed need of the
Government to revitalize the Grants Town area. When the employment
component became national in scope, the Bank responded by working to define
an appropriate program. Because the Bahamas has a relatively high per
capita income level, there were some internal questions about the role of
the Bank. In light of the long negotiation period, perhaps these questions
should have been discussed more thoroughly, especially with respect to the
type of assistance which the Bank should offer. It would have also been
beneficial if the Bank had !xamined the institutional arrangements in more
detail in order to ascertain the merits of having a project unit in the
Finance Ministry which was, in effect, a parallel structure to the
administration (not execution) arm of the Ministry of Works and other
ministries. While it is true that immediate and focussed action was needed
in Grants Town, the higher-level staff of the various ministries were
apparently not too satisfied with the arrangements made, and they ultimately
succeeded in acquiring total responsibility for such works.
51.      In supervision, Bank missions tended to focus more upon the non-
BAIC components because these were more obvious in their need. This
practice increased during the latter part of the implementation period when
specialized staff resources in this area were not readily available. As the
coordination and administrative problems increased, Bank staff became more
involved in various project issues which should have been handled by the
project manager (e.g., queries regarding thickness of asphalt, detailed
discussions on equipment and furniture and deficiencies in project reports).
Most of this was done for expediency reasons; however, it also reflects some
of the deficiencies of the project unit in monitoring and managing the
works. At the same time, although BAIC's physical works were generally
reviewed in great detail, its studies, work program, etc. did not receive
similar attention mainly because it was vft to BAIC management and
consultants.
52.      Perhaps one of the more lasting results of this project would be
the efforts made in improving the solid waste collection system. The
studies there were used to improve operations of the agency, and the
technical assistance helped to measu!rably improve administration and record
keeping, although there is still much to be done in such areas as billing
and collections.



- 1S -
53.      Lessons Learned.  This project demonstrates that management and
organizational issues should have been more carefully reviewed and analysed
during project preparation and appraisal. Assigning responsibilities
without clearcut access to resources for the tasks, not fully working
through land-acquisition proceedings, lack of intermediate review and
assessment exercises, are a few of the shortcomings which caused
complications leading to implementation delays and unmet targets. The
overall frame of reference and relevance of project works should also have
been more carefully studied. In this project the primary goal was to improve
living conditions in Grants Town. However, as preparation began, it became
clear that employment issues transcended the project area. Similarly, the
solid waste and home improvement components became island-wide in scope
during project implementation.
54.      For the Bahamas and other countries approaching graduation from the
Bank program, there is the question of the type of assistance which should
be offered. Indications are that a more detailed internal Bank review may
have shown the need for more technical assistance (e.g., in helping tot (a)
define areas to be studied, (b) prepare TORs, tc) review results and prepare
investment programs, including pilots, if needed) than for specific project
investments. This project also shows that even with (a) relatively small
and slow-growing population in a middle-income country, issues of
affordability, cost recovery, beneficiary targeting, etc. need to be
addressed in a systematic manner. The tendency is to speak of the "poor"
without really defining their characteristics in terms of income level,
expenditure patterns, family size. etc. Consequently, detailed achievements
cannot be properly measured.
55.      Overall, project results have been positive.  More could have been
achieved with the same amount of resources if coordination and planning had
been better at several levels.  The project introduced many innovative
alternatives for dealing with a range of urban problems. There is need for
the Government to carefully assess and review such alternatives, (including
that of a comprehensive cadastre and property tax system which was briefly
considered as a pcssible study for Bank financing) and make appropriate
decisions about continuing to build upon the achievements of the project.



- 16 -
AN  1
TABLE 1
URBAN PROJECT BANA8AS
PROJECTED VS ACTUAL OPERATIONS
Projected                  Actual
No.          S'000         No.      S'G00
A. UPGRADING
Land Purchase lots              278           2,320         212        930
Rome Improvement Loans        1,200           6,260         979      6,646
New Family Ownership
Housing                         250           4,320         140      2,800
* New Sen'or Citizen
Housing for Rent                150            1,475         36        486
*  Solid Waste Management          --             1,520         --      3,336
*  Fire and Storm Wells             142             550         68         342
S Street Lights                    108               36         76          18
*  Traffic Lights                     6)                        44)
)            159           )       241
*  Street S'gns                    250)                        150)
_  SldewaLks - lin. ft.         19,000              323    23,500         950
Parks & d Playgrounds             6               57         23        147
P Pest ccitrol                     --                40      Included In SWM
P Parks and road
maintenance equipment           --                20      SnclItded In SWM
Community Centre                   1             583                    --
- Start-up cost                                  4 446       --
*  Grants for Organizations        --               400         --
a Project Unit .salaries
and Expenses                    --            1,115         --       2,846
*  Technical Assistance            --               368         --         254
*  Start-up cost Urban Services                     603         --         745
*  Office Equipment, tra;.ning    --                 --         --        370
-   Total Upgrading                          20,595                 20,111
B. INDUSTRIAL PROMOTION
*  BAIC Start-up Cost                             1,165                 1,655
*  New York and Bahamas Promotion                 1,425                   727
*  Industrial park                                  596                   873
*  Technical Assistance                             580                   345
*  Total Ind. Promotion                           3,766                 3,600
C. TOTAL URBAN PROJECT (AeB)                     24,361                23,711
meumem                mmin=mi



-17 -                                            ANNEX 2
BAHAMA
Chart I - lUW^     CoMW~s           I-nvtjttm  I diM
_4 AmsUm                       IT  OLA    OTUIC  OSA               MOP          Nh.      0aks _ woe lwI
mm'llonveinml'g                I  I?      OUP    IT               GTA          Of.;    N.A
060    PRf"  oinuaUUn
*Swf "WS                       IT  I?     amW    00m              P*4M La".   MA        N A
06      Pwm c.auut t o  IUitu@gsm
Igmigi Otams eb_g              IT  4?    0IT      Oaks            MOP          04A4    o004
"*0 Wu                                    mw
0114$
Io101   Oanin                  IT  014S  IT      0414             MOP           N.A.    4O$
n C mu                         IT  01$  nI        0114$                        OEt114    01$
__~~ _ _ tt 
_um _g                         zIT  .dwu  IT      mowu            kw           Nt A.    mtu
TutdfS  Wu                     IT  MOT            a SIC           MOPE                  sMc
i                          ~~~~~~_______________          SIC   IT
W_      _     _     _           n                  M_    ___Uus 
_
fTm LIve                       IT  SC    MGW    oIn               mop          NC       MC
IIT
.UN                      IT  as    IT       mowu            MOP _po                M01U
VMOW
Ilmlo  o Waft                  IT  1101Wi~ IT     MoutOP                       N.A.    mowU
I                                   I
Co-itv Cw                      IT  IT      atu IT sut     u       MsOP         "OMN    #O*uU
.I               __un~n.w.                         _     __.
P      tb  o C                 T IT  U      t i       IT          MOP           N.A.     1 4A
C       -cfm,                                               MOAP   - UuMMv at AugsIb a" el Pm
00      - clwamt 04$.                       MCOP    - hwosgof Pmw
080     - 0WuM.s of Euddui Con"am (MAOWI)                   h4$NP4   - Mwsglmv a  omi US NUWUS" gIamri
0DIMS   -omm   moai IwMGM.wwtw m isa. bsefin SMOMNis        mO      - liftw L fTom
06LA    - ONMERMmof Lam AffaS                               MOvICA - wAlmy @4 YSi4$. 34110 am cornieht,
OL. -Daum"".o Lail W4 Eaavws tdu. of Aw twa   US P*aOms                A0i
0014          ,    ofousma    L.4M                          M&WU   - MIAIW @4 Wofk ml  UI@4II
a"      - Oltuowam ofvea Co Ang _NOWUa                     p1       -T
GTA    - 6U TeMI Ai0SWtWol SUhk                             Abp$   - oweq  Sl%W  Pve O f_
OTUIC   - Cam" Tom us". i-t w nt CA-i.
5oe014 a's-22P I



Chart 2
BANANAS  -  URfAN INPROVPNWF AND  EPtWYDI  PROJECT
UPOBADNGC QCHPONEIW   - ORCANIZATION CHART
URUN DKPROYEHET CoIIJTTEe
(H. nu-n.; His. Health; Fla. Sec.; Froj. Coord.)
|   OORDINAIOR|
(Pep. Fla. Sec)
.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Ir  - --------------------------Improvement  Tea.t-    ----------------------------- I
PROJECT NANACER           PROJECT PROGRAKUDNG ADVISOR (PT)
(Dep. Per. Sec. Kin. 0ealth)              (Concult nt)                                              F
g                        ~~~~~~~Technical O{rector/Chite/Arcbttect/Plonne
(Consultant)
1  .t        -   A __ __ _ _is_  _.                      _                               s t~~1                     7
FINANCE OFFICERJ          CHIEF PLANNER (PT)           DEVELOPHEIW  OFFICER (PT)    eNVIRDNHNTAL (PT)            SOCIAL AND CdISUNITS
Offie Kbodger                                                                          Health Officer             Development Officer
(Sr. Officer,Nln. Fln.)   (Aest. Dir. Dpt. Phy. Plng)  (Dept. Bldg. Cont. Of f.)         (Dept. Dir. Dept. Env.      (Sr. Welfate Office.
Health Serv.)             Dept. Soc. S& v.)
SRILtTATION        ASSISTANT                AS9StANTT
USSonICER          FIUMCE OFFlCeR           ACHlteTE
(Sen. Officer          (To be bired)             (3)
BDT )                                      (To be ired)
(Pt) - Part Tim                                                                                                                                           1



Chart 3
__                                                                                                              JUL m~~nJL    mn   Wl n a-5L--     -------
*                                                    -   -  -                              I       ~      ~                             ____________X
en.   ..wen    sint.
- M   Pfu " oio elosos           UA. VLt VII n1T..  Mn ... en .. . en -.. e  -O   - en.---------                                            -----                -----
- rb  col"o                     L%16  iii- VI. M      n MRw. goo J. en .s.- en im - WA ---------------------
-_ft.' _.'                        M.   in jTV. en 9  n 4. go ..w. we ..W - en -------------------_-i-tit------_---i
- SA.5S  IA5S                    LU.           US   _S  US   e""_  
-   1 , we',_                                             WA1 PV  USI_ U S- UwS; ,w             W  im   _        _n       .
-_ ' tio  a   lm  is.                ,                    D w   1        VW                            --- W-  RD  R   RD  _  _- _ _   _     _     _ _-_-_-_-_-_-
, i*w-lk                 mP  m                       FO tw  tiC Et At  MM  PiX                    -9 --- ----------- ---------- -------------
,io  diew  lc OI t                        PF    ll 31131 = l  ttft I=  I=                               ____   _______                 ______ -____---______-     ----     ----     ----
-     .   a       tw   t   te i           U S        W U                        t                                  -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - -
-Croft         * ll to 0,110ISMO                      lOIa  Kf PL   ta   RDl telD                           __D  _______                ______ VW_________
* bot PeSa,ole  hos.omm g         P         WA  US      W     RI  CCC        W   Ve  JQ  I PO. -Or- Q     JUL n.      USL      ---- -----------
iF"" * Osle oltlpu                                  tO W   T!   U Wtl   TI!e Xftt    t.ltl . tU     _.lI     _  _~ _ _q.  _                               
-i-
-  s.t team  AOOt tu. e    VW  am -                                            Xft re   en M ..ft   en- gm -*IL re  W_i___ en_                        _     __________
- NMlosset.tIos .eIto           p. enoA. en 3             en  gm~. en. - t - en        -WL e    . VE. enL Om~ -en   M.. en---------                               -----
_Woiw  IlciUt bmint             t    U t    irD  iM  iUtPrf tUt -3qp  Ere -Ti-  gm  tUt re    - M-                           ---
-    lTe. up10  (s-ew-v)ol           M..M.A    M  t          AM . J A-M  -OIL W A. OF M     go. M  -.A. &M  ..A. AM
~~~~~~~ff- M1 rOiP  M_ tv   M: t2   i                            r    Pox -0   Ft _         FM _qp  q Axw_ gm   __ PR ----          ------              ------
Ac- _dio m           . -. WA H                  _1 -                                 kCOt   AlM iW t tiftt M    -*- .      -,--_ - s--  -------q-            --------- _
,mim  PAslbot                                 af1_tlali m:sbrum ofx ttow rsS                            ogf _olwm_l   "itQ
* - Lose p,eose.i.ol by' books       L - LISA oWe woos, t,   mtwe rIs, NWd soIpost         7 - P,.ewstlm .? tom Ased. of pud.wse.1
C - Teelg          t       |M -d       ft_so   w,d   inti', of "Alto pe,dasoo              V - And o 4f   llA_ _ abit ly o woeweA   s_,_d
* - lT At el _ Ivory                 a - OPer.Aoss          l     t                          - Ceebgtn i  WA lislomteloo ,e.4d
ELd .eee.,lotlos           s         p - P.rowrotaI  of d  les... pleas sA pr,1m_,
Wooi lAwA-o;p  salo ts lso  etodb tleb osoolflsq A P-              qotmfo. of _ 1 a 1.s e  S                                    istWi.i
tt_ __ __ __ Prjc  olootw
Ants:- - - - - - - - - - - - - wi"ol



-20 -                      ANNEX 5
Tables 1 & 2
TABLE 1
SOURCES OF PROJECT FUNDS - 1981 TO 1987 (000,000)
ANTICIPATED              ACTUAL
IBRD LOAN                           $  5.8                  $  5.8
GOB                                   14.3                     8.7
BMC                                    ---                     3.5
COMMERCIAL BANKS                       4.3                     5.9 (rehab)
BENEFICIARIES                          ---                      .5 (mortgages)
TOTAL                               $ 24.4                  $ 23.5
TABLE 2
TIMING OF IBRD LOAN FUNDS - 1981 TO 1988 (000.000)
ANTICIPATED        ACTUAL       CUMULATIVE
USs              USs            USs
1982                                  0.6               ---            ---
1983                                  1.1               0.5            0.5
1984                                  1.5               0.2            0.7
1985                                  1.3               0.6            1.3
1986                                  1.3               1.3            2.6
1987                                  ---               2.3            4.9
1988                                  ---               0.9            5.8
TOTAL                              $  5.8           $  5.8



ANNEX 6
- 21 -                                         Table 3
TABLE t
BAHAMAS - MN DEVELOPMIENT PROJECT
LOAN 2089-OM
ACTUAL AND PRWECTED OIS MEMD6TS TO DECEIER 81, 1987
AND VARIATIONS FROM AUCATIONS
Category           Civil       Clvil   Equipment   Equlpment   Industrial   T chnical    Technical       Totals
Worke       Works    Borrower   BAIC         Promotion    Assistance   Assistance
Borrower    BAIC                             BAIC         Borrower    BAIC
IA         iB        2A          2B          SA           as I         s8e I
Departmnt of
Environmental
Health Services    228,148     -         1,58s,462     -                        10,988         ---    1,822,693
Ministry of
Housing            189,681                  -          ---          ---        254,467                  444,048
Ministry of
Works              738,424                  95,79      1- ---                   39,112          -    1,472,914
Ministry of
Finance              -__ 42,101                                       -         88,760        ---        80,851
BAIC                 -       872,706         -       85,018       727,80         ---        344,587  1,979,S94
1,166,148   872,708     2,220,941   85,019       727,880      448,817      844,637  5,800,000
Loan
Real location:
- (July 1986a    1.420.000 1.100.000     1e.o60000   a5.000       646.000      65.O000      895.000   .e00.000



BAHAMAS: URBAN PROJECT LOAN 2089
DI5SUEMET SCHEDVLE
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
CD
82      8.3     84       a       86      87       88      89       90
WOfRLD C4K rr JUNE X30
APPRAEAL             +   ACTUAL          °   REGION PRWOiLE
.



