Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3498b-BM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BAHAMAS
URBAN PROJECT
December 30, 1981
Urban Projects
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS
BDB    -  Bahamas Development Bank
BAIC   -  Bahamas Agricultural and Industrial Corporation
GTUIT   -  Grants Town Urban Improvement Team
GTUIC - Grants Town Urban Improvement Committee
IDB    -  Inter-American Development Bank
CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency unit  =  Bahamian dollar (B$)                US$1  =   B$1



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BAHAMAS
URBAN PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    BACKGROUND  .............................................   1
A.  Introduction  ..................................... .    I1
B.   The Slum Problem ......             .........................          1
C.  The Employment Problem              ......................... .         6
II.  THE PROJECT .......... ....   10
A.   Summary Description              ............................. ... . 10
B.  Project Objectives  .             ................................ 11
C.   Project Components              ................................. 11
D.  Detailed Description  .             ..................... ......... 13
III.   PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION  ............                .... 19
A.  Introduction ....................................... 19
B.   Execution of the Upgrading Component  ...... .......... 20
C.   The Industrial Promotion Component  ................. 23
D.  Procurement .....          ................................... 25
E.   Accounting  .........................................  27
F.  Audit ................................................ 28
G.   Monitoring and Evaluation ......              .................... 28
IV.    COSTS AND FINANCIAL FEATURES  ......              .....................  29
A.   Costs Estimates  .          ..................................  29
B.  Financing Plan  .           .     .................................... 31
C.   Disbursement             ....................................... 33
D.   Cost Recovery  ...................................... 33
V.    PROJECT JUSTIFICATION  .             ................................. 40
A.   General  ........................................... 40
B.   Description of Beneficiaries and
Urban Poverty Impact  .............. ................. 41
C.  Economic Analysis  .................................. 42
D.   Risks and Project Replicability  ........ ............ 44
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Bahamas in December 1980. The mission comprised Mrs. A. Nassau (Project
Officer) and Messrs. G.C. Guarda, H. Jones, T. Persaud, M. Raine, and
N. Boyle (Consultant), Messrs. D. Cook, Engineering Adviser, CPS and D. Jones,
Financial Adviser, CPS also participated in the mission. Mrs. E. Rebollar
assisted in the preparation of this report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
VI.    RECOMMENDATIONS  .................. .            ...................... 46
A.   Recommendations  of Conditions  for Processing of
the Project  ........... ..............................  46
B.   Conditions Confirmed with the Government or the
BAIC during Negotiation  ............................ 46
C.  Loan Agreement            ..................................... 48
ANNEXES
1.   Tables and Charts               .......................................  49
2.   Data Comparisons:  Bahamas,  Barbados and Puerto Rico .....  69
3. The Bahamas Agricultural and Industrial Corporation
Policies           ..............................................   72
4.  Key Indicators  ...........................................   84
5.  Upgrading Implementation Schedule  ........ ..                 .............   85
6.  List of Equipment to be Purchased  ........ ..                 .............  86
7.   List of Documents in Project File ......... ..                 ............  87
MAPS
PHOTOGRAPHS



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BAHAMAS
URBAN PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A.   Introduction
1.01      Calm, clear water, white sand beaches, a pleasant climate and
proximity to the United States are the Bahamas' principal resources. These
attractions have been vigorously exploited, making tourism overwhelmingly
important to the economy. The vigor of the tourism industry also accounts for
Bahamas' relatively high per capita income of US$2,750 (1979), and for its
image as a stable and successful country. Just beyond the cruise ships, the
fine shops and the luxurious homes which tourism has brought, however, is much
the same poverty which characterizes cities in other developing countries.
Sizeable areas abound with substandard housing, poor sanitation, inadequate
public services, and very high rates of unemployment.
1.02      Eliminating urban poverty in the Bahamas will take many years
of economic growth, coupled with appropriate public policies and programs.
The project would attempt to initiate these policies and programs in order
to alleviate poverty in the short term through slum upgrading, and help
develop the basis for a partial solution to the longer run problem of unem-
ployment. The project would comprise (a) a coordinated program of urban
services and housing in a large low income area of Nassau; and (b) institution
building for future employment creation. Approximately 85% of project cost
is allocated to slum improvement.
B.   The Slum Problem
The Urban Setting
1.03      The Commonwealth of the Bahamas is an archipelago of 590 islands
of which only 29 are inhabited. The 1980 population of the country was
estimated at 234,000, an increase of 37% in ten years.
1.04      Eighty percent of the population of the Bahamas live in the two
urban centers of Nassau and Freeport. With a 1980 population estimated
at 135,000, Nassau, on New Providence Island, accounts for four-fifths of
this population, or 58% of the population of the entire country. Though
it serves as the nation's capital, as well as the main center for commercial,
financial and tourism activities, Nassau has never needed a municipal govern-
ment, as all essential services and governmental functions are provided for
the city (and for the rest of the Bahamas) by various ministries, departments
and corporations of the central government. Grand Bahama Island, where
Freeport is located, has industrial and tourism activities, and is the only
other island with substantial population and economic opportunities. The
remaining 27 inhabited islands have very small populations and offer limited
tourism, fishing and agricultural activities.



1.05      Though Bahamas enjoys one of the highest per capita incomes in
the Caribbean, much of the native born 1/ population has not fully partici-
pated in the benefits of this economic growth. Income distribution is highly
skewed, with 40% of households receiving less than 10% of household income
(1977). There is little absolute poverty in the country, but relative
poverty is a social and economic problem. The relative poverty line for
the country in 1981 prices is estimated at about US$500 per month for an
average household of five. 2/ About 25% of households in New Providence have
incomes below this level, and a high proportion of them are residents of the
Grants Town neighborhood.
Grants Town
1.06      The most visible evidence of urban poverty is a 620 acre slum area
adjacent to Nassau's downtown (Map 15807). This area, Grants Town or "Over
the Hill," is the largest area of substandard housing and infrastructure in
the country and the area chosen for upgrading under the proposed project.
Though detailed mapping of other slum areas has not been done, rough estimates
indicate that Grants Town in surface area accounts for 60% of the substandard
areas in New Providence and houses about 50% of the very poor (families
earning less than US$200 per month).
1.07      Over the years, Grants Town has deteriorated and most of the
better off families have moved to suburban subdivisions, a process which
has accelerated in recent years with racial desegregation. Uncertainty
about Grants Town's future (e.g., urban renewal has been discussed for
many years) has discouraged private investment, increasing the rate of
deterioration. Yet Grants Town plays an important social and cultural
role in the community. Aside from the harbor area, it was the main original
settlement of New Providence, and today most Bahamian families acknowledge
their links to the area with pride, for they either lived there, have relatives
there, or still own land there. In spite of its decline, Grants Town still
is "home" to most Bahamians on the island.
1.08      Grants Town has lost about 10% of its population and 11% of its
housing units over the past 10 years, but it still houses 23,200 persons,
about 17% of the population of New Providence. It also remains the most
densely developed area on the island, with 36.3 persons per acre (down from
41.5 persons per acre in 1970). Importantly, it maintains a strong and
cohesive social structure in which the extended family, the neighborhood
and the church still play important roles.
1/   In 1973 approximately 15% of the population were expatriates, consisting
mainly of persons seeking tax shelter, or occupying top management jobs
in banking, real estate or tourism. It is estimated that they received
40% of the country's disposable income.
2/   Based on one third of the country's per capita income.  However, the
Government considers that families with annual incomes under US$9,000 are
relatively poor. About 40% of households in New Providence have incomes
below this level.



-3-
1.09      Unemployment is high and incomes are low.  A 1979 Labor Force Survey
indicated an unemployment rate of 22% as compared to 17% in New Providence,
and 14% in all urban areas. Approximately 3,000 people in Grants Town were
unemployed, about 15,400 persons were unemployed in the whole nation. Most of
those with jobs work at low paying service or laborer jobs. Table 1.01 shows
that household incomes are strikingly low compared to the rest of New Providence.
Table 1.01 - 1981 Household Income Distribution a/
Annual Income in US$              Grants Town %            New Providence %
Up to 2,400                             26                         9
2,401   -   6,000                        25                        17
6,001   -  12,000                        31                        28
12,001  -  18,000                        10                        19
18,001  -  24,000                         4                        14
24,001  -  48,000                         4                        10
over  48,000                        0                         3
a/   Department of Statistics information based on sample surveys of 95
households in Grants Town, and 502 households in New Providence in
1979. Figures adjusted to July 1981 to take account of estimated
increases in wages of 20%. No change in distribution has been assumed.
Land Uses
1.10      A primarily residential (61%) area, Grants Town has a mix of land
uses which also includes 7.7% commercial, 7.6% community, 1/ 1.9% parks, 11.7%
roads and 9.8% vacant. It is subdivided into randomly sized lots which
range from about 2500 square feet to 8000 square feet with an average of
about two dwellings per lot. A few lots, particularly on the ridge that
separates Grants Town from downtown Nassau, are as large as 60,000 to 80,000
square feet. Commercial development is concentrated along the major north-south
streets leading to downtown Nassau, though small shops and home-based commer-
cial enterprises are also scattered throughout the residential areas, often in
relation to a house in which the owner lives.
1.11      Residential development consists of small, pitched-roofed houses
of varying quality set among well established vegetation. The mixture of
housing conditions is random. Vacant lots pose a special problem, because
they have been used continuously as refuse dumps and discourage nearby
private improvements. Although there are no formal land use or zoning
controls for Grants Town, there has been a recent move to limit the scope
of operations of auto repair establishments, which tend to store old,
1/   Private community-wide uses, e.g. churches, clubs.



- 4 -
damaged cars on quiet residential streets, and contribute to the untidy
appearance of the area.
Infrastructure and Services
1.12      The quantity and quality of most services are poor, and maintenance
is almost nonexistent due to inadequate organization and budgets. The few
parks are overgrown, vandalized, and contain large quantities of refuse.
Considerable traffic congestion occurs during peak hours because of through
traffic and the nonexistence of sidewalks, resulting in a mixing of pedestrian
and vehicular traffic. There are too few sink wells to adequately drain
excess storm water, and the ones which exist are mostly poorly maintained and
filled with silt and debris. Household waste collection is scheduled weekly,
but is affected by vehicle breakdown and inadequate collection receptacles.
Bulk refuse (abandoned cars, building materials, and demolition debris) are
usually not collected at all. A pest control program is aimed at reducing
problems caused by mosquitoes and rodents, but its effectiveness is reduced by
lack of equipment. In 1977 there was an outbreak of dengue fever, a mosquito
borne disease. Communicable diseases are of particular concern, since their
existence could pose a threat to the mainstay of the economy--the tourist
industry.
1.13      Piped water is available to all Grants Town households.  However
only 30% of the households have active connections. Most others (65%)
obtain water from standpipes, and a few utilize wells. Private connection
charges are high, and water tariffs are among the highest in the world.
Standpipe water, on the other hand, is free to the beneficiaries, though
the Government pays the Water and Sewerage Corporation for the quantity
consumed. Because standpipe water is used almost exclusively by the poorest
groups, there are no plans to change this system.
1.14      Households in Grants Town deal with waste water in three ways:
2% use a piped sanitary sewer system which covers only a small part of
the area (and of Nassau in general); 1/ 35% use septic tanks; and 60% use
outdoor pit latrines. Despite a program of periodic inspection by health
authorities of pit latrines and septic tanks, many pit latrines and some
septic tanks pose health hazards because of flooding caused by faulty con-
struction or overuse in combination with heavy rains.
Community Facilities
1.15      Community facilities include two health clinics (one private and
one public), nine primary schools (eight public and one private), a church
operated community center, a public library, and 13 registered private day
care centers. Perhaps the most striking feature of the area is the existence
of over 40 churches, serving both area residents and members who have moved
away. Though Grants Town has many community facilities, service gaps remain,
particularly in youth and senior citizen activities. A number of community
organizations want to increase services but lack sufficient resources.
1/   Properties on the northern boundary have access to the sewer serving
downtown Nassau. Outside of the downtown area and a few new subdivi-
sions, the rest of New Providence relies on septic tanks for waste
water disposal.



-5-
Housing and Land Tenure
1.16      The 5,380 dwellings units in Grants Town range from dilapidated
one-room huts sharing single lots and pit latrines 1/ to solidly constructed
concrete houses. Small single story wooden structures predominate, however,
making up about 70% of the total. Only 12% of the houses in the area are
in "good" condition; about 40% could be rehabilitated at reasonable cost;
the cost of rehabilitation for another 40% is comparable to that of replace-
ment; and the remaining 10% are derelict or abandoned.
1.17      There are few disputes regarding property ownership, and there is
no squatting in Grants Town or elsewhere in the Bahamas. Land was legally
subdivided in the 19th century and freehold ownership distributed to
individual Bahamians. Since then, lots have been handed down, subdivided,
rented out or abandoned. Ownership may or may not have been sold in the
process. Legal documentation of many properties has been lost, and land
and house tenure are often separate. Thus, there is a wide variety of
arrangements ranging from owner-occupied houses and lots, to leased land
with houses owned or rented by another person. 2/ Though many families
own more than one lot, there is little real concentration of land ownership.
1.18      Monthly house rentals vary from $50 for a one-room wooden hut,
to $200 for higher quality housing with indoor plumbing. 3/ The average
structure is rented for around $100.
Previous Proposals to Deal with the Project Area
1.19      During the last 15 years there have been numerous suggestions for
dealing with the physical problems of Grants Town. Most previous proposals
have included massive public intervention for urban renewal entailing wholesale
eradication of houses; in one instance it was proposed that people should be
moved about 7-10 miles from town to new public housing. Another scheme was to
place them in temporary accommodations while public housing was built in the
area. There was even a proposal to convert the area into vast open space.
None of the studies assessed costs, affordability or organizational and
administrative mechanisms for translating plans into reality.
1.20      In 1979, the Government decided a different approach was needed
which would permit progressive improvements. A new study was commissioned
to plan a suitable project and the Bank assisted the Government by drafting
the terms of reference and by reviewing the findings. The Government endorsed
1/   Many of the "extra" houses began as rental units to supplement the
incomes of owner occupiers.
2/   45% of all residential lots are owner occupied, and 55% are leased to
others. Regarding structures, a different picture emerges with 38%
of the houses being owner occupied, over 20% of which are located on
leased land.
3/   However, a large number of renters are relatives or friends of the
owners, and rents are often not based on the market value.



-6-
the resulting plan and initiated some "early action" programs 1/ to show
immediate and visible results. Community response has been very encouraging.
The upgrading component of the project is based on the results of the study.
C. The Employment Problem
1.21      Though the effects of urban poverty can be alleviated through
programs to improve urban services and extend housing credit, its elimination
only can be realized by raising household incomes. The major constraint is
serious and growing unemployment, particularly among youths and women.
Unemployment
1.22      Table 1.02 summarizes the actual and projected unemployment rates
for 1973-1979. The actual rates may be underestimates, since the surveys upon
which the data are based were taken in December, a good month for tourism,
and were not seasonally adjusted. 2/
Table 1.02 - Unemployment Rates (%)
a! a        aa!                    a!b
1973-/     1975-/      1977-/      1979-/   1984/
Overall (national)  8.7         26.9        20.7        14.3       19
Women               15.0        37.1        25.7        21.1        -
Youth (14-24)       17.0        33.9        37.0        29.0        -
New Providence       9.2        34.0        25.6        16.6        -
Grand Bahama         9.7        26.0         9.2         8.4        -
a!   Data derived from published and unpublished reports on the Labor Force
Sample Survey taken in December of each year. The reported rates are
estimates, unadjusted for seasonal variation. The labor force includes
only those actively seeking work or employed; i.e. full time students
and housewives not seeking work are excluded from both numerator and
denominator of unemployment rate calculations. Data for 1979 pertain
only to New Providence and Grand Bahama; no information is available
for the Family Islands.
b/   The projected unemployment rate is based on comparisons of the projected growth
rates of the labor force with projected rates of employment. The projected
labor force growth rate is based on current demographic age profiles of the
population and on Ministry of Education records of school graduates and
early leavers. The employment growth rate was projected on the assumption
that average real economic growth would be on the order of 3.5 - 4.0% per
year. The projected GDP and employment growth rate is substantially lower
than those obtained during 1976-79. Nevertheless, this assumption seems
to be more realistic given uncertainties concerning growth in tourism.
1/   Area clean-up, land purchase, home improvement loans.
2/   However, Bahamas tourism has become less seasonal in recent years.  The number
of overnight visitors in 1979 varied from a low of 60,000 in September to highs
of 110,000 in April and 127,000 in March. December visitors were 103,000.



-7-
1.23      Differences in unemployment rates among different population groups
(e.g. youth, women) suggest that unemployment has significant structural
features. Intervention in education and training may help to alleviate the
problem, and on May 8, 1981, the Bank made a loan for a Vocational and Tech-
nical Education Project to address the issue. The project would have three
main objectives: (a) to increase the output of the technical/vocational
education system, (b) to improve its quality and (c) to strengthen its insti-
tutional capacity for needed adjustments to evolving economic demands.
1.24       In addition to training, however, new jobs must be created to absorb
excess labor. Assuming GDP growth on the order of 3.5 - 4.0%, approximately
3,000 additional jobs a year would be generated. But in the absence of
radical shifts in immigration and/or the labor force participation rate,
unemployment will rise from 14% in 1979 to 19% by 1984. This highlights the
need for measures to increase growth, particularly in relatively labor-inten-
sive activities.
1.25      Confronted by the prospect of an increasingly severe unemployment
problem, the Government is actively seeking a viable solution. Given the
resource endowment and other comparative advantages of the Bahamas, the
apparent options are limited to tourism, other tertiary activities and
manufacturing. None of these alternatives are expected to provide sufficient
new jobs to absorb new labor force entrants. The background to the modest
institution building effort proposed under this project is comprised in a
brief assessment of each of the apparent sectoral alternatives.
The Tourism Sector I/
1.26      The Bahamas moved relatively early toward mass tourism with the
rapid expansion of air travel in the 1950s and the increasing popularity
of cruises. In 1979 tourism contributed, directly and indirectly, about
60% of GDP, and accounted for 44% of employment.
1.27       Sector performance has fluctuated in recent years.  The number
of stopover visitors peaked at over one million in 1973 before declining in
the next two years as a consequence of the world fuel crisis and related
economic conditions in the market countries. Recovery was relatively modest
until 1978 when stopover traffic increased by a remarkable 22%; growth
remained strong in 1979-80 although by 1979 limits in visitor accommodations
in New Providence and Grand Bahama and in air passenger seats to the islands
had begun to constrain growth. 2/
1/   Most of this section is derived from the Bank's Economic Memorandum of
June 1980.
2/   The number of hotel rooms actually declined from 11,612 in 1974 to
11,044 in 1979 due to withdrawal of some rooms for future remodeling
or replacement.



- 8 -
1.28      Consultants were engaged during 1980, with financial support from
the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) to produce a 10-year master plan
for the development of tourism in the Bahamas. The draft Tourism Development
Plan calls for the construction of 7,000 new hotel rooms throughout the
Bahamas in the period 1980-90. Sites for about 3,200 rooms have been identi-
fied and about 1,500 are under construction, using public and private funds.
The remaining 3,800 rooms are in an early stage of project identification.
Implementing the draft plan would be costly--about $660 million, of which
$134 million would be public expenditures for infrastructure and air equip-
ment, and the remainder private and public outlays for hotel construction.
Given uncertainties in the availability of capital and the inhibiting effect
of a new land law governing land ownership among foreigners, it may be difficult
to raise sufficient finance to implement the full plan within the 10-year
period.
1.29      Regardless of the progress made in tourism development, it is clear
that tourism alone cannot be counted on to create a sufficient number of jobs.
If all 7,000 rooms in the draft Tourism Development Plan were developed,
opened and occupied on schedule, about 16,800 jobs would be created (direct
and indirect). Yet 50,000 new workers would be joining the labor force in the
next ten years.
The Financial Sector
1.30      Financial institutions make up Bahamas' second most important
sector directly contributing, in 1979, about 13% of GDP. In December 1978,
there were 285 institutions operating in the financial sector, of which only
24 operated in the domestic financial sector. The remainder of these institu-
tions were off-shore, and of little relevance to the local economy aside from
the 2,200 local jobs they provide, and their local purchases. Although some
extension of activities is still possible through development of reinsurance
activities and syndication of stock issues, large-scale expansion could be
constrained by increased competition from other Caribbean locations and the
establishment of international banking centers in the U.S. The development of
Bahamas as an important regional financial center has not been accompanied by
substantial employment for native Bahamians. While increased training is
gradually opening financial sector jobs to Bahamians, the sector cannot be
expected to provide many of the low-level jobs which will be required in the
next 10 years.
The Agricultural Sector
1.31      Agriculture (including forestry and fishing) accounts for 3%
of output and directly engages 6% of the work force. Recently, the Govern-
ment has been giving increased attention to agricultural development. At
present the Bahamas Development Bank (BDB) is committing a line of credit
financed by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) for expansion of the
fishing industry, and both IDB and the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB) are
considering further lines of credit through BDB for agriculture in the
Family Islands. Though potential for growth exists, it is unlikely that
sufficient labor can be absorbed into the sector to offset increasing
unemployment rates.



-9-
The Industrial Sector
1.32      The industrial sector is the only other sector with potential for
absorbing employment. To date, growth has been slow, and the sector has
played a minor role in the economy, contributing, in 1977, only 6% of GDP and
employing 4% of the labor force. The most important activities are large scale
heavy manufacturing for export, including an oil refinery, oil transshipment
facilities and manufacture of large diameter pipe, pharmaceuticals and small-
scale food processing plants using locally produced agriculture products.
Salt, cement, aragonite and small-scale manufacturing constitute the other
activities in this sector. Most industrial activities now take place on Grand
Bahama Island, where a private real estate firm has developed and marketed a
resort and housing complex, enhanced by a large industrial area designed in
part to create additional housing demand.
1.33      One of the reasons that Bahamas has little industrial development
to date is because the Government inadvertently discouraged private investment
through lengthy procedures for approving projects and for issuing permits.
Nonetheless, Bahamas has certain advantages 1/ for foreign investors. It
is very close to the U.S. market, and transportation costs are low. There
are no personal or corporate income taxes, and it has an established, highly
sophisticated financial sector. It has a long history of political stability
and it is an attractive location for expatriates. Although it has higher
wage rates than some Caribbean islands, it has little unionization outside of
hotels, construction and Government, and has a relatively well educated and
trainable labor force. Tourism and finance have meant that the Bahamas has
been required to develop good telephone and telegraph communication systems,
although other services such as power and water are costly.
1.34      Many legislative incentives are also in place.  The Hawkskill Creek
Agreement (1955) gave a major concession to the Grand Bahama Port Authority
for industrial development on that island. The Industries Encouragement Act
(1970) was designed to provide incentives for industry to set up elsewhere in
the country. Specialized acts established incentives for a sugar industry
(1966) and rum distilleries (1963). These acts all provided relief from
taxes 2/--income, property and import--for periods no less than 15 years,
and for exemption from import duties on construction materials. The most
generous was the Hawkskill Creek, whose liberal array of concessions,
including immigration facilities, extended from 30 to 99 years. It proved
to be Bahamas' principal industrialization mechanism, facilitating the
establishment of the industrial/resort complex in Freeport, Grand Bahama
(para. 1.32) which operates as a free zone.
1/   Annex 2, which compares data on infrastructure, manufacturing inputs, etc.,
between Bahamas, Puerto Rico and Barbados, shows that Bahamas compares
favorably on many factors.
2/   However, income tax relief is not needed, as Bahamas imposes no income,
corporate, or estat- '-oxes on any of its resident individuals or companies.



- 10 -
1.35      The country's relatively high wage level and wage expectations
suggest that smnall scale, labor-intensive activities may in general not be
feasible. The scope for resource-based industry appears limited to agroprocess-
ing, which would imply heavy demands on agricultural growth.  Industries
which exhibit high-growth rates, low-energy consumption, low-labor costs (in
relation to value added) and low-water consumption, and which could be economic
with relatively small-size plants appear to be indicated. In a study carried
out in 1978, 1/ about 100 such industries were identified (with about 20,000
firms 2/ in the U.S. alone), which could prove economic in the Bahamas.
The following were considered to have the highest potential: pharmaceuticals
and biological preparations, chemicals and petrochemicals, plastics, perfumes
and cosmetics, paper, printing and related products, selected fabricated
metal products, ship repair and servicing, and selected motor vehicle assembly.
1.36      While it is difficult to determine how much labor could be absorbed
by industrial development, whatever potential the sector has for job creation
should be exploited. Neither the tourism nor the financial sectors can generate
the number of jobs which will need to be created in the coming years, and in-
dustrial development, though far from risk free, is a strategic priority.
II. THE PROJECT
A.   Summary Description
2.01      In addressing the problems of urban poverty, the project will
initiate programs to upgrade slums and, less immediately, to create industrial
jobs. The upgrading component will provide physical improvements in Grants
Town for the benefit of its existing residents, including the provision of
new houses on vacant lots, housing improvement loans, urban service improve-
ments (garbage collection, street lights, sidewalks, drainage, etc.) and
community facilities. The industrial promotion component, which is modest in
scale and nature, will support an effort to strengthen the ability of the
Bahamas Agricultural and Industrial Corporation (BAIC) to promote the Bahamas
as an industrial location. Other elements of the Government's industrial
program include: (a) increased lending for Bahamian-owned industry through the
Bahamas Development Bank; and (b) better administration of incentive legisla-
tion and monitoring of economic policy through the Economic Development Unit
in the Ministry of Finance. The IDB is considering a loan to BDB for (a)
above.
2.02      The upgrading component will provide improvements in a specific
area. Owing to the very small size of the country and its institutions, the
industrial promotion component is national in scope.
i/   "An Evaluation of Freeport's Potential for Industrial Development" by
Arthur D. Little, 1978.
2/   Firms of 20 to 100 employees.  Another 70,000 firms in these industries
have more than 100 employees.



- 11 -
B.   Project Objectives
2.03      Specific objectives for the four year project are:
(a) Upgrading
(i) to provide existing residents of Grants Town with access
to better housing, public utilities, and community services;
(ii) to start revitalizing the area;
(iii) to build a capability for responding to the need for
further improvements in Grants Town and other neighbor-
hoods, in the future; and
(iv) to protect the Bahamas' major industry, tourism.
(b) Industrial Promotion. To strengthen the BAIC, the institution
which has the major role in industrial promotion abroad and
industrial space development and management.
C.   Project Components
2.04      To achieve these objectives, the project will have two components,
upgrading and industrial promotion:
(a) Upgrading
(i) land acquisition and clearing of land titles for new
housing;
(ii) housing: 1/ construction of about 400 new houses and
loans for improvements and/or provision of sanitation in
about 1,200 existing houses;
(iii) urban service improvements: fire wells, drainage, solid
waste collection and disposal equipment, sidewalks and
traffic circulation improvements, traffic lights, and
street lights;
(iv) community facilities: construction of a community center;
repairs and equipment to existing public and privately-
operated community facilities; construction of "pocket parks";
(v) project implementation: salaries and expenses of the project
implementation unit; technical assistance to the project
unit; start-up of incremental urban services.
1/   Including sanitation.



- 12 -
1/
Table 2.01 - SUIMARY PROJECT COSTS
COMPONENT                            US$ thousand            % of Total Project
A. Urban Upgrading
Land Acquisition                    2,109                           9
Housing
- Improvement                   4,192                         17
- New housing                   3,920                         16
Community facilities                  899                          3
Urban public services               2,173                           9
Implementation                      1,800                          8
Sub-total base costs         15,093                         62
Physical contingencies        1,468                          6
Price contingencies           4,025                         17
Sub-total Upgrading         20,586                          85
B. Industrial Promotion
BAIC Start-up cost                    882                          3
Foreign promotion & training          951                          4
Industrial park                       489                          2
Technical assistance to BAIC          471                          2
Sub-total base costs          2,793                         11
Physical contingencies          279                          1
Price contingencies             703                          3
Sub-total Employment          3,775                         15
C. Total                              24,361                        100
1/ Details are given in Table 4.01.



- 13 -
(b) Industrial Promotion
(i) Technical assistance;
(ii) Start-up for BAIC;
(iii) Foreign promotion and training;
(iv) Industrial park upgrading.
D.   Detailed Description
The Upgrading Component
2.05      The project will respect the existing scale, structure and social
fabric of the area to the maximum extent possible through progressive and
affordable area wide upgrading, designed to (a) not displace existing residents,
(b) preserve and improve existing structures, and (c) introduce new buildings
(on vacant lots) similar in type, style and layout to existing structures.
Specific sub-components are:
Land Purchase
2.06      The Government has used its powers of acquisition to purchase
277 vacant lots throughout the project area. After improvement (e.g. house
construction), the lots along with the improvements will be sold to low-
and moderate-income families who apply for them (para 3.09). In the process
of acquiring land, title is automatically cleared and documentation created.
2.07      As of July 15, 1981, 87 lots had been acquired, meeting the land
requirements for the first 20 months of project execution. A schedule for
acquisition of the remaining 190 lots has been agreed with the government.
According to the schedule, an additional 75 lots will be acquired by
September 30, 1982; and 115 lots by June 30, 1983 (para 6.02(a)).
Housing
2.08      Three types of operations will be included:  (a) home improvement
loans, (b) new construction loans, and (c) direct construction of senior
citizen housing. Sanitation improvements built into the housing program will
gradually replace existing pit latrines with septic tanks. 1/ Under the
project, 700 septic tanks will be installed to replace an equal number of pit
latrines, thus phasing out about a third of the pit latrines in the area.
Another 300 septic tanks will be installed to service new housing.
1/   The decision to use individual septic tanks rather than a piped sewer system
was taken after considerable study (para 5.01). Due to the porous nature
of the soil, there are no water absorption problems even in areas as densely
inhabited as Grants Town.



- 14 -
(a) Home improvement loans. Home improvement loans will be
offered to repair houses in poor condition, to provide sanitary
units, and to rehabilitate or enlarge houses in average condition.
About 22% of existing houses would be upgraded. Both owner
occupied and rented premises would qualify, provided that a) in
the case of rented premises, previous agreements were reached
between landlords and tenants on rent increases, and b) the
occupant of the house is of low or moderate income. I/ An
estimated 200 families would receive loans of up to $ 2,500 (an
average of $1,300) for repairs. This will permit the useful
life of the houses to be extended on average about ten years.
Repairs could include roofs, floors, porches, siding, painting,
window and door replacement, and minor electrical installations.
Although these repairs would not bring structures to the
minimum standards required for new construction, they would
offset specific health and safety hazards. About 400 additional
loans of $2,500 will be provided for sanitary units, which
will be freestanding 36 square feet enclosed washroom/shower/
toilet units, with a private water connection and a septic
tank. Sanitary units will gradually replace pit latrines,
which are often shared by several houses. An additional 600
loans of $2,500 - $7,000 (average $4,400) will be for rehabili-
tation. Such rehabilitation would incorporate sanitary facili-
ties into existing buildings (estimated number: 300), or
install structural improvements and extensions for units
already endowed with sanitary facilities (estimated number:
300).
(b) New ownership houses. Vacant lots which are being acquired
throughout the area will be improved with about 250 new
dwellings of modest standards. This subcomponent will be
implemented as a part of the Government's insured mortgage
program, with construction and long term finance provided
by commercial banks (para 4.05). Lots and houses will be
sold to low and moderate income households. 2/ Houses will
vary in size from 306 to 720 square feet according to the
effective demand for them, with the smallest unit costing
about $8,600 (including taxes). Half of the units will be
targeted at households with per capita incomes under $1,200
per year. New dwellings will be provided with individual
septic tanks and water connections.
1/   Household income under $250 per adult per month and $150 per child per
month in 1981.
2/   Minimum annual household incomes in 1981 will vary between $4,500 and
$9,500, depending on the size and cost of the unit. Maximum household
incomes will be $15,000 per year.



- 15 -
(c) Senior citizens housing. About 150 senior citizen housing units,
one room units in two sizes (average cost of about $6,000 each),
would be constructed on scattered lots. Six units would share an
average sized lot, and three units would share a septic tank.
These units would be owned by the Government and rented at sub-
sidized prices to low income 1/ senior citizens, who could
demonstrate their need.
Urban Public Service Improvements
2.09      A number of separate operations will be included to correct deficien-
cies in urban public services. Most of them consist of area wide improvements,
designed to offer better sanitary and safety conditions:
(a) Equipment
Equipment and vehicles will be required for solid waste
collection and disposal, streets and parks maintenance and pest
control (see Annex 4 for equipment list). Equipment for solid
waste collection and disposal will assist in removal and
disposal of the bulk refuse and domestic garbage littering the
area, eliminating blight and unhealthy conditions. Elimination
of bulk refuse (derelict cars, discarded household items,
general rubbish and over-growth, as well as building materials
and debris resulting from the demolition of vacant structures)
will require the purchase of four trucks. Household garbage
collection will be organized through the gradual placement
of 3,000 new garbage bins, which will be sold to households
at cost, and of 12 additional two cubic yard containers to
be placed in strategic locations. Garbage collection from
commercial establishments will require the purchase of 20
containers. Three compaction trucks also will be provided for
domestic garbage collection and another for commercial waste.
The program will include tools and equipment for the repair
shop, spare parts for equipment maintenance, a steam jenny to
clean the garbage vehicles, and miscellaneous supporting
facilities. Garbage disposal will use an existing shredding
plant, or trench burial of unshredded material on a tip dumping
site. 2/ Acquisition of one additional D-8 tractor at the
dumping site is proposed to handle the solid waste. To cope
with the incremental services needed in Grants Town for street
and park maintenance, a vacuum machine, tools for street
cleaning, mowers, trimmers and other implements will be
purchased. Recommendations for improved pest control (mosqui-
toes, flies and rodents) are to intensify the use of the
present equipment through purchase of two vehicles for towing
fogging machines, and to revamp the rodent control program with
an emphasis on prevention.
1/   Incomes under $1,900 per year for l person or $2,800 per year for 2 persons
sharing a unit.
2/   The dumping site, which was opened in 1978, was designed in accordance
with a 1975 study financed by the Pan American Health Organization.



- 16 -
(b)  Traffic Improvements
These include sidewalks, street lighting, traffic lights and
signs. Proximity and access to downtown Nassau causes heavy
peak hour flows through Grants Town and considerable traffic
congestion. The project will enact a new circulation plan,
which will divert some traffic around the area, discourage
east/west crossing movements and increase the efficiency of
selected north/south arteries. This requires adopting a number
of traffic police measures, and installing 700 new traffic
signs and 6 traffic lights. Sidewalks will be constructed on
one side of the street along six of the main arteries that pass
through Grants Town. Approximately 108 new 100 watt fixtures
are needed to improve public lighting on side streets in Grants
Town. About one third of these will require new poles.
(c)  Storm water sink wells and fire wells
Roughly 15% of the area is subject to flash flooding. The
provision of 100 additional sink wells in low lying locations
will eliminate most flooding. Six inch diameter wells will
be encased as they pass through the fresh water lens to a depth
of 35 feet, and have an upper concrete grit trap covered by a
steel grill. Forty-two additional fire wells will be bored
throughout Grants Town to ensure fire protection to residents.
Existing pumper fire trucks will thus have better access to
water for fire fighting. Wells will be about 80 feet deep,
~nd have a 10 inch diameter.
Community facilities
2.10      Community facilities will be designed to fill gaps in services and to
make maximum use of existing resources:
(a)  Community Center.  This will be erected on a 35,000 square feet
vacant lot, providing a place for outdoor recreation, day care,
senior citizen assistance, health care, community activities ,
satellite government offices, and dissemination of project in-
formation. The latter will take place in a small separate
pavilion, on a neighboring lot. Buildings will comprise about
7,550 square feet. Equipment, furniture and landscaping will
be included.
(b)  Improvements and equipment for existing community facilities.  The
many community and service organizations that exist in Grants Town
perform various valuable services to the community. Most of these
organizations have limited funds, which restricts their ability
to expand programs or develop new ones. To encourage these services,
a community organization grant subcomponent will assist in the
development and expansion of programs in Grants Town. Funds will
be used exclusively for building improvements and equipment.
Eligible groups would include private community, civic and reli-
gious organizations, other organizations outside Grants Town



- 17 -
which will provide services, and certain Government agencies
(e.g. an existing library and health clinic). Funds will be
allocated annually and interested organizations will document
their needs, program proposals and experience. A sum of $400,000
will be made available to them on a matching basis of cash or
kind (labor or materials), at the rate of $100,000 per year, and
a maximum of $10,000 per organization per year. Priority will
be given to projects linked to employment opportunities (training,
day care centers, etc.), and activities for women, youth and
senior citizens.
(c)  Parks and playgrounds.  Two small new neighborhood parks will
be developed on expropriated vacant lots. In addition, an
outdoor hard surface basketball court is needed for a primary
school, while eight existing parks need general improvements
such as stands, benches, lighting and wall enclosures.
Implementation
2.11      Most of the cost of implementation is included in the project.  Further
details on implementation can be found in paras 3.02 - 3.12.
(a)  Project Implementation Unit.  Salaries and overhead of the project
implementation unit, including office space, equipment, supplies,
utilities and one vehicle will be included.
(b)  Start-up services.   Lack of attention to operation and maintenance
of publicly owned facilities is apparent in the project area.
The project includes funds for two years' salaries and wages for
additional personnel needed to improve Grants Town's solid waste
collection, to maintain parks and roads, and to staff the new
community center. The Government has assured that it will
continue the services initiated under this subcomponent
(para 6.02 (j)), after its completion.
(c)  Technical assistance.  This item will cover 44 man-months of
professional consultant services (average cost is $6,500 per
man-month), including advice to the project unit, the Housing
Department, and other implementing agencies, architectural
design, and proposals for future operations. 55% of the tech-
nical assistance (in man-months) will consist of a two year
contract for an architect working with the project unit.
The Industrial Promotion Component
2.12      The industrial promotion component is designed to strengthen the
capacity of the Bahamas Agricultural and Industrial Corporation (BAIC) to
promote foreign and domestic investment in industry and its ability to
develop and manage industrial space. The component emphasizes institutional
strengthening for industrial promotion, which must precede significant indus-
trial park activities. In a larger country, the promotion and industrial
space functions might bz e ovided by two institutions.  Given the very small
size of Bahamas, however, and the small scale of its institutions, it is
impractical to develop separate institutions for these functions.



- 18 -
2.13      Developing the industrial division of the BAIC is a part of the
Government's efforts to create jobs in industry by (a) diversifying the
economy, (b) strengthening the institutions involved, and (c) taking advantage
of Bahamas' competitive position relative to other destinations in the Caribbean
for foreign investment. The other key institution involved in this effort is
BDB (para 2.01).
2.14      The industrial promotion component has four sub-components:
(a) Technical assistance. Substantial technical assistance has
already been provided by consultants financed by the Government
to examine the feasibility of industrial promotion, to explore
the organizational alternatives for industrial development, and
to outline the organization, staffing, tasks, budgets and
policies for the industrial division of BAIC. An equivalent of
57 man-months of additional technical assistance is in the
project to assist BAIC and accomplish a number of specific
tasks, including:
(i) further detailing of operating policies and procedures,
(ii) identification of industrial opportunities,
(iii) developing and implementing an industrial promotion plan,
including the production of promotional materials,
(iv) determining the feasibility of an export processing zone
in New Providence; and,
(v) design, engineering and supervision of industrial park
improvements and buildings.
The cost of this technical assistance will vary from $6,000 to $12,000
per man-month, depending on the nature of the assistance performed. It is
assumed that 42% of this technical assistance would be provided through the
advice of an industrial economist who would be assigned to work with the
industrial division staff of BAIC for a period of two years, with specific
responsibilities for preparing project profiles of suitable investment oppor-
tunities, conducting a study on the impact of import substitution on Government
revenues, and supervising special studies on the feasibility of specific
industries and the feasibility of an export processing zone on New Providence
Island. The remaining 33 man-months of technical assistance would be for the
studies supervised by the industrial economist (15 man-months), for prepara-
tion of a promotion plan and materials (6 man-months), for management consul-
ting services (3 man-months), and for design, engineering and supervision of
industrial park works (10% of the cost of the works or the equivalent of 9
man-months).
(b)  Start-up for the industrial division of BAIC will include
incremental: (i) salaries, (ii) rent, and (iii) other office
expenses (e.g. furniture, equipment, supplies and utilities.)
Incremental salaries constitute the salaries of 3 new profes-
sional staff members, 1/ including the managing director, a
1/   The salary of an additional staff member, the New York office manager,
is included under 2.14 (c).



- 19 -
promotion officer and an economic analysis officer, and of a
new support staff member. Currently the industrial division
has a corporate secretary, an accountant, and 3 support staff.
Furniture, equipment and rent will be included in the project
to expand the Bahamas office in order to accomodate the new
staff.
(c)  Foreign promotion and training will consist of: (i) training
industrial division personnel at the UNIDO Industrial promotion
training unit in New York City. Training and actual work
experience will focus on North American investors. The promo-
tion officer, the New York City promotional office manager and
the economic affairs officer will attend the course for varying
periods of time. (ii) The costs of the promotion program,
including the salaries of the New York City promotional office
manager and a secretary; furniture and equipment for this
office; publicity brochures, advertising seminars, direct mail
promotion; and travel. Travel expenses will include a limited
number of trips to permit promotion staff to meet with prospec-
tive investors within the U.S.; to allow staff to travel
between N.Y. and Bahamas for consultation; and to facilitate
further training for staff.
(d) Industrial Park upgrading includes funds for erecting two standard
modular type industrial buildings (comprising 12,000 square feet
total), and for fencing, lighting and improving the roads of the
industrial park.
Environment
2.15      The project will significantly improve the immediate environment in
Grants Town through the clearing of rubbish and the effort to make Grants Town
a more attractive neighborhood generally. Circulation improvements will
alleviate traffic congestion, thus somewhat reducing air pollution from automo-
bile emissions. The ground water quality will also be improved to a minor
degree through the replacement of some pit latrines by septic tanks. In
addition, the fire equipment purchased in the project will reduce air pollution
caused by continuous fires at the land-fill site, thus benefitting the whole
of New Providence. Regarding the industrial promotion component, the indus-
trial division of BAIC will concentrate its efforts on attracting non-polluting
industry to New Providence. This is especially important in view of the
touristic nature of Nassau's economy.
III. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Introduction
3.01      The project will be organized within the framework of two separate
executing entities of government. The Grants Town Urban Improvement Team (GTUIT)
attached to the Ministry of Finance will be responsible for physical upgrading
of Grants Town. The Bahamas Agricultural and Industrial Corporation (BAIC), a
public corporation chartered under the laws of the country, will be responsible
for carrying out the industrial promotion component of the project. These two



- 20 -
agencies would operate as separate entities with separate reporting and line
relationships with government, and with the Bank. The justification for this
is that while the goals of the two components overlap, the tasks of the two
agencies are sufficiently different to warrant separate communication and
accountability with government and the Bank.
B.   Execution of the Upgrading Component
The Grants Town Improvement Unit
3.02      Implementation of the various subcomponents of the upgrading component
would be done by the different government departments normally involved in such
activities. 1/ However, responsibility for overall coordination, implementation
and finance would lie with GTUIT, a project unit especially established for this
project. GTUIT was also responsible, with the help of consultants, for project
preparation. Though located within the Ministry of Finance, most of the
members of this unit have substantial experience in the different departments
involved in implementation. The Ministry of Finance is particularly well
suited to a coordinating role, since the normal governmental system centralizes
financial control of all governmental budgets and expenditures through the
Ministry of Finance. Annex 1 shows the agencies involved in each project
subcomponent.
3.03      In order to facilitate project execution and to ensure that project
works will be in compliance with the requirements of the various departments,
GTUIT staff includes the following full time positions: (a) Manager, (b)
Accountant, (c) Social and Community Development Officer, (d) Rehabilitation
Loan Officer, (e) Technical Director and Chief Architect/Planner, (f) Assistant
Architects (3), and (g) Development Officer. Other personnel are part time,
including: (a) Project Coordinator, (b) Finance Officer, and (c) Environmental
Health Officer.
3.04      Nearly all the positions, including all the top-level positions
(Project Coordinator, Project Manager, Technical Director and Finance Officer)
have already been filled. The Project Coordinator is a Deputy Financial
Secretary, and the Manager is a Deputy Permanent Secretary seconded from the
Ministry of Health and National Insurance. The Technical Director is an
expatriate hired on contract, whose salary is included as technical assistance
to GTUIT.
3.05      The Manager will head this team, and will report to the Project
Coordinator who will have overall coordinating and monitoring responsi-
bilities during the implementation phase of the project. Issues which cannot
be satisfactorily resolved at the level of Project Coordinator will be dealt
with by the Grants Town Urban Improvement Committee (GTUIC) comprising the
Ministers of Finance and Health, the Financial Secretary and the Project
Coordinator. This committee will also oversee recommendations of the GTUIT
regarding rehabilitation loans.
1/   Since housing improvement loans and community organization grants are
new activities, they would be carried out by GTUIT. Later, consideration
could be given to transferring these activities to the Housing and Social
Services Departments, respectively.



- 21 -
3.06      In planning the institutional design of the upgrading component,
two alternatives were considered, having (a) a project unit responsible for
all implementing and other activities, and (b) a project unit which coordinates
and monitors implementation work which is done by agencies which customarily
do such tasks. The latter arrangement was determined best suited for this
component because organization and start-up times would be greatly reduced, and
traditional "territorial rights" of the various agencies would not be challenged.
The cooperation of the implementing agencies will be assured through a number
of means. First, since most of the project unit staff are senior members of
the implementing agencies, much cooperation can be achieved informally -
especially in view of the small size of the government. Second, should the
need arise, the coordinator of the project unit has recourse to the GTUIC
where the Minister of Finance (who is also the Deputy Prime Minister) and the
Health Minister can intercede. Third, GTUIT will authorize purchase orders and
monitor payment, providing an additional opportunity to ensure cooperation by
these agencies.
3.07      Housing improvement loans would be administered by GTUIT, with a
commercial bank providing collection services. 1/ Funds for these loans will
be provided by the Government. GTUIT will carry out inspections, suggest
technical solutions and plans, secure building permits, approve estimates
from contractors, and recommend approval of applicants by GTUIC. One or
more of the following arrangements will be used to ensure repayment of home
improvement loans over $3,000: (a) deduction of repayments by employers
and direct remittance to the collecting bank; (b) guarantees by friends or
relatives of the subborrower; (c) the use of the house as security in
the loan. It is a condition of the loan that home improvement loans in
amounts exceeding $3,000 should be secured as to principle, interest and
other charges by a first mortgage or other type of security satisfactory to
the Bank (para. 6.02 (d)).
The Housing Department
3.08      The Housing Department is a part of the Ministry of Health and
National Insurance. Since 1964 it has been involved in three government
housing programs under which houses for approximately 1,100 families have been
provided. Under these programs the Housing Department arranges for construction
of houses on government subdivided and serviced lots. The lots plus the low-
cost houses are then sold to approved applicants with private institution
mortgage financing insured by the government.
3.09      The Housing Department will organize the construction of new owner-
ship houses and senior citizen units, using designs provided by GTUIT.
For ownership houses and senior citizen units the Housing Department will also
intervene in the selection of beneficiaries, using minor modifications to its
standard procedures and criteria to ensure a random selection of equally ranked
applicants, and selection of low and moderate income Grants Town residents. It
is a condition of the loan that the criteria and procedures for selection of
beneficiaries of houses and home improvement loans shall be acceptable to the
Bank (para. 6.02 (e)). Administration of senior citizen units will also be
undertaken by the Housing Department.
1/   The commercial bank, which has significant offshore and onshore
operations and handles most of the Government's funds, agreed to
provide these services free of charge.



- 22 -
3.10      Present staffing arrangements of the Housing Department (24 persons)
are adequate to deal with the increased workload arising from the project,
at least during the early phase. Consultants to the Government made recommenda-
tions reviewed by the Bank, on streamlining the activities of the Housing
Department with a view to strengthening its overall administrative and implemen-
tation capacity. The essential elements of these recommendations, which
included changes in staff deployment and responsibilities, the filling of
vacancies, and the recruitment of an advisor, are being implemented.
3.11      The new ownership housing subcomponent will be financed under the
Government mortgage insurance program. This will be the first time this
program will be used to finance houses in an existing low-income area for such
low-income beneficiaries. Under this program the commercial banks extend
financing (the term and interest rate are agreed with the Government in
accordance with the Housing Act of 1967 1/) up to 95% of the value of a newly
constructed house. This value includes the cost of the house and lot, a
one-time mortgage insurance premium equal to two percent of the amount of the
loan, and various service charges (application fees, survey costs, attorney's
fees). The borrower is required to carry fire and extended coverage insurance
and to maintain life insurance sufficient to cover the full amount of the
loan, with the policy benefits assigned to the lender. In the event of loan
default, the lender is required to auction the house. The Housing Department
is obliged to pay the difference between the sales price and the outstanding
loan balance, plus six month's interest. Funds are available for this purpose
through the Mortgage Insurance Fund, administered by the Housing Department.
A financial analysis of the fund showed that the fund has a present balance of
$1.3 million.  Revenues of $450,000 are forecast over the next five years
based on current interest rates from term deposits and additional applicant
contributions. An estimated $20,000 should be paid out of the fund after
liquidation of defaults over the next five years since the sales price of
auctioned houses generally covers the amount owed. Thus, the 2% fee is more
than adequate to cover expected needs.
Implementation Schedule
3.12      Annex 1 contains an implementation chart which summarizes the
implementation schedule for the upgrading component, which is expected to be
fully implemented during a four-year period. Some preliminary operations
have already been initiated, such as the demolition of vacant structures and
removal of debris and bulk refuse, the procurement of some equipment, and
the first housing rehabilitation loans and infrastructure works. However,
most development activities will start only after loan signing. Environmental
improvements such as bulk refuse clearance, garbage collection, and pest
control would be carried out on a continuous basis, as would street and
park maintenance. During the first two years of project implementation, the
installation of street signs, traffic lights and the installation of sidewalks
will be completed. Similarly, it is expected that the drilling of additional
storm drainage wells and the installation of additional fire wells will be
carried out in the same period. The community center will be constructed
1/   Currently loans are extended for 25 years at 10% interest.



- 23 -
during the second year of implementation. Housing rehabilitation activities
will extend over the four year period, and will follow cycles of loan
preparation, contracting and execution for each house, which will vary with
the complexity of specific operations. Similarly the period of construction
of new housing and senior citizen housing is expected to last over the four
year period.
C.   The Industrial Promotion Component - The BAIC
3.13      The Government decided to strengthen what is now the industrial
division of the BAIC for industrial promotion after carefully scrltinizing
other institutional options, including (a) having a single corporation with
responsibility for promotion and lending (i.e., combining the BDB and the BAIC),
and (b) locating a promotion unit or department within the Ministry of Finance.
Strengthening the BAIC would permit greater freedom from political inter-
ference, create a capability for attracting high quality staff outside of c vil
service wage levels, reduce the lead time necessary in other institutional
options and not overload existing fragile institutions. Thus, it was the
instrument chosen for industrial promotion and space management.
3.14      The BAIC was created by an Act of Parliament in December 1981
in order to promote agriculture and industry in the Bahamas, and to process
and market agricultural products. Previously, these functions were carried
out by two public corporations, the Bahamas Development Corporation (BDC)
and the Bahamas Agriculture Corporation (BAC). The BAIC Act repealed the BDC
and BAC acts, and transferred all assets, liabilities, and agreements of the
two present corporations to the BAIC. A new Board will be appointed in
January 1982 by the Minister of Finance. The Chairman of the Board will be
a Minister and the vice-chairman another Member of Parliament. The other
members will be drawn from the business community.
3.15      Although the BAIC will be one entity with consolidated financial
statements, its functions will be carried out by two separate divisions,
an industrial division, and an agricultural division. The two divisions
will have separate staff, accounts and line relationships with the Board of
Directors of the BAIC. The industrial division will be responsible for imple-
mentation of the industrial promotion component.
3.16      The BDC was created by an act of Parliament in 1971 primarily to
carry out the development of certain areas in the Bahamas. In order to do
so, BDC was given wide powers to acquire land, construct and lease buildings,
enter into joint ventures and generally promote developments within designated
areas. In order to fulfill the role now conceived for it by the Government,
the new legislation broadens BAIC's powers to cover the entire country.
3.17      Some 240 acres of crown land were deeded to BDC at its formation,
of which 173 are in Grand Bahama, 27 in Eleuthera, and 40 in New Providence.
The land in Eleuthera is suited primarily for hotel development, and the land
in Grand Bahama is associated with an oil terminal. The New Providence land
is located in the Soldiers Road Industrial Park, in Nassau. The park has
four buildings of 6,000 square feet each, which are currently occupied by
3 firms (Chipman Enterprises, a manufacturer of T-shirts, canvas bags and
other clothing; Holiday Ice, a producer of ice for hotels and restaurants;
and Bapak, a manufacturer of plastic cups and bottles). Though the park is



- 24 -
fully serviced with a gravel road network, electricity and water, administra-
tive inattention and lack of funding has caused it to become overgrown and
littered. It needs some upgrading and maintenance.
3.18      BDC's other role was to promote industrial development generally
in the Bahamas. In the early 1970s promotion material was prepared, some
prefeasibility studies were done, and advertising and promotion trips were
taken to attract foreign investors. These efforts were unsuccessful. There
were long delays in obtaining Government approvals for work permits, and
customs exemptions. The poor condition of the industrial park dissuaded some
investors; promotion efforts were largely misguided with inordinate resources
spent on promoting highly visible but infeasible projects; and BDC had organi-
zational and staffing problems, and produced promotional materials which were
too general and feasibility studies which were not adequately promoted. Most
importantly, however, the BDC was not staffed and supported for a sufficient
length of time to become fully operational and to solve its organizational
difficulties and the problems with its promotion efforts. These efforts lasted
less than two years, and, due to political conflicts associated with the original
supervising Ministry, BDC became largely inactive after 1975.
3.19      Another factor affecting BDC concerned a $55 million debt to a commer-
cial bank for the Burmah Oil Transhipment Terminal, owned by a subsidiary
of BDC. The terminal problems have recently been resolved, however. On
March 13, 1981, a new agreement was finalized with Burmah Oil Company, whereby
BDC's subsidiary was dissolved and the commercial bank debt cancelled. With the
conclusion of the Burmah agreement, BDC's official financial position changed
dramatically. As a condition for disbursement of the industrial promotion com-
ponent, BDC's financial statements will be updated to a date subsequent to
March 13, 1981 (para. 6.01(b) and audited by an independent auditor, acceptable
to the Bank (para. 6.01(c)). 1/ Though the Terminal is now owned by BAIC,
complete financial and operational responsibilities for the terminal have been
assumed by Burmah Oil Company. BAIC's only responsibility is to ensure that
the Government provides for duty free importation of raw materials and machinery
to the Burmah terminal. 2/
3.20      To accomplish the revitalization of the industrial division of BAIC,
the Government and BAIC are taking the following measures:
1/   The international accounting firm of Pannell Fitzpatrick and Company
has been asked to do both the update and the audit. According to BDC
estimates, petroleum terminal revenues should amount to $1.8-2.7 million
per year, beginning in 1981-82. BAIC's planned expenditures for industry
are quite small and include only two elements: (a) the industrial promotion
component of the project; and (b) minor operating costs (less than US$100,000
per year) of a continuing nature. The Government has indicated that BAIC
will remit all petroleum terminal revenues to the Treasury. During this
crucial revitalization stage, the Government prefers to meet BAIC's
financial needs through budgetary outlays.
2/   In exchange, Burmah paid BDC about $8 million, which BDC remitted
to the Government, and Burmah agreed to future payment to BDC
consisting of a token lease amount ($10 per year), facilities
rental payments, and throughput fees on all petroleum in excess
of 100 million barrels per year which passes through the terminal.



- 25 -
(a) passage of the legislation creating the BAIC with provision to
broaden its responsibilities for industrial development to the
entire country; 1/
(b) preparation of a statement clarifying its promotional role,
coordination responsibilities with Government, and financial and
administrative policies. A consultant to the Government 2/ was
asked to monitor the revitalization of the industrial division,
and to develop an outline industrial policy statement, which was
submitted to the Bank in July 1981. The BAIC has agreed that these
operating policies will not be revised without Bank approval
(para. 6.03(a));
(c) hiring of key staff for the industrial division, including a new
Managing Director, promotion officer, economic analysis officer
and New York promotion office manager (para. 6.03(b)). Other
support staff would be needed in due course. The hiring of a
qualified and experienced Managing Director will be a condition for
disbursement of the industrial promotion component (para. 6.01(a));
and
(d) provision of sufficient funds on grant terms to carry out the
project component and to keep BAIC in a sound financial position
(para 6.02(i)).
3.21      The BAC, the predecessor to the agricultural division, was estab-
lished in 1975 to operate a 2,500 acre poultry and dairy farm in Eleuthera,
one of the larger of the Family Islands. The farm has not been profitable,
however. By September 30, 1981, net losses of $4.8 million had eliminated
BAC's capital of $3.0 million. The Government recognizes that there is
no justification for continuing to subsidize a commercial operation of this
type, and that future losses could affect the expansion of legitimate promo-
tional and other activities. Therefore it is intended that the farm be
either divested or placed on a self-sustaining basis. An acceptable plan
for strengthening the finances and operations of the Eleuthera farm will be
a condition for disbursement of the industrial promotion component of the
loan (para. 6.01(d)).
Implementation Schedule
3.22      The component will be implemented over a four year period, from mid
1981 to mid 1985. Most of the staff recruitment, technical assistance, train-
ing and industrial park works will be implemented during the first two years.
The foreign promotion subcomponent will be implemented over the life of the
project, with the establishment of the New York office, scheduled upon comple-
tion of the one year training program at UNIDO. A detailed implementation
schedule is shown in Annex 1.
1/   This is desirable in that it gives the BAIC the ability to invest
in industrial space outside designated areas.
2/   The consultant is a permanent employee of the Irish Export Board.



- 26 -
D. Procurement
3.23      The project involves procurement of about $4.9 million of civil
works, and $1.6 million of equipment. In addition, contractors and/or
suppliers need to be selected for $4.2 million of works covered by home
improvement loans. The civil works and home improvement loans would com-
prise eight subcomponents, phased over four years and implemented by differ-
ent government agencies. Housing construction and improvement would consist
of nearly 1,500 separate contracts. Individual home improvement contracts
would average about $3,500, and new construction packages would be unlikely
to exceed $100,000.  Only the community center and industrial park build-
ings would approach a larger amount, $450,000 and $260,000 respectively.
Purchase orders for equipment, fixtures and furniture would originate from six
subcomponents, each including a variety of different items. No single purchase
order would exceed $300,000. In both instances, the diversity of works and
equipment, and the fact that components would be executed by a large number of
executing agencies, following different schedules, prevents clustering into
packages of interest to foreign contractors and suppliers. Thus, procurement
for civil works, home improvement loans, and equipment will be carried out
under local competitive bidding procedures. These procedures, based on
Bahamian law and administrative practices, are consistent with Bank guidelines,
and will not preclude the participation of foreign firms. Should the Bank
determine that the award of any contract was not consistent with the procedures
agreed between the Bank and the Government, it will cancel the amount of the
loan allocated to that expenditure and deduct such amount from a future
withdrawal.
3.24      Given the number, character and limited size of the individual
rehabilitation contracts, prior Bank review or approval of designs, bidding
documents or contracts would not be required. Designs and specifications
for new housing were reviewed at appraisal and found satisfactory. However,
appropriate checks would be made by supervision missions to ensure that
performance and quality were commensurate with satisfactory project execution
and that the costs and design standards of the housing solutions are maintained
consistent with the prototypes adopted for project appraisal. For other
upgrading civil works contracts, staff of the project unit would, on the basis
of documentation received from the concerned agencies, would analyze contracts
signed during the preceding quarter, together with the respective bids and
recommendations for award, and would forward to the Bank a report on the
analysis. Similarly, BAIC staff would evaluate bids and recommend an award,
reporting to the Bank on the analysis. Prior Bank approval would be required
only for contracts over US$500,000. 1/
3.25      Force account may be used by the relevant government agencies for
miscellaneous works, such as sidewalk installation, park and playground
improvements, installation of street signs, traffic lights and street lighting
fixtures, and for the construction of additional storm drainage and fire
wells. The aggregate amount of force account operations would be $780,000.
1/   No contracts are foreseen which exceed this amount.



- 27 -
3.26      Procurement of equipment for the environmental improvement sub-
components would follow locally advertised competitive procedures, open
to the participation of international suppliers, for all packages worth
US$100,000 or more. Publication of notices of purchase intent and notifi-
cation of foreign embassies, including lists and specifications, would be
required. Procurement of items below the specified amount would be allowed
on the basis of comparative shopping and negotiations, using quotations from
at least three sources.
3.27      Expenditures for the promotion subcomponent of the industrial
promotion component will be in accordance with annual promotion plans and
budgets developed by the BAIC's industrial division each year, beginning
in September 1982. Disbursements for the promotion subcomponent will be
conditioned on yearly approval by the Bank of these plans and budgets (para.
6.03 (c)). Prior approval from the Bank would be required before a lease is
signed on the New York City office space.
E. Accounting
3.28      The upgrading project unit would be within the Ministry of Finance.
The national budget shows the.whole project as a single line item, with no
allocation to specific departments of the government. However, for purposes of
accounting and financial control, the project could be divided into three
principal parts:
(a)  industrial promotion component - administered by BAIC
relatively independent of GTUIT;
(b)  home improvement loans - administered in detail by GTUIT;
and
(c)  environmental improvements, community services and new
housing construction - executed by other government depart-
ments (e.g., Ministries of Works, Health and Transport)
with coordination by GTUIT.
3.29      For the industrial promotion component, Bank funds and government
counterpart funds will be provided to BAIC as an equity contribution by the
Government. Specific obligations of BAIC will be incorporated in a Project
Agreement. The Ministry of Finance would pass on the necessary counterpart
funds directly to BAIC, and BAIC would seek reimbursement directly from the
Bank of the Bank's share of project financing.
3.30      The home improvement loans would be administered directly by GTUIT,
which would be primarily responsible for maintaining accounts for individual
householders, and for processing loan applications. The Government has agreed
with a major commercial bank that it could accept loan repayments from benefi-
ciaries, and send statements of such receipts to the project unit. GTUIT would
arrange for suitable agreements to be drawn up between each participating
householder and the contractors and/or suppliers. The contractors and/or
suppliers would submit claims to the project unit for works carried out,
and/or materials supplied. These would then be verified and approved for
payment, following normal government procedures.



- 28 -
3.31      Environmental improvements, community services and new housing
construction would be physically implemented by government departments other
than the Ministry of Finance. Each year's program of activity would be
determined by GTUIT and then carried out by the executing ministry under
budgetary authorization delegated by the Ministry of Finance, under
appropriate warrants. 1/ Contractors will submit claims to the executing
ministries. After verification by the executing ministry, these will be
paid or reimbursed by the Ministry of Finance, and GTUIT notified.
3.32      GTUIT has designed a satisfactory system of accounting and financial
control for the upgrading component, as well as budgetary control, in accordance
with terms of reference agreed with the Bank. The system is consistent with
normal systems operated by the Government. The industrial division of BAIC
has an existing accounting system which is satisfactory to record and control
project expenditures.
F. Audit
3.33      The accounts of GTUIT are designed to the satisfaction of the
Auditor-General, and will be ultimately audited by him. The Auditor-
General has agreed to consider any specific requests for audits and for
examinations beyond the routine annual audit, especially those which would
apply to Statements of Expenditure. It is the practice of the Auditor-General
to seek advice from and, as necessary, use the services of commercial accounting
firms for matters on which his department requires specific expertise or is
unable to staff. Not later than 6 months after the close of the fiscal year,
the Governmprt would present to the Bank the result of an audit of project
accounts and of a Statements of Expenditures carried out by an independent
auditor acceptable to the Bank, or the Auditor General. The audit report
would convey the auditor's opinion (and comments as necessary) on the metho-
dology employed in the compilation of the Statements of Expenditures, their
accuracy, the relevance of supporting documents, eligibility for financing in
terms of the project's legal agreements, and the standard of record keeping
and internal controls related to the foregoing (para. 6.02 (f)).
3.34      The accounts of the BAIC's two predecessor corporations (BDC and
BAC) are currently audited in a satisfactory manner by the international
accounting firm of Pannell Fitzpatrick & Co., 2/ Chartered Accountants,
Nassau, Bahamas, and this is expected to continue with regard to the new
corporation. It is a condition in the Project Agreement that yearly audit
reports will be carried out by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and
will be submitted within four months of the end of BAIC's financial year
(para. 6.03 (d)).
1/   A warrant is a formal governmental authorization whereby one government
department authorizes another to commit funds against the budget.
2/   The same accounting firm also audits the BDB.



- 29 -
G.   Monitoring and Evaluation
3.35      Monitoring and evaluation of both components would be part of the
management information system of GTUIT and BAIC. For the upgrading component
the Baseline Health and Sanitation Survey of Grants Town was carried out by
Public Health Department social workers, nurses and other health specialists
in 1980, and annual updates will be carried out through the duration of the
project. For the employment component, brief case studies will be written on
visits by potential investors, analyzing why they did or did not decide to
invest; and specific indicators measuring achievement of institutional objec-
tives will be developed.
3.36      By March 31, 1982, the presentational format and required details
of the quarterly reports is to be mutually agreed upon between the Bank, the
Government, and the industrial division of the BAIC. The project coordinator
and managing director of the industrial division of the BAIC will be responsi-
ble for submitting these reports to the Government and to the Bank. The
reports will include a review on progress toward the annual physical targets
set out in Annex 1, which would be discussed with the authorities. Acceptance
of these targets and the proposed implementation schedules (Annex 1) has been
confirmed.
IV. COSTS AND FINANCIAL FEATURES
A.   Cost Estimates
4.01      The total estimated cost of the project, including contingencies
and taxes, is $24.3 million. Net of taxes, total project cost will be $23.5
million, of which $10.6 million (45%) will be foreign exchange. Cost estimates
are given in Table 4.01 and detailed cost estimates in Annex 1. Base costs are
expressed in estimated prices as of July 1981.
4.02      The urban public services subcomponent was costed on the basis of
similar works being carried out elsewhere in the country by the same agencies.
The community center and housing subcomponents' cost estimates rely principally
on an analysis of comparable projects recently executed by the Government
and/or private contractors, and, in the case of housing, were based on final
designs and specifications prepared by consultants for this project. The
community center was costed on the basis of preliminary designs. Industrial
park upgrading costs were based on preliminary engineering studies prepared by
the Department of Public Works and verified with cost data obtained from the
private sector. Foreign promotion costs were based on unit costs obtained
from the Barbados Industrial Development Corporation (BIDC). The BIDC has
been involved in foreign promotion for over ten years. Implementation
costs (start-up of the industrial division of the BAIC, start-up of urban
services, and costs of the GTUIT) were based on estimates of prevailing
government salaries and experience with similar operations in the Bahamas.



- 30 -
1/
Table 4.01  -  PROJECT COSTS
(in $'000)
% Foreign
Component                             Local         Foreign        Total          Exchange
Urban Upgrading
Land Purchase                         2109              0         2109                0
Housing:
-}lome improvement loans         2306           1886         4192              45
-Starter houses                   709           580          1289
-2-4 bedroom                      883           722          1605
-Senior citizen housing           564           462          1026
Community facilities                   486            413          899              46
Urban public services:
-Fire and storm wells             127           311           438              71
-Equipment                       386            945          1331              71
-Circulation                      101           303           404              75
Implementation:
-Project unit                     721            103          824              12
-Technical assistance              14           266           280              95
-Start-up services                696             0           696               0
Sub-total           9,102          5,991        15,093
Industrial Promotion
Start-up costs for the BAIC's
industrial division                 750           132           882             15
Foreign promotion & training:
-Training of BAIC personnel
at the UNIDO facilities in NY    0              64            64            100
-Bahamas and N.Y. promotion        89           798           887             90
Industrial park                        147           342           489             70
Technical assistance to BAIC            24            447          471             95
Sub-total             910          1,753        2,793
Base Costs                          10,112         7,774        17,886
Physical contingency                   978            769        i,747             44
Price contingencies                  2,648         2,080         4,728             44
Total cost of project               13,738        10,629        24,361
1/ US$1.00 = B$1.00



- 31 -
4.03      Consultant services provided under the project total 101 staff-
months, costing $751,000. The man-month costs of expatriate consultants is
expected to range from $3,750 to $12,000 per month, depending on the nature of
the expertise required, and the length of the contract. The average cost of
technical assistance is expected to be about $7,500 per month (including over-
head, subsistance, and travel). Unallocated costs of $6.5 million include an
allowance of $1.8 million for physical contingencies (10% on all subcomponents
except grants to community organizations) and $4.7 million for expected price
escalation during the implementation period as follows:
Percent increase
1981      1982      1983      1984    1985
Construction a/                     14.0       13.5     14.5 b/  13.0    12.5
Furniture & equipment               12.5        9.0      8.5       7.5      7.5
Technical assistance                12.5        9.0      8.5       7.5      7.5
Project administration              12.0       10.0     10.0      10.0     9.0
Foreign promotion & travel          15.0       15.0     15.0      15.0     15.0
a/  Construction cost escalation is based upon an analysis of projected yearly
increases in local labor (40% of construction), local materials (24%) and
foreign materials (36%).
b/ Percentage increases in construction costs are highest in 1983 due to
an expected wage settlement of 14% in that year. Inflation of wages
in other years is expected to equal 10%.
These contingencies are based on the mission's examination of recent experience
in the Bahamas and in the Bahamas-traditional supplier countries for the
construction materials to be purchased abroad.
4.04      The foreign exchange cost of $10.6 million represents about 45%
of the total project cost (net of taxes), and includes both direct and
indirect foreign exchange estimates. Foreign exchange requirements would
relatively low compared to other projects in the Bahamas because a high
proportion of project costs will be absorbed by land and local labor, which
have no foreign exchange content. Foreign exchange estimates are given for
each project subcomponent in Table 4.01.
B.   Financing Plan
4.05      The total project cost of $24.3 million will be financed by (a)
a Bank loan to the Government of Bahamas of $5.8 million (equivalent to 24%
of total cost or 55% of the foreign exchange cost), (b) a Government contri-
bution estimated at $14.2 million, and (c) commercial bank loans estimated at



- 32 -
$4.3 million equivalent which are guaranteed by the Government. The Bank loan
will be large enough to provide all but US$4.8 million 1/ of the foreign exchange
needed for the project. Except for the commercial bank loans, which will be
made by the banks directly to project beneficiaries, all other funds will be
passed on by the Government to the executing entities on grant terms, or as
budgetary allocations. The flow of funds required to finance the project has
been estimated as follows:
Table 4.02  -   FLOW OF FUNDS
a/
Year:    1981-82   1982-83   1983-84  1984-85   1985-86   Total
Sources
Bank                          600      1,100    1,500    1,340       1,300       5,800
Government                  4,797      4,316    3,294    3,136    (1,360) b/ 14,243
Commercial banks             340       1,154    1,326    1,497           0       4,317
Total                 5,737       6,570    6,120    5,933           0      24,360
Applications
Ownership housing            340       1,154    1,326    1,497            0      4,317
Home improvement loans       493       1,673    1,922    2,171            0      6,259
Remaining upgrading c/   3,882         2,643    2,143    1,345            0     10,013
BAIC                      1,022       11,000       729       920          0      3,771
Total                5,737        6,570    6,120    5,933           0      24,360
a/   July-June
b/   Bank reimbursement for previous outlays by Government.
c/   Includes:  Land, urban services, senior citizen housing and implementation.
The commercial banks have committed US$400,000 so far. This should cover
the mortgage finance requirements in the first year and a quarter of the
project. Yearly commitments will be obtained from commercial banks to
provide, under the Government's mortgage insurance program, financing for
works scheduled for the following year or, failing such commitments, that
the Government will, itself, provide the financing required to carry out
these works (para. 6.02 (b)).
1/   US$1.9 million is associated with the new ownership housing subcomponent
financed by the commercial banks, 2.8 million with the home improvement
loan sub-component, and $0.1 million with the industrial promotion
component.



- 33 -
C.   Disbursements
4.06      The Bank will disburse against the following items:
Percentage                   Amount
(a)  Civil works                   65% of total expenditures
GTUIT                                                            1,700,000
BAIC                                                               350,000
(b)  Equipment, fixtures and       100% of foreign and, if
furniture                     purchased locally, 70%
of local expenditures
GTUIT                                                            1,000,000
BAIC                                                                35,000
(c)  Consultant services           100% of total expenditures
GTUIT                                                              375,000
BAIC                                                               500,000
(d)  Foreign promotion, travel   100% of foreign and, if
and Training                  purchased locally, 70% of
local expenditures                 1,000,000
(e)  Unallocated                                                        840,000
Total             5,800,000
4.07      Civil works performed through force account will be reimbursed
by the Bank on the basis of a Statement of Expenditure submitted by the
project unit. The Statements of Expenditures will clearly indicate the
subcomponent, the nature of the works, the implementing agency and the type
of expenditure (labor, materials, equipment use, etc.). Detailed documentation
supporting the Statements of Expenditures, including supervision reports and
certification of works and disbursement by the relevant agencies will be
retained by the project unit for review by project supervision missions.
Disbursements for all other project expenditures including civil works under
contract, equipment, fixtures, furniture, consultant services, foreign
promotion, travel and training (85% of total disbursements) will be fully
documented.
4.08      A schedule showing the estimated rate of disbursement is given in
Annex 1. In order not to delay implementation of the project, a part of expendi-
tures incurred after January 1, 1981, and not exceeding US$500,000 equivalent,
will be financed retroactively. These funds will be required in partial pay-
ment of expenses incurred by the Bahamas Government in anticipation of loan
approval and project implementation, for the purchase of equipment for the envi-
ronmental improvement subcomponents (US$280,000), to meet the foreign exchange
costs of technical assistance and equipment for the project unit (US$100,OOD),
and for the initiation of infrastructure improvements (US$120,000). The
closing date of the project will be December 31, 1985.



- 34 -
D.    Cost Recovery
4.09        Table 4.03 summarizes cost recovery for all project components and
subcomponents. Fifty-nine percent of project costs will be recoverable from
beneficiaries. The remaining amount will be recovered from general revenues.
Table 4.03  -  COST RECOVERY (in $000)
Component                           Total Cost           Recovery        % Recovered
A. URBAN UPGRADING                  15,093               10,021             66.4
Land Acquisition                     2,109                2,475             117.4
Housing:                             8,112                7,476             92
-Home improvement loans         (4,192)              (4,192)          (100)
-Senior citizen housing         (1,026)              ( 390)           ( 38)
-Ownership housing              (2,894)              (2,894)          (100)
Community Facilities                   899                 ---             -
Urban Public Services:              2,173                    70              3
-Fire and storm wells            (438)                --
-Equipment                     (1,331)                  (70)            (5.5)
-Circulation                     (404)                 ---
Implementation                      1,800                 ---
B. INDUSTRIAL PROMOTION             2,793                   489             17.5
Start-up cost for BAIC                882                 ---
Foreign promotion & training:         951                 --
-Training of BAIC personnel
at UNIDO in N.Y.                 (64)
-N.Y. and Bahamas promotion      (887)                ---              ---
Industrial Park                       489.-               489              100
Technical assistance to BAIC          471
C. TOTAL BASE COSTS                17,886              10,423               57.8
a/ Excluding physical and price contingencies.
b/ Land would be acquired at a maximum of $1.00/sq. ft. and sold at $1.20
(cost recovery plus 20%) to account for administrative costs and increased
land value. The final figure ($2,475,000) is less $55,220, which would be
utilized for parks and a community center and thus would not be recovered.



- 35 -
Industrial Promotion
4.10      Eighty-three percent of the costs of the industrial promotion
component will be technical assistance, foreign promotion and travel, costs
which could be considered non-recoverable from direct beneficiaries, although
in the long run, these costs would be recoverable through rentals of buildings
and other investments. The remaining 17% ($489,000) for industrial park
upgrading and buildings will be recoverable from direct beneficiaries. Some
details on the pricing policy for industrial space were included in an outline
industrial policies statement (Annex 3) which was submitted to the Bank in
July 1981, and further clarified at negotiations. According to that statement,
the full costs of building construction will be recovered through leases of
fifteen years or the life of the building, whichever is less. Leases will be
transferable with the agreement of the BAIC.
Upgrading
4.11      Except for senior citizen housing, the costs to the Government
of all items which would be used exclusively by individual beneficiary families,
including land, housing, septic tanks and garbage containers, will be fully
recoverable from these beneficiaries. Land prices will return a margin of
20% to the Government over the purchase price, thus covering part of the
upgrading costs which would not be directly recovered. New ownership housing
will be paid in full by the beneficiaries, 5% in cash and the rest through
mortgage payments at the rate of interest specified in the Housing Act
(currently 10%). Housing improvement loans will be set at the maximum rate
specified in the Housing Act (currently 10%) (para. 6.02(c)). The Govern-
ment plans to maintain this rate at one percentage point below the prime
rate (currently 11%). Although the rate is somewhat less than the rate of
inflation 1/ the Government feels a 10% rate is justified for three reasons:
first, home improvement loans will be restricted to low income people,
second, the National Insurance Fund 2/ earns enough on its other investments
to cover its capital growth requirements, and third, the interest rate for
home improvement loans should not be greater than the interest rate for
new housing. Senior citizen housing will be subsidized, with an estimated 30%
of the cost recovered through rents to the Government from the beneficiaries.
The subsidy is justified because it would permit the extension of benefits to
a small and very poor group of Grants Town residents who could not otherwise
afford housing with the most basic facilities. The benefits of community wide
improvements (e.g., sidewalks, community center, pest control) and administra-
tion will be widely diffused and difficult and/or costly to recover on a
direct user basis. As is now the practice nationwide, the costs of these
services will be partly absorbed by the Government and recovered through
general revenues, and partly recovered through revised property tax schedules.
1/   The latest available statistics show a year over year overall retail
price increase of 10.46% (August 1980 - August 1981). The average monthly
rate of inflation was 12.2% for August 1980-1981. Future inflation is
expected to approximate inflation in the United States with a lag of
several months.
2/   The Government will derive funds for the subcomponent from the National
Insurance Fund. Recent amendments to the National Insurance Act permit
some moneys from the Fund to be invested in social projects.



- 36 -
The Government is currently undertaking a comprehensive review of its property
tax system, and the project area is included in this review. This exercise is
expected to be completed in early 1982. The Bank will make comments on the
study before implementation of the findings of this study begins (para.
6.02(h)).
4.12      Except for senior citizen housing, which will be owned by the
Government and rented at subsidized rates, nearly all the solutions will be
subsidized through rebates on import duties of construction materials, an
incentive which other sectors such as tourism and industry also enjoy. The
aggregate amount of the subsidy will equal the total amount of import duties
associated with the housing subcomponent. However, the individual subsidy
will vary from a rebate of small percentage of actual tariffs (for larger
ownership housing) to full exemption plus a subsidy of three actual tariffs
(for housing repairs); therefore there is an element of cross-subsidy in the
scheme. The tariff rebate (which the Government has termed "incentive pay-
ments") would help considerably to lower the minimum annual household income
necessary to participate in the programs, thus making the benefits affordable
to a larger portion of the population. Incentive payments for new houses are
also designed to encourage existing residents to stay in Grants Town rather
than moving to a newer subdivision, even though they may be able to afford to
do so. In addition, incentive payments will be used to encourage timely
repayments of home improvement loans, since the total amount of the incentive
payment would be added to the loan in the event that the particular loan fell
into arrears.
Affordability
4.13     The housing program was designed to yield a number of different
solutions for a range of incomes and personal circumstances representative
of Grants Town.
4.14     New houses for home ownership are the most expensive option, and
will be affordable to families with annual incomes ranging from $4,800 for a



- 37 -
one room house to $10,500 for a 5 room house. 1/ These incomes are in the
20th and 47th percentiles of the income distribution for New Providence as a
whole, and the 42nd and the 74th percentile of the income distribution among
existing Grants Town residents.
4.15      Loans for housing improvements range from about $500 to facilitate
minimal repairs to $7,000 for major rehabilitation. Although the size of
loans covers the widest possible spectrum in order to enhance affordability
for the lowest income group, some families will not be able to afford any
further payment for improvements beyond the rents and other housing expenses
which they already pay. An analysis, which uses these existing payments in
calculating affordability, shows that the smallest loan (of $500) would be
affordable to families earning $2,800 per year, the 11th percentile of the
New Providence income distribution, or the 28th percentile of the income
1/   Affordability calculations for both new and improved housing are based on
the following assumptions:
(a) Prices and incomes are as of July 1981:
(b) Amortization is 5 years for housing repairs; 7 years for
sanitary units; 10 years for rehabilitation; and 25 years
for new housing. For the rental units the Government would
amortize the capital cost over 25 years at 10% interest, with
a 15% added allowance for administration and maintenance.
(c) The interest rate for home improvement loans and new
housing is assumed to be 10% (para. 4.11).
(d) It is assumed that sanitary unit payments are shared between
1 1/2 families, as it is expected that about half the units
would be shared with another family, and half would be used
by an individual family.
(e) Existing rental payments are added to housing payments in
determining affordability since their existence and level
would limit a family's disposable funds for additional housing
expenses. The following formula was used to accomplish this:
$50 per month was added for those electing basic house repair;
$50 per month was added for those taking a sanitary unit; and
$19 per month was added for rehabilitation loans. The formula
for determining the level of existing rents is based on the
assumption that nearly all beneficiaries of repair and sanitary
unit loans would be renters, and that 75% of rehabilitation
beneficiaries would be owners, and 25% renters.
(f) Families are assumed to pay 25% of their incomes for housing
during the first year of repayment. By the fifth year, given
the expectation that household incomes would increase by 10%
per year, the percentage of income devoted to housing would
be 15%.



- 38 -
distribution of existing Grants Town residents. The accuracy of this
analysis is verified by the results of a market survey taken in the project
area in July 1980, which showed that about half the tenant families were
willing and able to pay for improvements and had landlords who were willing to
take advantage of loans.
4.16      Regarding the senior citizen units, beneficiaries will be among the
lowest income Grants Town residents, with household incomes of only $960-2,800 1/
per year. An income of $1,000 is in the 4th percentile of the income distri-
bution of New Providence, and the 10th percentile of Grants Town's income
distribution.
4.17      Table 4.04 summarizes the affordability of all the housing subcom-
ponents. Home improvement loans are broken into 4 categories, minimal (a
$500 loan), average repair ($1,500 loan), sanitary unit ($2,500 loan), and
average rehabilitation ($4,900 loan). Tables 1, 2 and 3 in Part D of Annex 1
give details of factors used in deriving monthly payments. An analysis was
also performed to assess affordability during the last year of the project.
If, by the fourth year of the project, costs would have risen by 60% while
incomes would have risen by only 30%, the range of incomes served 1/ would
cover the 3rd to the 50th percentiles of the income distribution of New
Providence, and the 9th to the 80th percentiles of the Grants Town income
distribution.
Replicability and Fiscal Impact
4.18      Once the start-up process had been completed and the project unit
and the implementing agencies has established a harmonious working relationship,
aided by the technical assistance provided, it is expected that no impediments
to replicability would arise because of limited implementing capacity of the
project unit. Given present conditions in the Bahamas, neither land avail-
ability (at reasonable prices) nor required laborers for relatively simple
repair and construction would be constraining replicability factors, at least
over the next two decades.
4.19      Financing is one factor which might cause restrictions to the
expansion of upgrading works. Because of the size and nature of housing
investments, private individuals usually require loans to get started.
Private commercial banks have traditionally not been interested in providing
housing financing, mainly because of the long repayment period involved, the
existence of relatively more lucrative areas of investment, and government
restrictions on the terms of loans made for housing. Moreover, when these
banks do consider housing loans, they are usually for upper and middle class
borrowers who have a proven credit record, a steady source of income, and
substantial property. Banks in the Bahamas have begun to explore housing
financing for relatively poor groups of borrowers. The government insured
1/   All elderly Bahamians are entitled to a minimum national pension of
$960 per year, regardless of employment history.
2/   It is assumed that the income level of the senior citizen unit
beneficiaries would remain at $1,000, and that the Government would
absorb the increase in costs through increased annual subsidies of
about $500 per unit.



-39-
Table 4.04 - AFFORDABILITY OF HOUSING SUBCOMPONENT
Monthly        Required         Income Distribution Percentile
Subcomponent              Payment 1J  Annual income         New Providence   Grants Town
$              $
Home improvement loans
Repair (minimum size $500)  11              2,784                11               28
Repair (average size)        24            3,552                 14               33
Sanitary unit (average)      21            3,408                 14               32
Rehabilitation (average)    57             3,552                 14               33
New Ownership Housing
- 1 room unit               100            4,800                 20               42
- 3 rooms                   161            7,730                 34               60
- 4 rooms                   188            9,020                 40               67
- 5 rooms                   219           10,500                47               74
2/
Senior Citizen Housing    25-40              960                  4               10
1/ Per family.
2/ Senior citizen housing would be subsidized.



- 40 -
mortgage program has facilitated this process, but in order to have a wider
impact, the government should give consideration to eliminating or revising
government restrictions on the interest rate so that the banks make returns
which are competitive with their other portfolios.
4.20      Government outlays for upgrading works in Grants Town will be
relatively modest because basic infrastructure is already in place. The
project accounts for about 5% of public sector investment during the next five
years, and the government should have no difficulty covering its share of
project costs through available revenues. Since Grants Town is typical of
other low-income areas of Nassau, future expansion of the upgrading program
should not be difficult, given expected growth in Government revenues. 1/
Also, revised property tax assessments (para. 4.11) may recover a greater
proportion of expenditure for public services in the future.
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A.   General
5.01      The project represents the Bahamas' first attempt to alleviate
urban poverty through a phased program of urban upgrading and industrial
promotion. The Government and the Bank gave substantial attention during
the preparation of the project to the formulation of appropriate strategies
for both the urban and industrial sectors. In fact, the definition of
these strategies, which focus primarily on institution building and
appropriate long term policies, constitutes an important achievement in
itself.  Thus, while the project by itself should have a significant impact
upon the housing and, in the longer run, the employment situation of New Pro-
vidence Island, its overall effects would be more far reaching.  The technical
assistance used in the project identification and preparation phases has
provided a framework for approaching the needs of other areas in the Bahamas,
both in New Providence and in other Islands.
5.02      The project was designed to offer maximum benefits to the urban poor
through upgrading the largest and poorest neighborhood in the country and by
assuring that a wide range of benefits would be made available to fit the
circumstances of particular income groups. Alleviating urban poverty is an
important development objective in any country. Assisting the urban poor is
particularly important in the Bahamas, however, where the economy is so
dependent on the continued vitality of the tourism industry. Through improved
1/   Assuming that 25,000 additional persons in other neighborhoods would
benefit from similar levels of upgrading, net government capital
outlays (after recovery of certain costs from direct beneficiaries)
would be $10.5 million. If the investment were phased over 20 years,
replicating the project would cost $540,000 per year in capital costs
and $400,000 in additional maintenance and operational costs. The
capital expenditure would amount to about 1/2 of 1% of the existing
annual national budget for capital expenditures and capital and recurrent
expenditures together amount to 0.4% of the existing total budget.



- 41 -
sanitation and the elimination of unhealthy conditions, the project will
reduce the risk of infectious disease. The project will also alleviate a
source of social discontent through employment generation and focussed atten-
tion on physical improvements. An outbreak of infectious disease or serious
social problems could seriously harm the tourism industry, the mainstay of
the Bahamian economy.
5.03      The design of the project evolved after consideration of a number
of other options. The basic upgrading approach was compared with: (a) an
urban renewal approach; and (b) doing nothing. The option of doing nothing
is elaborated in para. 5.08. Under a conventional urban renewal approach,
the Government would acquire all the land in the area, construct infrastructure,
raze most existing structures and extensively alter existing land uses, lot
configurations and densities. Though urban renewal could result in higher
rates of return to land, improved health and sanitary conditions (for new
residents of the area - existing residents would have to move elsewhere), and
increased home ownership, the approach was not feasible for the following
reasons: (a) it would have displaced most of the families in the area, creating
insoluable relocation problems; (b) it would have necessitated very large
subsidies for dispossessed families; (c) it was beyond the implementation
capacity of the public and private sectors; (d) it would have taken many years
to achieve visible results; (e) it would have been unacceptable to existing
Grants Town residents and the general public; and (f) it would have required
an extremely large investment.
5.04      The decision to install septic tanks was taken after three other
disposal options were examined. All options assumed that a waterborne system
would be used: (a) a packaged sewage treatment plant; (b) connection to an
island-wide sewerage system; and (c) disposal by shallow (100 foot) or deep
(600 foot) injection wells. All three options were eliminated due to
(i) higher overall costs than septic tanks; (ii) their incompatibility with
the concept of gradual upgrading for existing residents of a variety of urban
services as well as housing; 1/ and (iii) the interference which lengthy
construction times would have with achieving quick visible improvements
in Grants Town, a necessary precondition to halting its decline. In addition,
option (b) was eliminated, since there were no viable plans to build an
island-wide sewerage system in the near future, and the existing sewer system
serving the downtown area does not have sufficient capacity to take additional
flows from Grants Town. Option (c) however, could still be achieved as a
second step after installation of septic tanks.  After considering all the
options, the decision was taken to first install septic tanks. After a
sufficient number of septic tanks are installed, small diameter pipes at low
gradients could be connected to the septic tanks to carry their effluent to
six disposal wells to be built within the Grants Town area.  In the meantime,
however, replacing pit latrines with properly constructed septic tanks should
reduce health risks caused by poor sanitation in the area.
1/   There would be too few connections to justify a piped system unless
a number of families were displaced and their existing houses (in poor
conditions) replaced by new houses.



- 42 -
B.   Description of Beneficiaries and Urban Poverty Impact
5.05      Approximately 25% of the households in New Providence and 47% of
the households in Grants Town have annual incomes below the relative poverty
level (para. 1.05). Approximately 84% of the total investment will benefit
residents of Grants Town, and the remaining 16% will be used in the employment
component. All of the residents of Grants Town will benefit from area-wide
improvements, such as street lighting, sidewalk construction, drainage and the
community center. In addition, more specific benefits will accrue to residents
who take advantage of loans for home improvements or the new housing provided
in the project. Table 5.01 shows the distribution of beneficiaries in the
housing component. Given the modest design standards to be used in this
program, it is estimated that about 94% of the housing solutions and 80% of
the housing investment will be accessible to beneficiaries below the relative
poverty line. The selection procedures (para. 3.03) will ensure that benefi-
ciaries from poverty groups receive preferential access to the program.
Table 5.01   -   Housing Component Beneficiaries
Number of        Number of       No. of Beneficiaries
Subcomponent                     Households    Beneficiaries       Below poverty line
Home improvement loans              1,400            6,300                6,300
Senior citizen housing                150              225                  225
Ownership housing                     250              940                  470
Total                    1,800            7,465                6,995
5.06      Other indicators demonstrating the impact of the project on urban
poverty are as follows:
(a) 8% of the annual demand for new shelter units by the
urban poor is being met by the project;
(b)  51% of Grants Town's residents are in the urban poverty
target group;
(c) 50% of the urban poor in Nassau are included in the
upgrading program.
C.   Economic Analysis
Upgrading
5.07      Internal economic rate of return (IERR) analysis has been
done for all of the housing subcomponents of the upgrading component
(comprising approximately 64% of total project costs).   Benefits of the
non-housing upgrading subcomponents are qualitatively assessed.



- 43 -
5.08      Assumptions With/Without Project.  Without the project, it is
assumed that there would be no substantial change in housing and public
services in the Grants Town area. This implies that the currently increasing
rate of abandonment of dilapidated houses would continue even though some of
the present tenants or owners may strive to do some essential repairs on a
few houses. Given the average age (approximately 5-20 years) and the poor
state of maintenance of houses, it is assumed that without the project, the
remaining useful life of existing houses would be 5-12 years, depending on their
present condition. With the project, the useful life for houses receiving
basic repairs would be 15 years, while the useful life for rehabilitated homes
and those with sanitary units is expected to be 20 years. For vacant lots or
lots with abandoned buildings, it is assumed that no new construction would
begin without the project. However, with the project, approximately 850 new
units would be constructed over a twelve year period. 1/ Annex 1 contains
details of the expectation of phased repair and construction work, based upon
the implementation schedule outlined in paragraph 3.12.
5.09      Benefit Assumptions.  Apart from the assumed extended life of
houses with the project, there would also be increased values associated with
both the investments in the houses and as the improved amenities enjoyed in
the community. These increases can be measured in an indirect way by making
comparisons between present rental values or sale prices of houses in the
project area and rental values or sale prices of houses in communities which
now enjoy the amenities, location, etc., that houses in the project area
would have after the project works are completed. Details regarding the
classification along with associated rental values for improved houses are
presented in Table 1, Annex 1, Part E. Table 2, Annex 1, Part E shows the
current market price of various types of new houses similar to those being
constructed under this project.
5.10      Cost Assumptions.  Details of costs which are associated with the
improvements giving rise to the above benefits are in Annex 1. Repair and
maintenance costs are assumed to be matched by residual property values,
therefore, these are not taken into account. Since it is estimated that
approximately 6% of costs is attributable to customs duties, this transfer
element is computed for each subcomponent and deducted from the relevant
costs. Wages are not shadow priced because most of the work to be done
under this project involves the use of skilled and semi-skilled labor, and in
both of these categories it is felt that the market wage is an appropriate
indicator of the real cost of such factors.
5.11      IERR.  Given all of the cost and benefit figures in constant 1981
prices and a project life of 20 years, the IERR is presented below, under
the assumption that improvement and construction works would continue up to
1992 (12 years of project works), using funds recycled through loan repayments
and additional commercial banks and government outlays.
1/   This projection is based upon assumptions of the attractiveness of
the area once basic infrastructural and sanitary works are underway,
and it is also based upon estimates of vacant lots and available
financial resources which would be available for such new constructions.



- 44 -
Housing and Land
Component
IERR (Base Case)                                     17
Benefits fall 10%                                    13
Benefits rise 10%                                    20
Costs rise 10%                                       14
Costs rise 10% and Ben. fall 10%                     11
Benefit delays of:
1 year                                     13
2 years                                   11
Alternative results, based upon a four year project work period with no
improvements beyond 1984, are presented in Annex 1, Part E, Table 3.
5.12      Urban Public Services Subcomponent.  This subcomponent amounts to
US$2.2 million, or 9% of total project cost, and it will have an important
impact upon the residents of the project area, and some impact upon the whole
of New Providence. The dump trucks, containers and other landfill equipment
and spare parts will be used to institute and strengthen a systematic waste
management program. Smoke and contaminants from the continuously burning
fires at the landfill site will be eliminated with the help of fire control
equipment purchased under this project. The pest control program would be
strengthened and the potential for outbreak of insect and rodent-borne diseases
would be reduced. Equipment for parks and road maintenance will help to
prolong the life of these areas and this will contribute social welfare
benefits as well as savings of foreign exchange. Provision of street signs,
traffic lights, street lighting, widened sidewalks, firewells and storm water
sink wells will strengthen public safety programs and help to reduce accidents
and fatalities.
5.13      Community Facilities Benefits.  The community center, parks and
playgrounds and community facilities improvements all complement the other
investments and assist in making the area attractive to residents. At a cost
of US$0.9 million or 5% of project costs, these investments are expected to
meet a wide range of needs of residents through such facilities as day-care
centers, adult education classes, an employment exchange, etc.
5.14      Employment Effects of Upgrading Component.  Local labor cost is
estimated to amount to approximately US$5.5 million (37%) in the upgrading
component of this project. At current wage levels for the various categories
of employment, it is expected that approximately 15,000-20,000 man weeks of
new employment will be directly created from the four-year implementation
works of this component. Additional indirect employment effects would also
arise because of the incremental needs of those directly employed and because
of the material and other related needs of the project. Proportionate in-
creases in both categories would arise if there is a continuation of the
project beyond the first four years.



- 45 -
Industrial Promotion
5.15      Though of a modest nature, the industrial promotion component would
have a significant impact upon BAIC and would enhance the ability of the Bahamas
to diversify its economic base, and to start creating industrial jobs. The
objective of the component, however, is institution building rather than
direct job creation.
D.   Project Risks
5.16      Risks.  Although the works in this project are not by themselves
new, the scale, institution building, and coordination arrangements, are new to
the Bahamas and could cause implementation delays. This is a special risk in
a country as small as the Bahamas, where personalities and political considera-
tions are particularly hard to ignore in an institution building effort.
5.17      Sensitivity analyses indicate that the project is relatively sensitive
to the adverse impact of any or all of the above factors through cost increases,
decline in expected benefits, slippage of benefits, etc. (para. 5.11). For
example, if expected benefits decline by 10%, the resulting decline in the
IERR is almost 24%. Similarly, a cost increase of 10% results in an 18%
decline in the expected IERR. Benefit slippages of 1 and 2 years are expected
to result in declines of 24% and 35% respectively in the IERR. Still, even
under the most adverse circumstances (costs rise 10% and benefits fall 10%),
the IERR is 11%. Several steps have been taken in an effort to minimize the
risks. Modest targets have been set in order to ensure that these are not
beyond the capacity of the agencies involved. The beginning of some project
works in May 1981 (with recommended retroactive financing) will also provide
ample opportunity for accomplishing preliminary tasks, evaluating the effec-
tiveness of the arrangements, and for making appropriate adjustments, should
these be required. Additional measures aimed at facilitating project implemen-
tation include: (a) the staffing of GTUIT with able and experienced senior
staff who are seconded from departments which are directly responsible for
large portions of project works; (b) the provision of substantial and continued
technical assistance which began from an early phase of project planning; and
(c) the establishment of simple management-oriented monitoring and evaluating
mechanisms to facilitate project execution and the early correction of problems
which may arise.
5.18      There is some risk in having the upgrading component identified
by the beneficiaries as a government project. Such association could adversely
affect cost recovery efforts since the beneficiaries may not expect the
government to employ such extreme measures as foreclosure and eviction when
they do not meet their repayment obligations. To minimize the effects of
these problems, use will be made of private commercial banks for collection
of loan repayments, security would be required for loans over $3,000 (para.
3.15), and incentive payments (i.e., tariff rebates) would be available only
to beneficiaries who would have repaid on time. Additionally, in existing
housing programs, the government has demonstrated its intention of vigorously
seeking compliance through the courts, if necessary. As a result, its govern-
ment guarantee mortgage program has been progressing well with overdue accounts
(60-90 days) averaging only 6-8 percent.



- 46 -
5.19      Regarding the industrial promotion component, there is a risk
that the BAIC may fail to promote new investment, even if it does its job
efficiently. The options for employment creation have been carefully analyzed,
however, and promotion of industrial investment offers a reasonable opportunity
for creating employment and diversifying the economy.   Promotion of foreign
investment in industry has been recommended by the Bank 1/ for a number of
years as a way of diversifying the economy and creating jobs.  Through this
project, the Bank will continue its dialogue with the Government on the
industrial sector. A periodic review of industrial incentives and their
implementation will be conducted between the Bank and the Government as
a condition of the loan (para. 6.02 (g)).
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      The BAIC shall, as a condition for disbursement for the industrial
promotion component:
(a) Hire a qualified and experienced managing director for the
industrial division (para. 3.20(c) Staff Appraisal Report).
(b) Update the financial statements of the BDC to a date subsequent to
March 13, 1981 (para. 3.19 Staff Appraisal Report).
(c) Provide the Bank with a report, by an independent auditor acceptable
to the Bank, of the BDC's updated financial statements (para. 3.19
Staff Appraisal Report).
(d) Provide the Bank with a plan, acceptable to the Bank, for strength-
ening the finances and management of its agricultural operations
(para. 3.21 Staff Appraisal Report).
6.02      The Government has agreed that:
(a) Land acquisition will be completed for the remaining 190 lots needed
for the project in accordance with a schedule agreed with the Bank
(para. 2.07 Staff Appraisal Report).
(b)  Yearly commitments will be obtained from commercial banks to provide,
under the Government's mortgage insurance program, financing for
works scheduled for the following year or, failing such commitments,
that the Government would itself provide the financing required to
carry out these works (para. 4.05 Staff Appraisal Report).
1/   Economic Memorandum on the Bahamas, Report No. 2975-BM, June 2, 1980.



- 47 -
(c) The interest rate for the home improvement loan subcomponent
will be set at an interest rate not less than the maximum
rate provided in the Housing Act (currently 10%) (para. 4.11
Staff Appraisal Report).
(d) Home improvement loans in amounts exceeding $3000 shall be
secured as to principal, interest and other charges by a
first mortgage or other security satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 3.07 Staff Appraisal Report).
(e) Criteria and procedures for selection of beneficiaries of
houses, senior citizen units, and home improvement loans shall
be satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.09 Staff Appraisal
Report).
(f) Yearly audit reports by the Government auditor on project
accounts will be submitted to the Bank not later than 6 months
after the close of each financial year, including auditors'
opinions on reimbursement claims against statements of expendi-
tures (para. 3.33 Staff Appraisal Report).
(g) A periodic review of industrial incentives and their imple-
mentation will be conducted with the Bank until the end
of the project (paras. 5.19 Staff Appraisal Report; Section
3.07 Loan Agreement).
(h) The Bank will be allowed to comment on the findings of the
Property Tax system study before its implementation
(para. 4.11 Staff Appraisal Report).
(i) It will make available as a grant to BAIC sufficient funds
to carry out the industrial promotion component and to keep
BAIC in a sound financial position (paras. 3.20(d) Staff
Appraisal Report).
(j) It will cause all public facilities and services provided
under the Grants Town upgrading component of the project
to be adequately maintained and continued in operation
(para. 2.11(b) Staff Appraisal Report).
6.03      The BAIC has agreed to the following:
(a) Its industrial operating policies will not be revised without
Bank approval (para. 3.20(b) Staff Appraisal Report).



- 48 -
(b) It will hire qualified individuals as managing director,
promotion and economic analysis officers and a New York office
manager (para. 3.20(c) Staff Appraisal Report).
(c) Annual industrial promotion plans and budgets acceptable to the
Bank will be developed by September 30th of each year, beginning
in September 30, 1982. Disbursements of the promotion subcomponent
will be conditioned on yearly approval by the Bank of these
plans and budgets (para. 3.27 Staff Appraisal Report).
(d) Yearly audits will be carried out by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank and would be submitted within 4 months
of the end of BAIC's financial year (para. 3.34 Staff Appraisal
Report).
Loan Agreement
6.04      Subject to the above conditions, the project is suitable for a Bank
loan of US$5.8 million to the Government of Bahamas for a period of 15 years,
including a grace period of three years.



ANNEX 1 Tables and Charts
PART A
- 49 -
Table  1   -      QUANTITY IMPLEMENTED BY YEAR (in percentages)
Component                             1981-82       1982-83       1983-84       1984-85     Total
URBAN UPGRADING
Land Purchase                            40            25            25            10        100
Housing
- Basic house repair                     10            30            30            30        100
- Sanitary units                         10            30            30            30        100
- Rehabilitation loans                   10            30            30            30        100
- Starter units                          10            30            30            30        100
- 2 Bedroom units                        10            30            30           30         100
- 3 Bedroom units                        10            30            30            30        100
- 4 Bedroom units                        10            30            30            30        100
- Senior citizen efficiencies            20            29            31            20        100
- Senior citizen houses                  20            31            29           20         100
Community Facilities
- Community center                       25            75             0             0        100
- Grants for organizations               25            25            25           25         100
- Parks                                 100             0             0             0        100
Infrastructure
- Fire wells                             50            50             0             0        100
- Storm wells                            50            50             0             0        100
- Solid waste equipment                  97             1             1             1        100
- Sidewalks                              25            50            25             0        100
- Street lighting                       100             0             0             0        100
- Traffic lights & street signs          83            17             0             0        100
- Pest control                          100             0             0             0        100
- Park & road maintenance equip.        100             0             0             0        100
Implementation
- Project unit salaries                  33            22            22            23        100
- Project unit expenses                  25            25            25            25        100
- Technical assistance to
the project unit                       33            22            22           23         100
- Start-up costs:
- Urban services                  0           50            50             0         100
- Commu.-ity center               0             0           50            50         100
INDUSTRIAL PROMOTION
Start-up costs for BAIC                  25            25            25            25        100
Foreign promotion & training
- Training of BAIC personnel
at UNIDO in N.Y. City                  62            38             0            0         100
- Expenses of N.Y. & Bahamas
promotion                              18            23            26            33        100
Industrial Park                          49            49             1             1        100
Technical assistance to BAIC             45            36            10             9        100



Table 2   -   PRICE CONTINGENCY FACTORS
(Z Increases by year and project)
Base Year   (Year 1)           1982          (Year 2)        1983          (Year 3)          1984       (Year 4)          1985
Inflation rate    Escalation   July 81 -         Inflation    Escalation    Inflation         Escalation    Inflation   Escalation    Inflation
Component                   1981             factor      Jan. 82          rate           factor          rate           factor           rate        factor           rate
2/
Construction                14.0            1.07           1.07           13.5            1.21            14.5           1.39            13.0         1.57            12.5
Administration              12.0            1.06           1.06            10.0           1.17            10.0           1.28            10.0         1.41             9.0
Technical assistance        12.5            1.06           1.06            9.0            1.15            8.5            1.25             7.5         1.35             7.5
Furniture & equipment       12.5            1.06           1.06             9.0           1.15            8.5            1.25             7.5         1.35             7.5
Foreign promotion and
travel               15.0            1.07           1.07            15.0           1.23            15.0            1.41           15.0         1.63            15.0
_I
CD
1/  Thc construction component has relatively high inflation rates due to capacity constraints.
21 Components of Construction are as follows:
1981     1982      1983      1984      1985
Local labor                 10        10        14        10        10
Local materials             15        17        14        14        14
Foreign materials           18        15        15        15        15
The rationale for price increases are:
a) A labor settlement in 1983 would include a "catch-up" provision.
b) The increases for the foreign component of construction is in agreement                                                                                          p .m
with recent estimates for the Education project in Bahamas.                                                                                                      H
c) Local materials inflation is somewhat lower than foreign materials                                                                                                     H
inflations (due to lower labor cost increases in the Bahamas). The
trend for local price increases lags a year behind foreign increases.
d) Administration price increases include a "catch-up" provision in 1981.                                                                                              -
Otherwise, they are close to actual experience for last five years.                                                                                                 w
e) Technical assistance and furniture & equipment increases are in accordance
with CPS guidelines.
f) Foreign promotion and travel increases are the sanme as a recent project
in Barbados with a similar component.



ANNEX 1   Tables and Charts
-51 -                                                    PART A
CALCULATION OF
Table  3   -   CONTINGENCY AMOUNTS
1/               Price contingency
Base Cost           Physical  -        Amount       Amount        Amount      Amount
Components                          July 1981           Contingency         Year 1       Year 2        Year 3      Year 4            Total
URBAN UPGRADING
Land Purchase                           2109                211                0             0            0            0              2320
Housing
Basic house repair                     290                 29                2           20            37          55                433
Sanitary units                        1070                107                8           74           138         201               1598
Rehabilitation loans                  2832                283               22          196           364         532               4229
Starter units                         1289                129               10           89           166         242               1925
2 Bedroom units                        549                 55                4           38            71         103                820
- 3 Bedroom units                        491                 49                4            34           63          92                733
- 4 Bedroom units                        565                 56                4            39           72         106                842
- Senior citizen efficiencies            443                 44                7           30            59          55                638
- Senior citizen houses                  583                 58                9           42            72          73                837
Community Facilities
- Community center                       451                 45                9           78             0           0                583
- Grants for organizations               400                  0                0             0            0           0                400
- Parks                                   48                  5                4             0            0           0                 57
Infrastructure
- Fire wells                             110                 11                4            13            0           0                138
- Storm wells                            328                 33               13           38             0           0                412
- Solid waste collection
and disposal equipment                1280                128               95            3             6           8               1520
- Sidewalks                              240                 24                5           28            26           0                323
- Street lighting                         31                  3                2            0             0           0                 36
- Traffic lights & street signs          133                 13                8            5             0           0                159
- Pest control                            34                  3                3             0            0           0                 40
- Park & road maintenance
equipment                               17                  2                1            0             0           0                 20
Implementation
- Project unit salaries                  667                 67               14            27           45          68                888
- Project unit expenses                  157                 16                3             9           17          25                227
- Technical assistance to
the project unit                       280                 28                7           11            17          25                368
- Start-up costs
-Urban services                422                 42                0           49            90           0                603
- Community center             274                 27                0             0           59          86                446
INDUSTRIAL PROMOTION
Start-up Costs for BAIC                  882                 88               15            36           60          84               1165
Foreign promotion & training
- Training of BAIC personnel
at UNIDO in N.Y. City                   64                  6                7            4             0           0                 81
- Expenses of N.Y. & Bahamas
promotion                              887                 89               12           51           103         202               1344
Industrial Park                          489                 49               16           39             1           2                596
Technical assistance to BAIC             471                 47               11            26           11          14                580
T O T A L                             17,886              1,747              299          979         1,477       1,973             24,361
1/ 10% on all items except community
organization grants.



ANNEX 1 Tables and Charts
-52 -                                                  PART A
Table  4  -   IMPORT DUTIES, FOREIGN AND LOCAL COSTS
(including contingencies)
Foreign               Local                  Total Cost                Import             Total cost
Component                                          Cost                 Cost                 (net of duty)               Duty           (including duty)
URBAN UPGRADING
Land Purchase                                        0                  2320                    2320                       0                 2320
Housing
- Basic house repair                               195                   224                     419                      14                   433
- Sanitary units                                   719                   843                    1562                      36                  1598
- Rehabilitation loans                            1903                  2212                    4115                     114                 4229
- Starter units                                   866                   1007                    1873                      52                  1925
- 2 Bedroom units                                  369                   429                     798                      22                   820
- 3 Bedroom units                                  330                   383                     713                      20                   733
- 4 Bedroom units                                 379                    440                     819                      23                   842
- Senior citizen efficiencies                     287                    334                     621                      17                   638
- Senior citizen houses                            377                   437                     814                      23                   837
Community Facilities
- Community center                                 268                   304                     572                      11                   583
- Grants for organizations                         184                   201                     385                      15                  .400
- Parks                                             26                    29                      55                       2                    57
Infrastructure
- Fire wells                                        98                     32                    130                       8                   138
- Storm wells                                     292                     94                     386                      26                   412
- Solid waste collection and
disposal equipment                             1079                     63                    1142                     378                 1520
- Sidewalks                                        229                    94                     323                       0                   323
- Street lighting                                   27                      5                     32                       4                    36
- Traffic lights & street signs                    119                     17                    136                      23                   159
- Pest control                                      28                      7                     35                       5                    40
- Park & road maintenance equipment                 14                      2                     16                       4                    20
Implementation
- Project unit salaries                              0                   888                     888                       0                   888
- Project unit expenses                            150                    68                     218                       9                   227
- Technical assistance to the
project unit                                    350                     18                     368                       n                  368
- Start-up costs:
- Urban services                           0                   603                     603                       0                  603
- Community center                         0                   446                     446                       0                  446
INDUSTRIAL PROMOTION
Start-up Costs for BAIC                            174                   991                    1165                       0                 1165
Foreign promotion & training
- Training ofBAIC personnel at
UNIDO in New York City                           81                      0                      81                       0                   81
- Expenses of N.Y. & Bahamas promotion            1209                   135                    1344                       0                 1344
Industrial Park                                   375                    161                     536                      60                  596
Technical Assistance to BAIC                       551                    29                     580                       0                  580
T 0 T A L                                      10,679                 12,816                  23,495                     866               24,361



ANNEX 1
- 53 -                           Tables and Charts
a/                PART A
Table 5 - SUMMARY PROJECT COSTS
US$ ('000)
Component                                  Local          Foreign        Total      Project Cost
Urbar. Upgrading:
Land Purchase                              2109               0          2109             9
Uousing
- Basic house repair                        160             130           290
- Sanitary units                            589             481          1070
- Rehabilitation loans                     1558            1274          2832
- Starter units                             709             580          1289
- 2 Bedroom units                           302             247           549
- 3 Bedroom units                           271             220           491
- 4 Bedroom units                           311             254           565
- Senior citizen efficiencies               244             199           443
- Senior citizen houses                     321             262           583
Sub-Total                           4465             3647          8112            33
Community Facilities
- Community Center                          244             207           451
- Grants for organizations                  216             184           400
- Parks                                      26              22            48
Suo-Total                            486              413           899             3
Infrastructure
- Fire wells                                 32              78           110
- Storm well drainage                        96             232           328
- Solid waste collection and
disposal equipment                        372             908          1280
- Sidewalks                                  70             170           240
- Street lighting                             8              23            31
- Traffic lights and street signs            34              99           133
- Pest control                               10              24            34
- Park and road maintenance
equipment                                   5              12            17
Sub-Total                            627             1546          2173            9
Implementation
- Project unit salaries                    .667               0           667
- Project unit expenses                      54             103           157
- Technical assistance to the          -
project unit                               14             266           280
- Start-up costs
= Urban services                     422                0           422
- Community center                   274               0            274
Sub-Total                           1431             369           180             8
Sub-Total Upgrading                 9118            5975         15.093           62
INDUSTRIAL PROMOTION
Start-up costs for the BAIC                 750             132           882             3
Fore'.gn promotion and training
- Training of BAIC personnel at UNIDO         0              64            64
- N.Y. and Bahamas promotion                 89             798           887
Sub-Total                             89              862           951            4
Industrial Park                             147             342           489            2
Technical Assistance to the BAIC             24             447           471             2
Sub-Total                           1,010           1,783         2,793           11
Sub-Total Base Costs                      10,128          7,758        17,886            73
Contingencies:
- Physical                             978            769        1,747             7
- Price                             2,648          2.080         4,728            19
cI
TOTAL COST OF PROJECT                     13 754         10,607        24,361            99
5  Estimated July 1981 prices.
b/ US$1.00 = BS1.00
ci Total percentage reflects rounding off of figures.



BAHAMAS - URBAN IMPROVEMENT AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
UPGRADING COMPONENT - ORGANIZATION CHART
URBAN IMPROVEMENT COMMITTEEl
|(Min. Fin.; Min. Health; Fin. Sec.; Proj. Coord.)
COORDINATOR|
(Dep. Fin. Sec)
--------------------------- Improvement Team- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
PROJECT MANAGER            PROJECT PROGRAMMING ADVISOR (PT)
(Dep. Per. Sec. Min. Health)]              (Consultant)                                       m         LA>
f                        ~~~~~~~~Technical Director/Chiief/Architect/Plannerl                                        
(Consultant)
FINANCE OFFICER/          CHIEF PLANNER (PT)            DEVELOPMENT OFFICER (PT)    ENVIRONMENTAL (PT)             SOCIAL AND COMIMDNITY         o
Office Manager                                                                           Health Officer             Development Officer          z
(Sr. Officer,Min. Fin.)   (Asst, Dir. Dpt. Phy. Plng)i (Dept. Bldg. Cont. Off.)          (Dept. Dir. Dept. Env.        (Sr. Welfare Office.
Health Serv.)              Dept. Soc. Serv.)
REHABILITATION         ASSISTANT                ASSISTANT
LOANS OFFICER          FINANCE OFFICER          ARCHITECTS
(Sen. Officer          (To be hired)              (3)
BDB)                                        (To be hired)
(PT) = Part Tine



ANNEX 1
Part B
- 55 -
BAHAMAS
Chart  2  - Upgrading Component -  Institutional Responsibilities
c  _
.0
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
9
Land Acquisition                         IT   DLA       GTUIC    DLA                    MOF              N.A.        DEHS (clearancel
DLS                OLS
CO
MOAF
Home Improvement Loans                   IT  IT         DPP       IT                   GTA               N.A.        N.A.
DEC       Private Contractors
DEHS
GTUIC
Ownership Housing                         IT  IT        DPP       DOH                  Private Lending   N.A.        N.A.
DBC       Private Contractors   Institutions
DEHS
_MOHNI
Senior Citizen Housing                    IT  IT        DPP       DOH                  MOF               DOH         DOH
DBC       Private Contractors
DE HS
MOHN I
Solid Waste Coilection                    IT   DEHS   IT          DEHS                 MOF               DEHS        DEHS
MOHNI
Pest Control                             IT   DEHS   IT           DEHS                 MOF               DEHS        DEHS
MOHNI
Parks and Road Maintenance                IT   DEHS   IT          DEHS                 MOF               N.A.       DEHS
.u _u MOWUMOWUMOWU
Street Signs                              IT   MOWU   IT          MOWU                  MOF              N.A.        MOWU
Traffic Ughts                             IT   MOT      MOWU    BEC                    MOF               3EC         SEC
_ BEC       IT
Sidewalks                                 IT   MOWU   IT          MOWfU                MOF               N.A.       MOWU
Traffic Improvements                      IT   MOT      C         MOT                  MOF               N.A.        MOWU
P                 MOWU
Street Lights                            IT   BEC       MOWU    BEC                    MOF               BEC        BEC
IT
Fire Wells                               IT   RBFB    IT          MOWU                 MOF               RBFB       MOWU
MOWU
Storn Water Wells                        IT   MOWU   IT           MOWU                 MOF               N.A.       MOWU
Community Center                          IT  IT       MOHNI    IT                     MOF               MOHNI    MOWU
MOYSCA  Private Contractors                       MOYSCA
DPP
Dec
DEHS
Parks                                     IT   MOWU  IT           MOWU                 MOF               MOYSCA   DEHS
MOYSCA
Equipment for Community Organizations    IT  IT         GTUIC   IT                     MOF               N.A.       N.A.
SEC       -  Bahamas Electricity Corporation                                    IT        -  Improvement Team
C         -  Cabinet                                                            MOAF    -  Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
CO        -  Cabinet Office                                                     MOF       -  Ministry of Finance
DBC       -  Department of Building Control IMOWU)                              MOHNI   -  Ministry of Health and National Insurance
DEHS      -  Department of Environmental Health Services IMOHNI)                MOT       -  Ministry of Transport
DELA      -  Department of Legal Affairs                                        MOYSCA  -  Ministry of Youth, Sprots and Community
DLS       -  Department of Lands and Surveys (Min. of Agriculture and Fisheries)              Affairs
DOH       -  Department of Housing                                              MOWU    -  Ministry of Works and Utilities
DPP       -  Department of Physical Planning (MOWVU)                            p         -  Parliament
GTA          Grants Town Account (@Royal Bank)                                  RBFB       -  Royal Bahamas Fire Brigade
GTUIC        Grants Town Urban Improvement Committee
World Bank-22911



-A AS                            -arn 1
Chart S  -  sCmuLE oi AcTrIIIs
1981   r                 1982                     1983                    1984                 1985
J PM AM) J  AS ON  D J FMA MJ J  AS DO N  DJFM A M iJ  A S OND J FM AM 3 JA SON J FM AM JJ A s S  O D
Recruit Managing Director                                                                   x
Recruit M--annent .Conn.l. nts to dev-elp polici.a and prac-d-ea-              y
co-a.nicate ceginuative canansg in BDC ACT to 15fi                                                  X
Finalize legislative changes in SIC ACT                                                             X
Recru it iPt1 enpot and cnnd yt pef-aibfiity study a
Export Processing Zone  EPZ                                                                             X----X
Develop operating policies and  btai   oard approval                            X-----X
Devoiop operating proedeen                                                            X-----X
FiPolizo BDozd appoit-nnta                                                     x
Update fina-cial atatenenta ef BDC end BAC                                           X-----------X
Conduct audit of bOC and RAC                                                         X------------X
spi  off Bor-ah Oil Cospaoy                                                        X
Reccait khy otaff
Director of Protin                                                                                  x--------x
Diretor of Econenic Analysis                                                                        X-------X
Director of Adnnntratien/Dndnntrlal Parka
Di-etce of Noe York office                                                                              X-------X
Reorait Indu-trial ECRootint and begin tenue of . ract SRdy ad
de-elop-tn of proj)ct profilese                                                                             X--------------X
Send Proroticn Direcror and N.Y. office Dieaolnr to UNIDO Doe
training and prottion                                                                                                   x
Di-rctor of Pronctionr-t-ra fte  UNIDO                                                                                       X
Recruit Peonotion Enprt; Advine en Pronetion Plan and E-eatinr XeI
Develop firnt ypor P-oroa..nal Plan and c.-ne. isplienttnioo
of prootio X------                                                                                                                       -        ---------------------------------X
set up No YPork office
Recruit Pronotion M-tttnial Co-rdioatoc and develop pronrtion
_nterilna                                                                                                                      X-----X
Rruit DEginin er. Pione. no ena-it sItItnnrial Eronanis  to d-le-nr Pro)jet
FroClre and Co dan-Iop-rt of tedu-ia  Parke
Upgrode Induatrial Peek                                                                                                                X-----------x--x
Rect tao 6000 ft.' bnildingn in Park (Cet.srce Deaign. Tendering,
Contract and Co.ntarction)                                                                                                               X
a Rooroitnent of te-hni-al n..iataa- incladna the Mngaging Dirctnor
in the denoloprant of rerna of ref-erene and app-nnal fran the BSnk
price to rou-itneot.
(Decsbder 1981)



- 57 -
Annex 1
Part C
ESTIMATED QUARTERLY DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(in thousand US$)
Cumulative
IBRD Fiscal Year and Quarter           Disbursements             Disbursement
(ending date)                    during quarter           at end of quarter
March      30, 1982                         300                        300
June       30, 1982                         300                        600
September  30, 1982                         200                        800
December   31, 1982                         300                       1100
March      31, 1983                         300                       1400
June       30, 1983                         300                       1700
September  30, 1983                         300                       2000
December   31, 1983                         400                       2400
March      31, 1984                         400                       2800
June       30, 1984                         400                       3200
September  30, 1984                         300                       3500
December   31, 1984                         300                       3800
March      31, 1985                          300                      4100
June       30, 1985                         400                       4500
September  30, 1985                         300                       4800
December   31, 1985                         300                       5100
March      31, 1986                          300                      5400
June       30, 1986                         400                       5800



- 58 -
ANNEX 1
Part D
Table 1 -Monthly Payments and Affordability
Home Improvement Loans
Minimal   Basic House
House     Repair             Sanitary       Rehabilitation
Repair    (Average)            Unit           (Average)
Cost of typical
Improvement            $  500      $1,500            $2,500             $4,900
Incentive payment          125         375                625               735
Amount to be repaid         375      1,125              1,875             4,165
Years of repayment            5          5                  7                10
Monthly payment               8          24                31                55
Monthly payment per
family                     8          24                21                55
Monthly rent 1/              50         50                 50                19
Total monthly
payments l/               58          74                 71                74
Annual income
required 1/            2,784       3,552             3,408              3,552
1/ Per family



ANNEX 1
Table 2                                          Part D
MONTHLY PAYMENTS AND AFFORDABILITY
NEW OWNERSHIP HOUSING
(July 1981 prices US and B$)
STARTER           2 BEDROOM            3 BEDROOM            4 BEDROOM
Land (based on one dwelling
per lot) @ $1.20/sq. ft.            2,880               4,500                4,500                5,400
Cost of Structure                      8,600             13,725               16,366               18,833
Subtotal                         11,480              18,225               20,866              24,233
Down Payment by Client                   600              1,000                1,200                1,400
Incentive Payment                     1,000               1,000                1,000                1,000
9,880             16,025               18,666               21,833
Fire and Hurricane Ins. 1/2%
on Construction Cost                    43                 69                   82                   94
Legal Fees - 1%                           99                160                  187                  218
Stamp Tax - 1/2%                          50                 80                   94                  109
Recording Fee                             25                 25                   25                   25
Loan Investigation Fee                    14                 14                   14                   14
Incidental Charges                       231                348                  402                  460
Subtotal                         10,111              16,373               19,068              22,293
Mortgage Insurance - 2%                  202                327                  381                  446
Amount to be Amortized                10,313             16,700               19,449               22,739
Monthly Payments*                        100                 161                 188                  219
rtm
Annual Income Required**               4,800              7,728                9,024               10,512
.        .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
* 20 years at 10 per cent
** Based on GDS of 25 per cent                                                                     5th November, 1980



- 60 -                                   ANNEX 1
Part D
TABLE 3 -   MONTHLY PAYMENTS AND AFFORDABILITY
SENIOR CITIZEN HOUSING
(July 1981 prices US and B$)
For individuals       For couples
a.  Cost of land-                                    800                1,000
b.  Cost of structure                              5,900                7,800
c.  Total cost                                     6,700                8,800
d.  Amortization                                      65                   85
e.  15% Administration                                10                   13
2/
f.  Full recovery monthly rent                        75                   98
g.  Subsidy - rent                                    50                   60
-15% Administration                               10                   13
h.  Effective rent                                     15                  25
i.  Monthly utilities payment                          10                  15
j.  Total monthly payment                              25                  40
k. Annual household income required
to support monthly payments                    1,000               1,600
1/ $1 per square foot.
2/ Assumes the Government amortizes the capital cost over
20 years at 10% interest; 15% allowance for administra-
tion and maintenance added.



-61 -                              ANNEX  1
Part E
Table 1 - Classification of houses in project area with
associated actual and assumed rental values.
Assumed Prevailing      Average Monthly
Present Range of      Average Monthly      Rental Value Assumed
Type          Monthly Rental Value       Rental Value        After Project Works
Unimproved poor       US$ 40  -   80                50                   US$ 60
Unimproved average    US$ 80  -  120               100                   US$120
Average               US$120  -  180               150                   US$165
Good                  US$180  -  220               180                   US$207
* It is also assumed that houses in the upper three categories would progressively
deteriorate and slide into the next inferior category over a five year period.



-62_                       ANNEX 1
Part E
Table 2 - Current market prices of houses having
characteristics similar to those being
offered under the project.
Type                                 Price
Starter unit                       US$15,500
2 Bedroom unit                     US$24,000
3 Bedroom unit                     US$27,600
4 Bedroom unit                     US$30,300



- 63 -                         ANNEX
Part E
Table 3 - Alternative results of IERR based on
a four year project operation.
Housing and Land
component (%)
IERR (Base Case)                                        14
Benefits fall 10%                                       11
Benefits rise 10%                                       17
Costs rise 10%                                          11
Costs rise 10% and benefits fall 10%                     9
Benefit delays of:  1 year                              11
2 years                            9






to    8~ A 
|~~~ . . . . .    . . . . . .
.  .l           . . .  . .      .  ..            . ...
..# oD             .    .    .    . s     .    .    .   ,.n   
54        0        ~-~   -   - - - - - - - -
S              I 3      '        '                    N
~~~~~~o                     I        N  lHoSoovb        
m 1  c   v I                  |440 vNI         N N'            N                    N
SN~   ~    ~     ~ NE4                           It    IN      1  141014v o v   o   o     m
I  ~             ~~ ~~~ m :,  o      NS S S S S S S S N   N              NI
N    N     N         NI  N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N   N
N            NlS < V       N           = N    0 0   00    =
<ho~~~ ~~~                       11          N D   N   M   N   Ne   N   N3  .N   N   N   N 
Ne            0  u   N   N   N   N   N   N   Ns  C   N   0>
o E                                                       
8                  0
j         O         N ND                        I          
..1N 0 S         N V   LI  ._  .0  05  g0     N



I
V
o                                  a
-r
a    a    a    a    .0   a.  .0   a    a    -    a    a.  a a
%gaaaaaaaaa
saaaa. aa aaaa a
I
aa00                                      aa
a a a a aaaaaaaaaaaaa.aa a a. a Oa.aa.aa.a    a
a a a aaa  aaaaa.   00. a a
a a a a a a a a a a a a .0 a a a
a aa. aa  a a a .o  a.
a. 0a.aaa.           a 0 a. a a . a a a
a a a a.
a.    a  a  .  .  a  a
a a a a a a a a a a
aaaaa
a  a   a   a   a   a   a   a  a a
a a a a aaaa a aa.a 0a 0. aa. aaa a a



o 'o LA 00     00      LOS '55
'5HOHOL        LA
H           '
-.          t
LA  LA  SO  -H   H   HH                         i
-H H H
000                             LA  '7
LA                                        K
*   LA  0  LA    SO  H  LA    LA    LA    LA    LA  A
-t    LA    LA                  LA              LA
Li  LA  0   ILLALA    LA   H   H   H   Li  LA  LA  LA  LA  LA   H   LA  aOL
O LAO OOOLALALALALALALA LALA-HLA"'H 010
LA H HO PlOt   LA
IliiilIIliIIllI  LH&Li)OHOL'i LA
LAHIILALALALALA Li' 01 '5 '5 '5 H LA LA LA LA
LA  LA H                         0001
H'5H4HLA
LALALA '5'5 LALALALA IL OH
Al' LAHOLALAHIL  LAO             OLALALA
LA LALALALALALALALAHCO  0 0 0    ICLA
H 0 LA H LA LA LA LA H LA H LA LA LA H LA-OH LA H HO



a'    &-a'a'-a'-a'-a'
2    a'a'
a'    a'   a'    a'    a'              -
a'  'a'    'a'  'a'  a'  'a'    ,a'    'a'  a'  a'  -  -
Ca' ',a' a' a' a' (a' a' a'
a'a'wa'u4a'a'a'a'Ca' a' a'o.a'a'
22
a' a'   a'   a'         222
222
222
222        a'a'    a'
-    a'    a'a',a'  -
-C  a"  a'  -
a' 'a'           a'4-CF'HH    a',.   a
a'    'a'                   a'',
222  
a'                    S    a  'a'    a'
a'      22    2
2
2
-                 2
a'a'       S    2'aa'a'a'a'a'a'
2
a'a' a'                                a'
a'.a'a'a'     2       a'a'ta')a'Oaa'a'
a' a' a' Ga' a' a' a' 5 a' a' a' a
a'   a'   a'   a'   a'   a'   a'   a'   a'  222
222252222222
aa'aa'a'a'aa'a'aa'2)C) a'a'C)a'    a'   a
a' a' a' aa'a'a'a'a'a'         0)
a'a'a'a'a'a'a' 22  S S22S2
a'      I
a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a''2a'a'2a'a'a'a'a'                      I
a'aa'a'a'a',a'a'a'sa'a'                                  I
a'aa'a'a'-.aa'a'a'a'a'a'a' a'a'a'a'a'a'N-g
72           $



THE BAHiAMAS: EMPLOYMENT BY MAJOR AGE GROUP AND SEX
_____                  1973                      1 975            -1977                    519 7 9    -  
HALES      FEMALES        MALES      FEMALES       MALES      FEMALES        MALES      FEIALES
I   ALL BAIlAMAS
EMPLOYED - All Ages       38,566      33,094        39,652      26,766       41,080       32,578       50,533      32,906
14-24                    7,535       8,334         9,913       6,450       10,603        8,398       14,117       7,361
25-54                   25,759      20,972        26,417      18,094       25,040      20,374        29,227      22,071
UNEMPLOYED - All Ages        2,098       4,642         7,952       9,918         7,698      11,252        4,279        8,441
14-24                    1,252       2,060         3,531       4,592        4,814        6,311        2,847       4,903
25-54                      801       2,132         4,079       4,681        2,092       4,607         1,160       3,154
UNEMPLOYMENT RATE -
All Ages      5.1         12.3          16.7        37.1          15.8        25.7         8.0         20.0
14-24                     14.3        19.8          26.3        41.6         31.2         42.9         17.0        40.0
25-54                      3.0         9.2          13.4        20.6           7.7        29.0          4.0        13.0
IIT  NEW PROVIDENCE
EMPLOYED - All Ages       22,273      22,007        22,118      19,459        20,378      20,670       26,801      22,135
14-24                    4,915       5,580         6,326       4,379        5,380        4,485        8,535       4,666
25-54                   14,790     14,036         13,890      13,563       12,450      13,518        15,371      15,137
UNEMPLOYED - All Ages        1,654       2,866         4,293       7,125         5,206       9,261        3,072        6,599
14-24                    1,026       1,347         1,932       3,648        3,452        5,344        2,275       3,982
25-54                      583       1,252         2,232       3,178        1,358        3,639          684       2,332
UNEMPLOYMENT RATE -
All Ages      6.9         11.5          16.3        26.8          20.3        30.9         10.3        23.0
14-24                     17.3        19.5          23.4        45.5          39.1        54.4         21.1        46.0
25-54                      3.8         8.2          13.8        19.0           9.3        21.2          4.3        13.3
III   GRAND BAHLAMA
EMPLOYED - All Ages        8,046       4,684         6,699       3,330       10,720        6,627       11,099       5,506
14-24                    1,375       1,464         1,359       1,152        2,498        2,207        2,053       1,223
25-54                    6,238       2,965         4,783       2,048        7,718        4,300        8,303       4,065
UNEMPLOYED - All Ages          216         954         1,495       1,039         1,077         686          437          829
14-24                       43         346           554         346           567         400           88         480
25-54                      173         608           856         693          510          286          349         349
UNEMPLOYMENT RATE
All Ages      2.6         16.9          18.3        23.8         9.1          9.4          3.8         13.1      rt
14-24                     3.0         19.1          29.0        23.1         18.5         15.3         4.1         28.2   "1
25-54                     2.7         17.0          15.2        25.3          6.2          6.2         4.0          7.9
SOURCE: WORLD BANK ESTIMATES BASED ON LABOUR FORCE SURVEYS DEPARTMENT OF STATISTICS



-69 -                                 ANNEX 2
INFRASTRUCTURE, MANUFACTURING INPUTS, FISCAL INCENTIVES & INVESTMFNT CLIMATE
DATA COMPARISON FOR BAHAMAS, BARBADOS, PUERTO RICO
INFRASTRUCTURE             BAHAMAS                  BARBADOS                PUERTO RICO
SEA TRANSPORT
Seaport Facilities      Deep water harbors    Deep water harbor         Very large harbor at
at Nassau, Freepcrt.   at Bridgetowr. Con-      San Juan.  Others at
tainer facilities.      Mayaguez, Ponce.  Con-
tainer facilities.
Shipping Frecuency      10 time weekly to      3 times weekly to        4 times weekly to Jackson-
West Palm Beach and   West Palm Beach and    ville. 6 times monthly to
Miami.  At least 3    Miami. 1-3 times          Miami. At least 4 times
times monthly to New  weekly to U.K.  At       monthly to Europe and Japan.
York and Europe.       least twice monthly    Large container vesss  on
to Australia and        all services.
Hong Kong.
Freight Rates           20 ft. container       20 ft. container         20 ft. contairer San Juan/
Nassau/WPB $455.       Bridgetown/WPB           Jacksonville $1,100.
WPB/Nassau $900.       $2,500.
AIR TRANSPORT
Airports                B-747 capacity at      B-747 capacity at        B-747 capacity at San Juu. 
Nassau, Freeport.      Bridgetown. LD-8         LD-8 container equipment.
LD-8 container         container landing        11,700 ft. runway at cargo
landing equipment.    equipment.                airport, Aguadilla.
Air Services            Daily services to
USA/Europe.            Same                     Same
MIA $0.25-$0.20/lb.   $0.45/lb.                 $0.33 - $0.25/lb.
NY  $0.33-$0.30/lb.   $0.50/lb.                 $0.51 - $0.37/lb.
UK  $2.75-$2.66/lb.   $4.00/lb.
ELECTRICITY GENERATION Oil fired steam and   Oil/natural gas            Oil fired steam and hydro
heavy diesel.          fired steam and          power.
diesel.
Demand Charge           $4.35/KVA/month        $2.00/KVA/month          $2.50/KVA/month (over 50
KVA only).
Energy Charge           $0.14/KWH              $0.12/KWH                $0.06/KWH
Variable Fuel Charge       Yes                    Yes                      Yes
WATER SUPPLY
Quality/Availa-         Nassau: Problems in          Good from under-      Good from rivers (80%)
bility               dry season (water            ground sources.       and wells (20%).
barged to Nassau).
Freeport: Good
Cost                    $87/quarter, plus            $0.85/1000 gallons   $10-120/month plus
$9.55/1000 gallons                                 $0.83/1000 gallons
for all consumption                                for all consumption
over 15,000 gallons                                over 2,650 gallons.
per quarter. (Nassau)
TELEPHONE SERVICE       Cost of system for           2 lines, 4 exten-
small factory.                sions
Installation            $120                         $40                   $130
Rental                  $45.50                       $62.45                $50
(3 minutes at
Maximum Rate)           Miami $2.40 DDD              $9.00 Operator        $2.40 DDD
NY    $3.90 DDD                    Operator        $2.40 DDD
UK   $15.oo DDD                    Operator        $2.40 DDD



ANNEX 2
- 70-
BAHAMAS               BARBADOS             PUERTO RICO
FISCAL INCENTIVES
Tax & Duty Exemptions   Exemption from            Same exemptions          Partial exemption
income taxes            granted for periods   from taxes 90% for
permanently, and        from 6 to 10 years    years 1-5 and 75%
import duties ex-       depending on local    years 5-10.  Further
emptions on             value added per-        exemption of 65% to
machinery, equip-       centage. 100% export  50% for 10 further
ment building           industries always       years in rural areas.
materials and raw       get 10 year ex-         No import duty
materials for up to   emption.                   exemptions.  First
15 years for plants                             $100,000 of income
designated as "ap-                               100% exempt.
proved industries"
Additional Benefits       No export taxes         After exemption          50% exemption for
for Export                                        period tax reduc-        service industries
Industries                                        tions of up to 50%    whose customers are
dependent on            outside Puerto Rico.
export volume.
Working Training          Gov't. pays up          Up to $90/worker         Availhble in locations
Grants                    to $30/week during    during startup             outside major urban
training period.        period.                 areas.
Tariff Reductions         Duty free entry         Duty free entry          Export treated same
for Exports               into USA for exports  into USA for              as USA exports.
falling within GSP    exports failing
Scheme (35% value       within GSP Scheme
added).                 (35% value added)
Duty free entry         Duty free entry into  Export treated same as
into EEC for exports  EEC for exports           USA exports.
maeeting 50% value      meeting 50% value
added requirements.   added requirements.
No duty free entry    Duty free entry           No duty free entry
into CARICOM.           into CARICOM.           into CARICOM.
INVESTMENT CLIMATE
INVESTMEN  CLIMAE    -No personal or      Personal income tax   No personal income tax.
corporate income   progressive up to         Corporate income tax
tax. Well known    25% of total income.  45%.
"tax haven".        Corporate income         Municipal property tax.
Real Property        tax 45%.
tax of 1-1/2% of
valuation in
Nassau only.
CTompany Registration  $250 Bahm. Cos.    $50-$100 depending            Unknown
Fee Annual             $1000 Foreign Cos.  on share capital
Business License        $125-$6000                  N/A                 Unknown
Annual Fee              depending on size
Transfer of Capital   No restrictions    Not restrictions but   No restrictions on-
& Profits               but Central Bank   Centeal Bank must be   Canital movement.  10%
must be informed   informed at time of    tax on repatriated profits;
at time of invest- investment and re-         4-5% tax if reinvested
ment and repatria- patriation.                prior to transfer.
tion.
Work Permits            Required for all   1-3 work permits            U.S. Immigration regula-
non-Bahamians        granted for each new    tions apply.  No problems
Granted for 2-3    investment depending    for investors.
years.  Sometimes  on number of employees.
difficult.          Usually 3 years dura-
tion.
Local Participation   Some activities    New policy of restric-   None
restricted to       ting certain industries
Bahamians.          supplying the local/
Companies with      CARICOM market only
60% Bahamian         to Barbadian control
ownership have      proposed in IDC 1978-
benefits             82 Plan.
relative to
foreign control-
led companies.
Institutional             Ministry of Finance    Industrial Development    EDA/PRIDCO provide
and Development Cor-   Corporation (BIDC) pro-    same services as
poration liaise with    vides support for in-         BIDC, but on a much
investors and process  vestors in negotiation         larger scale. Active
"approved industry"    stage, rents buildings    for over 30 years,
applications. BDC        and processes "approsed    during which 1,800
active since 1973        industry" status appli-   new ventures were
but at present only    cations. Active since          started. Offices
a skeleton operation   1957. Well staffed, suc-  in USA (5), Genrany
Does not provide 'bne- cessful operation. In-    and Japan.
stop" service.           volved in 109 new ven-
tures since 1963. "One-
stop" services to inves-
tors.



- 71-                          ANNEX 2
MANUFACTURING INPUTS
LABOUR
Wages Wage rates in all countries are widely variable because of job types, location,
and degree of unionization in the particular industry. The figures provide an
indication of the relative levels in the three operations.
BAHAMAS              BARBADOS            PUERTO RICO
Rates by Category
Management Per annum    $18,000-$24,000       $12,000 - $16,000   $18,000 - $24,000
Supervisors Per Week        $150-$250              $60 - $100
Skilled                     $ 90-$150              $50 - $ 90          $112 - $280
Semi-Skilled                $ 60-$80               $30 - $ 50          $ 90 - $100
Fringe Benefits                 3%                    3.5%                 20%
(Workers)
Availability
Management/Tech.        Some difficulty       Some difficulty
Skilled                 Reasonable            Reasonable
Semi-Skilled/           15%-18% unemployment   15%-18% unemployment   18% unemployment
Unskilled               15,000 persons (est.)  30,000 persons (est.)   200,000 persons (est)
Unions                Less than 20% of         More than 60% of          Unions not very
workforce unionized      workforce unionized.    powerful
One large multi-
sector union covering
30,000 members.
Labor Legislation    Industrial Relations    Wide ranging,covering   Same as USA mainland.
Act covers working       safety, working con-    Minimum wage laws.
conditions. Generally   ditions, union recog-   OSHA compliance
no major restrictions   nition. No minimum         required.
or constraints.          wage or union shop
laws.
ACCOMODATION
Factory Space         Two (2) Industrial       Nine (9) Industrial       Ninety (90) Industrial
Parks 39 acres Nassau.  Parks - 165 acres,80    Parks - 3,797 acres.
100 Vacant acres         buildings with 1.6       1,658 buildings with
Freeport. Building       million sq.ft. Space    18.4 million sq.ft.
constructed only on    always avaiiable.          buildings always
firm contract. Fully                              available.
occupied at present.
Rental Rates               2.00-2.50           3.30 large            1.25 rural
($/sq.ft./year)                                business
1.65 small           2.25 urban
business
Land Purchase        Subject to Government    Same                   Same
Approval Restrictive
covenants as to use
normal.
Construction         $14 - $18 per sq.ft.      $12.50 - $17.50       $21 - $25 not including
Costs of Standards  not including land.        not including         land.
Factory Build-                                 land
ing.



- 72 -                                ANNEX 3
BAHAMAS AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL CORPORATION INDUSTRIAL POLICIES
1. FINANCIAL POLICIES
- Pricing Policies
Pricing policies of the industrial division of the BAIC should be aimed at
recovering as much of the costs of industrial promotion as possible. Rental rates fct
factory buildings or land should recover all allocable administration, maintenance,
depreciation and promotion costs, and any interest and commission charges on
borrowed funds. Rental rates for factory buildings or land should be set up
considering that: (i) they must be competitive with other industrial estates
in the Caribbean area; (ii) they must guarantee, at least, capital recovery
to help develop BDC into a financially viable organization; and (iii) lower
rates would be charged to small scale industries through the use of cross
subsidization. The basic equipment of the Soldiers Road Industrial Park (i.e.
fencing, roads, sewerage, water, power, lighting installations, etc.) are sunk
costs and not normally recoverable from prospective tenants. Incremental costs
for developing the Soldiers Road park, however, would be recovered from existing
and prospective tenants.
The services of BAIC's industrial division (e.g. project identification and
feasibility analysis) when rendered by its staff should be provided free of charge
except when commissioned by a prospective client. When it is necessary to engage an
outside agency, e.g. for market research or design, the cost should be recovered
from the prospective client.
- Borrowing Policies
The bulk of the division's income initially will come through
budgetary support from the Ministry of Finance. Direct sources of income,
e.g. industrial park rents, will provide a small proportion of its annual
revenue in the early stages of development.   The Corporation will require
an advance of funds arrangement with the Ministry of Finance, the extent of
which will depend on income flow.
Any borrowing (domestic and foreign) by the Corporation will be
arranged by the Ministry of Finance. Such borrowings will arise mainly in
connection with capital project, e.g. development of industrial parks.
- Financial Control Policies
The Corporation will use a recognized approved accounting system and
maintain the full set of records which the system requires. The accounts will
be kept up-to-date and control statements prepared at the end of each month



- 73 -
showing in appropriate detail expenditure and income for that month, and the
cumulative totals for the year, This will indicate whether income expenditure
is running ahead or behind budget and in what areas. The monthly accounts should
be discussed in ioint session by the General Manager, Department Directors and
Secretary.
- Annual budgets
In its accounting procedures the Corporation will follow the same
financial year as the State. Its annual budget will be based on its projected
program of activities. Program and budget proposals will be prepared for submis-
sion to the Minister for Finance by the end of July of the year preceeding the
budget year.
The annual report and accounts of the Corporation will be prepared and
audited for submission to the Minister for Finance within three months after the
end of the financial year.
In addition to the monthly progress statement of income and expenditure,
the Corporation will undertake a mid-year program evaluation review of activities,
achievements, income, expenditure, etc. and produce a report for review by the
Ministry of Finance. The review will be held in the second half of the seventh
month of the Financial year.
- Dividend Policies
The Corporation should not have at its disposal unspent investible funds.
Its activities should be financed by transfers from the Ministry of Finance. Monies
associated with its development, e.g. loans from international agencies, should be
remitted to the Ministry and managed by it. Accordingly, the need for a Corporation
dividend policy should not arise.
2. PERSONNEL POLICIES
- Organization Chart
Initially the staff of the industrial division will be few in number and
should remain so until they progressively acquire the skill and experience to dis-
charge their responsibilities and train junior staff. The division should have an
office in Nassau, an accommodation arrangement with the Grand Bahama Port Authority
in Freeport, a promotion center in New York, and elsewhere when justified. UNIDO
may make office facilities available in New York for a year.
Subject to this the industrial division staff will consist of:
(a) A full time paid General Manager responsible for planning and
executing the Corporation's program of activities. After
appointment he will probably require some familiarization and
training at UNIDO's center in New York.



74 -
(b) A secretary responsible for administration, including management
of industrial parks and preparation of accounts.
(c) An assistant to the Secretary, trained in accounting.
(d) Two qualified (i.e. graduate) senior staff located in Nassau
to undertake project identification, appraisal and promotion.
Initially the volume of work will be limited. Much of it will
be investigatory and analytical and in addition the two officials
will require some training at UNIDO center in New York. Accordingly,
while specialization and division of function will develop as the
amount, kind and extent of the work grows, it is advisable, at least
during the first year, that these two senior officials should each
work on the whole field of industrial promotion and development.
Depending on the success o' the Corporation's efforts to expand
and develop industry, specialization and increased staff numbers
may be considered in the second year. However, from the date of
their appointment these two officials should have an appropriate
rank and title, e.g. Department Director.
(e) One qualified (i.e. graduate) senior staff to manage the promotion
center in New York. He will receive training at the UNIDO center.
(f) Office support staff (typist, receptionist-telephonist, cleaner,
etc.).
.Roles and Resonsibilities of ke  staff
The General Manager will be responsible for building the industrial
division into an efficient industrial development and export promotion institution.
Specifically, he will be responsible for the smooth functionong of the Division,
preparing and implementing an effective program of activities, preparing and
controlling the budget, developing an appropriate personnel policy, liaison with
Ministries and public corporations, preparing the agenda for the Board's monthly
meeting, preparing the annual report, establishing board policy guidelines regarding
type, scale and location of industry most suited to the Bahamas. In executing his
functions he will operate subject to the policies established by the Board.
Initially, the two Department Directors will each have responsibility
for identifying products suited to manufacture in the Bahamas, appraising their
production and sale, promoting viable production projects to potential Bahamian
manufacturers, identifying in cooperation with the New York promotion center suitable
foreign investors and servicing them efficiently before and after they have begun
production, ensuring the preparation of attractive promotion literature, cooperation
with the General Manager in the preparation of the Corporation's Program of activi-
ties, administering their respective shares of the program, preparing, controlling
and implementing their respective Departmental budgets, developing and supervising
staff under their control.



- 75 -
As the volume and scale of activities increase separation of function
and specialization will be desirable. Meanwhile, the General Manager should
arrange a distribution of work between them so that there is no duplication of
activities and no confusion of responsibility.
The senior official in charge of the New York center should have the
same rank as the Department Directors, though a different title may be appropriate.
His responsibilities will include managing the center and its staff, cooperating in
preparing the Corporation's program of activities, preparing and implementing a
program of promotion activities in selected areas of North America aimed at iden-
tifying suitable investors and influencing them to locate plants in Bahamas (in
this activity area he will work in close cooperation with the Department Directors),
preparing and controlling the budget for the center, arranging an effective publi-
city and public relations program directed toward making Bahamas known to indus-
trialists as an attractive location, providing up to date information on Bahamas
(e.g. incentives), arranging visits by investors to Bahamas, maintaining close
liaison with Bahamian representatives in North America including the Ambassador,
and Managers of the Ministry of Tourism offices.
Flexibility and interchangeability between these three senior officials
is advisable in the initial stages of the Corporation's program. All three should
be thoroughly versed in the Bahamian economy, its development potentials, its
institutions, etc. and also skilled in the practicalities of industrial promotion,
i.e. finding and securing suitable investment projects and investors. Accordingly,
during the first two years some rotations should be practised between Nassau and
New York so that all three have a balanced outlook and understanding of the various
factors of industrial promotion and development. Later it will be necessary for the
Corporation to have a policy regarding how long its officials will remain in foreign
posts.
- Hiring Policies
Subject to Ministerial approval the General Manager will be appointed by
the Board for a term of three years which may be renewed. The initial appointment
will include a probationary period of one year.
The General Manager will be responsible for hiring the Corporation staff
subject to the prior agreement of the Board on the number of posts to be filled,
the duties and responsibilities of each post, remuneration, conditions of service,
etc. Posts will be filled by open competition. Each post will be advertised in
the public press. All appointments - excluding the General Manager - will be sub-
ject to a probationary period of six months at the end of which the appointment
will be confirmed if performance is satisfactory.
The initial appointment of the Secretary, the two Department Directors
and the manager of the New York centre will be made by the Board on the recom-
mendation of a Committee comprising the General Manager, two members of the Board
and an outside assessor. Following these initial appointments future selection
of senior staff below the rank of General Manager will be made by the General
Manager and a committee comprising at least two senior members of staff appointed
by the General Manager.



- 76 -
Selection of junior staff will be made by the General Manager.
- Firing Policies
The Corporation will have power to dismiss members of its staff. Dis-
missal of the General Manager must be approved by a simple majority of the full
Board. No such decision may be taken without at least one month's prior notice
to the General Manager and each Board member of the proposed dismissal.  The
General Manager's contract of employment will stipulate grounds on which he may
be dismissed, length of notice, warnings, appearance before Board, etc.
Dismissal of other members of staff will require:
(a) A recommendation by the General Manager to the Board and,
(b) Approval by the Board at a subsequent meeting. One month's prior
notice must be given to the staff member and the members of the
Board.
As soon as possible after the appointment of the General Manager and
senior staff conditions of service will be prepared and circulated to all mem-
bers of staff. The conditions will set out, inter alia, grounds for and pro-
cedures relating to dismissal e.g. prior warnings.
- Staff benefit Policies
Staff benefit policies, including pension and sick leave, will be
similar to those in the public service.
- Promotion Policies
Initially promotion policies will have little relevance because staff
members will be few. Such policies will become relevant as the Corporation ex-
pands, which will depend on its success in achieving demonstrable development
e.g. number of successful factories. While it is desirable that posts be filled
by promotion from within the organization, so as to stimulate achievement among
the staff, it may be necessary to go outside the Corporation for particular
appointments.  In such cases the posts will be advertised in the public press
and the Corporation staff allowed to compete for them. Promotion within the
Corporation will be on the basis of ability, merit and performance.
- Leave/Vacation Policies
Leave/Vacation policies will be similar to those in the public service.
Leave sheets will be circulated to each member of staff at the beginning of the
financial year and the leave program finalized by the end of the second month.



- 77
- Travel Policies
Provision for travel will be included as a separate item in the Division's
budget and allocated in. appropriate proportions to the Division's Nassau and New
York offices. These allocations will operate as the control on travel expenditure.
Promotion travel by Board members will be included as a separate item
in the budget. Authorization for travel by Board members will require prior
written approval of the Chairman and the General Manager. Back to office travel
reports of all travelers will be required.
The Corporation will not have its own cars or drivers. Instead a motor-
car allowance will be given to the General Manager, Secretary and Department
Directors i.e. those senior staff members dealing directly with domestic and
foreign manufacturers and investors. (A similar or alternative arrangement may
be necessary for the manager of the New York center). The allowance will cover
the renewal cost of a medium-sized motor car, based on a five-year life. Petrol
consumed on official business should be supplied or reimbursed.
Inter-island travel in the Bahamas, when financed by the Corporation,
will be limited to business requirements. The General Manager and Department
Directors located in Nassau will be entitled to undertake such travel. Other
members require the prior written approval of the General Manager.
Travel outside the Bahamas when financed by the Corporation and under-
taken by the staff in Nassau will require:
(a) In the case of the General Manager, prior approval of the Chairman,
(b) In the case of other members of staff, prior approval of the General
Manager.
Travel by the Manager of the New York center will be controlled by his
budget allocation. Subject to this he will prepare in broad terms a quarterly
travel program and submit it to the General Manager for approval. His monthly
report will include details of travel undertaken.
- Performance Review Policies
Staff performance will be subject to continuous review and guidance by
each officer's superior who will have direct responsibility for developing the
staff under his control. Exercise of this responsibility will include a monthly
meeting between the staff member and his superior to review progress, discuss
problems, give guidance, etc.
Every six months there will be a formal review of performance based on
a management guide. The guide is prepared by the staff member himself. It is



- 78 -
an outline work program specifying the significant activities he will undertake
in the coming half-year and the dates by which they will be completed. It is
discussed and agreed with his superior and becomes his management guide. At the
review, performance is assessed against the agreed proposals in the management
guide for the previous six months; proposals for the next six months are
considered and approved, and any other aspects of performance that may be
relevant (e.g. punctuality, dealing with queries) are examined.
3. ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
- Authority of the industrial division through MinistrX of Finance to influence
other government aece
The Division will comment to the Ministrv of Finance on the develoD-
ment proposals of other agencies and make suggestions regarding specific areas
of activity, projects, etc. where these other agencies should initiate develop-
ment. The Division will be given the opportunity of discussing these comments
and suggestions with the Minister for Finance and the Financial Secretary.
- Authority Vis-a-Vis government
The Corporation is answerable to the Minister for Finance who will
advise on and clarify government policy in so far as it affects proposals of
the Corporation. Subject to this the Corporation is free to pursue its develop-
ment program.
- Contracting Policies
Contracting policies which involve construction, purchasing, etc. (and
excluding the hiring of staff) should follow the procedures applicable in the
public sector i.e. minimum number of quotations, public tender, etc. Technical
assistance contracts involving staff training, attendance at courses, etc., may
be concluded by the Corporation and the appropriate Ministry informed. Technical
assistance contracts involving the hiring of consultants may be concluded by the
Corporation but prior notice will be given to the Ministry of Finance.
- Reporting Policies
The Division will report to the Minister for Finance within three
months of the ending of the financial year. It will present the Minister with
an annual report which reviews its activities and achievements during the year;
gives in agreed form a statement of its accounts, and includes any other material
relevant to its responsibilities.
- Authority of Board of Directors
The authority of the Board of Directors is primarily concerned with
formulating, approving and monitoring the policies of the Corporation. Res-
ponsibility for preparing and presenting the work program of the Board regarding



- 79 -
industrial matters rests on the General Manager. The program should have a two-year
span, and should be presented to the Board of the Industrial Division for discussion
three months before the beginning of each financial year. When approved by the Board
it becomes the basic work program of the Industrial Division. Significant amendments
to the document made necessary by, for example, outside events must be discussed and
approved by the Board.
ihe two-year span ensures continuity ot action but avoids rigidity
since it is prepared and presented, reviewed and approved annually. The Board
will meet monthly and as part of its agenda will discuss progress in the imple-
mentation of the two-year program.
With regard to management the Board will exercise its authority through
the General Manager and will not deal directly with the staff or its management.
Having approved the policy, program and budget of the Corporation, the Board
delegates the implementation to the General Manager who as the embodiment of the
Board is responsible for managing the Corporation, its staff and resources within
the framework of the policy and program set by the Board.
- Authority of General Manager and Department Directors
The General Manager, implementing Board policy and program, has
authority over the Corporation including the staff, their work programs,
the disposition of resources, etc. This authority he will delegate to the
Department Directors in so far as effective administration requires. More
precisely each Department Director will be responsible for implementing a
specified portion of the Corporation's program and will have the authority
and resources to secure its implementation. For this purpose each Department
Director will have immediate authority over the staff in his Department; will
be given a budget and will execute his share of the program within the
directives set by his Departmental budget.
- Subsidiaries
It is unlikely that the Division will need to create subsidiaries to BAIC,
particularly during its early years. Should subsidiaries become necessary,
their creation will require the approval of the Minister for Finance following
detailed proposal and recommendation of the Board. Each such subsidiary will
submit to the Board within three months of the end of the financial year an
annual report detailing such information as the Board prescribes at the for-
mation of the subsidiary.
- Development of annual work plans
As indicated above the Division will prepare each year a two-vear
work plan, setting out in appropriate detail - including target dates and
deadlines - the proposed policy and activities of the Division for the coming
two years and the justification for them. The program will be considered, and
progress measured at the monthly meeting of the Board. In addition a general
review and progress appraisal will be made at the end of the year.



- 80 -
Internally, the work programs of departments and staff will directlv
reflect and collectively comprise the work program of the Division. It
will be the responsibility of the General Manager to ensure that the separate
parts mesh with one another and together constitute no more and no less than the
Corporation's programs.
The continuous performance review of the staff will reflect the progress
of the program at that level while the work program of each Department Direc-
tor and the half-yearly overall review will provide an assessment of broader
perspective.
- Purchasing
As with contracting, the purchasing policies of the iivision should
follow the guidelines employed in the public sector, that is to say, depending
on the sums involved, direct purchase on the basis of the best information
available, minimum number of quotations, public tenders, etc.
4. INVESTMENT POLICIES
If and when it is necessary to raise funds, e.g. by loan, this should
be negotiated in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, the proceeds placed
in the custody of the Ministry for the use of the Corporation and the funds with
accrued interest disbursed to the Corporation at monthly intervals. Pending
transfer to the Corporation the funds and their investment should be managed by
the Ministry.
In the case of industry, the Corporation's investment activities should
be limited to the acquisition of land for industrial location, the development of
industrial parks and the erection of factory buildings for leasing to manufac-
turers and processors.
In the case of agriculture, this will be handled by the Agricultural
Division of the Corporation.
In the case of fishing and tourism it is not envisaged that the Corpo-
ration will become involved in investments e.g. acquisition of boats, fishing
equipment, shore installations, hotels, etc. Its function in these economic
sectors will be concerned to collaborate as required with other Government
agencies in the identification and appraisal of the projects, identification and
selection of investors, arranging joint ventures, partnerships, etc.
Except in exceptional economic circumstances and then at the specific
request of the Minister for Finance, the Corporation should not become benefi-
cially involved in take-overs, buy-outs, or start-ups for industry. Its function
in these and similar areas will be limited to assessment, guidance, and advice and,
if required, helping to arrange take-overs, buy-outs, etc. by prospecting for and
finding suitable partners, entrepreneurs, etc.



- 81 -
As already stated, the Industrial Division of the Corporation should
not become involved in the acquisition or ownership of assets other than land
and buildings required for development. The Corporation would not under any
circumstances take on a controlling interest in the operation of any industrial
business.
5. PROMOTION POLICIES
- Development of Annual Industrial Promotion Plan
The General Manager will have responsibility for ensuring the preparation
of an Annual Industrial Promotion Plan, and its presentation to the Board three
months before the beginning of the financial year to which the Plan refers. Pre-
ferably, as already stated, the Plan should cover two years to allow for adequate
forward planning and continuity of operations from one year to another.
The Plan will be prepared jointly by the General Manger and senior staff.
The General Manger will be responsible for clarifying objectives, coordinating pro-
posals, eliminating inconsistencies, checking costs and preparing a comprehensive
statement of the resources needed to implement the Plan.
The Plan will be presented to the Board for examination, discussion and
approval. It then becomes the Corporation's work program. Implementation and pro-
gress will be considered and appraised by the Board at its monthly meetings.
- Domestic Promotion
The Division will work closely with the Bahamas Development Bank,
particularly in two areas: (a) identification and appraisal of viable projects
catering to the domestic and tourist markets, and (b) search for, and promotion
of projects to reliable domestic entrepreneurs. This implies regular contact
with the private sector and may require a formal arrangement, e.g. committee.
- Industrial Incentives
The Division will work closely with the Ministry of Finance or other
relevant agencies in identifying new industrial incentives that are needed to
remain competitive in the Caribbean area, and in pointing out areas in which the
administration of existing incentives can be improved.
- Work Permits
While the Division will not have authority to issue work permits, it
is understood and accepted that a recommendation from the Corporation guarantees
that the issue of work permits is necessary for the success of the project con-
cerned. The Corporation in its recommendation will state the period for which
the permit is needed and why, the arrangements that will be instituted to train
understudies and the supervision that will be exercised by the Corporation to
ensure that the training is being implemented so that a capable substitute is
available when the permit expires.
- Labor Training
This is part of the State's manpower policy. The Division will
assess the skills and abilities that will be needed in the industries it
proposes to seek and promote in the Bahamas. It will work closely with the
educational and training authorities to ensure that adequate training facili-
ties and trainees are available. The Division itself will not engage in trai-
ning. Its function is to appraise adequatel-y in advance what skills will



82 -
probably be required, bring this to the notice of the appropriate authorities
and with the cooperation of the Ministry of Finance ensure that resources are
made available to effect the training. The recovery of training resources
should be appraised on a case by case basis.
- Promotion Travel for Staff (see item 2 - Travel Policies)
Initially, industrial promotion travel for Corporaton staff, within
and outside the Bahamas, will be restricted to the General Manager and senior
staff. A travel budget will be prepared as part of the annual promotion plan
and included as a separate heading in the estimate of proposed expenditure.
Internally a prior approval procedure will be instituted for such travel.
- Subsistence, Travel and Entertainment for Prospective Investors
Initially, expenditure under this heading should be kept to a minimum.
The emphasis should be placed on equipping the senior staff with the expertise
to determine the projects suited to the Bahamas, assess their viability, iden-
tify reliable investors and promote Bahamas as an industrial location to them.
If this is successfully done, expenditure on subsistence, travel and entertain-
ment of investors will be small and need not exceed accomodation, meals and
normal evening entertainment. The serious investor will be more concerned with
the profitability of the project and the efficiency of the public authorities
than with the expense of visiting the Bahamas, where the natural attractions
readily compensate for travel outlay.
6. POLICIES GOVERNING MANAGEMENT OF INDUSTRIAL PARK
The Corporation will provide properly equipped industrial parks as
part of the State's policy of promoting industrial efficiency, locating in-
dustry in specific areas, controlling pollution, protecting environment, etc.
It will control the general layout of the park and maintain a high standard
of general attractiveness, cleanliness, tidiness, etc. It will install and
maintain the necessary infrastructure, e.g. fencing, roads, power, sewerage.
It will control the type of industrial building erected, setting minimum stan-
dards for design, construction,materials, etc.  No building will be erected
in the park without the Corporation's prior approval of its design and Corpora-
tion supervision of construction.
- Lease Policies
Where it is deemed advisable to build and lease factories, e.g. to
small scale manufactures, the Corporation will as far as possible use a stan-
dard design for the buildings. They should be so designed and located that
extension is possible with minimum effort and dislocation.
Where premises are leased to manufacturers the rent should recover
the cost of the building over its lifetime of fifteen years, whichever is the
lesser. Transfer of the lease by the manufacturer will require the prior
approval of the Corporation and in such cases the Corporation may cancel the
original lease and issue a new one to the new lessee. The terms of the new
lease will be determined by the Corporation and need not be identical with
those of the original lease.
Lease contracts should include provision for price escalation at
least every three years. Price increases should be equal to the compound
inflation rate for the period.



- 83 -
The industrial park and the Corporation properties thereon will always
remain under the Corporation's control. Accordingly, all sub-lettings, assign-
ment of leases, etc. must be rigidly controlled by the Corporation. Preferably,
the Corporation should remain the immediate lessor of every manufacturer holding
a premise under lease.
- Land Use
Corporation land will not be sold to prospective manufacturers. The
Corporation will lease for a reasonable period the amount of land required for
the erection and operation of industrial premises. The lease will stipulate
that, prior to the erection of the premises, the lease cannot be transferred
to anyone other than the Corporation, i.e. the lease must be surrendered if the
investor decides not to proceed with the project. The lease should also stipulate
the date by which the erection of the premises must be completed, and that failure
to meet the deadline will cancel the lease unless the Corporation decides to ex-
tend the deadline date.
Where the investor erects buildings at his own expense on the leased
land and then decides not to proceed with the project, he must obtain Corporation
consent to transfer the lease to another investor. The Corporation will become
the new tenant's ground landlord and will have the right to set a new rent for
him.
- Sewerage Disposal
The Corporation will be responsible for the construction and mainte-
nance of normal drainage and sewerage disposal facilities on its industrial
parks. Where in the interest of health, environment, pollution control. etc.,
it is necessary to have special disposal arrangements for a production process,
this cost will be borne by the investor. The Corporation, in consultation with
the State's health and environment authorities, will set and ensure the obser-
vance of appropriate sewerage treatment and disposal policies, processes, stan-
dards, etc.
- Maintenance Policies
Maintenance of industrial parks to a standard that attracts prospective
investors will be the responsibility of the Corporation. This involves regular
inspection of the parks to ensure that standards are maintained. It implies
regular visits by the Corporation to tenants to discuss problems, suggestions
for improvement, etc., and take whatever action may be needed to help raise the
performance levels of the manufacturers.
- Expansion Policies
The Corporation should develop and fill its present industrial parks
with suitable efficient producers. Expansion of industrial parks should be
deferred until this objective is achieved. Meanwhile and depending on the pro-
gress toward this objective, the Corporation should give consideration to the
location and layout of additional parks and where feasible the expansion of the
existing ones. The Industrial park property utilized can become an effective
instrument in achieving a desirable location of industry and avoiding the problems
that would otherwise arise from haphazard location.



KEY INDICATORS
Item                                                          Project Years
Phys:icalL Trargets                                  7/81 - 7/82    7/82 - 7/83    7/83 - 7/84   7/84 - 7/85    Total
Land Acquisition
(number of lots acquired)                                 87             151                0              0           278
Home Improvement Loans
(number made)                                            120             360              360            360         1,200
New Housing Completions (total)
-  ownership                                            25               75              75             75            250
-  senior ci.tizen                                      30               45              45             30            150
Urban Public Services
-  Vehicles purchased (number)                            7               0               0              0              7
-  Fire and sink wells (number installed)               71               71               0              0            142        X
-  Traffic lights (number installed)                                                                                             4
-  Sidewalks (square feet constructed)               4,750           9,500            4,750              0        19,000
Community Facilities
-  Community center completion                           0                1               0              0              1
-  New park construction                                  0               2               0              0              2
-  Community organization grants                   100,000         100,000          100,000        100,000       400,000
(amount spent)
Technical Assistance
(number of man-months                                     18               10               8              8            44
Financial Targets (US$ thousand)
Upgrading (total amount spent,
including contingencies)                             3,786           4,908            4,810          4,780        18,284
Industrial Promotion (total amount
spent, including contingencies)                         1,018           1,0L95            726            910          3,757
Total Expenditures                                     4,804            6,003           5,536          5,690        22,041-/    
1/  Excluding land, where actual compensation dates to previous owners are not predictable.



- Is -
ANNE 5
UPGRLING COcwOwT
PROJECT INeLELNTATION SCHEDULE
Startup                                                                                   9'           ~4th
Proretct omponents                                                                    m        let Proteot Teasr                   P       Y- 2Nd Proisit Year   r  3- d Proi.t Y;ar             t Yth
Jan81 
(30)                               (30)
- Notice of public purchase                                (NNN   IN       INN      NNN    NNN    INN    NNN       NSN
(30 )
- Acqoisitiot                                                              EZZ      EEE    KEE    EEE      ERX     En      EXE    REE
tonirontmestal Improvements                                                                       (90)
- Bolk refuseorap-                                          LLL   mTT      TOT      TOT    DDD    000      000     000    000    000      000     000    000
(90)
-  Garbage coll-ctino                                       LLL    mTT     iTT m    TT    DDD    000       000     DOO   0OO    000       000     000    000
(90)
-  Psts tontrol                                             LUL    TT      TOT      TTT    DDD    000      000     000    000    000      000     000    000
- Streets and parkas.airtenor                               LLL    im       mn      m      DDD             000     000    000    000      ODO     000    000
-Street nigna and traffic lights .XX    xvx                                                               xxx      xxx    xxv          (17)
(1003
- Street lighting                                           LLL    000     000    YXX    in        m
- Side=alks                                                                PPP      PP     P       EX30            PE (X0)                                            (2)P PEY    PE
- Storm dr-insgn sink sells                                                PPP      mi m           go)              mI)
- Fire wells                                                               PPP      m      m      PPX (I)           m                  (xS m
Co-esoity Paoilittes
Coesoicy c..ter -PP                                                                                      PTC     YX    m-    _xx  o9 o          oo      oo 000  000             00o    000   0o0
- Psks ond playgroond iprneeets                                                                   PPP      PTC     Y                   ()
- Ileasts no Irganleatioss  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5)(25)                                                                                      (25)              (25)
- ( rants to Organizati...                                                        PLI)    LD     PLD      PLO    PLD    PLD      PLD     PLD    PL      PD      PL      PLD    PLI P(2
Eiousing
_                                         ~~~~~~~~                                            ~           ~         ~~~~~~~~~~(02)  O)((3)(30)                          (30)
-tasic r-pait losns                                       PPP       CCC  Y       PPP    C       X       P        CCC    YX pPc   CCC                                   XXX      PPP    C
(02)                                  (08)                                 (30)                           (30)               (30)
- ateh,abiltation losne and sanitary .sits                  PPP    CCC     Y        Pr     CCC xXX  PPP    CCC kXX                PPF CCC         XYi    PPP    CCC    mxI        PP    ccc    xxx
_ tlo conscruction housing         PPP    Z3B      CCC      m     ppp    BdOB~~~~~~~~~~(1)    cc x             (30)       XX(30)                         XX      (30)
H- howo.t.cto   houig                                      PPP    NNN    0CC       (011    PPP    NOS     CCC    1)UX    PPP    BBN      ccc     nox   FPP    EtB        ccc            on    nox
(20)                                (30)                            (30)              (20)
- Snsior niti..o hous.ig                                                   PPP      TOT    ccc   )i        PP      TTT    CCC          () PPP      TTT   -cc      00     ) PPP    TTO   CCC    XYX
lmpirnrotatios
1/                                                        ((~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0)       (10)                           (10)               (25)
- Start up ser-iors-                                                                000    000    100      oil     oo0    o0o    0oo      000     000    000         000  00      100   0Goo0   000
(20)
- teple-ntation  uit                                        PPP    000     000      000   000    000           000    000 DO0    000      000     000    000   000       000     000    000   o10
(20)                                                                      (20)                            (20)              (20)
- Tchinical assinranne (mao-nonthS)                         1.1    AAAAA    AAA    AAA    AAA    AAA    AAA    AAA    AAA A4AAf AiA AAA AA    AA                        A4  AA                  AA
A - TTohnical Anuistarce                                    h - Prnj)tt administration activities                  R - Rooruite-nt of isplemennatioc unit
B - Loss processing by bans.                                L - Lists and spta. f-r furniture sod equipmt          T - Frepsa-tico of tender-   r puchase ordr
C- TIderiog and contract award                              N - Nntioe of public purchase                          V - Etd of deficit liability or gu-ranton period
D- Equipmnt delivery                                        0 - Opterati.s                                         X - Conutro-tics ood isplemeotatiom  period
E - Lard expropriation procedures                           P - Preparrtien of designs, plaos and programs
Hioed notations  ad-e housing trflest the tstertittent and contiesoss sequence of Planoig. Tenderiog, Cootracting and tmplensrvrtion ac-ivitie- of individual operations
d-ring project iopl-entatior.
Nk.bers is b-rcktts iadiatre ppru.i-ste prnportion of meek te be tarried out enth year.
1)  Start op aperaeionu also noned sinh specific equlpmnt porthase or conectics.on



ANNEX 6
- 86 -
BAHAMAS
Grants Town Upgrading Project
Equipment to be Purchased
(January 81 prices including 10% contingencies)
Base cost          Foreign
Component             Item Description                Unit Cost  Number  (incl. 10% cont.) CIF cost
Waste disposal        D8 tractor for landfill         361,300       1         361,300           281,100
Spare parts for D8                -          l.s.        75,000           58,350
Mobile pumps                     12,500       2          25,000           19,450
Maintenance of        Spare parts for shredder           -          l.s.       25,000            19,450
equipment             Heavy duty roller door           15,000       1          15,000            11,670
5 ton crane                                  1
Greasing equipment                           l.s.         7,500            5,800
Air compressor                                1           7,500            5,800
Steam jenny                      4,500       1           4,500             3,500
20 CU yard packer trucks        92,400       4         369,600           256,500
Garbage collection   2 CU yard containers                  830     32          26,560            18,400
24 CU gallon garbage bins            20   3,000         60,000            42,000
Bulk refuse collection (p. 0-15) everything but staff                         431,040           172,416
Grass movers                     1,100        2           2,200            1,700
Streets & parks       Garden trimmers                     440       2             880               670
maintenance           Rakes and shovels                     20     48               96               70
Brooms                               24     50              120               90
Mo:ile vacuum machine             8,500       1           8,500            6,500
Pest control          Tc<.ing vehicles                 17,545       2          35,090            29,700
Government center    Government center equipment
fixtures and furniture                       l.s.       55,000            45,900
Grants to comm.       Equipment for organizations                   l.s.      200,000           170,000
Parks improvement    Equipment for playgrounds                      l.s.       30,000            25,500
Street signs &        Street signs                                700          38,000            28,900
traffic lights        Traffic lights                   11,200       6          67,000            51,860
Street lighting       Light fixtures & poles             -        108          22,000            17,600
Firewells             Well casings                      1,000      42          42,000            33,430
Drainage wells        Well casings                         760    100          76,000            60,950



- 87-                              ANNEX 7
BAHAMAS
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
A.   Selected Sector Reports
1.   An Evaluation of Freeport's Potential for Industrial Development.
Arthur D. Little, Inc.  April 1978.
2. "Establishing a Secondary Mortgage Market in the Bahamas'.'
Arnold H. Diamond. March 1980.
3. "The Commercial Banking System'. LCPUR Staff. January 1981.
4.   The Fantus Report.  1975.
B.   Selected Project Reports
1.   An Employment Strategy for the Bahamas, with particular reference
to small scale enterprise and the Grants Town Urban improvement
Project.  Peter Barnard Associates.  May 1980.
2.   Grants Town Urban Improvement Project Report.  Volumes 1 and 2.
Llewelyn Davies, Carson Ltd. May IYSU.
3. "Housing Department Staff and Organization Needs'.! Llewelyn, Davies,
Carson Ltd. August 1980.
4. "Implementing the National Employment Strategy!' Peter Barnard
Associates. December 1980.
5. "Rehabilitation Market Survey." Llewelyn Davies, Carson Ltd.
August 1980.
C.   Selected Working and Implementation Papers
1.   A Preliminary Look at the Financial Operations of the Bahamas
Development Bank. N. Boyle. November 198U.
2.  '"ligibility for Housing and Community Improvement Programs.
Project Unit. December 1980.



C.   (continued)
3. "Employment Component: Comparison of Alternatives." N. Boyle.
April 1981.
4. "Report on the Bahamas Development Bank' N. Boyle. November 1980.
5. "Report on the Bahamas Development Corporation' N. Boyle.
November 1980.






IBRD i5801
AREAS OF LOW INCOME                                 INSET A                                                    NAS U~~                              -A RBOR                                                                  '          Sit8
NEW  PROVIDENCE                                                                                                                                                                                   us                          100O20i
Ares cP bmo- ror cuts is of Grisis Town Project oere                                                                                1'ir- GoggUt1IE 
Or OniontsTion Projc ir oatt                                                                                                               WhorlUNTTED  wOs
-                             ti~~~O    CFPAA'Il5
Rood                                                                                Li                       ----                                                                      2
NAS    -~~~~~~  ~~~                        B  A  H  ANM(A;' SA
JSchool                                                               crt6                                                                                     S
.0005                                                                                                                       -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L-~
A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~                               &~  IArPP i iV    ,-
/Sclrool  A ~ ~ ~       ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      B         AM          
Slosoci 2~~~~~~~~~  '~~~  ~~            ~~~~-i~~~+~~~1L* ~~~~ ~~~ ~~   -A                                                            - FR DURAN MPOVEEN AND
SXISTINC5 HOUSING  INSET B                                                                          j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A~~f~~              I-I /~~z                     EMPLOYMENT  PROJECT
EXITIG HUSNGCONDITIONS ---
~~~ ~~~~~   'ii ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  hool    L              [779 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING.
S JTJE   oversge -o, tI, r                                                                                                                                                                              =F  La- L rge poolc ,nblboogs
..-v 'St,cicres  poo Pa., rondiliR                                                                        A                             j5I 7  JLvL                                                             ,   Road network
rn-twOs       I           s-'         Schools                          ii                                          1E~-r-o    7jo he''f                                                       Rioa ffow
-A~ ~ ~~50 0   Tn  I/O                                                                                                                                                                                   T.o way
'-0 ijo 20" 30C  ~A                                                                                                            __One wcy
I.  6p' *~~~~~~~~~~~  7                            1 ~~~~~~~-t                   ]E7L~~~~~~~~~~~L                      ,/  I                           0    TraIt no slqosis~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(  Taficsial
i E3,1   -7,--f:  ---                              Fu-~~~~~~A ei pr.tection citer soirces
0 ~~~~~~~~oj  ~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~                                                              ~~~~~~4     /                                     /3nc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p p.blno spices
4s iq                                        ; chool                                                                                                                                                      -Rit   iOPOSED PROJECT.
a ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRioa flow, one way
47                                                                                                                                                           F~~~~~~~~~~~7tc~iTireptcctoilwaer sources
05o         U   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Gt  onPrr,jeit h-,c,rycr
I                Coll~~~~ege of h '-r-PC
~~~~~-sr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0c,n,0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~C0 /METE L7J                     4JS10ol                             5A Scool                I 
()              P~~~~~~EEP 0   00o     1000      1000     2011



I



VIEWS OF GRANTS TOWN



I



K _ %PQ7v,;    
<    '  5'   05t: 3 K
'=8,o  S/s|2r.                                                               
,    .fo,,,5.'s...,.,.: |JD   ~P1~T






VIEWS OF GRANTS TOWN
w..'~~~~~wl
f~~~~






VIEWS OF GRANTS TOWN
."s ,s         2



