Document of            FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3135-BM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE BAHAMAS
FOR AN
URBAN PROJECT
January 21, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offieial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  -  Bahamian Dollar (B$)
US$1 - B$1
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BAIC       -  Bahamas Agricultural and Industrial Corporation
GTUIT      -  Grants Town Urban Improvement Team
DEFINITIONS
Family Islands - The Bahamian Islands other than New Providence Island
where Nassau, the capital, is located.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
URBAN PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               The Bahamas
Amount:                 US$5.8 million equivalent
Terms:                  Payable in 15 years, including a grace period of 3
years, at 11.6% interest per annum.
Project Description:   The project would support the Government's objec-
tives to: (a) provide existing residents of the
Grants Town area in the city of Nassau, New
Providence Island, with access to better housing,
public utilities and community services; (b) start
revitalizing the Grants Town area; (c) build a
capability for further improvements in Grants Town
and other neighborhoods in the future; (d) promote
investment in industry, thereby increasing job
opportunities; and (e) protect the tourism
industry. The project includes: (a) the purchase
of about 280 vacant lots throughout the Grants Town
area for new housing; (b) the provision of about
1,200 home improvement loans and the construction of
about 150 houses for rental to low-income elderly
residents. In addition, about 250 houses would be
constructed for sale to low- and moderate-income
households, to be wholly financed by mortgages from
commercial banks; (c) the improvement of sanitary
and safety conditions for all Grants Town residents
by the purchase of equipment and vehicles (for solid
waste collection and disposal, street and park main-
tenance, and pest control), improvements in traffic
regulation, and the construction of drainage and
fire wells; (d) the upgrading of community facil-
ities through the construction of a new community
center, improvements of existing public and private
facilities, and additional staff for public
services; (e) the funding of the project implementa-
tion unit and related technical assistance; and (f)
the strengthening of the capability of The Bahamas
Agricultural and Industrial Corporation (BAIC) to
promote industrial investment and to develop and
manage industrial space. There is a risk that the
scale of works, institution building and coordin-
ation arrangements could cause implementation
delays. To minimize this risk, preparations for
project implementation were begun early.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
_ .~~~~~~~



Foreign   Local      Total
…_______us$u000)…--------
Estimated Cost:
Urban Upgrading
Land Purchase                              -       2,109      2,109
Housing                                 3,650      4,462      8,112
Community Facilities                      413        486        899
Public Services                         1,559        614      2,173
Implementation                            103      1,417      1,520
Technical Assistance                      266         14        280
5,991      9,102    15,093
Industrial Promotion
Bahamas Agricultural and
Industrial  Corporation               1,336        986      2,322
Technical Assistance                      447         24        471
1,783      1,010     2,793
Base Costs                              7,774    10,112    17,886
Contingencies
Physical                                  769        978      1,747
Price                                   2,080      2,648      4,728
2,849     3,626      6,475
Total                                  10,623    13,738    24,361
Financing Plan
IBRD                                    5,800         -       5,800
Government                              2,800    11,461    14,261
Commercial Banks                        1,900      2,400      4,300
Total                                  10,500    13,861    24,361
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank                          FY82      FY83       FY84       FY85      FY86
Annual                         0.6       1.1        1.5        1.3       1.3
Ciumulative                    0.6       1.7        3.2        4.5       5.8
Rate of Return:    17%
Appraisal Report:  No. 3498b-BM, dated December 30, 1981.
Map:                IBRD 15801.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PORPOSED
LOAN TO THE BAHAMAS FOR AN URBAN PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan for the equivalent of US$5.8 million to The Bahamas to help finance an
urban project. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including three
years of grace, with interest at 11.6% per annum. Up to about US$2.2 mil-
lion of the loan will be provided by the Government to The Bahamas
Agricultural and Industrial Corporation (BAIC) as a grant. Commercial
banks in The Bahamas will provide about US$4.3 million in loans to
householders for the construction of new houses.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.         An economic report (Economic Memorandum on The Bahamas, Report
No. 2975-BM, dated June 2, 1980) was distributed to the Executive Directors
on June 4, 1980. Annex I contains the basic country data.
Background
3.         The Bahamas economy is structured around its vast tourism
resources and its attractiveness as an international financial center. The
natural beauty of its beaches and waters, and its proximity to Florida,
make it an attractive vacation spot for large numbers of North American
tourists. Favorable movements in exchange rates (the Bahamian dollar is at
a par with the US dollar) have also attracted, in recent years, increasing
numbers of European tourists. Absence of most forms of direct taxation, a
minimum of regulation on offshore financial business, and the location of
The Bahamas in the same time zone as New York, give the country an advan-
tage over other Eurocurrency centers for offshore banking. Chiefly as a
result of these two activities, of an historically open attitude toward
foreign private investment, and of political stability, the country has
attained a high per capita income relative to the rest of the Caribbean
(about US$2,750 in 1979). Nevertheless, The Bahamas faces difficult
development problems. The Bahamas islands are widely dispersed. The coun-
try's resource base is narrow. Population growth is high. Population and
economic activity are heavily concentrated on the islands of New Providence
and Grand Bahama. Unemployment, particularly among youths and women, is
very high, while skilled labor is scarce. Also, while there is little
absolute poverty, relative poverty is a social and economic problem.
Recent Economic Developments
4.         Because of a slowdown of investment, resulting from uncertainties
associated with independence (1973) and the adverse impact on tourism of
the United States and other OECD countries' economic recession (1974-75),
the economy remained stagnant during the early and mid-1970s. Cautious
governmental policies and the economic recovery of the OECD countries led
to some degree of economic recovery in The Bahamas during 1976-77.
Economic growth was strong during 1978-79 (about 8.5% per year), because of



a surge in tourism and expanded investment. The surge in tourism was
assisted by the appreciation of European currencies vis-a-vis the US (and
Bahamian) dollars which contributed to a significant increase in European
tourists.
5.        Economic growth continued during 1980, but at a slower rate
(3-4%). Because of sluggish economic growth in the OECD countries, tourism
increased at a significantly lower rate than in 1978-79. Also, while hotel
construction increased, construction of vacation homes appears to have been
negatively affected by regulations 1/ imposed by the Government on the
purchase of real estate by foreigners.
6.        The economic recovery initiated in 1976 led to a significant
reduction in the unemployment rate. For example, unemployment in New
Providence and Grand Bahama is estimated to have decreased to about 14-15%
in 1980, as compared with about 21% in 1975. Given the openness of the
economy, its fixed exchange rate with the US dollar and the high share of
trade with the United States, price increases in The Bahamas do not diverge
markedly from those experienced by the United States. Wage increases
seem--with few exceptions like civil servants--to have kept pace with
inflation. Recent wage negotiations have included specific cost-of-living
adjustment clauses.
7.        Improved economic performance and restraint in current expendi-
ture have resulted in significant public sector savings. Accordingly,
although public sector investment has increased to about 8% of GDP, a small
(1/2% of GDP) overall surplus was achieved during 1979-80. Public sector
debt denominated in foreign currency barely increased during 1976-80. Net
domestic currency debt to the banking system remained almost constant.
8.        In spite of the rapid expansion of tourist earnings, the current
account of the balance of payments has weakened somewhat in recent years.
As a result of rising incomes, increased oil prices, international infla-
tion and increased investment, import growth has outstripped export
growth. The relatively large surpluses of 1976-77 decreased during
1978-79, and, in 1980, the current account registered a small (3% of GDP)
deficit.
9.        In spite of the weakening of the current account, net interna-
tional reserves increased by US$33.5 million during 1979-80. The increase
in net international reserves reflects to a large degree some special
transactions of the monetary authorities such as SDR allocations and
profits from the sale of gold. Net public sector capital inflows were
moderate during 1979-80. Medium- and long-term net private capital inflows
were negative in 1979 but became positive in 1980 because of the start-up
of large private sector hotel projects. The external liabilities of the
banking system decreased during 1979-80 because, as domestic interest rates
fell much below interest rates in the United States, Bahamian residents
shifted their borrowing from foreign to domestic currency.
1/ In late 1979 the Government announced a new policy aimed at encouraging
a more orderly development of land, preventing speculative hoarding by
foreigners, and ensuring that land is available to Bahamians at
reasonable cost. To effect this policy, a law was enacted by
Parliament in 1981.



- 3 -
Development Objectives, Policies and the Public Sector Investment Program
10.       The Government's development objectives are to:  a) maintain
economic growth and increase employment opportunities; b) diversify the
country's economic base by promoting agriculture--to establish linkages
with tourism and reduce the country's heavy reliance on imported foods--and
industry; c) provide for regional dispersion of economic activity, par-
ticularly by developing the less advanced members of the Family 2/
Islands; and d) reduce relative poverty.
11.       To achieve its objectives, the Government intends to continue its
good economic management, maintain a favorable environment for private
investment, increase the skills of the labor force, increase the efficiency
of the public sector, and carry out a public sector investment program
mainly formulated to support and complement private investment and provide
for the basic needs of the population.
12.       The public sector investment program for 1980-84 is envisaged to
average about 8-9% of estimated GDP. The program is generally consistent
with the Government's development objectives and the country's resource
base. Tourism offers the best opportunities for economic growth and
employment. Consequently, the Government is considering a 10-year develop-
ment plan focussing on the tourist potential of the Family Islands. Mean-
while, it has begun to upgrade airports and other infrastructure on those
islands. Also The Bahamas Hotel Corporation, a public entity, has begun
construction of a large (B$120 million) hotel-casino complex in New
Providence. The Government believes its direct involvement in this project
is important because of the project's contribution to employment and to the
demand for tourist-related services.
13.       With the assistance of the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB),
the Government is preparing a program to promote agriculture and fishing in
the less advanced Family Islands. Meanwhile, fishing infrastructure is
being constructed in New Providence. Concerning industry, the Government,
in the context of the proposed Bank project, intends to strengthen the
effectiveness of the BAIC in promoting industrial development and managing
factory space.
14.       The investment program also includes important investments by the
public utilities. The Electricity Corporation is engaged in improving the
fuel efficiency of its plants. The Water and Sewerage Corporation, partly
with Bank assistance, is improving water and sewerage facilities in New
Providence. The Telecommunications Corporation also intends to upgrade its
facilities.
15.       Concerning the social sectors, the Government, with Bank assist-
ance, is implementing a vocational training program This project, by
improving labor's skills, would make a contribution towards alleviating
Bahamas' serious structural unemployment problem. Also, in the context of
the proposed Bank project, the Government intends to improve housing facil-
ities, public utilities and community services in the largest slum area of
Nassau.
2/ The Bahamian Islands other than New Providence Island.



-4-
16.       The successful implementation of the public sector investment
program would require a considerable improvement in the efficiency of the
public sector. The Government is aware of this need and has begun to take
action in this regard by, for example, improving its coordination of loans
from multilateral agencies.
Growth Prospects and Balance of Payments Outlook
17.       Because of sluggish growth in the United States and other OECD
countries, tourist activity in The Bahamas has been declining since the
last quarter of 1980. The recent appreciation of the US (and Bahamian)
dollars may also have contributed to this performance. Also while hotel
construction and public sector investment remain strong, construction of
vacation homes may continue to be affected by uncertainties concerning the
new land policy. Consequently, economic growth during 1981 is likely to
have been sluggish. Economic growth during 1982 may also be low in view of
the current recession in the US and European tourist-generating countries.
Given this scenario, it would be difficult to prevent the unemployment rate
from rising during 1981-82.
18.       Despite the short-term problems facing the economy, Bahamas'
medium-term prospects are favorable. Ongoing and anticipated hotel con-
struction should permit a steady increase in tourist visitors once the OECD
economies fully recover. Also, the Government's program to promote agri-
culture, fisheries and industry should contribute to favorable growth.
This favorable outcome would require, however, the maintenance of price
competitiveness and the continuation of policies conducive to private
sector investment.
19.       The maintenance of price competitiveness is of particular impor-
tance in view of the recent appreciation of the US (and Bahamian) dollars
vis-a-vis European currencies. The Government is aware of this need and
intends to play a moderating role in the setting of wages and prices. Con-
cerning the need for policies conducive to private investment, the
Government intends to streamline administrative procedures in dealing with
the private sector.
20.       The current account deficit of the balance of payments is likely
to widen during 1981-82. Export growth is likely to be moderate in nominal
terms while import growth would be high, mainly because of high levels of
private investment in hotel construction (1981) and of public investment
(1981-82). Beyond 1982, the anticipated recovery of tourist earnings
should contribute to a reduction in the current account deficit. Provided
monetary and credit policies are conducive to attracting foreign private
capital, the financing of the current account deficit should not present
major difficulties since major public sector projects would be, to a large
degree, externally financed.
Financing the Public Sector Investment Program and External Debt
21.       The sluggish economic growth anticipated for 1981-82 would have a
negative impact on the performance of public sector revenues. Meanwhile,
public sector investment would increase substantially. Consequently it is



- 5 -
anticipated that foreign currency debt would increase by about 60% during
1981-82. During 1983-84 foreign currency debt should remain about
constant.
22.       Since most of the new debt would be contracted on commercial
terms, and since export growth would be sluggish during 1981-82, The
Bahamas' presently low foreign currency debt-service ratio--about 3%
of total export earnings--would also increase, but would still remain
within reasonably low bounds.
23.       Given The Bahamas' low debt-service ratio, and its favorable
medium-term prospects, the country is regarded as creditworthy provided
economic management continues to be good, particularly with respect to
monetary and credit policies, the management of public finances and
policies to attract private investment.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE BAHAMAS
24.       The Bahamas became a Bank member in 1973.  The proposed urban
project would be the Bank's third lending operation to The Bahamas. The
first Bank loan for US$10.0 million was for a Water and Sewerage Project;
it was approved by the Executive Directors on July 27, 1976. The second
Bank loan for US$7.0 million was for a Vocational and Technical Education
Project and was approved on March 26, 1981. In addition, The Bahamas has
benefited from the Bank's lending to the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB).
So far, a loan of US$2.3 million from IBRD resources has been made by the
CDB to The Bahamas for a DFC operation.
25.       The Bank has maintained a continuing dialogue with the Government
on its economic policies and development priorities. Under the auspices of
the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development, the Bank has
convened informal meetings of multilateral donors to discuss the financial
and technical assistance needs of The Bahamas. At these meetings, donors
expressed substantial interest in financing specific priority projects and
in providing technical assistance to this country.
26.       In the future, the Bank's lending to The Bahamas, either directly
or indirectly through the CDB, is expected to be mainly towards projects in
agroindustry. This would be in line with the Government's policy to reduce
the mounting bill of imported food while satisfying the needs of the local
population and tourism sector.
27.       In 1980, the Bank's share in The Bahamas' outstanding public and
public-guaranteed external debt was 2.5%; its share in Bahamas' external
debt service was 2.4%. It is estimated that by 1984 the Bank's share in
The Bahamas' outstanding public and public-guaranteed external debt will
be about 10%. The Bank's share in the external public debt service will be
about 6%.
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
28.       The Bahamas is highly urbanized, as 80% of the total population
of 234,000 reside in the two cities of Nassau and Freeport. With a 1980
population estimated at 135,000, Nassau, on New Providence Island, accounts
for four-fifths of the urban population, or 58% of the population of the
entire country. Though it serves as the nation's capital, as well as the
main center for commercial, financial and tourism activities, Nassau has no



- 6 -
municipal government, and all essential services and governmental functions
are provided for the city (and for the rest of The Bahamas) by various min-
istries, departments and corporations of the Central Government. Grand
Bahama Island, where Freeport is located, has industrial and tourism activ-
ities, and is the only other island with substantial population and
economic opportunities. The remaining 27 inhabited islands have very small
populations and limited tourism, fishing and agricultural activities.
29.       Successful tourism has allowed The Bahamas to enjoy one of the
highest per capita incomes in the Caribbean. In spite of that relatively
high income level, there are sizable areas, particularly in Nassau, which
suffer from substandard housing, poor sanitation, inadequate public ser-
vices, and high rates of unemployment. Income distribution is highly
skewed, with 40% of households receiving less than 10% of household income
(1977). Though there is little absolute poverty, about 25% of Nassau's
households have incomes below the relative poverty level of about US$6,000
per household per year.
Employment and Industry
30.       In spite of the success achieved by The Bahamas in establishing
itself as a main tourist attraction, the country suffers from a high level
of unemployment. Even after the strong growth experienced during 1978-79,
the overall rate of unemployment is currently over 14% of the labor force,
with even higher rates among women (21%) and youths (29%). Since differ-
ences in unemployment rates among population groups suggest that unemploy-
ment has significant structural features, the Government has embarked on an
intensified program of vocational and technical training.
31.       In addition to training, however, new jobs must be created.
Assuming GDP growth on the order of 3.5-4.0%, approximately 3,000
additional jobs a year would be generated. But in the absence of radical
shifts in immigration and/or the labor force participation rate, unemploy-
ment could rise to 19% by 1984. This highlights the need for measures to
accelerate employment creation.
32.       Recently, the Government has been giving increased attention to
agricultural and industrial development, sectors which appear to offer
potential for increased growth and employment generation. The Bahamas
Development Bank (BDB) is committing a line of credit financed by the
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) for expansion of the fishing indus-
try, and both the IDB and the CDB are considering further lines of credit
through BDB for agriculture and small domestically owned industries. To
date, growth in the industrial sector has been slow and the sector has
played a minor role in the economy, contributing, in 1977, only 6% of GDP
and employing 4% of the labor force. The most important activities are
manufacturing for export, including an oil refinery, oil transshipment
facilities, pharmaceuticals and small-scale food-processing plants using
local agricultural products. Salt, cement, aragonite and small-scale
manufacturing constitute the other activities in this sector. However, a
study carried out in 1978 identified about 100 industries which could prove
economic in The Bahamas. Those considered to have the highest potential
were pharmaceuticals and biological preparations, chemicals, and
petrochemicals, plastics, perfumes and cosmetics, paper, printing and



- 7 -
related products, selected fabricated metal products, and ship repair and
servicing. The Government plans to actively promote private investment in
these activities. This will require a strengthening of the BAIC, which
would be carried out under the proposed project.
Grants Town
33.       The most visible evidence of urban poverty is a 620-acre slum
area adjacent to Nassau's downtown. This area, Grants Town, is the largest
area of poor housing and infrastructure in the country, accounting for
about 60% of the substandard areas in New Providence, and housing about 50%
of the poor. Unemployment is also higher in this area--it is estimated at
about 22%--than in the rest of the country.
34.       Over the years, Grants Town has deteriorated and most of the
better-off families have moved to suburban subdivisions, a process which
has accelerated in recent years with racial desegregation. The 5,380
dwelling units in Grants Town range from dilapidated one-room huts sharing
single lots and pit latrines to solidly constructed concrete houses. The
majority of units consists of small, wooden structures in relatively poor
condition. Only 40% of the structures are owner-occupied. Yet Grants Town
still houses about 23,000 persons, remains the most densely populated area
on the island, and continues to play an important social and cultural role
in the community. It was one of the two main original settlements in New
Providence, and most Bahamian families acknowledge with pride their links
to the area.
35.       Public services are also poor, with drainage and refuse collec-
tion especially deficient. There are too few sink wells to adequately
drain excess storm water, and the ones which exist are poorly maintained
and filled with silt and debris. Garbage collection is hampered by vehicle
breakdowns and inadequate collection receptacles, and bulk refuse such as
abandoned vehicles and debris is usually not collected. Instead, it is
left on vacant lots and on the streets, contributing to the dilapidated
appearance of the area. Though piped water is available to all Grants Town
households, only 30% of the households have active connections. Most
others obtain water from standpipes, and a few use wells. Almost all
households which use standpipes also rely on outdoor pit latrines for
sanitation, many of which pose health hazards.
36.       During the last 15 years there have been numerous suggestions for
dealing with the physical problems of Grants Town. Most previous proposals
have suggested urban renewal entailing wholesale eradication of houses and
creating very difficult relocation problems. None of the studies assessed
costs, affordability or organizational and administrative mechanisms for
translating plans into reality. In 1979, the Government discussed the con-
cept of gradual improvements with Bank missions. As a result of these dis-
cussions, the Government commissioned a new study to prepare a suitable
program--one which focussed on affordable improvements which could be
implemented without serious disruptions to the community. The Government
endorsed the resulting plan and initiated some of the recommended actions
to show immediate and visible results. Community response has been very
encouraging. The upgrading component of the proposed project is based on
the results of the study.



- 8 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.       The proposed project was prepared by the Government with the help
of consultants, who prepared studies on Grants Town and employment genera-
tion. The Bank assisted the Government in formulating terms of reference
for the consultants' work, and in reviewing interim and final results. The
project was appraised in December 1980. Negotiations for the proposed loan
took place in Washington, D. C., in September 1981. The Bahamian delega-
tion was led by Mr. Stafford A. Gomez, Deputy Financial Secretary, Ministry
of Finance. A report entitled "Bahamas - Staff Appraisal Report on an
Urban Project" (No. 3498b-BM, dated December 30, 1981) is being distributed
separately. Annex III contains a timetable of key events in processing the
project, and a description of the special conditions of the proposed loan.
Project Objectives and Description
38.       The project, which has two main components, would initiate pro-
grams to upgrade the Grants Town urban area and, less immediately, to
create jobs through industrial promotion. Specific objectives for the
four-year project are:
(a) to provide residents of Grants Town with access to better
housing, public utilities, and community services;
(b) to start revitalizing the Grants Town area;
(c) to build a capability for further improvements in Grants
Town and other neighborhoods in the future;
(d) to strengthen the BAIC, the institution which has the major
role in industrial promotion; and
(e) to protect The Bahamas' major industry, tourism.
39.       The upgrading component consists of the following items:
(a) the purchase of about 280 vacant lots for new housing
throughout the project area and the construction of about
150 dwelling units for rental to low-income elderly
residents. In addition, about 250 houses of modest stand-
ards would be constructed for sale to low- and
moderate-income households, to be wholly financed by
mortgages from commercial banks;
(b) the provision of about 1,200 home improvement loans;
(c) improvement of sanitary and safety conditions for all
residents by means of (i) equipment and vehicle purchase for
solid waste collection and disposal, street and park main-
tenance, and pest control, (ii) traffic improvements and
sidewalk construction and (iii) construction of drainage and
fire wells;



- 9 -
(d) the upgrading of community facilities through construction
of a new community center, improvements of existing public
and private facilities, and park construction and
improvement; and
(e) the funding of the implementation unit, new staff for public
services and related technical assistance.
The upgrading component is designed to preserve, to the extent possible,
the existing scale, structure and social fabric of the Grants Town area.
40.       The industrial promotion component would strengthen the capacity
of the BAIC to promote foreign and domestic investment in industry and its
ability to develop and manage industrial parks. The component emphasizes
institutional strengthening for industrial promotion, which must precede
significant industrial park activities, and includes technical assistance,
start-up costs of BAIC's industrial division, foreign promotion and
training (including training BAIC personnel at the UNIDO industrial
promotion training unit in New York City) and industrial park upgrading.
This component would complement the activities of The Bahamas Development
Bank, which is responsible for providing term financing for industrial and
agricultural enterprises, and which is expected to receive a loan from the
IDB in the near future.
Project Organization and Implementation
41.       The Grants Town Urban Improvement Team (GTUIT), a project unit
established for this project and attached to the Ministry of Finance, would
have overall responsibility for the upgrading component. In carrying out
this responsibility, it would implement some subcomponents directly (home
improvement loans, for example), while coordinating other subcomponents for
implementation by the responsible government department. The BAIC, a
public corporation, would implement the industrial promotion component.
These two agencies would operate with separate reporting and line
relationships with the Government and the Bank. The project is expected to
be completed by June 30, 1985.
42.       Land Purchase and Housing.  The Government would purchase about
280 vacant lots throughout the project area, on which the Department of
Housing would construct about 250 new dwellings of modest standards.
Houses would vary in size according to effective demand for them, with the
average cost expected to be about US$11,600. The houses would be sold to
lower income families with financing to be provided wholly by commercial
banks. About half the units would be targetted at families with annual
incomes under $1,200 per capita. In addition, about 150 one-room dwellings
would be constructed, costing about US$6,000 each, which the Government
would own and rent to low-income senior citizens at subsidized cost. About
1,200 home improvement loans of up to US$7,000 would be offered for repair
and rehabilitation of owner-occupied and rental properties, and for the
provision of bathrooms, including separate water connections and septic
tanks. Special procedures for loan approvals would assure that landlords
could not use loans to finance improvements which require rent increases
beyond the ability to pay of existing tenants.



- 10 -
43.       Loans for the new ownership housing would be executed and
financed under the Government's ongoing mortgage insurance program. Under
this program commercial banks extend finance for up to 95% of the value of
a newly constructed house (including land, mortgage insurance and various
service charges) on terms and interest rates determined in accordance with
the Housing Act (currently 25 years at 10% p.a.). The Government would
obtain yearly commitments from the commercial banks for the provision of
loan funds for houses to be constructed during the following year. Failing
such commitments, the Government would provide the necessary funds (Section
3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement). This is the first time that the mort-
gage insurance program would be used for such low-income families.
44.       Housing improvement loans would be administered by GTUIT, with a
commercial bank providing facilities for receiving repayments. Funds would
be provided wholly from the Government's National Insurance Fund. The
lending rate for home improvement loans would be the maximum rate specified
in the Housing Act (10%). Although this rate is somewhat less than the
rate of inflation (not expected to exceed the current rate of 10.5%), the
Government feels it is important to maintain the same interest rate for
both home improvement and new housing loans. The 10% rate is also
justified because loans will be restricted to low-income people and because
the National Insurance Fund earns enough on its other investments to
cross-subsidize this interest rate. One or more of the following
arrangements would be used to guarantee repayment of home improvement loans
over $3,000: (a) deduction and remittance by employers; (b) guarantees by
friends or relatives; and (c) the use of the house as security. It would
be a condition of the loan that the terms and conditions of agreements to
be entered into with borrowers of home improvement loans would be
acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.04(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). In
addition, the criteria and procedures for the selection of beneficiaries of
the housing loans and senior citizen housing would be acceptable to the
Bank (Section 3.04(b) and Schedule 5 of the draft Loan Agreement).
45.       Public Service Improvements.  A number of separate operations of
various ministries are included to correct present deficiencies in urban
public services. Equipment and vehicles for solid waste collection would
assist in removal and disposal of the bulk refuse and domestic garbage
littering the area, thus reducing unhealthy conditions. The equipment to
be provided includes four trucks, a tractor, tools and equipment for the
repair shop and spare parts, as well as about 3,000 garbage bins, which
would be sold to households at cost. Equipment would be provided also to
meet the need for improved street and park maintenance and for an intensi-
fied program for the control of mosquitoes, flies and rodents. To
alleviate traffic congestion, a new circulation plan would be enacted.
About 700 traffic signals and six traffic lights would be installed on side
streets. Since about 15% of the area is subject to flash flooding, about
100 additional sink wells would be provided. In addition, 42 additional
fire wells would be bored to improve fire protection.
46.       Community Facilities.  A new community center would be con-
structed and equipped on a 35,000 square foot vacant lot, providing a place
for outdoor recreation, day care, senior citizens' assistance, health care,
community activities, satellite government offices, and dissemination of
project information. To encourage and improve the many valuable community
services provided by existing community and service organizations, grants



- 11 -
would be provided to these organizations for building improvement and
equipment. A sum of US$400,000 would be made available on a matching basis
of cash or kind at the rate of US$100,000 per year, with a maximum of
US$10,000 per organization per year. Priority would be given to projects
linked to employment opportunities and activities for women, youths and
senior citizens. Two new neighborhood parks would be developed on vacant
lots. In addition, a basketball court would be built in a primary school,
while general improvements would be made to eight existing parks.
47.       Assistance in Project Implementation for the Upgrading Component.
The project includes financing of salaries and other expenses of GTUIT and
the start-up cost of improved urban services. The Government would con-
tinue these improved services after the completion of the project (Section
3.11 of the draft Loan Agreement). About 44 man-months of technical
assistance would be provided, including advice to GTUIT, the Housing
Department and other executing agencies, architectural design and proposals
for future operations.
48.       The Industrial Promotion Component.  Strengthening the BAIC is
part of the Government's efforts to create additional jobs in industry by
diversifying the economy, strengthening the institutions involved, and
taking advantage of The Bahamas' competitive position for foreign invest-
ment. The project would: (a) provide an estimated 57 man-months of tech-
nical assistance to the BAIC to improve its organization and operations;
(b) help finance incremental start-up costs of BAIC's industrial division,
including salaries, rent and other office expenses; (c) provide training of
BAIC personnel at the UNIDO industrial promotion training unit in New York
City, and help finance the costs of establishing a promotional office in
New York City and of carrying out its promotion program; and (d) upgrade an
existing industrial park, including erection of two modular buildings, and
fencing, lighting and improving the roads of the industrial park.
49.       In 1971 the Government established the Bahamas Development
Corporation (BDC) to carry out the development of certain areas and to
engage in industrial promotion activities generally. In the early 1970s,
industrial promotion was initiated, but these efforts were unsuccessful
mainly because the BDC was not adequately staffed for a sufficient length
of time to become fully operational. Efforts lasted less than two years,
and, due to political problems associated with the original supervising
Ministry, BDC has been largely ineffective since 1975. In December 1981,
the Government established the BAIC to carry out the functions previously
accomplished by the Bahamas Agricultural Corporation (BAC) and the BDC.
All the assets, liabilities and agreements of the BAC and the BDC have been
transferred to the BAIC. Although the BAIC is one entity with consolidated
financial statements, its functions will be carried out by two separate
divisions, which will have separate staff, accounts and line relationships
with the Board of Directors of the BAIC. The former BDC will operate as
the industrial division, and will be responsible for implementation of the
industrial promotion component.
50.       To accomplish the revitalization of BAIC's industrial division,
the following measures have been taken: (a) passage of the Act creating
the BAIC and extension of its industrial development responsibilities to
the entire country; (b) preparation of a statement clarifying the
division's promotional role, coordination responsibilities with other
Government agencies and financial and administrative policies, which would
not be amended without Bank approval (Section 2.04 of the draft Project



- 12 -
Agreement); (c) hiring of key staff, including a new managing director and
three other professionals; and (d) provision of equity funds. It would be
a condition of disbursement of the industrial promotion component that BAIC
has hired a Managing Director to take charge of its industrial division,
the financial statements of the BDC have been updated to March 13, 1981 or
a later date, and the audit report of such financial statements has been
sent to the Bank. In addition, BAIC should have furnished the Bank with a
plan to strengthen the finances and management of its agricultural
operations (Schedule 1(4)(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
51.       The total estimated cost of the project, including taxes
(estimated at US$0.9 million) and contingencies is US$24.4 million with a
foreign exchange cost of US$10.6 million. The Grants Town urban upgrading
component would have a total cost of US$20.6 million; while the cost of the
industrial promotion component would amount to US$3.8 million. The pro-
posed Bank loan of US$5.8 million would have a term of 15 years, including
3 years of grace, with interest at 11.6% p.a., and would finance 24% of
total costs (excluding taxes) and 55% of the foreign exchange cost. The
remaining costs would be financed through a government contribution of
US$14.2 million and mortgage loans of US$4.3 million which would be pro-
vided by commercial banks and would be insured by the Government. The cost
estimates of the various project subcomponents are indicated in the Loan
and Project Summary.
52.       Cost estimates are based on:  (a) preliminary or final designs
and specifications prepared by consultants for this project; (b) unit costs
for foreign promotion obtained from the Barbados Industrial Development
Corporation (BIDC), which has been involved in foreign promotion for over
ten years; or (c) estimates of prevailing government salaries and exper-
ience with similar operations in The Bahamas. The cost of consultant ser-
vices provided under the project averages about US$7,500 per man-month
(including overhead, subsistence and travel). The total project cost
referred to in the previous paragraph includes US$1.8 million (10%) for
physical contingencies and US$4.7 million for expected price escalation
during the implementation period.
Cost Recovery and Affordability
53.       About 59% of the total costs of the project would be recovered
from direct beneficiaries, with the remainder financed by general
revenues. About 66% of the costs of the upgrading component, i.e., the
costs of all items which are used exclusively by individual householders
(except senior citizen housing) including land, housing, septic tanks and
garbage containers, are recoverable from the beneficiaries. Community-wide
improvement would be financed by general revenues. The Government is
currently undertaking a review of its property tax system, and the Bank
would be given the opportunity to comment before the Government takes any
action as a result of the study (Section 3.08 of the draft Loan
Agreement). Senior citizen housing would be rented at subsidized rates to
permit these people to remain in the community. The subsidies would be
modest (about $100,000 p.a. upon completion) and would not constitute a
heavy burden for the Government, even if fully replicated to include the
entire target group in the country. About 17% of the costs of the



- 13 -
industrial promotion component would be recoverable from the tenants of the
industrial park. The remainder of the costs--technical assistance, foreign
promotion and travel--are not recoverable from direct beneficiaries and
would be financed from the Government's contribution to BAIC.
54.       Home improvement loans would be affordable to families down to
the 1lth percentile of the New Providence income distribution; home owner-
ship to the 20th percentile, and senior citizen housing to the very poorest
residents. To make housing more affordable to the lowest income groups,
the Government would rebate the duties on imported building materials.
Procurement and Disbursement
55.       The project involves procurement of about US$4.9 million of civil
works and US$1.6 million of equipment. In addition, contractors and
suppliers need to be selected for US$4.2 million of works covered by home
improvement loans. Housing construction and home improvement would
comprise nearly 1,500 separate contracts. Because contract packages would
be too small to be of interest to foreign contractors and suppliers (indi-
vidual home improvement contracts would average about $3,500 and new
housing construction packages are unlikely to exceed $100,000), procure-
ment would be carried out under local competitive bidding procedures.
These procedures are consistent with Bank guidelines and would not preclude
the participation of foreign firms. Force account may be used for miscel-
laneous works, including the installation of street lighting and the con-
struction of additional storm drainage, fire wells and sidewalks (estimated
at US$780,000).  Expenditures for the promotion subcomponent of the BAIC
component would be in accordance with annual promotion plans and budgets
developed by the BAIC and approved by the Bank (Section 2.03 of the draft
Project Agreement).  Disbursements of Bank funds for this subcomponent
would be conditioned on Bank approval of these plans and budgets (Schedule
1(4)(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
56.       The Bank would disburse:  (a) 65% of total expenditures for civil
works excluding new housing construction and home improvements; (b) 100% of
expenditures for consultant services; and (c) 100% of foreign expenditures
for equipment, fixtures or furniture and for foreign promotion, travel and
training, with the disbursement percentage being 70% if these goods and
services are purchased locally. Overall, the Bank would reimburse the
total foreign currency costs of the project, except for the foreign costs
of new housing financed by commercial banks through the government-insured
mortgage program and home improvements and about $100,000 of BAIC's foreign
expenditures for industrial promotion.
57.       Civil works performed through force account would be reimbursed
by the Bank on the basis of Statements of Expenditures submitted by GTUIT.
These Statements of Expenditures would be audited as part of the periodic
examination of GTUIT's accounts by its external auditors. Reimbursement
claims for all other project expenditures (85% of total disbursements)
would be fully documented. In order not to delay implementation of the
project, a part of the expenditures incurred after January 1, 1981, not
exceeding US$500,000 equivalent, would be financed retroactively. These
funds would be required in partial payment of expenses incurred by The
Bahamas Government to purchase equipment for the environmental improvement



- 14 -
subcomponents (US$280,000), to meet the foreign exchange costs of technical
assistance and equipment for GTUIT (US$100,000), and to initiate infra-
structure improvements (US$120,000).
Project Benefits and Risks
58.       The project represents The Bahamas' first attempt to alleviate
urban poverty through slum upgrading and industrial promotion. The
Government and the Bank gave substantial attention during the preparation
of the project to the formulation of appropriate strategies for both the
urban and industrial sectors. The formulation of these strategies, which
focus primarily on institution building and appropriate long-term policies,
constitutes an important achievement in itself. The project would involve
a phased approach to slum upgrading, using a simple coordinating mechanism
especially relevant in a country as small as The Bahamas. Primarily an
institution-building effort, the industrial promotion component represents
a significant step in beginning to address the problems of economic
diversification and employment creation.
59.       The project was designed to offer maximum benefits to the urban
poor through upgrading the largest and poorest neighborhood in the country
and by assuring that a wide range of benefits would be made available to
fit the circumstances of particular income groups. Alleviating urban
poverty is particularly important in The Bahamas, where the economy is
dependent on the continued vitality of the tourism industry. Through
improved sanitation and the elimination of unhealthy conditions, the
project would reduce the risk of infectious disease. The project would
also alleviate a source of social discontent through focussed attention on
environmental improvements and employment generation. An outbreak of
infectious disease or social unrest could seriously harm the tourism
industry, the mainstay of the Bahamian economy.
60.       Approximately 84% of the total investment would benefit residents
of Grants Town directly, and the remaining 16% would be used in the
industrial promotion component. All of the residents of Grants Town would
benefit from area-wide improvements such as street lighting, sidewalk
construction, drainage and the community center. In addition, more
specific benefits would accrue to the residents who took advantage of loans
for either home improvements or the new housing provided in the project.
Given the modest design standards to be used, it is estimated that about
94% of the houses, representing 80% of the total cost of investment in
housing under this project would be accessible to beneficiaries below the
relative poverty line.
61.       An internal economic rate of return (IERR) analysis has been done
for all of the housing subcomponents of the upgrading components (constitu-
ting approximately 64% of total project costs). Assuming a project life of
20 years, the rate of return would be 17%. A delay of one year in benefits
would reduce the rate to 13% and an increase in costs of 10% would reduce
the rate to 14%.



- 15 -
62.       Some institution building aspects, as well as the coordination
arrangements envisaged in the project, might prove to be somewhat difficult
to handle for Bahamian officials who are not familiar with these
procedures. Since this could cause implementation delays, steps have been
taken to minimize them. These include the setting of modest targets, the
beginning of some projects works before loan effectiveness, the staffing of
the project unit with able and experienced members, the provision of sub-
stantial technical assistance, and the establishment of simple management-
oriented monitoring and evaluating mechanisms to facilitate project execu-
tion and early correction of problems which may arise.
63.       Regarding the BAIC component, there is a risk that the BAIC may
fail to promote new investment, even if it does its job efficiently. The
options for employment creation have been carefully analyzed, however, and
promotion of industrial investment offers a reasonable opportunity for
creating employment and diversifying the economy. Through this project the
Bank would continue its dialogue with the Government on the industrial sec-
tor, and a periodic review of industrial incentives and their implementa-
tion would be conducted between the Government and the Bank (Section 3.07
of the draft Loan Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Commonwealth of The Bahamas
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the BAIC
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii)
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in
Section III of Annex III. Conditions for disbursement for the BAIC
component include the hiring by BAIC's industrial division of a Managing
Director, the updating of BDC's financial statements and the furnishing to
the Bank of an audit report on the updated financial statement, and the
furnishing to the Bank of a plan, acceptable to the Bank, to strengthen the
finances and management of BAIC's agricultural operations.
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
by
Moeen A. Qureshi
Attachments
January 21, 1982






Page 1 of 5
BAHAMAS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BAHAMAS                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                             - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL              13.9                                   MOST RECENT               MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL        0.2                1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN               EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   1090.0       2030.0    2750.0                     1616.2                     2609.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    1824.4          4118.1    5703.4                     1324.1                     2368.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MtID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   113.0          177.0      234.0 *
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 64.3            57.8       54.4                      64.2                       53.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                            0.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (HILLIONS)
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                           8.1         12.7       16.8                      34.3                       80.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    753.3          1041.2    1335.3                       94.5                      133.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                            44.1         43.6       41.0                      40.7                       30.1
15-64 YRS.                            52.3         52.9       55.0                      55.3                       61.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      3.6          3.5        4.0                       4.0                        8.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 3.6/c        4.5/c      3.1/c                     2.4                        1.5
URBAN                                 2.7          3.4        2.4                       3.7                        3.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        30.0         27.6       25.9                      31.4                       22.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         7.6          6.2        4.5                       8.4                        9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  ..          1.7        1.6                       2.3                        1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..              ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)               ..        100.0         ..                     108.3                      119.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     94.0        101.0       96.0                     107.6                       125.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             69.0         72.0       62.2                      65.8                       92.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         44.0         49.0       38.3                       34.0                       39.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         7.0          6.0        4.0                       7.6                        3.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    62.6            65.7       69.0                      64.1                       68.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              51.8         36.4       24.7                      70.9                       25.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         65.0       65.0                      65.7
URBAN                                            100.0      100.0                      79.7
RURAL                                  *-         12.0      13.0                       43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         66.0       65.0                      59.9
URBAN                                            100.0      100.0                      75.7
RURAL                                  ..         13.0      13.0                       30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            2017.9        1144.7    1500.0                     1728.2                      973.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         295.0        331.3/d   373.5                     1288.2                      896.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               174.7        203.2      252.0                     471.2                      262.3
URBAN                                  ..        232.5     280.9                      558.0                      191.8
RURAL                                  ..      1035.2    1708.1
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..         18.4       23.7                                                 18.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 4.1/e        4.1
URBAN                                4.0o           ..         .
RURAL                                4.2/           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 1.2/e         ..
URBAN                                 1.27          ..         ...
RURAL                                 1.27e         ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                58.0/e         ..         ..
URBAN                               73.0/           ..        ..
RURAL                               31.l/e          ..         ..



-  17  -                              ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
BAHAMAS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BAHAMAS                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA9ES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)  -
MOST RECENT               MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN               EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                  78.0        135.0       99.0                     101.7                      105.9
MALE                     ..           ..         ..                     103.0                      109.6
FEMALE                   ,.        139.0         ..                     101.5                      102.2
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   56.0         75.0       75.0                      35.3                       66.3
MALE                     ..           ..         ..                      34.9                       73.2
FEMALE                   ..         79.0         ..                      35.6                       59.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)   1.0             2.0       10.0                      30.1                       28.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             55.0          45.0       24.0                      29.6                       26.8
SECONDARY                              ..        33.0        19.0                      15.7                       23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          90.0/e       93.0       93.0                      80.0                       75.4
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          71.0        249.2      173.0                       42.6                       83.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         141.6        452.0      442.9                      215.0                      181.6
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           19.0           ..         ..                      89.0                      131.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    94.0        158.2      118.5                      62.8                      123.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..              ..         ..                       3.2                        5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)          52.0/e       70.0       93.9
FEMALE (PERCENT)                       ..           ..      47.3                       22.6                       32.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                16.0          7.0        5.0                      35.0                       34.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                     ..         19.6       16.7                      23.2                       28.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                    ..           ..       41.3                      31.8                       42.3
MALE                                     ..           ..       46.9                      49.0                       56.5
FEMALE                                   ..           ..       35.8                      14.6                       28.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 0.9          1.3        1.1                       1.4                        0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..         20.7
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            50.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..          3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..         12.2
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..        ..                      187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..            ..        ..                     513.9
RURAL                                  ..           ..        ..                     362.2                       385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..
RURAL                                  ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Due to migration, population growth rate is higher than the rate of natural increase;  /d 1968;  /e 1963.
* The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population estimates to be shown in the
1981 World Bank Atlas are $3300 (at 1978-80 prices) 3nd 241,000.
May, 1981



ANNEXI
-18 -                                                      Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS0 OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Noese:  Although the data are drasti  from  8ote   .en.raiy judged the   o tha-bei-tat-n sod toiable, ic should also be ooood char they soy nte  be inter-
nationally comparableb hec.os  of the loch of stodedioed dnftnitiooo  sod  -o-cprs oted by diffetoot  -o-iolo  in o11iloct g rhe dota.  The dote are, rote-
theleoo, useful co deortibe ordero  of magoicodo, Oodtcrtredo-d, and oh o-norir-   -otolo oujor dtfftrecooo  h.,e.100   --orinde
Clcofrcc   topouv-cc~lf  theso     ......tyar.tp.       rnouh- -je-ro--orrood  flfoIoo...try g--uootr-ttotehut hoghero-erart i--oueIIaorlo.a..crtyct-p
othotitcccocry r euept for '          ipcll  Surp1uo O1il potea' g-p chore ''t4iddle Ioone torch Afrtc- ucd fotddie PEa-' On choa..o becoone of stroner
one  Iotiaco .or   ...n ano  rht rontoy and ref.ertte groups.
LAND4 dREA (thi...aodeqhn                                                                               opul-i-o pec fo-P,t  lSed      o          -b- c., too rurl - fp,lurortio-
Totof    Toco  sonlfoce areaoortogfo             Ira     d itloed  .eatra.                             urban, -rd curol f dcrodod hob      lroocueulrofhsIa    edo
Anriclrurl -  ntimae ofagrfoltarl era uud teeporafily Io pee.oty..f..et   ohc   odptor   t                                               .rfnd eecalo          bytal and I.
k h.                   111:1d                                                         .1e --bly  c   oa   cr  ivocac    rcollto ho poolcr  prod-lp-llpA"I'l-
iSP  ilt01001 ftS) GNP9 per capita  estlirtos or ..rr. :-     urlke  proo         -du   ae are too  _oc lolod. Rua                            .pono   ore. Ooludt health
coleto   by none oooriemthod .s oct10 Buch Atlao  7190-79 100102'  0900,                                td medtrI..... . .o.er .c..er .c.olo, sto1ffd  by u phyolcoat (hoct hy
1970,Iao  1979 dor.                                                                                    nedi-1u-i-rloo         -r-    I&nestdtf,otfl hocoft                 pecucor occoe_-
dolo   nd provide a 1-cniro  r-ga oO nnd-cl f-cllite,.  Poct"I           l
EnErooT CSUt0T1010   PtR 0A1000A - Auu-a  -ococerci- of cc ier l rorg luoI                                t1iclppos urboohon            cu   ico-do W0cprocolgoea    oyta
and  ligooc, etoc,ocuu                   odhyr,         oootr  o  goloraleec                           alrua  Oopoa              - oalo  curO   onttlauo                      - -Oalad  uroct
tnrcOcpf ic kilogroa of col-         lolatPro coplc; 1960, 1970,..ad 1079                              o crr.   recl cd hcaupcc-1  are Occluded cIb  audee  toaI
r.o. hoaptoltl droidoc bp the tuic  fcos
PPUL11ATONfA D1 011I1. STATiTICt
T..   PPI       -nA an  f Holy 1; '967, 1070, -od 1979                                             HOUSlINGl
difforo d....       ooofahn  ra  oyffc-tcopoeahility Ifddr                                           nod  heu        "cocoa0o  A Ihondn... onlodgrco  -rnyo  ho On.cludd On
om_g   _ooolnl     100   9f,  n  1.79 data,                                                          the houoehoio  Oor  ItItiucOcal poya..
Peoulacice Pr-le-i..at,,n -oogronho  ofpeau p                                                                                      pe  co-  otl  oa , ad _rue   - boc..ge tale-
ltota  ppulatoc. hy oge and ... ..nd thetr nrtlopad fa1tillnynarotn.                              dtOlliogo, rpet ictoly.  Ic-1liloo  tucfudeo-o-pero5uoettttOctcad
Proj.ecooc par terer  for -ortality rotbs ooprt- of nhrce                                              ..el   100   coupied p--ct
log life eupert-nry a   it  coreasong nicO    cornpe   aI    nos                                  ceto0 t.Eectucro-        crnc  of d-toct  -co-               ubn   odrra 
rotl, ond fenal  loft enytotacop am 1idhiota .70.5 yProa.  Tie p.r-                               Coe-eti-or1 durllicgt o1hi  elori.        t   to    cog-uo-er  a
attafor fe'rclfty rot  asoh rehlie                   --tlaac,a     d-lo. tn                   cf tlocl. urhon, nod r-co  deltiE,ig  r-p-otc-ey.
fertilitty a-ordong ho i-c-n  loot   .1 on  pn  feCApiveo   yrfret
tact country Ot ohan aetitndoaof oheacorolctouo   orlt                                         0000
ood  ertil-ic p tea -do for projeorio   .puror.e                                                Adjcatd corcOlu-ct fortca
-cuonor  erpuaioci-Ino  oral -oory  pplco    here  coorgo-holo                                      Prna-nocol-co.r.1oO. o..n.d teco1t-Orcn  corl. aie and f..nale
natcesac.   huO                 haheh oolnfe    eiclyrae    cl r   o                                   rnrynho-anppuato;  onlctnlun    hlorcogdhl
rhe brephacello  leelo  n    pororoou-do rot,,o I.  .ao   ge.c..               rto.  .rrtOt  dlocF frdOtro   ecg                                     fplay   d,io   o
aier level.                                                                                          ncThOoctqaeenatInan   for min   f opnoedyrinry  ootuohoO
Pen SI. ha. - Id-year popaltuc per   n        _eokioeteri.(ifO hnnrn   tfonoa   toleolecoto   aodn)-coait talulu
Iota  arm;1900  1071and"179 dra.pOclud                                                                pte plcaI, nodntr-l  orohrprbrm    hlionae   neo
ony t10.19fad  90Ono                                                                        oolcecnrau-e  er.  r    ecndary-Toral  otudect netredt
04   thare  :,,udretiend (h05 . y    fead-aoir0 an  fertiricagen  of mid-year00-                      Poreepooc- ldrln
lacOoc;    ..  lOh.191  sd190dta.d                                                                   adult 1 -t--     .plli    .. oray rac   (peronoc)I I I tIcerte dinfbl   cra   adrIr
Po iula coo  booth Rle-hd f ec-t- oal-lnoalgcef rc                    f1o2 td                           npeoncg    of cotol adult; po--cieoged i.... for. an  000..._
aI.,n   for 190h,lh-1   e   907PseorCn  pr .d                                                                               houan  oooaloriof-Pssgrcaecmes    eo
poplaiy;   0000. 1197.1,9od107  docAa.m,il-Itarye vehicles.-det   er.j.   i
Crudeleoin  . hare _(pr      peoa end(   -Chonil deatoa-1 pen rhosadso  mod.-ygea                    tatoi. yeeor   (or -hd-oo  royclady4dyhtb - Allr chnof rne-hionr   frhndi
pepulaion; lOd, 190, no  1979  arn.                                                    boadoano  to  oorrolpubilaptr ohuoondnf paplattoo   noniret at
drssldrductr se-neage  lcned  ofr daugperaaooeao.  001 bdsyr inp                               iieoorciotsi   onti_adOnyaoeenrlaetOto 
her  ormo   eepedattv.de perIodtOAh   neluo    ra             g-pcfofr                          at   osi   fet   aofrrcn   ee   a  not be oaeai ic
of bIrh-con Rol-ni    under- autlu-a of. national famIly pnif         g pnort    .               enaoitd-   p     entg.ft.. huod. population; enolds alyleensed TO'osnier
fam  iy -u iGr-hCReI.  (percent of crrie   eo-.eI  r-theronae.  of  manned ...                     GSToIounee   rdO   er   hcrgntolto   isreat                                   at
lodno of foo  1ro9 ot0 a 19 er Caiaf10-110                ldno  per9caitoIanaa                           Irendnuly  e iccendnocoCct    eYaeOsde   h   ubro
tOr   nccidd)   Agegr  rodoio    f  to                                                                                                                     h_ry  n  oed0  1111000
outittl overge prdooer  inionEnihs    96-I990,ad17  data                                  TotleLabor Proti~r.I (cou .o.  -  coeiniacieprso,unld
IIRrge-qutva lea  ofne  food auI        isaaibl   ccutppc   otocvrtgpplto   of allht                                              ages.1  le.Idgitslvalono,tnoeIf  are
per day   bIlbl   soplo   opIno  omer     poodactu, importa1fi lent                                 not- comparable; 1960. 17   e  0919 dan.l    y.              bl.prl   i
quacilenne   I  fon  p-rocnigr o   o aO                       intetho ion  IcqIre9elc   ae ..ceroent -' iho  foc   tCaet.f_ety    c.te    c
neonn  ere ct mutd ho  Ap booed    .. on  hylorgo-  o-1ceda  fo noesl.adO-                  fccish -og a    prethage of total     . labor f   rce   96,197  otrd 1979I don.
otty  nod henich octld erung norironnoxol cenysratuor. boy  nelobin  . og           ....ac-y Opbrcie I- taho   fo..dre lIit ltog  coototot    osfctn
andil  Pace  iecethotlot ofPoplnl arirn adX,nlwtg1  pero   ootetoc                                   and __erctiep,d' wate aod ta  an. porrotage_ f    ros0at   fene  1990
qutcemer  fo   Ll ..u..  le.ng        lse   yco   roleermxna                                       eonaen0   ca,ml   n   ee                   popuanio  or i ldg I erespitely
nloac-fU       0gasoftnlpTtRIaTIyod2   raso   nme   o                                             90  1970,ti.  d--d 07  daa ritan are basd   g..ed 00 1.'  patl  J.alo  rates ..
pulsi Fedptot   fott1   rm    budh   nmlpoec   Ob-dtstan-l                                           oefctto Atc-enn Inoue   nth    opltlt  an.d  long tinetred f
ands ace  ocef tha  those o  75 geam   of totalpruteit  nd 29 gnmn of                fe  ettleare afcPfro  tariona  soarots
soimal preeiooseaeomgt forthePoord, propose  bp               -d O  ehe, Thid              tioknoeo  leedevhtt  -  oto  f  oplaIonndrd                      t   0ndoe
tPe:tota  eoel _     supel fgrome  anImali aod rue  -.Pro tryto  suppl  of foodRde-C
etoed  frn   ari.a.  and ..rPulses  .inhgramope  day;           . 91- I, 970ad17 d  ata.      TIrCN  IOtITRer...,TIiOir
Chl lae II4  PItln  Rt   cr  huad f                AntonA dtatf C.per. fbaan   t                Pmrc.e ..ne Io Prdv  Ouomed (lath            dic g oah and kltdl     hetdeitdhot a
agsgoupl4  yers.  ochideenloofioagilbl grup  frmostdecaigoo-                              9peon,r-sc   9preh,pont.fpret                             .adar.          O   eon
soes daum   A-cilbd from life  uiesi-t1  19d-         an  199 into,                                 of.lte b-anehlda 16.      97   .   97   :
hal .lotIotonoy no  firb(er)-Aeaeuuhro.er   fll remadd           iing                             The ,,following        )  Leboesre ofyr apioOe            ..aoe  of pover-tyt letdt
nf hInh  190,  100        yO 1979 ed-   h.ilgi. data.                                               ned e1 ,i-  ghoul  ht p on-ryrened ointooostdIrerablIdutt"I
Inftt   _d benll tc hate. i loe sasod  -o_ naldeth_o fr1anteundettone ytar                        Osnimated Ab    Llt        b-oet  Income Lee  (tOpecpia   cbe  n   uo
A lnneolotbate(drer   f  oc               ltol-ittl   .eat.ddrualI.mrtt ttfci~iy orc. tldie    I c                                               _ en Beionrfoo treqitetaI o
Per of popl  (tta,  eho  oo-uo)nc     Praaooileacs -                   to Ifper                      affordable.-t..,   l,  ._j-.    .tii.t. 
lete supply- (focldPer donoce   sur-p  f acenaer do IcorcatedA hut           Rt-tnl a             Estimated      .  Iel tio   Ponent Inom  Level; (10$  tr    ptl-uhad f l    b-f runal 
waersuh --     ou  frem  promoted  horlo eo arong,  aud 20        aetnaryosiOla)6 059Rural r                        dlav 7v  dov rcy  Ocoh  evl  PIa  n-dido  aveag   p          .r.atr
ofohiresocio        pooaiota   loo   eboenoolo                                    entl    nos  ofroco                 tlhue  lvltoi deIve.fe  terua
fonot   rsreysnlcaei     orsr  than    i-lmttsfo aluemy holevelh.otri  gdjunoe tr-fo   bule  cstoflitg   t  r10  ren
codernd so hoe nci  raeaeuceno thai..cf7  --       ..     house.i    Itrl    Oaeo                 oled 23or-ula-rioc. Oe.o '.Ihelut   ott   noeLO(ecn)-ra
veasr.olea        :Y;sooul  f..op,iyha  t~ha h-nIdf  or... ncbey POfi the Toshoid           d    E ..      ra..   Po±~rcmjeot.o po.RlaIoc Iforbao1ood roec       5 cid are "alued
dotot hared cc_ e       qeod  o d   7pr Ioro I..t p rt of  hehda  In ftchobthefoor''
rh    oleto  aod d.liyofl  each. ar960,h19           197t9ot  oft. huucnhet                        .o.n..ndSoiahIcacoo'o
Lfan .t.yI   it    y..                A-.e.brfyl.c   i.- .igT.'li" t-e    .vr ioaiullati.n...Ro  1991pery1-e
ISnaln  e   bMOca  -d P1p79 tIoo diie    o      ot   fpatiigpyi
ctunsqtoollficdfsomandeadtoalfscboodi  ..  atconcvsrAolnyoevtll(S$..rt.pL.  - .rb.   d _r.
Poouioiltn oe  naming Perso-h. PoulrOn   Ivde   h  oehr  f  ratti
maleaud  emom  geduaenuren,prctial  urIt,noLa_inleteur'I



- 19 -                                                   ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
BAHAMAS: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
(Current US$ million)
(As a percentage of GDF)
Actual                  Estimate                    Actual                Estimate
1976      1977      1978       1979      1980       1976      1977      1978      1979   1980
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
',ross Domestic Product             550.0    588.8    677.3        804.4    933.0        100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Imports (including NFS)             526.5    551.5    657.8        791.0  1,040.0        95.7      93.7      97.1      98.3
Exports (including NFS)             682.1    699.7    820.3        925.5  1,130.7       124.0    118.8    121.1    115.0
Consumption a/                      319.9    377.0    445.0        563.8      ..         58.2      64.0      65.7       70.0
Investment                           74.5      63.6      69.8      106.1      ,          13.5      10.8      10.3      13.2
Domestic Savings                    230.1    211.8    232.3        240.6       ,         41.8       36.0      34.3      30.0
National Savings                    141.4    123.2    103.1        110.8      ,,         25.6      20.9      15.2      13.8
PUBLIC SECTOR FINANCES
Current Revenues b/                 146.8    160.4    198.5        240.4    296.7         26.7      27.2     29.3      29.9   31.8
Current Expenditures                125.9    137.3    158.1        178.6    209.0         22.9      23.3      23.3      22.2   22.2
Current Account Surplus              20.9      23.1      40.4       61.8      87.7         3.8       3.9      6.0        7.7    9.4
Capital Expenditures & net
Lending                           39.0      31.0      46.2       57.7      85.2        7.1       5.2       6.8       7.2    9.1
Overall Balance                     -18.1      -7.9      -5.8        4.1        2.5      -3.3       -1.3     -0.8        0.5    0.3
Financing                            18.1       7.9       5.8       -4.1      -2.5         3.3       1.3      0.8      -0.5   -0.3
Banking Svstem - Domestic
Currency                           22.1    -10.0       20.2      -22.0      -7.4        4.0      -1.7       3.0      -2.7   -0.8
Banking System - Foreign
Currency                            3.4      17.8      -4.1        1.2       4.3        0.6        3.0     -0.6       0.1    0.5
Non-Residents - Foreign
Currency                          -10.9       5.3      -8.0        1.8       4.0       -2.0       0.9      -1.2       0.2    0.4
Other                                 3.5      -5.2      -2.3       14.9      -3.4         0.7     -0.9      -0.4        1.9   -0.4
a/ Estimated as a residual
b/  Includes operating surplus of departmental enterprises and non-financial public corporations.
August 1981



ANNEX I
- 20 -                                 Page 5 of 5
BAHAMAS: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
(Current US$ million)
Actual                    Estimated
1976       1977       1978       1979         1980
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (including NFS)                         682.1      699.7      820.3      925.5      1,130.7
Imports (including NFS)                         526.5      551.5      657.8      791.0      1,040.0
Resource Balance  a/                            155.6      148.2      162.5      134.5         90.7
Factor Services (Nlet)                          -93.6      -94.0    -136.6    -141.6         -134.9
Current Transfers (Net) b/                        4.9        5.4        7,4       11.8         17.8
Current account                                  66.9       59.6       33.3        4.7        -26.4
Capital Account (Medium & Long Term)              4.7       38.0      -28.1       -1.2         14.3
Public Sector  c/                               -10.3        4.6      -10.2        3.6          6.2
Private Sector                                   15.0       33.4      -17.9       -4.8          8.1
Banking System  d/                              -35.1       21.5        1.8      -29.0         -4.n
Short-Term Capital & Error and Omissions    -42.6          -99.5      -16.2       40.6         14.3
Special Transactions e/                           0.3        0.1        0.6        4.7         15.5
Change in International Reserves f/               5.8      -19.7        8.6      -19.8        -13.7
PUBLIC AND PUBLIC GUARANTEED FOREIGN CURRENCY DEBT
AND DEBT SERVICE
Outstanding & Disbursed at end of period         86.0      109.4       97.4      100.6        108.8
Outstanding & Disbursed at beginning of
period                                        93.6       86.0      109.4       97.4        100.6
Amortization                                     13.6       14.3       15.5       21.0         20.4
Interest                                          7.2        6.4        9.7       11.8         11.4
Total Debt Service                               20.8       20.7       25.2       32.8         31.8
Debt Service as a % of Exports and NFS            3.0        2.9        3.0        3.5          2.8
Amortization as % of Debt at beginning
of period                                     14.5       16.6       14.2       21.6         20.2
Interest as % of Debt at beginning of
period                                         7.7        7.4        8.9       12.1         11.3
IBRD Debt (end of period)                         -          0.4        0.7        1.0          2.7
IBRD Debt as a % of Total Debt                    -          0.4        0.7        1.0          2.5
IBRD Debt Service as a % of Total
Service                                                   -          0.5        1.5          2.4
a/ Based on official figures. These figures must be treated with caution as evidenced by the
large statistical discrepancy of the balance of payments (short-term capital and errors and
omissions).
bi Refers to government transfers only. Private transfers recorded in the official figures are
considered labor income, and as such are considered (in this presentation) as Factor Services.
c/ Refers to foreign currency debt with non-residents.
d/ Includes Special Transactions of the monetary authorities such as SDR allocations and gold
restitution and profits.
e/ Includes SDR's allocations, valuation adjustment and gold sales profits.
f/ Minus equals increase.
Source:  Central Bank of Bahamas and IMF.                                                     August 1981



- 21 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE BAHAMAS
Statement of Bank Loans as of September 30, 1981
----US$ million-------
(Amount less Cancellation)
Loan         Year    Borrower          Purpose       Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
1320-BM     1976    The Bahamas       Water and    10.0        -          5.2
Water and        Sewerage
Sewerage
Corporation
1962-BM 1/  1981    The Bahamas       Vocational/   7.0        -          7.0
Technical
Education
Total                                                17.0      -         12.2
Of which has been repaid                            1.5      --
Total now outstanding                                15.5      -         12.2
Total Undisbursed                                      -       -         12.2
Statement of Projects in Execution as of September 30, 1981
None.
Status of Projects in Execution as of September 30, 1981 2/
Ln. No. 1320-BM: Water and Sewerage Project for New Providence Island;
US$10.0 Million Loan of September 10,1976; Effective
Date: November 15, 1976; Closing Date: October 30, 1981
Problems experienced in the formation of the Water and Sewerage
Corporation (WSC), resulted in delays in the early stages of project
execution. The WSC management has overcome most of its early problems and
project execution is now proceeding well. Recently, WSC has experienced
1/ Not yet effective.
2/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 22 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
financial difficulties due to increased operating costs and, as a result,
has not achieved the financial targets of the Loan Agreement. WSC's plan
to overcome these difficulties is expected shortly. WSC has requested a
reallocation of uncommitted loan funds and a postponement of the Closing
Date to December 31, 1982. As of September 30, 1981, the project was about
75% complete and all unfinished work was under contract. The project is
expected to be completed by mid-1982. The total project cost is expected
to exceed the appraisal estimate by 10%.
Loan No. 1962-BM: Vocational and Technical Education Project; US$7.0
Million Loan of May 8, 1981; Effective Date:
Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
This loan is not yet effective.



- 23 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
THE BAHAMAS
Section I:    Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: two years
(b)  Project prepared by:  Government/Consultants
(c)  Identification Mission:  November 1978
(d)  Appraisal Mission:  December 1980
(e)  Negotiations:  September 1981
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:  May 1982
Section II:   Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III:  Special Conditions
(a)  The Government would obtain yearly commitments from
commercial banks for the provision of funds for new
housing loans. Failing such commitments, the Government
would provide the necessary funds (para 43);
(b)  The terms and conditions of agreements to be entered
into with subborrowers of home improvement loans would
be acceptable to the Bank (para 44);
(c)  Criteria and procedures for selecting beneficiaries of
houses and house improvement loans would be
satisfactory to the Bank (para 44);
(d)  The Government would continue the improved public
services initiated under the project (para 47);
(e)  The BAIC would not amend its industrial operating
policies without Bank approval (para 50);
(g)  It would be a condition of disbursements of the
industrial promotion component that: (i) BAIC's
industrial division has appointed a qualified and
experienced managing director; (ii) the financial
statements of the BDC have been updated and the Bank has
been furnished with the audit report of such statements;
and (iii) BAIC has furnished the Bank with a plan,
acceptable to the Bank, to strengthen the finances and
management of BAIC's agricultural operations (para 50);



- 24 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(h) The Government would provide the Bank the opportunity to
comment on the findings of property tax system study
before taking any action (para 53);
(i) Expenditures for industrial promotion by the BAIC would
be in accordance with annual budgets and subject to Bank
approval. Disbursements of Bank funds for this subcom-
ponent would be conditioned on Bank approval of BAIC's
yearly budgets (para 55);
(j) The Government would periodically review with the Bank
industrial incentives and their implementation until the
end of the project (para 63).






OF LOW U"4COME                                                                                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 15801
AREAS OFLWICM                                             ISTAA7                                                                                                    H AR80 RJUNE 1981
NEW  PRQVID   EE                                                                                                                                                                                                                           K--0 1               2    e
Areas of IcW Income %iide of Greant Towp Project are                                                                                                                                                                   Ut tE     G,,
an7  GrartoTowne Project areq                                                                                                                                                                                              5UATES I    nae
5rA'FES   8               TL'/h-
I~~c.   Are
S-t B.r-b.,                                                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B '-A  H  A..M  -A  S
Roeo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W
E ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~      ~     ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ c
Noe     o 0       p                                                                                                                                                                                                             B        H     MA
Mt., 0  2                                                                                                         I                         ~~~~~                ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FORS  URBAN IMPROVEMENT AND
INSET B                                                                                                                                                                               EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
EXISTING HOUSING CONDITIONS
Csrru.ctui-e,n gnoCod coridit oin                                                                                                                                                                                                      EXISTING,
Strjctrns~, n omrqH -rnno,,o                                                                                                                                                                                                           Large public buildin-g
;.-  tu5rntceS n poor condition                                                                                                                                                                                                            Road etwoA
//,~-Roo   ownuRad network
M-" 0   510IO      -,         Schooll                                L     A    ~                                                                                                                      Road flow:
I ~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~~~~-&-U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -  A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Two way
~~~~~~~~~~~~/7 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~One woy
-                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0 L-Traffic signals
~~~   v0lj*5-~~~~~~~~~~~~~a                                                                                                                                                A    Fire protection water onurces~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Frep.taton.te sure
0. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                          G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ooen puobic soace5
~~   o ~~~    ~ ~ -jJ~~~        S~chool                                                                                    _____PROPOSED PROJECT
El                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Road flow, ann way
* ~~~~~~~~iflL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~]                                                                                                                                    o    Street lights~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0   tee  igt
A    P re protection wafer sources
.0'.onks
~~~ ~~~~~~-SIOfj                                                                                                                                                          Oraots Town prolect nounoory~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iatsTwnPrjetbondr
~~~  SiI ~~~~~~~~~~ o--                                                                                                                                     FEET 0        000        1000       1500      2000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FET  0  10c  50  10
Sli ' .:1e,,,on,,   u    ,iaoArh



