LOAN NUMBER 2089 BM
OFFCIAl
Loan Agreement
(Urban Project)
between
THE COMMONWEALTH OF THE BAHAMAS
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated        G1    V         22    , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2089 BM
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    OC4ba&V        2      , 1982, between THE
COMMONWEALTH OF THE BAHAMAS (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) Part A of the Project will be carried out by the
Borrower and Part B of the Project by the Bahamas Agricultural and
Industrial Corporation (hereinafter called BAIC) with the Bor-
rower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will out of the proceeds of the Loan make available to BAIC as
hereinafter provided an amount equivalent to one million eight
hundred eighty-five thousand dollars ($1,885,000) or such other
amount or amounts as shall be allocated to Categories (1)(b),
(2)(b), (3)(a) and (3)(b)(ii) of Schedule 1 hereto for purposes
of Part B of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and BAIC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the


﻿-2-
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and BAIC of even date herewith,   as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental thereto;
(b) "Grants Town Project Area" means the area bounded by
Nassau Street on the West, Collins Wall on the East, Wulff Road/
Poinciana Drive on the South and Delancy Street, West Hill Street,
School Lane, East Hill Street and Sands Road on the North;
(c) "GTUIT" means the Grants Town Urban Improvement Team
referred to in Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement;
(d) "GTUIC" means the Grants Town Urban Improvement
Committee referred to in Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement;
(e) "BAIC" means the Bahamas Agricultural and Industrial
Corporation, a statutory corporation established and operating
under the Bahamas Agricultural and Industrial Corporation Act,
1981;
(f) "subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
directly or indirectly owned or effectively controlled by BAIC;
and
(g) "industrial operating policies" means the industrial
operating policies of BAIC referred to in Section 2.04 of the
Project Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
five million eight hundred thousand dollars ($5,800,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to


﻿-3-
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1985
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eleven and three fifths per cent (11 3/5%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. BAIC is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action under Section 2.02
of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions in
respect of Part B of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part A
of the Project and shall cause BAIC to carry out Part B thereof
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial, architectural, engineering and


﻿public utility practices and shall provide promptly as needed the
funds, facilities, services and other resources necessary for the
purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall
cause BAIC to carry out Part B of the Project and to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the
other obligations therein set forth, shall take or cause to be
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
BAIC to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to
be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) make available to BAIC as a
grant out of the proceeds of the Loan an amount equivalent to one
million eight hundred eighty-five thousand dollars ($1,885,000) or
such other amount or amounts as shall be allocated to Categories
(1)(b), (2)(b), (3)(a) and (3)(b)(ii) of Schedule 1 hereto for
purposes of Part B of the Project; (ii) out of budgetary alloca-
tions, make available to BAIC such amounts as shall be required
for the Borrower's financial contributions to the costs of Part B
of the Project as stipulated in paragraph (b) of this Section; and
(iii) make annual budgetary provisions for, and pay to BAIC as and
when needed, the amounts needed to maintain BAIC in a sound finan-
cial position.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall sufficiently in advance
of the end of each year obtain from commercial banks or other
financial institutions commitments to provide funds for works
scheduled to be carried out during the next following year and
included in Part A (1) of the Project or, failing such commit-
ments, shall itself provide the financing required to carry out
said works.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall employ such consul-
tants and other experts whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank, as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank,
such employment to be made in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guide-
lines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by
the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.


﻿- 5 -
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall enter into agreements
with persons to whom homp improvement loans are made under Part A
(2) of the Project on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank.
(b) The criteria and procedures for selection of buyers or
lessees of houses provided under Part A (1) of the Project and of
beneficiaries of loans under Part A (2) of the Project shall be as
set forth in Schedule 5 hereto.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a Grants Town
Urban Improvement Team (GTUIT) in the form and with the functions,
staffing and resource&  that are described in   Part 1 of Schedule
6 hereto.
(b) The Borrower shall maintain a Grants Town Urban
Improvement Committee (GTUIC) in the form and with the functions,
staffing and resources that are described in Part 2 of Schedule 6
hereto.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imparted goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall exchange views from time to
time with the Bank until the completion of the Project, on the
Borrower's industrial incentives program and the actions taken by
the Borrower to carry out said program.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall furnish the Bank with the
report, as soon as completed, of the study being carried out by it
into the property tax system in The Bahamas and shall afford the
Bank a reasonable opportunity to review and comment on the report
before it takes any action on the report's recommendations.


﻿- 6 -
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for Part A of the Project, and any material modifi-
cations thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Part A of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived
from it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in Part A of the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in Part A
of the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) shall furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning Part A
of the Project, the cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to
be derived therefrom, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of Part A of the Project, but
in any eveat not later than six months after the Closing Date or
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation
of Part A of the Project, the cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived therefrom, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank
of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Lban.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire all such land or
rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying out
Part A of the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that
such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes


﻿-7-
related to Part A of the Project. Such land or rights shall be
acquired as follows: 75 lots by September 30, 1982 and the remain-
ing lots by June 30, 1983.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall cause all the public
facilities and services included in Part A of the Project to be
adequately maintained and continued in operation.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.


﻿(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or
any such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central
bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of Part A of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the said Parts of the Project or any part thereof
and shall cause the GTUIT to keep separate accounts for all
activity under the Project and to retain, until two years after
the Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing the expenditures for the Project
on account of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan
Account on the basis of certificates of expenditures and enable
the Bank's accredited representatives to examine such
record-.
(b) The Borrower shall cause GTUIT to: (i) have the
accounts for Part A of the Project for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, and including,
without limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said
auditors in respect of the expenditures and records referred to in
Section 4.02 (a) of this Agreement as to whether the proceeds of
the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account on the basis of certifi-
cates of expenditure were used to make payments for goods
received, or works or services performed, and that such goods,
works and services were eligible for financing under this Agree-
ment and were used in the carrying out of Part A of the Project;
and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
ing the accounts and financial statements of GTUIT and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) BAIC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
set forth in the Project Agreement;
(b) a change shall have been made in the Housing Act 1968 or
in [The Bahamas Agricultural and Industrial Corporation Act,
1981,] so as to affect materially and adversely the carrying out
of the Project or the operations or financial condition of BAIC;
(c) any action shall have been taken by the Borrower or
any other authority having jurisdiction for the dissolution or
disestablishment, or for the suspension of the operations, of
BAIC; and
(d) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by BAIC if such creation, acquisition or
taking over would materially and adversely affect the conduct of
BAIC's business or financial condition or the efficiency of BAIC's
management and personnel or the carrying out of Part B of the
Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower and to BAIC; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (b), (c) or (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General


﻿- 10 -
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by BAIC and is legally binding upon
BAIC in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.02. The date Jpv\Uw    C2b,i7TS, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as otherwise provided in Section 2.09 of
this Agreement, the Minister responsible for Finance of the
Government of The Bahamas is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Financial Secretary
Ministry of Finance
Churchill Building
P.O. Box N 3017
Nassau
Bahamas
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINFIN                             20255
Nassau, Bahamas
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
THE COMMONWEALTH OF THE BAHAMAS
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By/SN        yd4    8,d
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated         % of
(Expressed in     Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) Civil works under
Parts A (1) (b),
A (3) and A (4)
of the Project:
(a) Borrower                 1,700,000  )
)    65%
(b) BAIC                      350,000  )
(2) Equipment, fur-
niture and
fixtures:
(a) Borrower                 1,000,000  )  100% of foreign
)   expenditures
(b) BAIC                       35,000  )   and, for items
)   purchased
)   locally, 70% of
)   local expendi-
)   tures
(3) (a) BAIC foreign in-          1,000,000     100% of foreign
dustrial promotion,                   expenditures
travel, staffing                      and, for items
and training and                      purchased
New York industrial                   locally, 70% of
promotion office                      local expendi-
costs                                 tures


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Loan Alloc   d         % of
(Expressed an      Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(b) Consultants' and                         100%
experts' services:
(i) Borrower             375,000
(ii) BAIC                 500,000
(5) Unallocated                    840,000
TOTAL              5,800,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:


﻿- 14 -
(a) expenditures made prior to the date of this Agree-
ment, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $500,000 may be made in respect of
Categories (1) (a), (2) (a) and (3) (b) on account of payments
made for such expenditures before that date but after January 1,
1981;
(b) expenditures for items to be financed under Categories
(1) (b), (2) (b), (3) (a) and (3) (b) (ii) until:   (i) BAIC has
hired a Managing Director who meets the requirements of Section
2.02 (b) of the Project Agreement; (ii) the financial statements
of the erstwhile Bahamas Development Corporation have been
updated to March 13, 1981 or a later date; (iii) the Bank has been
furnished with the audited report, prepared by independent audi-
tors acceptable to the Bank, of the updated financial statements;
and (iv) BAIC has furnished the Bank with a plan acceptable to the
Bank for strengthening the finances and management of BAIC's
agricultural operations.
(c) expenditures for items to be financed under Category (3)
(a) incurred in any year unless and until the Bank has approved
the promotion plan and budget for that year referred to in Section
2.03 of the Project Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I
above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the
Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the


﻿- 15 -
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, which forms part of the Borrower's urban deve-
lopment and investment promotion programs, consists of the follow-
ing Parts:
Part A:   Upgrading of Grants Town
(1) (a) Construction in the Grants Town Project Area of
about 250 new houses for sale to low or moderate
income households.
(b) Construction in the Grants Town Project Area of 150
new dwelling units for rental to low income elderly
residents.
(2) Provision of about 1,200 home improvement loans for: (i)
the repair of houses; (ii) the provision of sanitary
units containing showers, basins and toilets with septic
tanks; and (iii) the rehabilitation or extension of
houses.
(3) Urban public service improvements including: (i)
construction of about 100 additional sink wells in low
lying locations to relieve flooding problems; (ii)
construction of about 42 additional firewells to provide
fire protection; (iii) strengthening the capacity for
solid waste collection and disposal, street and parks
maintenance and pest control through the acquisition
and operation of new equipment and the employment of
additional personnel; and (iv) traffic improvements
including construction of sidewalks, promulgation of a
new traffic circulation plan to relieve heavy peak hour
flows and traffic congestion and installation of street
lighting (about 108 new 100 watt fixtures on side
streets), about 700 new traffic signs and about six
traffic lights.
(4) Provision of community facilities including: (i) con-
struction, staffing and operation of a community center;
(ii) provision of grants to community and service
organizations for building improvements and purchase
of equipment; and (iii) development of two small new


﻿- 17 -
neighborhood parks, construction of an outdoor hard-
surface basketball court for a primary school and
improvements to eight existing parks.
(5) Planning of future programs designated to upgrade
housing and public services and provide new housing,
both in Grants Town Project Area and elsewhere.
Part B:   Industrial Promotion
(1) Carrying out by BAIC of a program to transform BAIC into
an effective instrument for the promotion of foreign and
domestic investment in industry including studies
designed (i) to detail its industrial operating policies
and procedures, (ii) to identify industrial opportuni-
ties, (iii) to develop and carry out an industrial
promotion plan (including production of promotional
materials), (iv) to determine the feasibility of an
export processing zone in New Providence, and (v) to
design, engineer and supervise industrial park improve-
ments and buildings.
(2) Expansion of BAIC's Bahamas office space and staff and
procurement of required office equipment for activities
relating to industrial promotion.
(3) Investment promotion and training for BAIC, including
training of staff at UNIDO's industrial promotion
training unit in New York City or at similar facilities,
leasing, furnishing, equipping and staffing of BAIC's
New York City industrial office and preparation of
publicity brochures, conduct of advertising seminars and
travel relating to the investment promotion and training.
(4) Upgrading of the existing Soldiers Road Industrial
Park, including construction of two standard modular
type industrial buildings, fencing and lighting and
improvements to the roads.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1985.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning November 1, 1985
through   November 1, 1996                   241,000
On May 1, 1997                                    257,000
*    The figures in this, column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 19 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                  Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                          2.30%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                                          4.65%
More than six years but
not more than eleven
years before maturity                                    8.50%
More than eleven years
but not more than
thirteen years before
maturity                                                10.05%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                                         11.60%


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   Local Procurement Procedures
1.   Except as provided in part B hereof, all contracts for civil
works, regardless of cost, and all contracts for goods required to
carry out Part A (3) and (4) of the Project (i.e. goods for urban
public service improvements and community facilities) estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more shall be awarded after
competitive bidding based on local advertising in accordance with
the Borrower's procurement procedures. Local representatives of
government of potential supplier countries will also be advised of
such intended procurement of goods.
2.   All contracts for goods required to carry out Part A (3) and
(4) of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of less than
$100,000 and all contracts for goods not included in Part A (3)
and (4) of the Project, regardless of cost, shall be awarded after
direct competitive shopping including solicitation in each case of
at least three quotations from suppliers.
B.   Force Account
The Borrower's work force may be used in the execution of the
following Project works, namely, sidewalk installation, park and
playground improvements, installation of street signs, traffic
lights and street lighting fixtures and construction of additional
storm drainage and firewells.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to any contract for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more and for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower and BAIC shall
furnish to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, to-
gether with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the


﻿- 21 -
said documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower and BAIC shall, before a final decision on the award is
made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and BAIC
and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
delivery to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower and BAIC shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Bank
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and BAIC and state
the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower and BAIC shall
inform the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines


﻿- 22 -
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and BAIC and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 5
Housing Selection Criteria and Procedures
(a) Beneficiaries of home improvement loans described in
Part A (2) of the Project shall be Grants Town Project
Area residents with low or moderate incomes. As used in
this Part the term "low or moderate income" means
household income totalling an amount which is not
in excess of $250 per month per adult member of the
household, and $150 per month per child member of the
household, or such other levels of income as may be
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) Buyers of houses for sale described in Part A (1) of
the Project shall have household incomes totalling at
least $4,500 per annum to $9,500 per annum, depending on
the size and cost of the unit, and maximum incomes not
in excess of $15,000 per annum or such other levels
of income as may be satisfactory to the Bank. Priority
for selection of individual buyers may be made on the
basis of criteria established by GTUIC and agreed with
the Bank, including factors such as present housing
needs based on size of family, income and present
housing conditions, and on location of present resi-
dence. Half of the houses will be targetted to house-
holds with a per capita annual income of $1,200 or
less. In the event that more than one buyer has equal
preference in terms of the established criteria,
selection of a specific buyer will be made on the basis
of a random selection procedure.
(c) Lessees of houses described in Part A (1) of the Project
shall be 65 years of age or older and -shall have annual
household incomes of less than $1,900 for a single
individual and $2,800 for two individuals sharing a unit
or such other levels of income as may be satisfactory
to the Bank. Lessees must be able to care for their
daily requirements. Priority for selection of individual
lessees would be made on the basis of criteria estab-
lished by GTUIC and agreed with the Bank, including
factors such as size of income and present housing
conditions. Preference would be given to the neediest
applicants. In the event that more than one lessee has
equal preference in terms of the established criteria,
selection of a specific lessee would be made on the
basis of a random selection procedure.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 6
Part 1:   Grants Town Urban Improvement Team
(a) GTUIT shall be responsible for the overall execution and
coordination of Part A of the Project and for related
financial matters, including physical upgrading, housing
improvement loans, community organization grants, and
approval of estimates. The carrying out of some items in
the Project may be done by other Ministries and agencies
of the Borrower, with coordination provided by GTUIT.
(b) GTUIT shall have a staff consisting of, as a minimum, a
Manager, an Architect, an Accountant and a Community
Development Officer. Other necessary staff shall also be
employed from time to time, to the satisfaction of the
Bank.
(c) GTUIT shall engage commercial banks to serve as its
agents for the receipt of home improvement loan
payments.
(d) GTUIT shall report to the Project Coordinator, who shall
be a permanent official of the Ministry of Finance.
Part 2:   Grants Town Urban Improvement Committee
(a) GTUIC shall consist of the Minister responsible for
Finance, the Minister responsible for Housing, the
Financial Secretary and the Project Coordinator.
(b) GTUIC shall be responsible for the establishment of
policies and overall procedures for Part A of the
Project and shall resolve specific issues concerning
such policies and procedures and other issues concerning
the carrying out of Part A of the Project. GTUIC will
also be responsible for approval of home improvement
loans recommended by GTUIT.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this 02 MLday of Q          , 198 2.
FOR SECRETARY


