 F1CTAL        LOAN NUMBER 2089 BM
Project Agreement
(Urban Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BAHAMAS AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL CORPORATION
Dated      0     o72                , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2089 BM
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    C)   obtv     22          , 1982, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and BAHAMAS AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL CORPORA-
TION (hereinafter called BAIC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between The Commonwealth of The Bahamas (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
five million eight hundred thousand dollars ($5,800,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on
condition that BAIC agrees to undertake such obligations toward
the Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) the Borrower will out of the proceeds of the Loan make
available to BAIC as a grant for purposes of Part B of the Project
an amount equivalent to one million eight hundred eighty-five
thousand dollars ($1,885,000) or such other amount or amounts as
shall be allocated to Categories (1)(b), (2)(b), (3)(a) and
(3)(b)(ii) of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement for purposes of
Part B of the Project; and
WHEREAS BAIC, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. BAIC shall carry out Part B of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, with due diligence


﻿-2-
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and business practices and BAIC's operating
policies.
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist BAIC in carrying out
Part B of the Project, BAIC shall employ consultants whose quali-
fications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Bank, such employment to be made in accor-
dance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on
the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" pub-
lished by the Bank in August 1981.
(b) BAIC shall with respect to its industrial division: (i)
employ qualified and experienced persons in the positions of
Promotion Officer, Economic Analysis Officer and New York Indus-
trial Promotion Officer; (ii) employ at all times a qualified and
experienced Managing Director; and (iii) exchange views with the
Bank on any candidate proposed for such position.
Section 2.03. BAIC shall, by every September 30 during the
carrying out of Part B of the Project, beginning with September
30, 1982, furnish to the Bank for its approval an annual indust-
rial promotion plan and budget in accordance with which expend-
itures for Part B (3) of the Project shall be made.
Section 2.04. BAIC shall not modify its industrial operating
policies without the Bank's approval.
Section 2.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works for Part B of the Project
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) BAIC undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods for Part B of
the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to tha place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by BAIC to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, BAIC shall
cause all goods and services for Part B of the Project financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively for such
Part B of the Project.


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.07. (a) BAIC shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
Part B of the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) BAIC: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of Part B of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it),
to identify the goods and services for Part B of the Project
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their
use in Part B of the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accre-
dited representatives to visit the facilities and construction
sites included in Part B of the Project and to examine the goods
for Part B of the Project financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning Part B of the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan made available to BAIC
and the goods and services for Part B of the Project financed out
of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by BAIC of any contract for goods, works
or services for Part B of the Project to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of Part B of the Project, but
in any event not later than six months after the Closing Date or
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between BAIC
and the Bank, BAIC shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution and initial operation of Part B of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived
from it, the performance by BAIC and the Bank of their respective
obligations under the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan.
(e) BAIC shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of BAIC and any relevant records and documents.


﻿-4-
Section 2.08. (a) BAIC shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part B
of the P.roject, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the part
of the Loan made available to BAIC.
(b) BAIC shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
Part B of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
part of the Loan made available to BAIC, or the performance by
BAIC of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.09. BAIC shall furnish to the Bank the draft of any
lease or other legal instrument which BAIC proposes to execute
with respect to its New York City industrial promotion office
space and shall not execute or commit itself to any such lease or
instrument without the approval of the Bank.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of BAIC
Section 3.01. (a) BAIC shall at all times manage its affairs,
maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion,
operate and maintain its plant, equipment and other property and
from time to time make all necessary renewals and repairs thereof
and shall at all times carry on its operations in an efficient
manner under capable management and with the assistance of quali-
fied and experienced personnel, all in accordance with sound
administrative, financial, engineering and business practices and
BAIC's operating policies.
(b) BAIC shall take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain
and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which
are necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 3.02, BAIC shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with sound business practices.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. BAIC shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.


﻿- 5 -
Section 4.02. BAIC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of BAIC and the audit thereof as the Bank
shall from timne to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of BAIC thereunder shall terminate on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms,
and the Bank shall promptly so notify BAIC thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿-6-
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For BAIC:
Bahamas Agricultural and Industrial Corporation
Trade Winds Building
P.O. Box N 3017
Nassau
Bahamas
Cabl, address:                      Telex:
MINFIN                             20255
Nassau, Bahamas
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed by BAIC,
under this Agreement on behalf of BAIC may be taken or executed by
the Chairman of the Board of BAIC or such other person or persons
as BAIC shall designate in writing, and BAIC shall furnish to the
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this


﻿-7-
Agreement to be signed in their respec ive names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BAHAMAS AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL CORPORATION
By/                  A
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day ofY, 1981-.
FOR SECRETARY


