Report No. 1077-MOR                                                            :               '77, j-  r -'
Appraisal of Credit Immobilier et
Hotelier (CIH) Morocco
April 30, 1976
Industrial Credit and Development Finance Companies Division
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East, and North Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Dirhams per US Dollars)
Period                 End of              Period
Period              Average
(DH)                (DH)
1972                    4.666               4.596
1973                    4.290               4.107
1974                    4.155               4.370
1975                    4.184              4,053
February 1976            4.267              4.242
Source:  IMF, International Financial Statistics
April 1976.
ABREVIATIONS
CIH  -  Credit Immobilier et Hotelier
CDG  -  Caisse de Depot et de Gestion
BCP  -  Banque Centrale Populaire
BNDE - Banque Nationale de Developpement Economique
MUHTE   Ministere de l'Urbanisme, de l'Habitat, du
Tourisme et de 1tEnvironment
ONMT    Office Nationale Marocain du Tourisme
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MOROCCO
APPRAISAL OF THE CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER (CIH)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY       .......                   .....................................   i-i
I.    INTRODUCTION  ...o., ....................... ..... oe....oo   ... ..o.o..o...
II.    MOROCCO'S TOURISM    .            ................................  -..   ...         2
Ao    Tourism Development  .............................. ..                         2
B.    The Incentive  System   *             ...........................  ..          3
III.    CIH'S  STRUCTURE  ..................... .............                                 5
A.    Establishment and Corporate  Status                     ................       5
B.    Board and Committees  .  ........ .................                            6
C.    Management  and  Staff  .....              .........................           7
D.    Policies and Procedures                       .................o*o...o..      8
IVo    CIH'S OPERATIONS  ... ................................ .o.... .ooooo-o... o         10
A.    Characteristics  of Operations                      .....................     10
B.    Evaluation of Performance  .*..oo........o............                       11
V.    CIH'S FINANCIAL SITUATION  ....... . . .   ....................... ... .    .       13
A.    Resource Position  .......            .................... ........ . .      13
B.    Financial Performance and Position  ................                         14
C.    Audit  .....        ........................................                 17
VI.    PROSPECTS  o.........................,oo...  ...... .... o..o............            18
Ao    Tourism  . .............................. o....o....      .....o ... .* .... .  18
B.    Operations  ......... .....e. ...... ....o.............................       18
C.    Resource Requirements  .............................                         19
D.    Financial  Prospects  .....    ..o............. ..o........                  20
VII.    THE LOAN,  ITS OBJECTIVES AND JUSTIFICATION  *............                           21
VIII.    RECOMMENDATIONS  .           o .......  .... . ... .o..o..*..         ..........     22
This report was prepared by Messrs. Batzella and Diop with the assistance of
Messrs. Coudol, Mitchell (Tourism) and Holye (CAD). Mr. Mattatia (consultant)
from SOGELERG contributed to the elaboration of the computer model used in
the tourism sector analysis (3 man-months).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
BASIC DATA
Annexes
1      Moroccan Tourism
Table 1 - Accommodation Capacity
Table 2 - Evolution of International Arrivals
Table 3 - Arrivals by Mode of Transportation
Table 4 - Tourist Entries by Month
2      Shareholders Since the 1974 Capital Increase
3      Board of Directors and Executive Committee
4      Organization Chart and Main Affiliates as of December31, 1975
5      Income Statements 1971-1975
6      Balance Sheets 1971-1975
7      Financial Ratios
8      Analysis and Assessment of CIH's Loan and Equity Portfolio
at end 1975
9      Analysis of Hotel Profitability and the Effects of Incentives
10      Major Assumptions for CIH's Four-Year Operational and
Financial Forecasts
11      Estimated Resource Needs and Financing Plan
12      Loan Operations: Actual and Forecast
13      Projected Income Statements (1976i1979)
14      Projected Source and Application of Funds (1975-1979)
15      Balance Sheets: Actual and Projected (1975-1979)
16      Recommended Economic and Financial Appraisal Criteria for CIH-
Financed Hotel Projects
17      Estimated Schedule of Disbursements for the Proposed Loan



MOROCCO
APPRAISAL OF THE CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER
SUMMARY
i.        The Credit Immobilier et Hotelier received its first bank loan in
1970. A second loan of US$15 million was made in 1972 and is almost fully
committed. This report appraises a third loan to CIH to finance the foreign
exchange components of hotel projects.
ii.       The number of foreign tourists entering Morocco grew by 21% per
annum during 1968-73, and reached about 1.2 million in 1975 after a temporary
decline in arrivals in 1974. Total investment in tourism during 1968-72
amounted to DH 541 million (4.4% of gross capital formation), of which DH 477
million in 16,000 additional hotel beds. In 1973-74, DH 200 million were in-
vested in new tourism projects. CIH contributed 50% of hotel investment fi-
nancing. The economic impact of tourism is important. Tourism receipts con-
tributed on average 10% of basic BOP receipts. Employment directly generated
by tourism was estimated at 95,000 jobs in 1974, of which about 16,000 jobs
were in hotels and 60,000 in handicraft production. The cost per job created
in the hotel industry compares favorably with other economic sectors.
iii.      The 1973 Investment Code provides for a number of investment incen-
tives, including a sizeable interest rebate on CIH's loans, a ten-year in-
terest free Government loan equivalent to 15% of project cost, and fiscal ex-
emptions. As CIH's hotel lending rate was fixed at 8.75% p.a. up to May,
1976, the effective nominal lending rate to tourism amounted to 4.50% p.a.
In May, 1976, CIH was permitted to increase its hotel lending rate to 11%
p.a.; the subsidized rate payable by investors is accordingly expected to in-
crease shortly to 6% and thereafter up to 9% p.a. Preliminary results of a
study on the effects of incentives on hotel profitability indicate the need
to subject the efficacy of incentives to close scrutiny on the basis of ad-
ditional studies to be carried out in the next two years.
iv.       Major changes took place in CIH since it was last appraised by the
Bank in 1972 culminating with the appointment of a new and able President-
Director General. CIH's internal organization was restructured along func-
tional lines. Though still controlled by the Government, which indirectly
owns over 50% of its capital, the autonomy enjoyed by CIH since the noted
changes is apparent in CIH's new promotional and expansion policies.
v.        The quality of CIH's appraisal has notably improved.  Some weak-
nesses have subsisted, however, particularly as regards the market and economic
aspects of hotel project appraisals. Further progress is expected. Portfolio
supervision has improved considerably since 1972.
vi.       In the past three years, CIH has doubled its lending approvals which
grew from 794 operations for DH 113 million in 1973 to 1633 operation for DH
187 million at September 30, 1975.  This rapid growth is accounted for mainly



- ii -
by housing loans. During the period 1972 through September 1975, CIH approved
hotel loans amounting to DH 145 million. Commitments were slower reflecting
ups and downs in the investment climate. Equity investments grew rapidly from
DH 1.3 million in 12 financing institutions in 1972 to DH 29 million in 37hat
companies, mainly as a result of CIR's new promotional policies.
factory financial results.
vii.      CIH's profits in the 1971-74 period were not in line with the growth
in operations, owing to higher finance charges and administrative costs, which
were not matched by a corresponding adjustment in lending rates. CIH will need
to tighten loan collection procedures to avoid liquidity problems. The debt/
equity ratio has become, since mid-1975, a constraint on further expansion of
CIH's operations. Since CIH's risk-taking operations are limited mainly to
hotel loans, which constitute less than half of CIH's portfolio, CIH's debt/
equity ratio limit will be increased to 7.5:1.
viii.     CIR's housing loan portfolio is generally sound.  Delays in imple-
mentation of hotel projects are the main cause behind the increased hotel
loan arrears; only few of them can be considered real risks. CIH's provisions
(DH 7.4 million at December 31, 1975) adequately cover CIH's risk.
ix.       Recent trends in tourist demand indicate that visitors should con-
tinue to grow faster than Morocco's hotel capacity through 1980. Two funda-
mental questions have been raised: whether further investments in hotel ca-
pacity are warranted from an economic standpoint; and whether the financial
viability of hotels requires a continuation of the large Government incentives.
Any answer at this stage is tentative. However it seems that incentives are
not justified in many cases. The risk of inducing overcapacity of some types
of hotels will be greatly reduced by the adoption on the part of CIH of
stricter project appraisal criteria, as agreed during negotiations. Concur-
rently, the Government will improve the collection and analysis of tourism
statistics as a first step toward the rationalization of the incentive system.
x.        Housing loan commitments through December 31, 1978 are estimated at
DR 774.3 million. As regards hotel loans, the pipeline of projects to be
approved in the 1976-1979 period comprises 45 new hotels and 6 extensions to
commit DH 258 million in hotel loans through December 31, 1978, including
DH 125.8 million (US$30.4 million) in foreign exchange. A review of the proj-
ects expected to be financed shows a generally good geographic, size, and
category distribution, to appeal to a varied tourist clientele.
xi.       Domestic resources to finance housing and local cost components of
hotel projects are expected to be available. For import financing, CIH's re-
sources have been so far limited to Bank funds.
xii.      In the short run, CIR's net earnings will continue to be low, due
mainly to the rising cost of resources. The Government, as well as CIH,
share the view that higher earnings are necessary for CIH's continued, finan-
cially sound growth. Basically, what is needed is a better spread between



- iii -
CIH's borrowing and lending rates. As a first step, the Government has per-
mitted CIH to increase its hotel lending rate to 11% p.a. For the long run,
it is the Government's objective, confirmed during negotiations, that CIH
should be permitted to charge interest rates and other financial charges that
will ensure it an adequate spread on its overall operations to achieve satis-
factory financial results.
xiii.     CIH is a creditworthy institution, which remains suitable for Bank
financing. A loan of US$25 million, as recommended, will enable CIH to fi-
nance the foreign exchange component of economically justified hotel projects
until about mid-1978.






MOROCCO
APPRAISAL OF
CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER (CIR)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Credit Immobilier et Hotelier (CIH) was founded in 1920 as a
mortgage bank specializing in the long-term financing of housing construction.
Since 1960 it has also been practically the sole source of long-term financing
for hotel projects in Morocco. The first Bank loan to CIH, of $10 million,
was signed on August 12, 1970 and is now fully committed; the second Bank
loan, of $15 million, was signed on June 30, 1972 and is expected to be fully
committed shortly (Report DB-93a of June 1, 1972). Besides lending to CIH,
the Bank has supported Morocco's tourism development through a recent $21
million loan for a tourism infrastructure project in the Bay of Agadir.
1.02      CIH has asked the Bank for further financial assistance.  This report
appraises a proposed third loan to CIR for the financing of the foreign exchange
component of tourism projects. The inadequacy of basic statistical information
makes it hard to estimate with precision the economic returns on new tourism
investments. An additional issue to be addressed is whether the system of
investment incentives granted by the Moroccan Government to tourism investors
induces misallocation of resources.
1.03      On the basis of available information on Morocco's tourism and its
development prospects, this appraisal concludes that,
(a) in general, investment in further expansion of Morocco's
tourism can effectively contribute to Morocco's economic
development;
(b) there is some excess capacity in particular types of hotels,
but there are other types where expansion, even in the short-
term, would seem to be economically desirable;
(c) there are compelling reasons to scrutinize the efficacy of
the existing incentives system;
(d) the institution building aspects of the proposed loan, es-
pecially as concerns the criteria to be used in vetting projects,
and as concerns the improvement of statistical collection and
policy analysis, are particularly important.



- 2 -
II. MOROCCO'S TOURISM
A. Tourism Development
2.01      Morocco's tourism industry took off rapidly after 1965, when the
Government included tourism among the priority sectors in the economy. De-
velopments over the past ten years or so have been described in detail in
CIH's appraisal report for the second Bank loan (Report DB-93a dated June
1, 1972), the latest Bank economic Report (Report 1021-MOR dated January 26,
1976), and the Appraisal Report on the Bay of Agadir Project (Report 918a-MOR
dated January 21, 1976). A summary of these developments is given in Annex 1
of this report. The major aspects are given below:
(a)  Tourist arrivals have grown from less than 0.5 million in 1968
to about 1.2 million in 1973. This represented an annual growth
of about 21% p.a., one of the highest among countries in the
Mediterranean basin. After a decline in 1974, arrivals rose
again in 1975. Most of the tourists come from France (22%), the
USA (19%), the UK (11%) and Germany (8%).
(b)  Morocco's most successful tourism resorts are Agadir, Marrakech
(in the South) and Casablanca (the main port of arrival). Northern
resorts (Tangiers and the Mediterranean coast) are also in high
demand but, as opposed to the South, have high seasonality and low
occupancy rates and prices. The Center, the mountains, and the
Sahara have received, so far, only a small proportion of tourists.
(c)  The country's hotel capacity has not increased as fast as the
number of tourist arrivals; it only doubled between 1968 and 1975,
to about 42,000 beds. Two-thirds of the hotels built during that
period were financed by private investors.
(d)  Tourism investments have fallen short of the ambitious targets
of Morocco's Economic Development Plans. This is largely due
to the inadequate demand projections, which did not materialize
to the extent expected by the planners. Low profitability of
some types of hotels, uncertainties about the future market,
the opportunities in other sectors opened up by the "moroccani-
zation" laws, the poor investment climate in the early seventies
in Morocco and in Europe, and the shortage of serviced land in
Agadir and Marrakech, also retarded hotel investment below plan
targets.
Importance of Tourism in the Economy
2.02      Tourism has brought Morocco a substantial net 1/ flow of foreign
exchange receipts which recently have amounted to an estimated DH 0.7 billion
1/   Tourist receipts, less foreign exchange outflows associated with opera-
tion and investment in tourist enterprises. This excludes Morocco's
receipts on international transport of tourists.



- 3 -
annually. About half of tourists' expenditures are received by hotels. The
other half accrues to services, transport, handicrafts, restaurants, etc.
2.03      Another important effect of tourism is employment creation.  Hotels
in the narrow sense generate relatively few jobs (16,000 permanent workers
were employed by hotel enterprises in 1974, with an investment cost per job
of about US$15,000). But if tourist expenditures on other activities (espe-
cially handicrafts) are considered, together with the indirect impacts on
agricultural, manufacturing, and construction activities, it is estimated
that tourist demands generate employment for as many as 170,000 persons.
Organization of the Sector
2.04      The Ministry of Urbanism, Housing, Tourism and Environment (MUHTE)
is responsible for proposing and implementing Morocco's tourism policies.
MUHTE is also in charge of the collection and analysis of tourism statistics,
vocational training of hotel personnel, overseas promotion and advertising,
and the administration (partly through CIH) of the system of incentives to
tourism investors. A specialized agency of MUHTE, Office National Marocain
du Tourisme, also runs a number of Government owned hotels in remote areas.
B. The Incentive System
Background
2.05      Ever since its association with CIH, the Bank has been concerned by
the high level of incentives available to hotel investors in Morocco (a des-
cription of the incentive system is given in Annex 1, para. 15). Until 1973,
when domestic price inflation in Morocco was low (under 4.5% p.a.) and tourism
could still be considered as a young industry, large incentives could be re-
garded as an efficient way of attracting investment in hotels. They may also
have led to excessive increases in some types of hotel and low occupancy rates
and tariffs, especially in the North. Domestic price inflation surged to
14.5% in 1974, declined to 8% on average in 1975 and seems now stabilizing
around 6-7% p.a. This made the average interest rate of less than 4% paid by
hotel investors on borrowed funds clearly negative, and the possibility in-
creased that it would encourage uneconomic hotel investment.
2.06      When CIH approached the Bank for a third loan early in 1975, the Bank
invited the Government to reconsider the incentive code which had been issued in
the middle of 1973. The Government asked the Bank to withdraw its request for
the time being arguing that a change in the Code less than three years after its
promulgation would discourage potential investors particularly in view of the
sluggishness of investments since 1973; the Government would be prepared to re-
consider its incentive system only once investments picked up again. The im-
plied position of the Government was that incentives remained necessary be-
cause, without them, Moroccan hotels, which provide the country with high
economic benefits, would not be financially viable. The Bank agreed to study



- 4 -
the situation in order to determine whether a loan to CIH could be economically
justified under the existing system of incentives, provided that other criteria
for the loan were met.
Assessment of the Financial and Economic
Viability of Hotel Investments
2.07      To undertake the study of hotel returns, it was agreed with CIH
to analyze a sample of about 20 existing hotels of different types and cate-
gories, in various regions. A computer model was built to simulate financial
and economic performances under different assumptions. It was understood from
the beginning that fully satisfactory results could not be expected in the
short run, first, because of the inadequacy of basic statistical information on
Morocco's tourism, and, secondly, because the sample retained for the exercise
was determined as much by the availability of sufficient data, as by represen-
tativeness. To overcome these constraints would require substantial additional
effort by the Government and CIH to collect and analyze meaningful statistics.
At least two full years of work would be necessary.
2.08      Nevertheless, the analysis of the data derived from the sample select-
ed in November 1975 has led to certain preliminary conclusions which are sum-
marized in Annex 9. For some types of hotels, these findings contradict the
claim that incentives are a necessary condition to assure the financial pro-
fitability of economically viable hotels. In Agadir, Marrakech and Casablanca,
the financial viability of hotels seems high, and might be so even without Gov-
ernment incentives. The financial prospects of northern beach hotels, on the
other hand, appear so poor that no conceivable level of incentives would seem
to promise attractive financial returns without radical improvements in tariffs
and/or occupancy rates. Some types of hotels in the interior (Fez, Meknes)
might require more generous incentives if they were to be profitable at ex-
isting tariff levels. There also appear to be marked differences in the pro-
fitability of hotels of different categories, with 5-star and 3-star hotels
outperforming 4-star hotels.
2.09      Due to the unavailability of relevant information, a full analysis
of economic rates of return of the expansion of different types of hotel capa-
city has not been carried out; nor could target occupancy rates and tariffs
be assessed on the basis of economic optimality. Nevertheless, sufficient in-
formation exists for Agadir to indicate that capacity expansion there is fully
justified. On the basis of more partial criteria for other areas (Casablanca,
Marrakech), it would appear that investments in those regions also would be
economically justified.
2.10      While the soundness of the incentive system is under serious ques-
tion, a basis for clear-cut recommendations on how it should be changed is
lacking. In addition, any policy position on the incentives system must be
necessarily coordinated with the authorities' tourism policies in general,
especially those regarding price controls and regional development.



- 5 -
2.11      The Bank presented these preliminary findings to the Moroccan au-
thorities and CIH. It pointed out that there seem to be compelling reasons
to scrutinize the efficacy of the incentive system (as well as the system of
price controls) as a suitable instrument for development of tourism. Conse-
quently, the following understandings were reached during negotiations:
(a)  The Government and CIH would undertake a more comprehensive
and conclusive study of tourism development, the incentive
system and tourism policies in general, by carrying out a
specific work program which would cover three interrelated
components: implementation of a suitable system of collec-
tion and analysis of tourism statistics, including especially,
data on tourism expenditures and on hotel occupancies; prep-
aration of regional master plans for tourism development,
taking account of the economic viability of alternative hotel
development plans; refinement and extension--using a larger
and better sample of hotels--of the survey initiated by the
Bank, to assess the financial and economic viability of hotel
investments in Morocco. Terms of reference and timeables,
as well as the scope of possible Bank assistance for carrying
out the work program, would be discussed during a forthcoming
technical assistance mission.
(b) The Government would discuss with the Bank the results of these
analyses, with a view to determine whether, and how, its invest-
ment code and its fiscal, price and regional development policies
for hotel investment in Morocco should be revised. Ideally, in-
centives should be envisaged only for categories and types of
hotels which both promise high economic rates of returns and,
in spite of reasonable tariff and fiscal policies, are not
financially attractive.  A change of the existing investment
code could therefore be considered only after completion of
the supporting studies and computations required (a above).
These might take two years to complete (if they are to be based
upon reliable data on tourist expenditures and occupancy rates
for a period of at least one year).
(c)  In the meantime, CIH would adopt the appraisal criteria as
described in Annex 16. This should ensure that CIH funds would
not finance hotel investments of dubious economic value.
III. CIH'S STRUCTURE
A. Establishment and Corporate Status
3.01      There have been no major changes in CIH's corporate status since
it was last appraised by the Bank in 1972. Though formally a private company
subject to corporate law, CIH is effectively controlled by the Government



- 6 -
through Caisse de Depot et de Gestion (CDG), a public sector financial insti-
tution and CIH's major shareholder. Two Royal Decrees of 1962 and 1968 es-
tablished CIH's function of financing tourism enterprises in addition to
housing construction. The Ministry of Finance fixes the terms and conditions
of CIH's loans.
3.02      Branch Offices and Affiliates.  Up to 1973, all of CIH's activities
were concentrated in the Casablanca headquarters. In the course of the past
two years, CIH has established six regional branches to handle the processing
of smaller housing loans. Tourism loans and the larger housing loans are
processed at headquarters. CIH holds equity participation in a number of
specialized affiliates, which were launched in the past two years mainly as
a result of CIH's promotional goals (Annex 4, page 2). The most important
ones are: Farah-Maghreb, a company set up to build 4,200 new hotel beds in
various areas of Morocco; Sicopar, a company set up to build prefabricated
housing elements in the main cities of Morocco; and Europa-Maroc, a hotel
management company. CIH's President is also the Chairman of the Board of
these corporations.
3.03      These affiliates have started operations only recently.  Though
there are no indications at this stage that they represent a special risk
for CIH, one of them has considerable importance for CIH not only as an af-
filiate but also as a potential major borrower! Farah Maghreb expects to fi-
nance its operations with CIH funds and with the proceeds of the proposed Bank
loan to CIH. Some caution is called for. In order that both CIH and the Bank
may monitor further developments as closely as possible, CIH will therefore
see to it that an annual audit of Farah Maghreb will be undertaken, in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank, and CIH will report semi-annually to the Bank on
the finances, organization, and prospects of Farah Maghreb.
3.04      Ownership and Control.  CIH's share capital was increased from DH 20
million to DH 40 million in 1973, and again to DH 60 million in 1974.  Annex 2
shows present ownership. About one half of CIH's share capital is owned by
publicly controlled institutions, the principal of which are CDG (CIH's parent
institution) and Banque du Maroc, the central bank. CDG participation in CIH's
capital decreased to 17%, compared to 34% at the time of the Bank's 1972 ap-
praisal. However, CDG holds, in addition to nominal shares, a large number
of bearer's shares of CIH which CDG uses in stock market operations; also,
some of CIH's other principal shareholders are in turn affiliates of CDG's,
such as Societe Nationale d'Investissement, which increased its participation
in CIH's capital to almost 10% of the total, and Compagnie Nord Africaine et
Intercontinentale d'Assurance, which now holds about 3% of CIH's shares.
B. Board and Committees
3.05      The public nature of CIH is reflected in the composition of CIH's
Board of Directors and Executive Committee, which are both chaired by CIH's
President-Director General. Of CIH's 15 Board members, only two represent
the private sector; seven are public sector shareholders, three are officials



-7 -
of the Ministry of Finance and two are officials of MUHTE. CIH's Executive
Committee includes five members beside the chairman. Of these, three repre-
sent the principal public sector shareholders (CDG, BCP and Central Bank),
one represents BNDE, and one MUHTE.
3.06      In December 1972, the functions of Chairman of the Board and of the
Executive Committee, and that of General Manager, were entrusted to Mr. El
Fihri. Since then, the Board has become more active than before in guiding
CIH's expansion policies, especially the launching of subsidiaries and the
internal reorganization of the institution (paras. 3.03 and 3.09). The Board
meets two or three times a year. The Executive Committee, which examines and
approves all tourism loan proposals, and all other loans amounting to more
than DH 100,000, meets about once a month on average. The quality of its
decisions has improved considerably in the past few years, especially since
the establishment, in 1974, of an internal Loan Committee, chaired by Mr. El
Fihri, which screens loan proposals. The Executive Committee delegates to its
chairman the power to approve non tourism loans up to DH 100,000 subject to
ratification by the Committee. Authority to approve housing loans of less
than DH 80,000 is delegated to the directors of the regional Branch Offices
(para 3.02).
C. Management and Staff
3.07      Management.  At times in the past, CIH suffered from lack of contin-
uity in leadership. However, in late 1972, Mr El Fihri, a former Minister of
Education, was appointed President Director General and rapidly acquired firm
and able command of CIH's activities. The President is assisted in his manage-
ment tasks by CIH's Secretary General, Mr. Abdelhak Benkirane. Further
strengthening of CIH's management, should it prove to be necessary or desira-
ble, is a matter which the President is keeping under constant consideration.
At present, CIH's management is adequate and effective.
3.08      Organizational Changes.  The internal reorganization was begun in
1974 and completed in 1975 following the recommendations of a study undertaken
by IMEG, a management consulting firm (Annex 4). The main innovations have
been the .%tablishment of regional branch offices and the regrouping of opera-
tional divisions by functions rather than by sector of activity. Redistribu-
tion of divisional responsibilities has created some transitional coordination
problems, which are being smoothened out. By and large, the, organization is
well suited to CIH's requirements.
3.09      Staff.  CIi's total staff numbered 216 (including 58 professionals)
at end March 1976, compared to about 80 (of whom 41 professionals) in 1972.
The less than proportionate growth of professional staff is explained by the
fact that the expansion of CIH's portfolio was largely due to housing loans,
which require considerable clerical work. The quality of CIH's professional
staff is good and steadily improving. Staff training however has been some-
what neglected until recently. The newly established Training Division in
CIH's Development Department has drawn up plans for seminars and training
courses to be held in the near future.



- 8 -
D. Policies and Procedures
3.10      Policy Statement.  CIH's policy statement, approved by the Board
of Directors in 1974, establishes the following fundamental principles: (a)
projects financed by CIH in the tourism and housing construction sectors must
be financially, technically, and economically viable; they must be supervised
by CIR during their entire life; (b) loans must be secured by adequate guaran-
tees; (c) CIH shall provide its clients with technical assistance in the con-
ception, implementation and operations phases of the projects; (d) equity par-
ticipation shall not exceed either 10% of CIH's equity, or 25% of the capital
of the company in which CIH takes a participation.
3.11      Housing Loans:  Appraisal and Supervision.  CIH has over fifty years
of experience in the financing of housing construction. The procedures which
have been developed are, by now, standardized and effective.
3.12      Appraisal of Hotel Projects.  The quality of CIH's appraisals of
hotel loans has steadily improved over the years. In most cases, the techni-
cal, legal and financial aspects of projects, as well as the management
arrangements made by the sponsors, are adequately covered by CIH's reports,
which generally provide substantiated judgment on the merits of projects.
The technical appraisal of larger hotel projects (generally those requiring
investments of over DH 10 million) are reviewed by independent engineering
firms. Though projects are submitted to CIH only after they are approved by
the Government's Technical Committee (Annex 1, para 15), CIH is effectively in
a position to exercise a positive influence on their conception, design, and
organization. CIH's appraisal staff has been especially effective in obtaining
from promoters that suitable management arrangements be made well in advance of
the beginning of operations.
3.13      One aspect of CIH's hotel appraisals which needs improvement is the
analysis of a project's marketing prospects. CIH's projections are still too
often based on the optimistic expectations of the project's sponsors, for lack
of adequate background information. An improvement in this area is beginning
to show, as CIH is building up its own data bank. A substantial improvement
at the Government level in the collection and analysis of tourism statistics
is indispensable for CIH's project appraisals to become fully reliable.
3.14      CIH's appraisal reports also contain economic rate of return cal-
culations. For all subprojects, whether or not financed by IBRD, a cut-off
rate of 10% has been deemed adequate by the Bank considering that costs were
not shadow-priced, not all tax payments were excluded from the cost estimates,
and net economic benefits external to the hotel were not taken into account.
Refinements in project appraisal criteria , to which CIH agreed in the course
of negotiations, are discussed in Annex 16.
3.15      Supervision of Hotel Projects.  A Portfolio Supervision division had
been set up in CIH at the time of the 1972 Bank appraisal. However, it did
not begin to operate in a systematic fashion until early 1974. The division



is now staffed with five specialists, and is headed by an able and experienced
professional. About 40 of the more serious problem projects have received a
thorough supervision visit of CIH's follow-up staff. Several of these visits,
especially in the Tangiers area, have resulted in satisfactory arrangements
for the settlement of overdues, as well as in agreements on how to remedy
structural project problems, where they have been identified. These encourag-
ing results have led CIH to the conclusion that each problem project is to be
visited at least twice a year in the future. Routine project follow-up is
now being handled by the General Inspection Bureau, which is staffed with
several internal auditors. It can be concluded that, since 1972, CIH's
supervision procedures and practices have taken a definite turn for the better
-- with results in support of this conclusion. Improvements in this regard are
expected to continue. During negotiations, both CIH and the Bank reaffirmed
the importance both parties attach to this aspect of CIH's performance.
3.16      Loan Collection Procedures.  This has been, traditionally, one of
the weakest areas of CIH's organization. Plans to tighten collection proced-
ures have been drawn up several times in the past, also in connection with
negotiations of earlier Bank loans to CIR. In practice, however, collection
procedures remained loose. The worsening of the arrears situation has now
triggered the strong reaction of CIH's management, which has recently intro-
duced a series of measures intended to reduce outstanding arrears (para 5.09).
During negotiations an understanding was reached with CIH on the quarterly
reporting of action taken and results achieved regarding the collection of
arrears. The various measures and internal reorganization outlined in detail
by CIH's management have been found by the Bank to be well designed, and
likely to be effective.
3.17      Disbursement Policies.  CIH's disbursement procedures are adequate.
The proceeds of CIH's construction loans for hotels are made available to bor-
rowers in four main tranches, plus a 10% final tranche which is withheld until
the completion of work. CIH is also responsible for the disbursement of the
Government interest-free loan, Funds are disbursed only following inspections
of CIH's Technical Division, which ensures that the portion of the investment
to be financed with the promoter's equity has been completed and paid for.
Subsequent inspections ensure that each loan tranche has been utilized in
accordance with the loan contract and the project's appraisal report. When a
discrepancy is found between the original plans and the implementation of the
project, disbursements are stopped. However, follow-up reports and recommended
corrective measures were not submitted to the Bank in these cases. An under-
standing was reached, during negotiations, to the effect that the Bank will,
from now on, be kept informed of developments in sub-project implementation.
3.18      Procurement Procedures.  Competitive bidding is not automatically
required of all hotel borrowers, mainly because the design and the implementa-
tion of hotel projects is normally entrusted to an architects' firm which acts
as main contractor, and employs its usual suppliers. Competitive bidding is
required, however, for the larger hotels, for which CIH also requires that
the architects' estimates be reviewed and endorsed by independent engineering



- 10 -
consultants. CIH's own engineers have acquired considerable experience in
construction costs and procurement practices, and are able to effectively
scrutinize cost estimates and invoices on the occasion of their inspection
visits (para. 3.17). Overall, CIH procurement procedures are adequate.
IV. CIH'S OPERATIONS
A. Characteristics of Operations
Lending Operations
4.01      In the past three years, CIH has almost doubled the number of its
approvals, which grew from 794 operations for DH 113 million in 1973 to 1,686
operations for DH 149 million in 1974. In the first nine months of 1975, the
number of approvals has reached 1,633 for DH 187 million. This rapid growth
of operations is accounted for mainly by housing loans as summarized in the
table below: (DH million)
December 31                   Sept. 30
1972           1973           1974          1975
Hotel loans            No.  Amount   No.  Amount   No.  Amount  No.  Amount
Approved                 -    32.5      43   50.7    28    34.5    24   27.2
Committed               -    71.8       24   24.7    34    52.2       -   32.0
Disbursed                -    29.7       -   47.7      -    53.5      -   37.2
Housing loans
Approved              796    57.7    751   61.8  1658   114.0  1609  159.9
Committed               -    51.1        -   48.2      -   101.0      -  111.9
Disbursed                -    51.1       -   54.2      -    84.7      -   96.8
4.02      Housing Loans.  These loans finance the construction of houses and
apartment buildings, and, in some cases, commercial and office buildings, for
terms varying from 10 to 15 years at a normal interest rate of 8.75%. The
rate was increased to 10% in November 1975. Loans for medium-high income
housing, of value exceeding DH 250,000, bore a 10% interest rate. The fi-
nancing of low cost housing is handled by the Banque Centrale Populaire (BCP).
4.03      Hotel loans.  Hotel loan approvals are summarized below by type
of operation (in DH million).



- 11 -
First 9 months
1973               1974             1975
No.   Amount       No.   Amount   No.    Amount
Construction                  12     22.1         6      19.0     6        9.9
Equipment                     12      6.8        10       4.5     6        4.9
Expansion                     19     21.9        12      11.0    12       12.4
Total                         43     50.8        28      34.5    24       27.2
During the period 1972 through September 30, 1975, CIH approved hotel loans
totalling DH 145 million. Commitments amounted to DH 181 million 1/ during
the same period compared to DH 211 million during 1968-1971. Commitments
during 1973-1974 reflected the ups and downs in the investment climate (see
Annex 1, para. 8 for details).  In 1974, 79% of CIH's loans contributed to
the financing of 1,246 new beds in 4-star hotels (49%) and 3-star or below
(30%). The Southern Region increased its share of CIH financing from 26% of
approvals in 1973 to 58% of approvals in 1974. CIH financing also grew in
Marrakech from DH 0.5 million in approvals in 1973 to DH 13 million in 1974.
These changes reflect CIH's response to growing demand in those areas, and a
shift from the earlier emphasis on the Mediterranean coast.
Equity Investments
4.04      CIH's equity investments grew rapidly from only DH 1.3 million in
12 financial institutions (i.e. the CDG group) in 1972 to DH 29 million in
37 companies at December 31, 1975. CIH's shares in 10 of these enterprises,
however, do not exceed DH 10,000 per investment. The increase in investment
was mainly due to the founding of new affiliates (para. 3.02).
B. Evaluation of Performance
4.05      During appraisal of the second Bank loan (No. 848-MOR) to CIH in
1972, particular stress was put on the need to strengthen the institution's
management, staff and organizational structure. Objectives in those respects
have been largely achieved as detailed in Chapter III. The progress made
thus far should be consolidated, however, as some weaknesses in appraisal
and supervision persist, and as CIH envisages major increases in its lending
operations. CIH's quality of portfolio was of considerable concern at the
time of the Bank's last appraisal, particularly as regards loans made to two
major borrowers, Chellah Hilton and Holiday Inns, which were in arrears.
Agreements reached with the Government to protect CII against risks of loss
on the DH 91.3 million of loans involved have been adhered to.  However, the
situation of CIH's loan arrears still requires supervision and speedy collec-
tion procedures. Expectations with regard to financial and operational objec-
tives have in broad terms materialized. In order to help CIH better carry its
development banking role, the Bank and the Government agreed on a continuing
1/   In 1972 there was a "bunching" of commitments from earlier approvals
totalling DII 72 million.



- 12 -
exchange of views on policy and planning matters pertaining to tourism, par-
ticularly as regards the incentives system. Progress made in that area is
mixed. The effectiveness of the new incentives system established in 1973,
though an improvement over the previous one, still raises questions. Never-
theless, considering the institutional shortcomings that were to be overcome by
CIH at the time of the last Bank appraisal and the positive economic impact of
CIH financed tourism investments (Chapter II and Ainex 1) the record of the past
four years can be considered generally good. As shown below (para. 4.06) CIH
was somewhat constrained by factors over which it had little control. The 49
projects financed thus far under loan 848-MOR depict estimated economic rates of
return ranging from 11% to 20%.
4.06      Serious disbursement difficulties (stemming largely from an uncer-
tain political climate and investors' hesitations to go ahead with project con-
struction) under the first Bank loan of $10 million (704-MOR) in 1971-72 led
to the cancellation of US$1.2 million. The balance of $8.8 million is now
fully disbursed. The second Bank loan (848-MOR) of $15 million also suffered
partly from similar difficulties and from administrative delays of the sys-
tem of incentives. Commitments and disbursements have been slow, amounting
to $13.0 million and $8.5 million respectively as of March 31, 1976. The
creation of the Technical Committee in 1973 to coordinate work by different
ministries involved in the administration and granting of incentives consid-
erably reduced red tape. In late 1974 a new system was agreed with the Bank
to simplify disbursement procedures on Bank loans, while strengthening its
appraisal and follow-up procedures. These changes have not yet born signif-
icant results partly because of a lack of experience on the part of some
hotel borrowers. As new and more experienced investors enter the field of
hotel investment and as CIR calls more on the assistance of its engineer-
ing and hotel management affiliates as well as on other established firms,
disbursements are expected to move faster than in the past.
Free Limit
4.07      The free limit under the second Bank loan in 1972 to CIH was set at
a low $200,000, mainly in view of the fact that the Bank had still relatively
little to go on evaluating the quality of CIH's appraisals as well as the
validity of those appraisals in comparison to actual project results. Since
then, the Bank has gained increasing confidence in CIH's appraisal capabili-
ties and, despite problems in project implementation in a number of cases, it
is also apparent that Moroccan hotel investors are now much more experienced
than before. One important change is the fact that a greater share of projects
now being financed by CIH is for larger and more costly hotels, the planning,
feasibility studies, and appraisal of which are being undertaken with greater
care, and with the assistance of more sophisticated partners and consultants
than before.
4.08      In view of these considerations, and taking into account the size-
able cost increases of hotel projects, the proposed free limit this time is
$800,000. Different from past practice, however, this limit will not apply



- 13 -
to the initial construction loan granted by CIH: it will apply to the total
amount of the construction loan initially granted by CIH for a given project,
and the estimated amount of the loan to finance hotel equipment, which is
normally applied for, and usually granted, toward the end of a project's
construction period. This arrangement will subject to the Bank's review and
approval about one half of the number of projects to be financed with the
proceeds of the loan and at least three-quarters of the amount of the Bank
loan. CIH and the Bank have agreed, moreover, that the Bank should be in a
position to check, also for projects below the free limit, whether the new,
agreed appraisal criteria (see Annex 16) have been applied. CIH will, there-
fore, give evidence to this effect in its documentation for projects below the
free limit; this will be a condition of eligibility for withdrawal authoriza-
tion also for small projects. Taking these factors into account, CIH's free
limit has been about doubled, in real terms; a justified easing-up of pro-
cedures.
V. CIH'S FINANCIAL SITUATION
A. Resource Position
5.01      Details on CIH's resource position are provided in Annex 11.  Total
resources mobilized by CIH through December 31, 1975, amounted to DII 881.0
million, more than double the DH 403.5 million figure reached on December 31,
1971, at the time of appraisal of the second Bank loan to CIH. The bulk of
the increase in CIH's resources was obtained from CDG, the Central Bank and
BCP. Access to the bond market is closely controlled by the Government, which
sets a yearly ceiling to new issues. However, CIH has received full support
from the authorities in mobilizing adequate domestic resources in the market.
In 1974, a share capital increase brought in DH 20 million. The five-year
notes from BCP are generally renewed at maturity, albeit at higher prevailing
rates. CIH has so far been unsuccessful in its attempts to tap other sources
of foreign exchange funds than the IBRD although, recently, prospects appear
better judging from the response to its promotional investments (e.g. Farah-
Maghreb, para 3.02). The outstanding balance of the two Bank loans totalling
$25.0 million represent 8.5% of total resources in use as of December 31,
1975.
5.02      Owing to the substantial increase in housing approvals, CIH has been
committing resources just as fast as they were being mobilized. Although the
balance of resources available for further commitments amounted to DH 72.7
million at December 31, 1975, expected commitments through the end of 1976
would require about DH 261 million.



- 14 -
B. Financial Performance and Position
Profitability
5.03       Although CIH achieved generally good operating results during the
period 1971-1974, as shown in Annex 5, profits were not in line with the
growth of operations because of higher cost of resources. Operating income
grew from DH 12.7 million in 1971 to DH 14.8 million in 1974, i.e., only by
16% compared to a 65% growth of portfolio outstanding; net income to average
equity decreased from 19.9% to 9.4%. During the same period, CIH's adminis-
trative expenses doubled from DH 4.3 million in 1971 to DH 9.6 million in
1974, due principally to the increase of staff (para. 3.09). CIH's gross in-
terest spread between lending and borrowing narrowed from 3.9% in 1972 to 3.2%
in 1974 while CIH's relending rate remained fixed at 8.75%. As CIH's share
capital draws dividends of 8%, 1/ payments on that account have claimed an
increasing share of net profits, reaching 44% at end 1974 compared to 25.4%
in 1971. Dividend payments will claim about 71% of the estimated 1975 net
profits of DH 6.8 million. Consequently, until profitability can be improved,
it will be difficult for CIH to increase its share capital. In order to over-
come this problem, the Government has recently permitted CIH to increase to
11% its lending rate on hotel loans. In December 1975, the Government granted
CIH a DH 40 million Government loan, subordinated to all conventional debts,
at 6.5% p.a. for 30 years with a 10 year grace period. CIH has now increased
the lending rate on all housing loans to 10% p.a. The foreign exchange risk
on the Bank's loans to CIH is borne by the Government.
Financial Position
5.04       Balance Sheets.  CIH's audited 1971-74 balance sheets and unaudited
as of December 31, 1975, are detailed in Annex 6. Total assets have steadily
increased from DH 392.0 million at end 1971, to DH 693.0 million at end 1974
and DH 884.3 million as of December 31, 1975.  This doubling of CIH's assets
is accounted for by an increase of DH 407 million in loans and investments.
Housing loan portfolio grew from DH 103 million in 1971 to DH 275 million at
December 31, 1975, thus increasing its relative importance in CIH's total
portfolio from 29% to 38%; hotel loans grew at a slower pace.
5.05      Liquidity.  The balance sheets show an improvement in the current
position with a current ratio of 1.8:1 at December 31, 1975, up from 1.5:1 at
end 1974 and 1.1:1 at end 1973. lIowever, CIH's debt service payments are much
higher than its collection of loan principal installments. In 1973, the loan
repayment shortfall amounted to DII 11.8 million and more than doubled to DH
26.5 million at end 1974. Although 1974 was an exceptional year due to higher
than usual repayments of borrowing, there are three underlying causes to this
1/   Capital subscriptions in Morocco are entitled by law to a 5% statutory
dividend to which is usually added a 3 to 3.5% premium. This law is
designed to attract private savings in the capital market.



- 15 -
imbalance. Firstly, CIH's hotel loans enjoy up to five years of grace while
maost of its borrowings are repaid without grace period. 1/ Secondly, CIH's
borrowings are generally repayable on a constant principal installment basis
whereas the loans it makes are amortized on a constant annuity basis resulting
in low initial principal repayment (following long grace periods in the case of
hotels). Finally, arrears on principal repayments have adversely affected the
liquidity position. Although this situation has not so far unduly constrained
CIH's operations, it has, to a certain extent, forced CIH to utilize new re-
sources to service old debts. Though CIH can do little to remedy the situation
deriving from the first two causes of imbalances, it plans to tighten loan
collection procedures and to match better future loans amortization schedules
with the amortization schedules of its borrowings.
5.06      Capital Structure.  During the period 1972-1974 CIH's debt/equity
ratio, as defined in the latest Loan Agreement with the Bank, has remained
within the agreed limit of 6:1. Although CIH borrowed heavily through that
period, the two share capital increases of DH 20.0 million each in 1972 and
1974 helped maintain the ratio at less than 5.5:1. As of December 31, 1975,
however, additional borrowings totalling DH 191.4 million brought the debt/
equity ratio to 6.9:1, i.e., above the agreed limit. The expected high level
of new commitments in housing and real estate, and to a lesser extent, in
hotel investments calls for substantial new resources in 1976 and 1977. On
the basis of CIH's disbursement forecast and its pipeline of new projects
reviewed in Chapter VI, CIH must obtain new resources. While the Bank and
CIH must come to agreement on what a prudent and reasonable equity base for
CIH should be, both in the short and long run, CIH, the Government and the
Bank agree that, in the future, CIH must increasingly rely on its own ability
to build up its equity capital commensurate, on a prudent judgment of all
factors involved, with the growth of its debt. Under current agreements with
the Bank, CIH's debt/equity 2/ structure should not exceed a ratio of 6:1.
5.07      As CIH will not be in a position to increase its share capital until
its net earnings begin to increase substantially, (see para. 5.03) a share
capital increase cannot be undertaken until late 1977. Faced with this
situation, CIH obtained from the Government, in December 1975, a loan of DH 40
million (para 5.03) subordinated, in the event of liquidation or dissolution
of CIH, to all of CIH's conventional debts. It is financially safe and prudent
for the Bank, as well as for other conventional creditors of CIH, to consider,
for the purpose of the debt/equity limitation, the entire amount of this loan
as part of CIH's "equity", and for the ratio itself to be increased.   An in-
crease from 6:1 to 7.5:1 has been agreed upon. During negotiations, the
1/   Exceptions are the two subordinated bond loans of DH 15 million issued
in 1970 and 1971, which have a 15-year grace period each, and the two
Bank loans.
2/   According to the current Loan Agreement, "equity" includes that portion
of the 1970 and 1971 subordinated bond loans which falls due after the
last maturity of Bank loans.



- 16 -
Government and CIH confirmed their intention to adopt the following recom-
mendations of the Bank, which are based on an evaluation of CIH's financial
situation, and particularly of its exposure to risks of losses 1/:
(i)  A substantial increase in share capital of at least DH 40
million 2/ will take place in two equal tranches, the first
of which by end-1977, and the second, by end-1978, at the
latest.
(ii)  The Government will permit CIH's relending rates to be man-
aged in such a way as to ensure both adequate remunera-
tion of share capital and reserve build-up (Chapter VI). It
was informally recognized that an interest spread in the
order of 3% will be needed to attain this result. As a
first step, the Government would permit CIH's hotel relend-
ing rate to increase to 11% by June 30, 1976;
(iii)  CIH will adopt all appropriate measures to reduce, before mid-
1977, the proportion of its loans affected by arrears to out-
standing portfolio by at least 50% (para. 5.09);
(iv)  For the purpose of defining CIH's "equity", in terms of the Loan
Agreement, the new, subordinated loan of DH 40 million will be
reduced pro rata temporis over its 10 years grace period (1976-
1985), i.e. by one-tenth each year, so that, at the end of this
period, none of this loan will be counted as "equity".
5.08      This agreement, which is considered financially prudent, will enable
CIH, as far as its capital structure is concerned, to transact its projected
business (Annexes 13-15) until about mid-1978, by which time the proposed Bank
loan should have been fully committed. By that time, CIH's actual and pro-
jected profitability should have improved sufficiently for CIH to raise
additional share capital, as necessary. In order to ensure that CIH would at
no time make financial commitments to an extent that would subsequently lead
to a transgression of the agreed debt/equity ratio, an understanding was also
reached, during negotiations, to the effect that CIH's debt/equity structure
would be closely monitored not only on the basis of CIH's equity and debt
outstanding at any point in time, but also taking into account CIH's undis-
bursed commitments and attending projected borrowings. For this purpose, the
criteria used for financial projections in this report (Annex 10) would
generally be adopted.
1/   The growing importance of housing loans in CIH's portfolio (75% of pro-
jected commitments through 1978; para. 6.11) whose risk is historically
negligible, tends to reduce the overall risk of CIH's total loan port-
folio.
2/   The amount of DH 40 million is required according to CIH's business
projections. If by mid-1977 projections are substantially modified
the Bank should be prepared to review its position accordingly.



- 17 -
5.09      Loan and Equity Portfolio.  A detailed review of CIH's portfolio is
given in Annex 8. Though arrears have remained high over the past two or
three years, CII's risk is not excessive; CIII remains financially creditworthy.
However, the Banik has and will continue to impress upon CIH the necessity
to tighten its collection procedures, impose higher penalties on loan overdues
and intensify its supervision during hotel construction and follow-up there-
after so as to substantially reduce future arrears. During negotiations an
understanding was reached with CIH, to the effect that the following procedures
will be maintained or reinforced:
(a)  CIH's exposure to any single company will continue to
be normally limited to a maximum of 20% of CIH's unimpaired
equity.
(b)  Penalty interest of 2% above CIH's statutory interest
rate will be applied to unpaid principal and interest.
(c)  CIH would intensify follow-up on delinquent hotels and ac-
celerate legal proceedings against them (paras 3.15 and
3.16).
(d)  New amortization methods, consisting of quarterly (instead
of semi-annual) repayments will be gradually introduced for
new hotel loans. Repayments on housing loans will gradually
be changed to a monthly instalment system.
Provisions Policy
5.10      In the past, provisions against doubtful loans were found by the
auditors and the Bank to be generally adequate following detailed reviews by
Bank missions and CIH staff of the financial situation of CIH's major bor-
rowers. The Bank agreed with CIH that, starting in 1974, a case-by-case re-
view of the loan portfolio would be undertaken by the auditors. This was done,
although not fully satisfactorily so. Following a detailed review of the
hotel loans in arrears, the provision of DH 7.4 million as of December 31,
1975, is deemed adequate to cover potential losses (Annex 8).
C. Audit
5.13      CIH's financial statements are audited by the Moroccan branch of
Price Waterhouse and Co. The auditors' performance has been uneven, and
CIH's management is contemplating a change of auditors.



- 18 -
VI. PROSPECTS
A. Tourism
6.01      Prospects for demand and supply are reviewed in Annex 1, paras.
16 and 17. Tourist flows in Morocco are expected to grow, over the next ten
years or so, if not at the same pace as in the past, at least at a rate of
about 10% p.a. By 1980, over 2 million foreign tourists are expected to
visit Morocco annually.
6.02      To cope with this growth, additional investments in hotels, va-
cation villages and also camping facilities are called for. Planning poli-
cies, investment incentives and actions needed to optimize the economic
returns from new investments are discussed in Chapter II.
B. Operations
Lending Operations
6.03      Housing loans.  During the 1976-79 period, CIH expects its housing
and other non-tourism loan approvals to total DH 1,156 million (Annex 12).
In view of the past trend in housing approvals, which almost tripled between
1973 and September 1975, and of the demand backlog, CIH's expectations appear
reasonable.
6.04      Hotel loans.  CIH's pipeline of projects to be approved in the 1976-
79 period comprises 45 new hotels and 6 extensions of capacity to add a total of
16,584 beds to Morocco's accommodation capacity. About 19 hotels are planned
as 4-star, 6 as 5-star and the remaining 26 as 3-star category, for an esti-
mated total investment cost of DH 735 million, including equipment cost. The
average cost per bed would reach DH 44,300 ($10,700), compared to an average
$8,000 per bed in Morocco for the past two to three years, for 3-star hotels.
Taking into account recent inflation of construction costs and that the cost
of the 4- and 5-star hotels is higher, this estimate is reasonable. The
CIH projects are concentrated in the Agadir area with 12 hotels (4,300 beds),
and in Marrakech with 8 hotels (4,200 beds). In Casablanca, 8 new hotels are
expected to add 3,496 beds compared to 4 hotels and 690 beds in Rabat and only
3 hotels with 516 beds in Fez. In Tangiers two projects of doubtful con-
ception are planned. As regards other areas such as Oujda, Ouarzazate, etc.,
CIH expects to finance 8 new medium category hotels to add an estimated 1,200
units in their bed capacity. CIH's pipeline on the whole appears sound as 40
hotels (out of 45) representing 77% of the total expected investment cost (DH
562 million) would be built in the growing tourist demand areas of Morocco, and
in heretofore neglected areas with good potential for growth. Moreover, the 26
units of medium category included in the pipeline should fill the gap in the
pent-up demand for such accomodations. Most of the promoters are either or-
ganized investment companies such as SIDET, Farah-Maghreb, SOMAKOHOTEL, or
former CIH clients with several years of experience in hotel operations.
Of 45 projects, 29 are sponsored by private promoters.



- 19 -
6.05      Following a detailed review of investment conditions, approvals and
commitments of hotel loans are projected to reach a total of DH 370 million and
DH 344 million, respectively, during the 1976-1979 period; disbursements are
estimated to amount to DH 268 million. The projections retained for this ap-
praisal are substantially below CIH's own projections. Disbursements are ex-
pected to be slightly faster than in the past, as promoters have increasingly
become aware of the cost of delays, and new companies such as Promoconsult
(engineering), Europa-Maroc (hotel management), Farah Maghreb, SIDET, SOMAKOHOTEL
(hotel investment companies) are bringing a better expertise than was the case
for projects initiated a few years ago. The use by CIH of the investment cri-
teria agreed upon during negotiations for the proposed loan should result in
a tigher screening of project applications.
Equity Investments
6.06      CIH plans a net investment portfolio increase of DH 24 million to
reach DH 55.5 million by end 1979. With perhaps one exception, the invest-
ments envisaged by CIH appear sound from a promotional view point.
C. Resource Requirements
6.07      As of December 31, 1975, the balance of CIH's uncommitted resources
amounted to DH 72.7 million, of which DH 8.4 million (US$2.0 million) in
foreign exchange from Bank loan 848-MOR. Based on CIH's business projec-
tions and on the assumptions underlying CIH's future operations (Annex 10),
expected new commitments by CIH total DH 981.0 million, of which DH 244.0
million for hotel loans, through the period December 31, 1975 - December 31,
1978. The estimated foreign exchange requirements through that same period
amount to DH 125.8 million (US$30.4 million 1/); this is based on CIH's assess-
ment of the foreign exchange component of hotel investment costs by category
of hotel as well as on an independent evaluation of these components made by a
reputable international consulting firm. 2/
6.08      To cover its commitments and disbursements, CIH issued DH 40 million
in new bonds in November 1975 (15-year at 7.50%). Furthermore a Government
subordinated loan of DH 40 million at 6.5% interest repayable in 30 years
(including 10 years grace) was obtained in December, 1975. Based on annual
bond issue authorizations which the Government allocates to CIH, an additional
mobilization of DH 550 million in long-term bonds is forecast by CIH through
1/   Excluding $2.0 million of uncommitted funds from Loan 848-MOR.
2/   Based on these studies, the import component by categories are estimated
as follows: 5*:37%, 4*:36%, 3*:31%, 2*:24%, 1*:20%. In view of the de-
velopment of Morocco's high value-added import substituting industries,
which increased the possibility to procure more goods locally than in the
past, and taking account of foreign price inflation (which exceeded domestic
inflation rates) the preceding assumption is acceptable for the coming
2 or 3 years.



- 20 -
1978. No difficulty is foreseen in securing these bond resources and the
Government has confirmed informally its intention to continue to support CIH's
resource mobilization in this form. As regardsthe mobilization of medium-term
funds, the market for these bonds has become tighter; thus, CIH expects to
mobilize only DH 17 million in notes in 1976.
6.09    The proposed bank loan of $25.0 million should thus cover CIH's re-
quirements for commitments through mid-1978. It is hoped that by that time
CIH would have succeeded to diversify its foreign borrowings. The foreign
exchange risk on the proposed Bank loan to CIH will continue to be borne by
the Government.
D. Financial Prospects
Profitability
6.10      CIH's projected income statements are summarized in Annex 13.  CIH
expects the trend of rising cost of its financial resources to continue in
the near future, taking into account also the rising cost of Bank funds.
The average cost of borrowings is expected to increase from 6.1% in 1975 to
7.3% in 1979 based on the assumptions detailed in Annex 10. 1/ Operating costs
are projected to increase substantially, though salaries and wages will rise
only moderately. Projected revenue assumes 11% interest on new hotel loans
and 10% on new housing and other loans, representing increases of 2.25% and
1.25% respectively, on loans granted after the end of 1975. The effect of
these interest rate increases on CIH's profitability would be felt only as the
weight of new disbursements, particularly on hotel loans, grows in CIH's port-
folio outstanding. (New disbursements as a percentage of loans outstanding
would increase from 26% in 1976 to 77% in 1979; disbursements on hotel loans
account, on the average, for 20% of new disbursements.)
6.11      CIH's profitability would remain satisfactory during 1975 and 1976
although, compared to 1974, a decline would be registered owing mainly to
higher operating costs and, to a lesser extent, to narrowing interest spread
from 3.2% to 2.9%. Net profit as a percentage of average equity would fall
from 9.4% in 1974 to 7.9% in 1975 and 6.9% in 1976. Although CIH's interest
spread between the average cost of borrowing and the average income on loans
would register a declining trend from 3.2% in 1975 to 2.7% in 1979, CIH's
profit picture is expected to improve substantially starting in 1977. Net
profits are projected to reach DH 8.4 million (8.47% of average equity) in
1977, DH 10.8 million in 1978 (8.7% of average equity) and DH 13 million in
1979 (9.5% of average equity). These results would allow CIH to remunerate
1/   These assumptions do not include a possible increase in the Bank's cur-
rent lending rate of 8.5%; the effect of a small increase in this rate
would, however, be marginal.



- 21 -
adequately the projected share capital increase of DH 40 million to be com-
pleted in 1978. However, additions to reserves are not commensurate with
CIl's increased level of borrowings and lending, nor in line with the past
four years' trend. In order to allow CIH to add a moderate DH 3.0 to 3.5
million yearly to general reserves, after paying dividends, a minimum spread
of 3.0% would be needed during 1977-1979 (para 5.07).
6.12      Balance Sheets and Liquidity.  CIH's assets are forecast to more
than double, from about DH 884 million at December 31, 1975 to DH 1,643
million at end 1978, and DH 1,914 million at end 1979. The increase is ac-
counted for mainly by a net increase of DH 966 million in the loan portfolio
outstanding. Housing and other non-tourism loans will register an estimated
threefold growth thus increasing their relative importance from 47% at
December 31, 1975 to 64% of total loan portfolio outstanding at end 1978.
Hotel loans outstanding are projected to increase only by DH 129 million,
i.e., a growth of 33% during the same period (Annex 15). Liquidity remained a
financial problem over the past three years. CIH's efforts to bring the terms
of its debt and loan into a better balance should help in the future. The
projections foresee an improvement of the debt service coverage ratio from 1.0
in 1976 to 1.3 in 1977 and onwards.
VII. THE LOAN, ITS OBJECTIVES AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The proposed loan of $25 million is intended to provide the foreign
exchange resources needed by CIH to finance the import component of most hotel
development projects and other tourism related projects to be undertaken in
Morocco through mid-1978. The Bank would, through this loan, finance the fo-
reign exchange component of virtually all new hotel investment expected to
come on stream between 1977 and 1980. In terms of hotel beds, this is esti-
mated at about 10,000 new beds.
7.02      The expected economic impact of the planned Moroccan hotel expansion
program remains high on the average (Annex 1). Further work is needed to come
to a more precise knowledge of economic value of specific investments. Avail-
able information on projects in CIH's pipeline indicates that Moroccan invest-
ors are oriented toward those areas which yield high economic returns. CIH
should adopt strict appraisal criteria to ensure that it would only finance
economically sound projects.
7. 03     The Bank will provide, within the framework of the proposed project,
assistance to the Ministry of Tourism by reviewing the terms of reference for,
and discussing progress in the implementation of, the regional master planning
studies on which Morocco's tourism development strategy will be based (Annex 1
paras 18-19).  Secondly, the Bank obtained MUHTE's commitment to improve its
system of collection and analysis of tourism statistics and to refine the
survey conducted by the Bank during appraisal; it also obtained assurances
from the Government, that it is prepared to review its incentive policy in
light of the results of the studies described in para. 2.11.



- 22 -
7.04      Beside the impact of the proposed loan in developing hotels, this
project is expected to have substantial institution-building effects on CIH.
The Bank's support and guidance are still needed by CIH toward the strengthen-
ing of CIH's project appraisal and supervision capabilities and the consolida-
tion of its financial structure. The proposed loan would demonstrate the
Bank's continued confidence in CIH and should, among other things, enhance
CIH's prospects of tapping new sources of financing, most likely in the Middle
East, as has been the case with CIH's industrial counterpart in Morocco, BNDE.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      The agreements and understandings reached during negotiations with
both CIH and the Moroccan authorities, as reported above, ensure, on the one
hand that CIH will remain a financially sound and creditworthy institution,
and, on the other hand, that Bank funds committed to this project would be
allocated to hotel development projects for which high economic returns can
be reasonably expected. Specifically, CIH's acceptance of the recommended
appraisal criteria (Annex 16), and the authorities' stated intention to
improve the system of collection and analysis of tourism statistics, and to
carry out studies, in cooperation with the Bank, with a view to determine
whether and how the incentive system and other tourism development policies
should be revised, are particular features of this project; they represent a
valid contribution by the Bank toward the development, of one of the priority
sectors in the Moroccan economy.
8.02      On the basis of the above considerations, a loan of $25 million is
recommended, to finance the foreign exchange components of tourism projects to
be financed by CIH until about mid-1978. With the proposed loan, the Bank's
contribution to the financing of CIH's lending operations would be 18% of
CIH's total resources at end-1978.
8.03      The new loan would be made on the terms and conditions usually ap-
plied to Bank loans to development finance companies. Its duration, however,
would be geared to the rather long construction time and pay-back period
of hotel investments, which require extended amortization schedules of up to
20 years, with grace periods of up to 5 years. An adjustable amortization
schedule, with a maximum maturity of 20 years, is therefore recommended for
the proposed loan.



MOROCCO
CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER
BASIC DATA
(as of Deccmber 31, 1975)
Year of Establishment:
Ownership (as of December 31, 1974)           DH '000         Percent
Moroccan public institutions                28,236           47.0
Moroccan private institutions 11             6,523           11.0
Moroccan individuals                            54            0.1
Bearers' shares                             25,187           41.9
Total Moroccan                         60,000          100.0
Resource Position (Balance sheet basis December 31, 1975)
DH '000
Equity                                      87,395
Subordinated loans                          30,000
Other LT borrowings                        726,692
Total resources                       844,087
Loan outstanding                           731,316
Investments                                 39,081
Total Portfolio                       770,397
Available for disbursement:                     73,690
Operations (DH '000)                            1973           1974           1975
(9 months)
Approvals
Hotels                                      50,800         34,500         27,200
Housing and non-tourism                    _61,800        110,100        159,900
Totals                                112,600        144,600        187,100
Commitments
Hotels                                      24,700         52,200         32,000
Housing and non-tourism                     51,300        101,000        111,700
Totals                                 76,000        153,200        143,700
Disbursements
Hotels                                      47,700         53,600         47,000 *
Housing and non-tourism                     54,000         85,200        145,000 *
Totals                                101,700        138,800        192,000
1/ Including Moroccan subsidiaries of foreign owned institutions.
* Estimated for 1975.



Earnings Record                                  1973           1974           1975
Net profit as % average equity               12.2            9.4           7.7
Cash dividends as % net profit               21.6           45.2          71.0
Financial Position
LT debt/year end equity                        7.1           6.8           8.6
Debt/equity (IBRD) I/                         5.5            5.4           6.9
IBRD debt as % LT debt                        5.6%           8.0%          8.57
Interest rates and charges
Housing loans before November 1975                   8.75%
Housing loans after November 1975                   10.0%
Hotel loans: current rate                            8.75%
expected in future                    11.0%    before rebate
Commitment fee                                       0.75%
Commission on Government loans to hotels             0.50%
BASIC DATA ON BANK GROUP LOANS
A. Status of Bank Loans ($ million) as of March 31, 1976
Date of          Interest   Amount      Commit-    Disburse-    Out-
Effectiveness   Rate        of Loan    ments        ments         standing
704-MOR      1/28/71        7.0         10.0        8.8 4/       8.8           8.8
848-MOR     11/1/72         7.25        15.0       13.0          8.5           8.5
B.  IFC Investments         none
3/ Assuming DH 19 million in subordinated Government bonds as quasi-equity. Agreed
limit is 6:1
4/ $1.2 million have been cancelled from this loan.
EMIENA/IC & DFC
April 1976



ANNEX I
Page 1
MOROCCO
CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER
MOROCCAN TOURISM_
A. Evolution of the Sector, 1968-1975
1.        Situated within easy reach of Europe, Morocco's tourism resources
include beach resorts on the Mediterranean and Atlantic coasts; architectural
treasures and cultural attractions in the Imperial cities of Fez, Rabat, Meknes
and Marrakesh; and the exotic atmosphere of the pre-Saharan oases, within view
of the snow-capped Atlas range.
Tourist Arrivals
2.        The number of foreign visitors to Morocco (excluding cruise visitors)
increased from 469,000 to 1,226,000 between 1968 and 1973, an annual growth
rate of 21%. A 14% decline to 1,052,000 in 1974 reflected the impact of the
energy crisis and the European recession. Foreign visitor arrivals rose again
last year, and 1975 results may equal those registered in 1973. Tourist arrivals
to Morocco are more evenly distributed over the year than arrivals to most other
Mediterranean countries such as Spain and Yugoslavia. (Summer arrivals in
Morocco in 1973 and 1974   accounted for only 40%  of the yearly total as com-
pared, for instance, to 50% in Spain and 54% in Yugoslavia.) On the other
hand this conceals very large seasonal variations in arrivals to Morocco's
Northern (Mediterranean and Atlantic) coasts, and more even flows to the cen-
tral cities and the south Atlantic Coast (Agadir). Another index of seasonal-
ity is provided by the foreign currency exchanged by tourists from one month to
another. Fully 19.6% of such exchanges occur in August, and the average daily
exchanges in August amounted to 231% of the annual average (average of 1973 and
1974). The corresponding figures for arrivals in hotels (average for the period
1972-1974) vary from 118% in Casablanca to 337% in M'diq and Cabo-Negro on the
Mediterranean Coast (see Annex 9 for further details).
3.        An analysis of the socio-economic structure of foreign tourists in
Morocco conducted in 1971 showed that over 42% were professionals and 19% were
clerical and blue-collar workers. The average daily expenditures of tourists,
were estimated at the equivalent of $25 per day. In the period 1970-74, West-
ern European countries accounted for 63% of foreign visitor arrivals in Morocco,
with France (22%), the U.K. (11%) and Germany (8%) predominating. U.S. and
Canadian arrivals represented 20% of the total in the period 1970-1974, com-
pared to a 14% share in 1968 (Table 2). About one-third of all visitors arrive
in Morocco overland, most of them from Ceuta and Melilla, the Spanish enclaves



ANNEX 1
Page 2
on Morocco's Northern Coast, and almost as many again across the strait of
Gilbraltar at Tangiers. A substantial portion of visitors entering Morocco in
this manner are one-day excursionists. Arrivals by air average about 35% of
total; their proportion is increasing due to the rapid growth of charter tourism
in the Mediterranean.
Accommodation Capacity
4.        The country's hotel capacity doubled from 20,500 beds in 1968 to
42,000 beds in 1975, a growth rate of about 10.8% p.a.. About two-thirds of
this additional capacity was built by private investors, many of them Moroccan,
but including also large international groups such as Club Mediteranee and
Holiday Inns. The remainder was built by public sector enterprises such as the
National Railway Company, Royal Air Maroc and subsidiaries of Government-owned
financial institutions. The two Bank loans to CIH in 1970 and 1972 financed
the import   component of the bulk of new hotel construction.  There are also
16,000 spaces in camping grounds for the use of camping and caravaning visitors,
most of whom arrive in their own vehicles after transiting Spain.
5.        Hotels are concentrated in the Imperial cities and Casablanca (43%),
the Mediterranean coast (35%) and Agadir (12%) (Table 1 gives more details).
Occupancies vary greatly according to hotel locations. In major cities like
Casablanca and Rabat, where visitors are predominantly business-motivated and
they do not vary much seasonally, annual bed occupancies are estimated to
average around 45% (and room occupancies 60-70%). Higher levels are attained
in Agadir and Marrakech, the country's southernmost tourism resorts. Bed
occupancies in the North on the other hand average 30%-40% over the course of
the year, with considerable seasonality as in other Mediterranean destinations.
6.        The break down of Morocco's hotels by category as of end 1974 is
shown in Table 1. Five and four-star establishments 1/ represent over 43% of
the total capacity, and over 50% in the principal tourist areas (Agadir, Fez,
Tangiers, Casablanca, Marrakech, Rabat). Medium priced accommodation (3-star
hotels and vacation villages) represents 38% of the total. Around 10% of total
installed capacity is managed by the Club Mediterranee. The heavy concentration
of Moroccan hotels in the higher, more expensive categories and in vacation
villages responds to the preferences of organized tourists, both European and
North American.
7.        Tourism Investments.  Total investment in tourism in the Second Plan
period (1968-72) amounted to DH 541 million, or 4.4% of Morocco's total gross
capital formation during the period. Of total investment for tourism, DH 54
1/   Moroccan hotels are given five principal classifications expressed in
stars and reflected in tariffs. A 5-star hotel is in the luxury class,
3-star facilities offer comfortable accommodations and 1-star appeals to
the hardy. Accommodation and meal prices are Government-controlled for
all except the 5-star category. This may have been one of the reasons
for the preference of many investors for 5-star hotel projects. Ceilings on
prices of meals and accommodations are periodically revised by MUHTE to take
into account changes in the cost of living index, and trends in international
tourism demand.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
million were spent for infrastructure 1/, DH 10 million for training, and the
balance, DH 477 million, were invested in construction of additional accom-
modation capacity, which increased by 15,815 beds. The Plan's targets, in
terms of physical achievements, were met by little over 50%: the Plan fore-
saw the construction of 30,800 additional hotel beds at a cost of DH 724 mil-
lion in the period 1968-72. In monetary terms, the private sector almost met
(93%) the target assigned to it, while the public sector, which contributed DH
110 million to total investment in hotel construction, invested less than
one third of the amount foreseen by the Plan. CIH's financing of hotel invest-
ment in the period 1968-72 amounted to DH 235 million, or about one half of
the total. Morocco's Third Development Plan foresaw the construction of 55,000
additional beds in the period 1973-77, at a cost of DH 1,260 million. Further
investments of DH 240 million in the tourism sector were foreseen by the Plan
for infrastructure, promotion, training and other expenditures associated to
tourism development. This represents about 6% of forecasted gross fixed capital
formation in the period. The rate of realization of the Third Plan, however, is
not likely to exceed that attained for the Second Plan. In the first two years
of the new Plan, less than 5,000 new beds were added to Morocco's total accom-
modation capacity; about DH 200 million were invested in new tourism projects
(2.8% of total gross fixed investment in the two-year period) of which CIH
financed about one half. Sluggishness of tourism investment persisted well into
1975: during the first three quarrers of the year less than DR 80 million had
been invested in new hotel construction.
8.        The main reason for the shortfall in planned growth of hotel invest-
ments is that the Plans' projections were not realistic, being based on number
of tourist arrivals rather than hotel bednights. Although total visitor num-
bers more or less met the Plans targets, bednights sold did not increase propor-
tionally due to shorter than expected average lengths of stay, and higher than
anticipated demand for non-hotel accommodation (e.g., camping, staying with
friends and relatives). Stiff competition among Mediterranean countries may
have prevented hotel prices, especially in Morocco's Northern beach resorts,
from increasing in line with rapidly escalating construction and operating
costs, thus reducing the short-term profitabilitv of hotel investments below
that obtainable in other sectors of the Moroccan economy. Other factors that
slowed down tourism investments in Morocco were:
(i)  The enactment, in 1973, of moroccanization laws, which
diverted Moroccan venture capital to the acquisition of shares
of foreign-owned industrial and commercial enterprises;
(ii) lack of basic infrastructure in Agadir and Marrakech, where
serviced land is scarce;
1/   The figure quoted excludes infrastructure investments for the development
of the road network (apart from road connections specifically built for
tourism resorts) and investment in aviation infrastructure, under the
assumption that these investments would have been undertaken even in the
absence of tourism.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
(iii)  the recession in Europe which forced many potential foreign
investors to postpone their investment plans in Morocco; and
(iv)  fear of Government interventions deterred enterpreneurs, es-
pecially foreign ones, from investing in hotels, in which the
expected pay-back period is relatively long compared to other
sectors, and
(v)  since 1973 there have also been widespread doubts about the rate
of future growth of tourist demand, given the energy crisis and
the recession.
Investor interest in hotels seems now to be picking up again, as reflected
in CIH's pipeline of new projects (see para. 6.04). This is to a large ex-
tent attributable to improvement in the general investment climate and to
promotional investment efforts recently undertaken by several public-sector
institutions, including CIH's own affiliate, Farah-Maghreb (see para. 3.02).
Importance of Tourism in the Moroccan Economy
9.        Tourism Receipts.  The table below shows tourism receipts data
recorded by the Exchange Office 1/,    the estimates of tourism receipts used
in Morocco's Balance of Payments, and the estimates provided by the MUHTE.2/
Morocco: Tourism Foreign Exchange Receipts (Million DH)
Recorded by       Estimate in      MUHTE's
Exchange Office         BOP          Estimate
average   )                       330                680            n.a.
1972                              484                893           1,144
1973                              534              1,010           1,420
1974                              768              1,067           1,502
Data officially recorded by the Exchange Office exclude parallel market trans-
actions. The estimates used in Morocco's Balance of Payments (which are also
prepared by the Exchange Office) are derived from the last serious sample sur-
1/   Including tourists' purchases of Moroccan currency at authorized foreign
exchange dealers, credit card transactions and direct transfers from
foreign tour operators.
2/   Ministere de l'Urbanisme, de l'Habitat, du Tourisme et de l'Environnement.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
vey of actual tourist expenditures 1/ and inflated by a cost of living index.
The MUHTE's estimate is derived in the same general way, but with more generous
assumptions. It seems reasonable to assume that the true figure lies between
the BOP estimates and the official records of foreign exchange transactions.
10.       Hotels collect only a limited portion of the foreign exchange expend-
itures of tourists. According to the 1971 Maroc Development Study, expenditures
in hotels by hotel guests represented between 30 and 42% of their total expendi-
tures, depending on the hotel category. The Master Plan for Morocco's tourism
development 2/ estimates tourists expenses outside hotels to vary between 49
and 69% of the total. 3/ These include expenditures on (i) traditional handi-
craft, (ii) restaurants and bars other than those in hotels, (iii) local trans-
portation, (iv) other leisure services, and (v) purchases of sundries. All
estimates agree in attributing about one half of tourist expenditures outside
hotels in Morocco to purchases of handicraft products. Handicraft production
as well as small local restaurants and shops selling miscellaneous wares to
tourists are highly labor intensive: according to a recent study of the eco-
nomic effects of tourism prepared by CIH, the capital/output ratio of the hotel
sector is estimated at 2.7:1, while the ratio for the entire tourism sector
(including handicraft and other ancillary activities) is estimated between 1.2
and 1.4. By the same token, the Bank's appraisal report of the Bay of Agadir
Tourism Infrastructure Project estimates that non-hotel facilities in the pro-
posed resort area will reap 40% of the benefits (net of taxes) generated by
tourism, while the investments associated with these facilities will not ex-
ceed 10% of the total investment cost foreseen for the development of the re-
sort area (although this estimate takes account of existing excess capacity
in non-hotel facilities).
11.       Net Balance of Payments Effects of Tourism.  Foreign exchange ex-
penditures incurred by the Moroccan economy to meet tourist demand are esti-
mated by the authorities not to exceed 20% of tourism receipts. Other tourism
related foreign exchange expenditures include the foreign exchange component of
1/   The survey was carried out by Maroc Development, a consulting firm
based in Rabat, in 1971 (Etude des consequences du Tourisme sur
l'Economie Nationale).
2/   Prepared in 1974 by Institut fur Planungskybernetik, of Munich, and
Steigenberger Consulting, of Frankfurt.
3/   In Tunisia, a study carried out by ONTT in 1974 estimated the percentage
of expenditures outside hotels at 40-45% of the total. The percentge of
tourist expenditures outside hotels in Morocco is higher than in Tunisia
because a larger proportion of Moroccan than of Tunisian tourists do not
stay in hotels, traditional handicraft is more fully developed in Morocco
than Tunisia, individual as contrasted with package tourism is more impor-
tant in Morocco than Tunisia, and Tunisian hoteliers tend to provide a wider
range of "non-hotel" services than their Moroccan counterparts.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
annual investments in tourism projects (net of foreign capital investments in
tourism) the partial repatriation of salaries of expatriate hotel staff and of
foreign investors profits, and the cost of tourism promotion abroad. These
other expenditures amounted to between DH 40 million and DH 50 million yearly in
the period 1968-1974. The attending net effects of tourism on Morocco's Balance
of Payments are shown in the following table:
(millions of Dirhams)
Average
1968-72      1973         1974
Tourism receipts (Mean of official
exchange records and B.O.P. estimate)              +505         +772         +918
Cost of imports to meet tourists demand              -101         -154         -183
Other tourism related expenditures                   - 41         - 40         - 50
Net effect of tourism on B.O.P.                 +363         +578         +685
As % of Basic B.O.P. receipts                    7.1%           9.0%        5.7%
This computation does not take into account two factors on which no informa-
tion is available: the foreign exchange savings deriving from foregone foreign
holidays of wealthy Moroccans made possible by the availability of suitable
tourism facilities in the country,. and the receipts and costs associated with
international air transport of tourists (including the subsidy on jet-fuel
for charter flights).
12.       Employment Creation.  Morocco's hotels directly employed 16,000 perm-
anent workers at end 1974. The investment cost per job created in the hotel
sector is, on average, about DH 60,000 ($15,000). This cost compares favorably
with that in other sectors of the Moroccan economy, with the exception of non-
irrigated agriculture. The relative efficiency of hotels in employment crea-
tion would be even greater if explicit account were taken of the long life of
hotels compared to industrial investments. The employment created to satisfy
the demand of tourists and the demand for tourism investments includes not only
jobs in hotels, but also in handicraft production, the construction industry,
leisure services, guides, travel services, catering industry, etc. According
to the 1971 Maroc Developpement Study, about 60,000 people were employed in the
traditional handicraft subsector to satisfy tourists' demands, and 20,000 more
jobs were created in the other tourism-related activities mentioned above. 1/
Total investments associated to jobs directly created by tourism were estimated
at DH 1.4 billion as of end 1971, of which DH 0.8 billion was in the hotel
industry alone, and DH 0.6 billion in other branches of the tourism sector.
The average investment cost per job directly created to supply tourism demand
came to DH 15,000 (US$3,400).
1/   Maroc Developpement arrived at these estimates by applying sectoral data
on value added per job, to the estimates of value added in handicraft
production derived from its expenditure survey and the 1968 and 1969
input-output tables of the Moroccan economy.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
13.       Jobs indirectly generated by tourism include employment in the agri-
culture and food processing sector, textiles industry, energy sector, raw
materials used in handicraft (metals, leather, chemicals, etc), the construction
materials industry, the automotive industry, etc. Maroc Developpement estimated
that about 75,000 of such jobs were created by the intermediate tourism demand
in other sectors of the economy.
14.       The Master Plan for the development of Morocco's tourism, prepared
in 1974, supports Maroc Developpement's findings. For the period 1974-77, the
Master Plan foresees that the construction of 14,400 new hotel beds would
generate (directly and indirectly) 50,000 new jobs related to the hotel sector,
and roughly another 30,000 new jobs in other branches (chiefly related to the
production and marketing of handicraft).
15.       Subsidies to tourism investments.  The system of incentives for
tourism investments was modified in August, 1973, with the publication of a new
investment code, which was intended to establish a less cumbersome system than
the one existing since 1960. In essence, it provides for:
(a) ten-year partial (50%) or full exemption (depending on the
location of the project) from corporate income tax;
(b) reduced rates on the capital registration taxes, the real
estate tax and exoneration of purchase taxes on materials
and equipment used for the construction;
(c) an interest-free Treasury loan (administered by CIH) of 15%
of the total cost of the investment (excluding land), repay-
able in 5 years following 5 years of grace (5-star hotels are
not eligible for this Treasury loan);
(d) other long-term loans (10-20 years) from CIH, carrying 4.5%
interest, the difference between this and CIH's official rate
being paid by the Government. 1/
(e) accelerated depreciation for extensions of existing hotels.
Under this incentives system, the financing plan of a typical Moroccan hotel
is: 15% Government advance; 60-64% CIH long term loan; 21-25% equity. 2/.
1/   Following the recent increase in CIH's nominal hotel lending rate from
8.75% to 11%, the subsidized rate payable by investors is expected to
be also increased shortly. According to a draft law now undergoing the
legislative process, the Government subsidy would vary between 2% and
5% thus bringing the interest rate payable by borrowers to between 6%
and 9%.
2/   Calculated on cost after incentives.  The percentages on investment
cost, including sales tax, are approximately 14%, 57-61%, 20-24% with
the balance of around 5% being accounted for by the exoneration of the
sales tax.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
Government incentives for projects costing over DH 30 million are negotiated
on a case-by-case basis. A project becomes eligible for the Government's
incentives once it has been approved by a Technical Commmittee chaired by
MUHTE and including representatives of the Finance Ministry, local administra-
tions and CIH. The committee decides on the eligibility of a project exclus-
ively on the basis of its meeting minimum technical and physical planning
standards. The assessment of a project's financial and economic merits is left
to CIH's appraisal of the loan to finance it.
B. Prospects 1976-1980
16.       Prospects of demand and supply.  Estimates of future growth of
tourism in Morocco vary widely. The Master Plan for Tourism Development fore-
sees an average increase in tourist arrivals of between 7.5% and 10% p.a. from
1974 to 1977, and between 9.3% and 12.5% p.a. from 1978 to 1983. A more recent
study of Mediterranean Tourism sponsored by 10 Mediterranean Development Finance
Companies foresees an average increase of tourist arrivals in Morocco of 14%
p.a. between 1973 and 1980 and 6.5% between 1980 and 1985. The projections of
the Third Development Plan of Morocco (1973-77) which foresaw an annual growth
rate in tourist arrivals of 22% during the plan period, proved overly optimis-
tic. Nevertheless, it is reasonable to foresee that in the forthcoming 2-3
years, and possibly until 1980, visitor arrivals will continue to grow faster
than the country's hotel accomodation capacity. About 3,000 new hotel beds
were under construction in October 1975. Taking into account CIH's pipeline
of new projects and the planned expansion of existing hotels (para. 6.04), and
considering the average construction period for new hotels, it is likely that
3,000 to 4,000 new beds per year will be added to Morocco's hotel accomodation
capacity over the next three to four years, representing a growth rate of
capacity of about 7-8% p.a. Much of the existing pipeline consists of proj-
ects promoted by public and semi-public bodies. Nevertheless, there is reason
to expect that private Moroccan hotel investments will also increase in the
near term, as financial resources in the hands of Moroccan investors in other
sectors rise due to the Moroccanization policies of the early 1970's.
17.       The bulk of investment programs now underway are mostly in the
Southern resorts of the Agadir and Marrakech areas, where limited accomoda-
tion capacity constrains visitor growth, and in Casablanca and Rabat, where
tourists compete with business visitors for hotel accomodations. Some projects
are planned for Northern Mlorocco, however, in spite of low tariffs and occupancy
rates there. Other potentially successful tourism destinations, if effec-
tively promoted in the appropriate markets, are the still unexploited eastern
slopes of the Atlas, and the pre-Saharan Oases.
18.       Planning Policies.  The authorities are aware that tourism develop-
ment planning has been inadequate. To remedy the situation the Tourism Di-
rectorate of MIUHTE solicited, in late 1975, international bids for the prep-
aration of regional master plans for the development of tourism infrastructures



ANNEX 1
Page 9
and facilities in the principal touristic regions of Morocco. The summary terms
of reference for the regional master plans require that, in addtion to the
technical and engineering studies, an economic and financial analysis of tour-
ism in the regions under study be carried out. The Bank had the opportunity to
comment on the preliminary terms of reference, and the Government concurred to
amend them so that the economic analysis would be the starting point for the
process of selecting sites, making preliminary investment decisions, and defining
the size and phasing of programs.
19.       The Bank has offered to provide limited technical assistance to the
MUTHE aimed at:
(a) setting up an effective system of statistics collection on
tourism (this will be of great usefulness also to CIH in its
efforts to strengthen its project appraisals, in connection
with the proposed Bank loan); and
(b) providing guidance in the economic analysis of tourism
development prospects.
The Government agreed to associate the Bank with the work program to be undertaken
and at all stages to keep the Bank informed of progress and results.
EMENA/IC & DFC
March 1976



MOROCCO
CREDIT IM1OBILIER ET HOTELIER (CIH)
Accommodation Capacity 12-31-74
3-Star
5-Star                      4ar ar               & Vacation Villages                 2-Star                       1-Star                         Total
No. of  oo. of  % of Beds  No. of                  eds  No. of No. of o     of Beds  No. of No. of % of Beds   y. No.   N. of % of Bede   No. of No. of  i of Beds
Province      Hotels   Beds in Province  Hotels   Beds  in Province  Hotels   Beds  in Province  Hotels   Beds in Province  Hotels   Beds  in Pr        ce  Hotels   Beds  in Province
Agadir           3       838      16.4        8     1,716      33.6      U      1,702      33.3      12        549      10.7      10        298       5.8      44     5,103      12.5
Al Hoceima                                    3       546      29.3       1     1,200      64.3                                    4       120        6.4       8     1,866        4.6
Beni Mellal                                  1       105       28.3       1       162      43.7        2        48      12.9       1        56       15.1       5       371       0.9
Casablanca       3    1,192       22.1      11     1,573       29.1      15     1,460      27.0      12        823      15.2       6       353        6.6      47     5,401      13.2
fEl Jadida                                   1         65      24.3                                   1         60      22.5       5       142       53.2       7       267       o.6
Fez              3    1,106       44.9        3       383      15.5       3       347      14.1        8       378      15.3       5       250       10.2      22     2,464       6.o
Kenitra                                       1       144      27.3       3       185      35.1        3       198      37.6                                    7       527       1.3
lKhourigba                                                                                                                         2       107      100.0       2       107       0.3
Ksar Es Souk                                  2       255      74.8       1        53      15.5                                    1         33       9.7       4       341        0.8
Marrakech        3    1,415       30.4        4       764      16.4      12     1,827      39.2        9       467      10.0       5        187       4.0      33     4,660       31.4
Meknes           1       260      11.4        1        22       1.0       8     1,094      47.9        8       679      29.7       5        230      10.0      23     2,285        5.6
Nador                                         1       192     100.0                                                                                             1       192        0.5
Ouarzazate                                    5       856      66.5       2       400      31.0       1         32       2.5                                    8     1,288        3.2
OLuj da                                                                   2       157      59.0                                    3       109       41.0       5       266       o.6
Habat            2       868      31.6       4        546      19.9       8       665      24.2        7       425      15.5       4        245       8.8      25     2,749        6.7
Safi                                         1       14o       43.5       1        68      21.1       1         40      12.4       1         74      23.0       4       322       0.8
Tangier          5    1,602       22.6      10      2,628      37.1      11     1,445      20.4        9       794      11.2      10       606        8.6      45     7,075      17.4
Taza                                                                      1        80      53.3                                    2         70      46.7       3       150        0.4
Tetouan         _                            3        352       6.6      10     4,51o      85.1        2       205       3.9       7        231       4.4      22     5,298       13.0
Total         20     7,281      17.9      59    10,287       25.4      90   15,355       37.6      75      4,698      11.5      71     3,111        7.6     315    40,732     100.0
Source: Ministry of Tourism
August 1975



MOROCCO
CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER (CIH)
Evolution of International Arrivals 1968-1974
First half
Nationality         1968          1969         1970          1971         1972      1973          1974        of 1975
French           119,131      148,986       173,795      188,173       210,626    265,989       216,422       123,470
Us                56,411        94,125      117,796      136,744       195,680    185,983       173,217        66,114
Spanish           36,869        36,229       41,877       42,766        76,104    175,793        70,184        23,759
British           64,445        79,721       84,396       80,886       107,643    134,651       107,839        48,755
Algerian          28,396        46,151       60,232        66,613       91,510    105,373       147,956        30,462
German            34,724        38,551       55,405        70,703       75,144     90,440        82,157        44,391
Belgian           16,812        21,190       21,585        21,775       25,607      36,837       24,149        10,430
Dutch             16,143        23,227       25,449        24,481       29,100      36,173       33,360        13,398
Scandinavian      26,444        31,599       29,909        20,741       32,416     32,747        29,392        18,487
Canadian           9,306        15,198       17,083        20,712       28,848      31,251        26,539       15,061
Italian           14,141        17,597       18,554        17,916       25,068      25,507        26,954       10,224
Swiss             10,911        15,431        9,792        12,690       19,484      24,533        21,256        9,783
21
Other             35,659        38,584       45,119        53,051       71,381      80,317        92,593       45,322
Total          469,492       606,589      700,992       757,256      987,611  1,225,594    1,052,018        459,656
Cruisers         106,880        95,361      105,531        91,376      131,183    147,165        133,364       39,744
Grand Total    576,372       701,950      806,503       848,632    1,118,794  1,376,759    1,185,382        499,400
1/ Official statistics include Moroccan visitors from abroad.  These have been deleted from this table.
Source: Ministry of Tourism
August 1975



ANEX I
Table 3
MOROCCO
CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER (CIH)
Arrivals by Means of Entry (968-1974)
(Percentages)
1968     1969     1970     1971     1972      1973     1974
Air                34.12    34.64    31.14    37.06    33.16    32.39    35.61
Sea                41.35    36.98    39.89    32.26    33.67    28.59    33.39
Land               24.53    28.38    28.97    30.68    33.17    39.02    3100
Total           100.00   100.00   100.00   100.00  1O.O0   100.00   100.00
Source: Ministry of Tourism
August 1975



MOROCCO
CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER (CIH)
TOURIST ENTRIES BY MONTH!'
1973                              1974                      Percent          1975               Percent
Variation                          Variation
Montb         Arrivals        Percent           Arrivals       Percent              1974/1973       Arrivals           1975/1974
January        62,375           4.65             52.'188         4.38                 -15.36          62,862            +19.1
February       53,690           4.00             51,950           4.31                - 3.34          60,447            +16.4
March          73.975           5.52              75,099          6.23                + 1.51         102,324            +36.3
April         !O01,016           7.76             87,075          7.23                -16.28          81,728            - 6.5
May             94,302           7.03             74,633          6.20                -20.85          95,500            +23.0
June          116,611           8.70             80,863           6.71                -30.65         103,130            +27.5
July          212,908          15.88            176,611         !14.66                -17.04         212,706            +20.4
August        235,527          17.57             218,020        18.10                 - 7.43         200,452            - 8.8
September     160,699          11.99            122,702         10.19                 -23.65           N.A.                -
October        82,754            6.17             92,070         7.64                 +11.25           N.A.                _
November       59,225           4.42              70,764         5.87                 +19.48           N.A.                _
December       84,542            6.31           102,089           8.48                +20.75           N.A.               -
TOTAL       1,340,624         100.00          1,204,664        100.00                 -10.14         919,149            +12.5% 
/ 1973 was an exceptionally good year for Morocco's tourism sector.  This was partly due to political disturbances
in other Mediterranean countries competing with Morocco (Greece, Cyprua, Middle East).  The slight decline in
arrivals in 1974 was more than compensated by higher tourist expenditures. Foreign exchange receipts from
tourists, as recorded by the Exchange Office, amounted to DH 768 million in 1974, compared to DH 534 million in
1973, an increase of 44%. Data on arrivals in the first eight months of 1975 seem to indicate that the excep-
tionally high 1973 level will be again attained in 1975.
/ Arrivals data exclude cruises, but include Moroccan nationals re3iding abroad,
/  Eight months average
Source: Ministry of Tourism
October 1975



ANNEX 2
CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER
Shareholders since the 1974 capital increase
Public Sector Institutions                  Number of Shares          g of shares
Caisse de Depp6t                                84,086                   17,52
Banque du Maroc                                 48,105                   10,02
Banque Centrale Populaire                        3,200                    0,67
S.O.F.A.C.                                       1,600                    o,33
Soci6te Nationale d'Investissement              45,650                    9,51
Societe Centrale de Reassurance                  6,848                    1,44
B.M.C.E.                                         8,498                    1,77
Maroc Investissement                             6,000                    1,25
Royale Marocaine d'Assurance                     5,956                    1,24
Compagnie Nordafricaine et Intercontinentale
d'Assurance         13,944                    2,91
Compagnie Africaine d'Assurance                   2,000                   0,42
225,887                  47,06
Private Sector Institutions
La Providence                                      800                    0,17
C.O.M.A.R.                                       1,600                    0,33
C.M.C.B.                                         22,010                   4,59
Banque Commercial du Maroc                       1,826                    0,38
Credit du Maroc                                  6,000                    1,25
Union Bancaria Hispano Marroqui                  4,800                    1,00
L'Entente                                        3,788                    0,79
Caisse Interprofessionnelle Marocaine
de Retraite                   5,200                    1,08
Mutuelle Agricole Marocaine d'Assurance           2,485                   0,52
Mutuelle Centrale Marocaine d'Assurance           3,176                   0,66
Compagnie Am6ricaine d'Assurance                   501                    0,10
52,186                  10,87
Board members                                        80                   0,02
Private individuals                                 354                   0,07
Bearers'shares                                  201,493                   41,98
h8o,ooo                  100,00
EMENA/IC&DFC
December 1975



ANNEX 3
Page 1
MOROCCO
CREDIT IMMOBILIER FT HOTELIER
Board of Directors and Ebcecutive Cormmittee
September 30, 1975
A. Board of Directors
Name                            Principal Positions
Chairman            Mr. El Habib El Fihri           President Director-General
Credit Imnobilier et Hotelier
Directors           Caisse de Depots et de          Represented by its General
Gestion 1/                      Manager, Mr. Mfedel Lahlou
Banque du Maroc 1/              Represented by its Credit
Mannger, Mr. Jouahri
Banque Marocaine du             Represented by its Secretary
Commerce Exteneur               General, Mr. M. Jouahri
Banque Centrale Populaire 1/  Represented by its General
Manager, Mr. Abdelatif Laraki
Banque Nationale pour le        Represented by its President
Developpement Economique        Director General, Mr. Mustapha
Faris
Union Bancaria Hispano          Represented by its General
Marroqui                        Manpger, Mr. Landa
Compagnie Marocaine de          Represented by its President
Credit et de Banque             Director General, Mr. Kettani
Moulay Ali
Societe Nationale d'Inves-    Represented by its President
tisser,ents 1/                  Director General, Mr. Mohamed
Guessous
Mr. Ahmed Boushabe  /           Deputy Manager, Caisse de Depot
et de Gestion
Mr. Lotfallah Cheggour 1/       Director, Treasury Deportment
Ministry of Finance
Mr. Mohaned Sekkat 1/           Deputy Director, Budget,
Ministry of Finance
Mr. Abderrafih Bensouda 1/    Inspector, Ministry of Finance
Mr. Omar Azami            -     Chief of Housing Promotion Division
Ministry of Urbanism, Housing
Tourism and Environment
1/ Noninated by Goverrment or Government Institutions



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Mr. Mohamned Driouche 1/       Chief of Investment Division
Ministry of Urbanism, Housing,
Tourism and Ehvironment
Government Commissioner
(not a voting     Mr. Harti Hamed El Wardi
member)
B. acecutive Committee
Name                           Principal Position
Chairman             Mr. El Habib El Fihri          President, Director-General
Credit Imnobilier et Hotelier
Members              Caisse de Depot et de           Represented by Mr. Boushaba
Gestion 1/                     Deputy General Manager
Banque du Maroc 1/             Represented by Mr. Alj, Dep1]ty-
Director
Banque Centrale Populaire 1/  Represented by Mr. Laraki,
General Manxger
Ministry of Urbanism,          Represented by Mr. Driouiche,
Housing, Tourism and            Chief of Investment Division
Environment 1/
Banque Nationale de            Represented by its President
Developpement Economique       Director General, Mr. Moustapha
Faris
1/ Nominated by Government or Government Institutions
WENA/ ICRDFC
December 1975



MOROCCO
CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER
ORGANIZATION CHART AS OF MARCH 31, 1976
AND MAIN AFFILIATES
GENERAL INSPEICTION                                PRESIDENT-DIRECTOR GENERAL D
BUREAU                                                      (Mr. El Fihri)                                   ASSISTANTS TO THE PRESIDENT
(Mr. Aouachira)                                                                                              (Messrs. Rachidi
Ech-Cherif El Kettani
GENERAL SECRETARIAT BURUra
(Mr. Benkirane)J
CREDIT DEPARTMENT                                      FINANCE DEPARTMENT                                      DEVELOPMENT DEPT.
(Mr. Haimar  M                                         (Mme. Zarari                                           (Mr. KacimiB
PORTFOLIO SUPERVISION DIVISION   l                      FINANCIAL OPERATIONS DIVISION    l| PERSONNEL DIVISIONl
(Mr. AmorB                                             (Mr. Rami)                                              Mr. Zouhir)
_]LEGAL DIVISION                    l|ACCOUNTING DIVISION                                   l| TRAINING DIVISIONl
(Mrs. Bellai)                                          (Mr. Ajakane)                                          (Mr. Tazi)
,                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STUDIES AND DOCUMENTATION
FEASIBILITY STUDIES DIVISION                                                                                   DIVISION
(Mr. Sadik)                                                                                                   (Mr. El Bedoui
COMPUTING ACTIVITIES
TECHNICAL STUDIES DIVISION                                                                                     AND ORGANIZATION BUREAU
(Mr. M'Tougoui)                                                                                               (Mme. Amri)
CENTRAL BUREAU OF
REGIONAL BRANCH OFFICES
(Mr. A. Laalej)
|REGIONAL BRANCH OFFICES: 
|OUJDA:       Mr. El Karzazi                       NUMBER OF STAFF                                                                                           Fl
|RABAT:       Mr. Guedira                         MANAGEMENT            8                                                                                    PlbE
J AGADIR:    Mr. Benali                             OFFICERS            50                                                                                    Q 1
|TANGER:    Mr. Saad          |JUNIOR OFFICERS   47                                                                                                          pX
|MARRAKECH: Mr. M. Laalej                          CLERKS              77                                                                                      14.
FES:         Mr. Himi                            MESSENGERS          34
216                                               World Bank-16013
EMENA/IC & DFC
March 1976






ANNEX 4
Page 2
MAIN AFFILIATES OF CIH
CIH holds equity participation in a number of specialized subsi-
diaries, which were launchedin the past two years mainly as a result of
CIH's promotional goals. The most important ones are:
(a) Farah-Maghreb, a company set up to build 4,200 new hotel beds
in various areas of Morocco. CIH's participation in Farah-Maghreb's
share capital of DH 40 million amounts now to 34% (DH 10,275,000
paid in) and is expected to further decline to 16%, following CIH's
sale of shares to numerous domestic and foreign (especially Arab)
investors.
(b) Sicopar, with a share capital of DH 30 million, plans in the longer
run to build 7 factories of prefabricated housing elements in the
main cities of Morocco. Plans for the realization of two units in
Casablanca and Rabat are well under way. CIH holds 50% of Sicopar's
capital (DH 7,750,000 paid in), and expects to further reduce its
holding to 10%.
(c) Europa-Maroc, a hotel management company, which currently manages
two 5-star hotels (in Casablanca and Tangiers) and plans to expand
its activities in the near future. CIH's participation in Europa-
Maroc's capital of DH 1.5 million is 24% (DH 357,500 paid in)
(d) Promoconsult, an engineering firm specializing in the design of
hotels; CIH holds 10% of Promoconsult's share capital of DH 1.0
million.
EMENA/IC & DFC
December 1975



ANNEX I
UIIT UBLZ3 Ut HOTILIR
SI ~- 197119
--------A&itods  Deceb r 31 ---                     U&nd ted
19~71        1972         1973             3r41975
Interest & Co issions on:
Hotel loan.                               21,928       25,325       28,172           30,821       37,749
Housing loans                               8,862      11,007       14,283           18,389       23,986
other loans                                  178          129          186            1 319       4,317
rRg3R35     3g[5         1I:X2;T          50,529       66,052
Income fros managed funds                   1,749        1,807        1,876             583        1,866
DiTidend income                                 87          60          114             176           332
Bank and other interest                       605          390          385              188       1,269
Other income                                   68           77           20              253       2,464
33,77       384579.04                     51,729       71,983
Finacial
Charges on long-term borrowings             16,445       18,382       23,678           28,500      39,000
Short-term intereat and charges                780        2,1            259            1,26        1,345
17,225      20,4g9       23,937           29,T3J2      40,345
Personnel expenses                           2,280        2,529        3,662            5,696        7,485
Other operating expense                      2,051        2,342        2,974            2,463        4,4411/
Depreciation and amortization                   772         985        1,049            1,372        1,739
Provision for losses                            766)      1,729        _642)             (971)       5,168
TOTAL EXPENSES                   21,562       28,074      30,980           38,323       59,178
Profil before taxes                       11,915       10,721       14,065          13,406       12,805
Income tax                                 5,612        5,040        6,645            6,328       6,039
NET PROFIT                        6,303        5,681       7,420            7,077        6
_Wre,Xated eareings begimeag
of year                                    4,864       5,416        4,8148           6,327        6,059
Net profit for the year                      6,303       5,681        7,420            7,077        6,766
Allocations:                               11,167     11,097       12,268           13.404       12,825
Investment Reserve                          945         849        1,117            1,064        1,016
Legal Reserve                               241         268          241              315          301
Dividends                                 1,600       1,600        1,600            3,200        4,800
Directors' profit participation               35         32           33                66          66
General Reserve                           2,930       3,500        2,950            2,700          583
5,751      6,249        5,9.1             1 345       6,766
Unappropriated earnings end of year           5,416      4,848        6,327             6,059       6,059
EMENA/ IC & DFC
April 1976
1/ Including income brought forward from previous years (DH 2.24 million)
2/  Including  ex;enses incurred earlier (DH 138,400)
3/ Estimated from unaudited statements



ANNEX 6
KDROCCO
CREDIT IIHMELIUR ET HOTELIER
Suumary Balanc Sheeta - 1971-l975
(D  ' 000)
-- ------Audited:  Deceber 31---------           Unaudited
1971        1972        1973         1r4            1975
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash and Bank                            2,1459      5,271       6,857        16,882         34,851
Past-due maturities of loans 1/         17,907      20,997      30,283        142,677        52,182
Less provisions                       ( 4,122)     (7,666)      (6,833)       (5,651)       (7,473)
Current maturities of Loans             20,408      26,818      30,117         37,912        51,535
Accrued interest                         2,519       3,259       3,983         4,859          6,100
Rebates due from Governmant              7,404       9,496      12,401        11,788         12,200
Other receivables                        4 520       625o        5,o56        11 500         15,230
51,095     614,675      111,865     119,9          164,625
Investment Portfolio
Hotel loans                            251,722     277,046     310,387       354,641        385,377
Housing loans                          103,627     139,366     169,616        206,180       275,429
OYther loans                             1 117         7         326          214,3614       70,510
3a1i~       17~Ji8         ,          587,185       731,316
Less current maturities               20 408      26 818       Ot1*17       37 912         51,535
3 '    *L0    NO                      *L            679,781
Equity investments                     1,087       1,318        5,077        15,469        29,871
Government bonds                       1,536       2.1         2,821         3,714          4,605
338,681    393,784     461,210       568,456        714,257
Fixed assets (net)                     1,366       1,492       1,826         2,370          2,581
Deferred charges (net)                    855      1,o64       1,603          2,156         2,853
TOTAL ASSETS         391,997     46115   A56.5             692,949       484,316
LIABILITIES AND EQUITIES
Current Liabilities
Short-term borrowings                       -          -         7,076         6,790
Demand deposits                          15,000        -            -             646
Current maturities of long-             12,765      29,204      44,836        46,740        57,874
term debt
Accounts Pa able                         7,754       8,197       8,106        10,400        18,t 56
Provision otr Iznc-tax                  5,617       5,040       6,645         6,328         6,c39
Goverinrt aooounts payable               1,699         -         33143         j,,230        8.499
Other current liabilities                  724       2,240       1,91                        2 2835
-l3t559      47I72;                                  93,303
Long-term Debt
Rediscounted notes                       85,ooo     85,000     100,000        100,000      100,000
Medium-term  notes                       62,000      62,000      52,000        52,000       66,100
Bonds outstanding                      114,412     113,948      172,789       255,314      342,879
Subordinated bonds                      30,000      30,000      30,000         30,000       70,000 4/
Loans: -
B.C.P.                               -        51,100      45,850        40,6oo       65.350
B.N.D.E.                          27,265     27,799       26,116        23,830       21,606
I B R. D.                         4,656       13,754      25,011        45,630,      64,216,
Government & CW                     865 D88               4,009         26,44i3/     26,541-
7P I,"       A 4        urlz7         5    T737     756,692
Less current maturities                 12 765       9204 44,83            6  46 740        57,674
3 33  35,20      10,939        e27*,77       698,818
EQUITY
Share capital                             20,000     40,000      40,000         60,000       60,000
Investment reserve                        2,871        3,720      4,837         5,902         6,957
Legal reserve                               923       1,191        1,432        1,747         2,048
General reserve                           4,795        8,295      11,254       13,945        16,424
Unappropriated earnings                    5,416      4,848        6,327         6,059        6,766
3*,o05      58,054      63.&a         87,653       92,195
TOTAL LIABILITIES & EQUITY  391,997     461,015     546,504       692,949      884,316
Includes arrears on interest
i/ Rediscountable notes at Banque du Maroc
Including DH 22,320,0W0 from CDG
Ij Tncluding DH 40 mlillion Treasury advance
EMENA/IC & DFC
April 1976



ANNEX 7
MOROCCO
CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER
Financial Ratios
1971         1972         1973           1974
Operational Indicators
Gross income as % of average
total assets                          9.3          9.1          8.9            8.6
Administrative Expenses as %
of average total assets               1.4          1.4          1.5            1.8
Financial Expenses as % of
average total assets                  4.8          4.8          4.8            4.6
Income from loans as % of
average loan portfolio                9.1          9.0          9.0            9.0
Cost of long-term debt as % of
average long-term debt                5.4          5.1          5.7            5.8
Spread                                  3.7          3.9          3.3            3.2
Profitability Indicators
Net profit as % of average
equity                              19.9          12.3         12.2            9.4
Net profit as % of
share capital                       31.5         14.2          18.6           11.8
Cash dividend as % of
net profit                           25.4         28.2         21.6           45.2
Cash dividend as % of
par value share                       8            8            8              8
Book value of share as %
of par value share                 170.0         145.1        159.6          146.0
Financial Structure Indicators
Total debt/year end equity             10.5          6.9          7.6            6.9
Long-term debt/year end equity          9.6          6.7          7.1             6.5
Debt/equity (IBRD Agreement) 1/         5.8          4.8          5.5             5.3
Interest Coverage ratio                 1.6          1.6          1.6             1.5
IBRD debt as % total long-
term debt                             1.4          3.6          5.6            8.4
1/ Assuming DH 19 million as subordinated debt.
EMENA/IC & DFC
December 1975



ANNEX 8
Page 1
MOROCCO
CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER
Analysis and Assessment of CIH's Loan and Equity Portfolio at end-1975
Loan Portfolio
1.        The following table summarizes the status of arrears on CIH's loan
portfolio (DH million).
December 31            September 30
1973       1974              1975
A.   TOTAL PORTFOLIO
- Total Portfolio /1                     467.0      581.7              694.5
incl:  housing loans               (180.9)   (240.7)            (321.4)
hotel loans                (286.1)   (341.0)             (373.1)
- Total arrears of principal and
interest of over five months /2         14.2       23.9               34.2
- Total arrears as a percentage of
total portfolio                          3%         4.1%               4.9%
B.   HOTEL PORTFOLIO
= Hotel arrears                            8.4       15.0               16.7
- Hotel arrears as % of total
portfolio                             1.8%       2.6%              2.4%
= Hotel arrears as % of hotel
portfolio                             2.9%       4.4%              4.5%
- Hotel portfolio affected by arrears:
(i)  Amount                             36.9       89.2              119.5
(ii)  Percent of total portfolio          7.9%      15.3%              17.2%
(iii)  Percent of hotel portfolio         12.9%      26.0%              32.0%
/1   Including maturities on loans of less than one year, arrears in principal and
before provisions, and excluding Chellah loans (para 3).
/2   CIH's loans are repayable in semi-annual installments.  Loans are con-
sidered in arrears when repayments are overdue by more than 5 months.
Cnellan arrearSare excluded (para 3).



ANNEX 8
Page 2
2.        Housing Portfolio.  At September 30, 1975, some 5,400 loans for indi-
vidual houses and apartment dwellings accounted for 36.5% of CIH's outstanding
loan portfolio. Arrears on these loans amounted to DH 9.1 million in princi-
pal and to DH 7.2 million in interests. These arrears are generally less
than a year old and stem principally from the high semi-annual installments
which put a heavy strain on individual middle to low income borrowers.
Over the past fifty years CIH has never experienced a loss on housing loans
which are more than adequately secured by first mortgages on valuable proper-
ties. The prospects for recovery of these overdue amounts are good.
3.        Hotel Portfolio.  Outstanding hotel loans numbered 282 and amounted
to DH 385.2 million, or 56% of total portfolio outstanding at September 30,
1975. Of this amount, loans totalling DH 91.3 million are to two major bor-
rowers, Chellah Hilton and Holiday Inn (HISA), which are in difficulties.
However, these loans are fully covered by special Government guarantees and
present no risk to CIH. In order to avoid recurrence of such high risk cases,
the Bank and CIH agreed during negotiations for the second loan to CIH that
financial exposure to a single corporate entity would normally be limited to
20% of CIH's equity. Such an agreement should also be retained under the
proposed loan.
4.        The increase in hotel arrears partly results from (1) weak supervision
and collection procedures; (ii) the timing of semi-annual installments that, for
some hotels sensitive to seasonal variations, fall at the worst possible time;
and (iii) delays in construction which have not enabled hotel to start their
operations before the end of grace periods. Legal proceedings have been ini-
tiated against several borrowers and penalty interest on overdues is set at two
points above CIH's nominal lending rate. Twenty-four borrowers accounting for
21.6% of all hotel loan arrears (DH 3.6 million) are late payers who present
little or no risk; their financial situation is sound and they have no more than
one or two maturities in arrears. Delays in project implementation have caused
7 other borrowers to fall in arrears totalling DH 3.2 million (19.2%) as first
principal payments fell due prior to start of operations. CIH is negotiating a
case-by-case rescheduling of loans which at this stage appear to present no
major risk. One group of 18 hotels is suffering from the effect of seasonal
variations in tourist arrivals in the Northern part of Morocco and from poor
promotional policies and management which have adversely affected receipts.
It accounts for DH 4.8 million in arrears (29% of the total), half of which in
Tangiers concerning 7 hotels. CIH has been closely following up on them,
imposing managerial and organizational changes which are expected to lead to
better operations and financial results. In sum the above CIH's risk on 49
borrowers can be considered moderate after analysis, and the recent upsurge in
tourist business combined with CIH's tough stand have shown some positive
results. However, a group of 11 borrowers, accounting for 30% of hotel loan
arrears (DH 5.3 million) and with loans outstanding of DH 12.9 milion at
September 30, 1975, faces more serious difficulties stemming from basic finan-
cial disequilibria and poor management. CIH is studying alternative management
contracts or ways and means of take-over of these hotels by its affiliates.
Taking into account the fact that all hotel loans are covered by



ANNEX 8
Page 3
a Government guarantee of at least 50% of the outstanding loan amount, 1/
provisions amounting to DH 7.4 million at December 31, 1975, adequately cover
CIH's risk, even if the mortgage security were of low value.
5.        During negotiations new unaudited data on the arrears position were
provided by CIH. These data show that total arrears have decreased by 15%
between September and December 1975, and by a further 9% between December 1975
and March 1976 to DH 26.1 million (3.4% of total portfolio). Hotel portfolio
outstanding affected by arrears was 22% of total portfolio at December compared
to 32% at September 1975; hotel arrears as a percentage of hotel portfolio
stood at 3.9% in December compared to 4.5 in September 1975. While a detailed
audit might challenge some of these figures, they nevertheless indicate that
measures being applied by CIH to improve the quality of its portfolio are
bearing significant results. The incomplete figures provided in March 1976
appear to further confirm this trend.
Investment Portfolio
6.        CIH's equity investments at December 31, 1974, amounted to DH 15.5
million in 21 companies. CIH's investment portfolio grew rapidly from DH 1.3
million at end 1972 to DH 5.7 million at end 1973 and DH 29.0 million at
December 31, 1975. So far, the only profit-yielding investments are six
financial institutions which account for 17% of total portfolio investment.
The remaining enterprises are in their start-up phase. Dividend income, which
amounted only to DH 60,000 at end 1972, almost tripled to DH 177,000 at end
1974 and reached DH 332,000 at December 31, 1975.
7.        CIH's investments aim primarily at promoting new companies involved in
tourism and housing related activities. At end 1974 eight companies accounting
for 46% of the portfolio were either in their pre-operating phase or just
completing their first full year of operations. As these companies get off the
ground, CIH intends to sell its shares to private holders.  At this stage, CIH
has not yet made any provisions against its equity portfolio. This appears
acceptable.
EMENA/IC & DFC
April, 1976
1/   The guarantee amounts to 50% for hotel construction loans, 60% for equip-
ment loan and 100% when CIH holds no valid mortgage. The guarantee covers
CIH's risk of loss, i.e. that portion of the loan which cannot be recovered
following exhaustion of all legal collection procedures.



ANNEX 9
Page 1
MOROCCO
CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER
Analysis of Hotel Profitability and the Effects of Incentives
Basic Assumptions:
1.      This annex analyses (a) the financial profitability of different types of
Moroccan hotels, and (b) the impact of incentives upon: (i) profitability, given
prices, costs, and occupancy rates, and (ii) prices and occupancy rates, when
these have adjusted sufficiently to assure investors their target rates of return
under different levels of incentives. Various profitability indicators have
been used, of which four are reported here: the internal rates of return on (i)
equity investment, (ii) total investment after income tax , (iii) total invest-
ment before income tax, and the 'simple' ERR, all expressed in constant prices.
The first indicates the return which the investor can expect to secure on his
equity; the second measures the project's earning power more or less independent-
ly of project financingi/; and the third is a first approximation to the simple
ERR (it counts all indirect taxes as costs). The ERR is 'simple' since it takes
no account of effects external to the hotel, nor does it include the various
adjustments to prices necessary to assess the economic viability of hotel              2/
capacity expansion (see para. 2 of Annex 16 for more details on these adjustments).
Debt service, interest coverage, and s,everal other ratios were also calculated,
although they are not reported here.
2.      Financial returns to be expected from new hotel investment projects
in Morocco have been estimated using data on receipts and costs provided by
UIH for a sample of 19 existing hotels, plus information on some items based
on a larger sample of hotels. The composition of the sample was determined
partly by the availability of detailed data and partly by the regional and
category composition of CIH's pipeline of hotel projects. Using basic receipts
and cost assumptions, computer simulations have been run to assess the sensi-
tivity of financial profitability to changes in category, size, location.
investment costs, occupancy rates, prices, inflation, operating,costs,
management fees, debt equity ratios, replacement costs and different hypotheses
on investment incentives. Nine "base cases" have been identified to represent
a range of hotel types in Morocco. Most of the sensitivity tests have been run
on three cases: the Casablanca 5*, the Circuit 4* and the Agadir 3* hotel.  The
principal assumptions used in defining the base cases are summarized in the
table on page 2.
1/ It is not completely independent since income tax paid depends upon the
debt equity ratio and interest rates (see Part B of the table on page 12).
2/ The estimate of the 'simple' ERR does not exclude indirect taxes paid
on current inputs into the hotel, although all indirect taxes on invest-
ment (and replacement) inputs and also indirect taxes paid by the hotel
are excluded from costs.
3/ The full explanation of data sources, methods, and results are included
in the report of the consultant who accompanied the appraisal mission
(R. Mattatia, Analyse Preliminaire de la Situation Financ
l'Hotellerie Marocaine, SOGELERG Ingenierie, Paris, Avril 1976 (typescript).).



SUMMLAR Y OE ASSUMPTIONS ON RECEIPTS AND COSTS
Casablanca - Rabat          _       Agadir             Circuits      North
Itm  Stars, 4 Stars  3 Stars  4 Stare 3 Stars    vv        4 Stars  3 Stars
Itemn
.Capacity in beds                          600       400       150      500        150    1,000    400          150      1,000
2. Investmnent costa/
2.1 Cost per bed                        46        35        27        39        30    28,5       36,5       24,5      25
2.2 Breakdown (befnr         rtport
duties ancd sales tax )
1. Land                            6.07     8.09     10.4    10.72       11.67     7.02      6.85       2.43      3.99
2. Construction                   39.88    39.02     38.1    37.9        37.5    39.48      39.54      41.42     40.75
3. Heavy equipment                22.15    21.26     21.1    21.06       20.83    21.93     21.96      23.01     22.64
4. Furniture, fittings            17.72   17.34      16.9    16.84       16.67    17.54     17.58      18.41    18.12
5. Professional fees               8.86    8.67       8.5      8.42       8.33    8.77       8.79       9.20      9.06
6. Pre-opening expenses            2.66     2.6        2.5     2.53       2.5      2.63      2.64       2.76      2.72
7. Working capital                 2.66     2.6        2.5     2.53       2.5      2.63      2.64       2.76      2.72
Start-up period (years)                     3       3          3        2          2        2         3          4         2
4. Occupancy rate (on beds installed
after start-up period)
4.1 'actual'                            45%      45%        45%      60%        60%      60%       52%       40%  (b) 30%
4.2 MEOR                                65%      65%        65%      65%        65%      65%       55%       40%       30%
5. Receipts (Dhs)
5.1 room + food per bednight            82       56         40       56         40       57        56         24       53
5.2 bar per bednight                     4.4      4.2        2.5      4.2        2.5      5         4.2        2.5      5
5.3 Dining room bar per bednight    13.75    8.25            8.25    8.25        8.25     -         8.25      8.25      -
5.4 Others
1. Telephone, laundry, Dh
per bednight                      6        4         8       ,8         .8       .4        .8         .8        .4
2. Nightclub,Dh per bednight         8.5      3         -         2         2        -         3          -         -
3. Transport,Dh per arrival              -         -             -          -       30         -          -        30
4. Commissions (% of 5.1)            2%       2%        1%       2%         2%       -         -          2%        -
5. Shop rentals (Dh '000)           15       10         5        5          5        _         5          5         -
6. Meals per bednight                        1.2      1.2        1.2      1.4        1.4      2.0     1.0         1.4       2.0    CD x
7. Uost of sales
7.1 Food (Dh per meal)                 11       8.8        6.8      8.8        6.6    21% C/   8.8           6.6      21% C/
7.2 Bar (% of sales)d/                 24%     38%        38%      38%        38%      11% C/  38%          38%       11 C/
a/ Excluding interest during construction and registration tax.                              (continued on page 3)
b/ Corresponds to an occupancy rate of 90% during a 4-month season.
c/ Percentage of room and food receipts (5.1)
d/ Applied to 90% of nightclub bar receipts to take account of higher nightclub bar prices.



SUMMhARY OF ASSUMPTIONS ON RECEIPTS AND COSTS (continTued)
Casablanca - Rabat                Agadir             Circuits       North
5 Stars 4 Stars; 3 Stars 4 Stars; 3 Stars    vv           4 Stars 3 Stars    VV
Iterm
T.-Other items
8.1 Publilcity  (% of receiptE)         1 %      1 %      0,5 %     1I        1%         -       2 %       2 %       -
8.2 Employees
1. Fixed employees per bed         0,5      0,45      0,35    0.425      0,16      0,25     0,5      0,16       0,25
2. Variable employees per
bednight                         _        _                0,09       0,19       -                0,19        _
3. Employees (hotel closed)         _         _        _        _          _         _       _                  16
8.3 Labor expense (e)
8.3 i. Fixed  Dh/man day               31.0    33.0      16.7    22.3        26        13.5    20        26          13.5
Z. Variable,  h/man day             -       -          -      8.33       8.33       -       -        o.33       1
8.4 Telephone, laundry, misc.
1. Telephone, laundry (%5.4.1  6e %    60 %          60 2    60 z       60 2       60 x    60 %    60 2         60 Z
2. Transport (%5.4.3)                                           -         -        50 %     _         _         50 Z
8.5 Water, fuel, electricity
1. Variable, Lb per bednight    4,1         3.3       2.7      2.7       2.7        2.7      7.4     2.7         2.7
2. Fixed, Dh per bed f/             -         -        -        -         -         -        -        -        0.1
8.6 Maintenance
1. Fixed, Dh per bed avail.p.   0,55    0,41          0,27     0,41     o, 27       0,27    0,82     0,27        0,27
2. Fixed, Dh per bed f/                  -        -        -         -              -        -         -         0,14
3. Variable - Dh per bednight   1,9         1,6       1,4      1,6       1,4        1,4      2,7      1,4        2,7
8.7 Folklore, orchestra(Dhs/year)    -            -        -        50-      50         50       50       20          20
8.8 Renewals, insurances, misc.
1. % of receipts                   1,5 1    1,5 %     1,5 %     1,5 %    1,5 %      1,5 %    1,5 %    1,, x      1,5 %
2. % of investment cost            1,5 Z    1,5 %     1,5 %     1,5 %    1,5 %      1,5 %    1,5 %    1,5 %      1,5 %
8.9 Sales tax                           4 %     4 %       4 %       4 %      4 %        4 Z      4 %      4 %         4 Z
9. Replacements (% of invest. cost)h  2,7 %    2,6 %    2,6 %    2,5 %    2,5 %             2,7 %   2,7 %   2,8 %        2' %
M (D
e/ Takes account of scale of hotel.  includes social security and non-wage labor costs (food, clothing, medical).
f/ Dh per bed installed per day during period when hotel is closed.
/ During period when hotel is open.
h/ After 5 years of operation, this corresponds to 1.5% of construction cost, 3% of heavy equipment, and 8% of
furniture and fittings.



ANNEX 9
Page 4
3.      All of the 'base' cases have been calculated with inflation of all
tangible costs at 7% per annum. Municipal taxes (which are based upon rental
value of the property) have been aboumea to increase at *.5% p.a.
4.      bince occupancy rates have a particular significance for the analysis,
it is worthwhile describing the origin of these estimates in considerable
detail. Two occupancy rates are oI particular concern for the analysis: the
'current' occupancy rate, and the "minimum economic occupancy rate" (MEOR).
Information is lacking to estimate the economically optimal occupancy rate
(see Annex 16).
5.      The current occupancy rate is the observed rate which results from existing
policies, costs, patterns of demand, and investor behavior. Estimation of this
rate for Morocco is more difficult than for most other important tourist desti-
nations because of the heterogeneity of Moroccan hotels, and also because the
Moroccan Government does not collect and analyze information on bed and room
occupancy rates. For these reasons, our estimates are probably subject to a
substantial margin, of error. The MEOR is the maximum annual rate which is
likely to be consistent with maintaining the existing pattern of monthly
arrivals/bednights. Expansion of capacity whenAocco.;,ancies are below the MEOR
would have little or no effect on bednights realized. Hence, the MEOR is the
minimum rate at which it may be economically desirable to expand hotel capacity.
6.      Our estimates of the MEOR for different types of Moroccan hotels are
given in the table on page 5. This table is based upon two fundamental assump-
tions:
a. that the current pattern of monthly bed occupancies is the
same as the pattern of monthly hotel arrivals for the period
1972-1974 estimated by CIH,1/
b.  that the maximum monthly bed occupancy rate which does not
involve turning away 'significant' amounts of demand is
8o-85%.
7.      The table on page 6 summarizes estimates of current occupancy rates, as
well as the MEORs retained for the analysis. The "current" occupancy rates and
MEORs used for the analysis probably underestimate the 'true' figures. The
rates shown in Cols. (3) and (4) have been assumed to refer to 'mature' hotels,
implying lower sectoral averages (e.g. cols. (5) - (7)). The significance of
this bias is that it could lead us to conclude that more incentives are
necessary at the NEOR to establish financial viability than is in fact the case.
It is also worth noting that the sectoral average occupancy rates corresponding
to our MEORs are somewhat less than the sectoral occupancy rates used to
calculate bed requirements in the Tourism Masterplan (compare Col. (8) with
Cols. (5.) - (7)).
1/ MEORs are overestimeted if, as is the case for Tunisia, lengths of stay in
Mlorocco are longer at the peak than in other periods. On the other hand,
if incremental demands are more evenly distributed seasonally than existing
average demands, this would lend a conservative bias to the estimate.



ANNEX 9
Page 5
-3-
Estimation of Minimum Economic Occupancy Rates (MEORs) for Moroccan Hotels
Seasonal Factor I                    ____
% of annual                         reak   Implied
hotel                              Month  by data
arrivals in                        Occu-  and peak    Retained
peak month,          'Assumed for  pancy  month OR       for the
Region               1972-1974     Data  , Analysis    Rate   assumption  Analysis
a/
(1)                  (2)          (3)       (4)       (5)        (6)        (7)
Tanger                      15.6  (Aug.   1.84
Tetouan. Chaouen,
Larach, Azilah            16.3    it    1.92    1.'0 -    85-          37-         40
2.30      9o         47
(non-residents             17.5          2.06)
M'diq, Cabo-Negro           28.6 July      3.37
Mohamnedia                  16.8 Aug.      1.98
Agadir, Inezgane            10.8(Mar.)    1.27    1.25 -    80 -        62 -         65
(Non-residents             11.1  "       1.31 ) 1.30         85        68
Casablanca                  1O.O(Aug.)
(Non-residents             10.0     )   1.18    1.18         75        64           65
Circuits
Meknes & Region             17.0(Aug.)    2.00
Meknes, non-resident       21.2  "        2.50                80-      40-
Azrou, Medelt, Ifrane,                             1.P          85       57
Ksarsouk, Erfoud           14.2(April)   1.73        8O5
Fez, 6idi-Harazem           12.7(Aug.)    1.50
Marrakech                  11.7(April)   1 42       142       80-       56-         60
(non-residents            11.7   "  )    .                  &5         60
bource:
Col. (2): CIH
Col. (3)  =   Col(2)X365
100 xD      where D   = days in the peak month
m            m
Col. (5), assumed by mission, based on experience in other countries.
Col. (6) = Col(5)/Col (4)
a/ -with a double occupancy factor (DOF) of 1.8, which is typical for hotel catering
for holidaymakers, an 80% bed occupancy rate would imply an 89% room occupancy
rate, and an 85% bed occupancy rate a 94% room occupancy rate. The maximum monthly
occupancy for Casablanca may be somewhat lower bince the presence of many
businessmen there implies a lower DOF. The peak 75% monthly bed occupancy rate
assumed for Casablanca in Col. (5) would be consistent with a 95% room occupancy
rate and a DOF of 1.58 at the peak.



AQUEX 9
Page 6
Estimates of Bed Occupancy Rates of Moroccan Hotels
"Current" Bed           Minimum lconomic Occu- Masterplan
Occupancy rates            pancy Rates (MEORs)    Projections
CIH Esti-    Mission        Used in   Sectoral    (Sectoral Occu
mates for      "Base"       Analysis  Averages       pancy rates)
1974 (see-    Rates           (Mature  for Growth
Region and Type of    toral)        (Mature Hotel)   Hotel)  of (d)            (b)  (c)
Hotel                  (a), (b)       (c)             (c)    10% 15% 20%
(1)                 (2)           (3)          (4)    (5) (6) (7)         (8)
North-Urban               32-54                                                 60-70
-Beach                              4 0 oe       40      38   37  36        55
-Vacation villag    20-30(f)        30(e)        30      29   29  28        40
South-Urban              )              )             )                         55-6
Beach              )53-68         )60          )65      63   63  62        705
Casablanca, Rabat         38-68 (g)      45            65     62   60  59  )
)60-70
Fes, Meknes               36-75          52            55     52   51  50  )
Marrakech                               n.e.           60     57   56  55       65-70
Source:  CIH, mission estimates, and Royaume du I4laroc et Republique Federale de
L'Allemagne, Masterplan Touristique du Maroc, (by Institut fur
Planungskybernetik, bteigenberger Consulting GmbH, and Maroc Developpement),
Vol. IV, Rapport de bynthese, p.5.13, Fevrier, 1975.
(a)  Occupancy rates on beds available rather than beds installed.
(b)  Variations due to category of accommodation, with higher categories generally
estimated to secure lower occupancy rates.
(e)  Occupancy rates on beds installed.  For the mission estimates, these are the
rates assumed for a 'mature' hotel, after the initial start-up period of low
occupancy rates has passed.
(d)  These calculations are made on the assumptions that occupancies and capacity
have been growing at the same rates for a considerable period of time, and
that the occupancy rate of hotels of different ages as a proportion of the
occupancy rate of a mature hotel are as follows:
btart-up occupancy rateb of new hotels as a proportion of occupancy rates of
mature hotels
Age of Hotel (Years)
1    2    3      4      5
North,
Vacation village                       .8   .9   1.0   1.0    1.0
J star                                 .6   .7    .8    .9    1.0
South, (all categories)                      .8   .9   1.0   1.0    1.0
Casablanca (all categories)                 .7   .8    .9   1.0    1.0
Circuits (all categories)                    .7   .8    .9   1.0    1.0
(e) Occupancy rate of 90,' over a 120 day season.
if) Data from individual firms rather than CIH.
(g) Includes Marrakech.



ANNEX
Page
Hotel Profitability Under Present Conditions
8.      The table below bhows the calculated profitability of the "base cases"
hotels under present conditions i.e., assuming "current" occupancy rates, prices and
the existing incentives system.i/ The table also shows, for the Casablanca 5*
results of two of the sensitivity tests, i.e., under the hypothesis of (a)
increase of 10% of investment costs and (b) average yearly occupancy rate
being obtained by the hotel from the first year of operations (no "start up"
period).
9.      These results indicate that new investments in hotels in Agadir are
currently highly profitable, and in luxury hotels in Casablanca/Rabat are margin-
ally profitable, both from the point of view of investors' returns on equity and
from that of gross return on total investment.  The high profitability of Agadir
hotels is believed to be a temporary phenomenon, due to the fact that expansion
of capacity has been constrained by inadequate serviced land rather than lack of
profitability. Aith the planned expansion of infrastructure in Agadir, it may
reasonably be expected that capacity will grow relative to demand until lower
profitability levels are achieved, unless there is some change in the incentives
system or in the criteria employed to approve projects. At the other extreme,
new investments in Northern beach resorts cannot be expected to yield adequate
financial returns in spite of the incentives. This is due to the depressed
prices in the area, (which are apparently even lower than the prices in Tunisian
beach hotels, for example). New 4-btar hotels in the Imperial Cities of the
interior (Fes, Meknes) show inadequate financial profitability, although they
would become profitable with tariffs about 15,6 higher than the observed average,
or occupancy rates around 10 points higher.
10.     Category of hotel seems to share with regional location an important role
in determining profitability, and it is probable that 5-Star hotels in the
imperial cities are more profitable than 4-Star hotels. The sensitivity tests
show that an increase in investment costo has a relatively minor impact on profit-
ability compared to occupancy rates (see also table page 12 below). The enormous effect
exercised by the low occupancy rates in the initial years of operations on rates
of return serves to underline the importance of sound marketing and management
of new units from their commencement-   These
ebtimates are based on data for a limited number of hotels, and         they might
change somewhat with more information. On the other hand, the basic conclusions
drawni here are robust with respect to reasonable changes in many basic assumptions.
Impact of Incentives on Tariffs and Occupancy Rates
11.     In order to assess the possible impacts of the incentives system, we
have estimated the changes in tariffs and occupancy rates which would occur for
a range of 'normal returns on capital if existing incentives were removed, under
the assumption that, in the long run, investors seek an average return on their
equity, in real terms, of between 10% and 20%, and the tariffs and/or occupancy
rates (and accommodation capacity) would adjust to the level required to yield
1/  For the "base cases" the interest rate on CIH s loans has been assumed at 6%,
since the Government may decide to increase this rate as CIH's official rate
rises to 11%.



ANNE;X 
Profitability of Hotels with Current Occupancy Rate, and
Incentives (interest at 6%)
Internal Rates of Aeturn
Cases                     On Equity         On Total Investment       Simple
after tax  Before tax    ERR
Gasablanca 5-btar                    10.5             4.6         7.3          10.3
- with 10% increase in investment   7.3               3.2         5.7           n.c.
- with no start-up period            45.8            16.7        21.3           n.c.
Casablanca 4-btar                 negative          negative   negative       negative
Casablanca 5-btar                    1.2              0.4         2.3           5.6
Agadir  4-Star                       16.9             6.4         9.3          11.7
Agadir  3-btar                       19.7             7.6        10.4          12.6
Agadir Vacation Village(a)          15.0              5.4        14.8           17.6
Circuits 4-btar (Fes, Meknes)      negative         negative      0.9            4.7
Cir-cuit 4-btar Marrakech            7.4              3.0         5.3            8.5
North 3-Star beach                negative          negative   negative         negative
North Vacation Village(a)         negative          negative   negativE          2.3
n.c. = not calculated.
a/ These are returns to investors under a leasing agreement where the lessee pays
the lessor (investor) 10% of total receipts and 10% o GOP, with a minimum
rental equal to his loan repayment and 8% on his equity investment (the latter
being inflated). It should be noted that the Northern Vacation Village is non-
viable under these terms, since the lessee's GOP is less than the rental payment.
The ERR assumes that all payments to the lessee represent gains to the economy,
which is evidently untrue when the lessee is a foreign firm (eg Club Mediterran6e).



ANNEX 5
Page 9
the returns sought by the investors. For each base case, rates of return on
equity with and without incentives hlave been plotted on charts at different
levels of tariffs and occupancy rates (see Figure 1 and the Table on page 11).
By plotting on these charts indifference curves representing a given level of
profitability (10%, 15% and 20% return on equity), it has been possible to
identify the maximum effects that the removal of the incentives system would
have on tariffs (if occupancy rates were to remain constant at current levels)
or on occupancy rates (if tariffs were held at the current level in real terms).
The results of this analysis are Hmaximirn" because, if incentives were
actually removed, neither prices nor occupancies would remain constant, and both
would change by less than the percentages shown below.  The last column in
the table converts the change in occupancy rates to the maximum change in
capacity necessary to accommodate a given number of bednights. Put differently,
the last column shows the maximum reduction in capacity which might occur with
a removal of incentives to handle a given number of bednights 1/
Hotel Profitability, Incentives, and Economic Returns
12.     In order to determine whether or not Morocco's tourism investment
incentives are justified on economic grounds, we have analyzed the profitability,
with and without incentives, of projects when the MEORs obtain, at existing
tariff levels. The results of this analysis are set out in the table on page 12.
13.     These results lead to the conclusion that incentives are unnecessary to
provide satisfactory financial profitabi-lity at the minimum economic occupancy
rates in the five-star hotels in Casablanca, and in beach hotels in Agadir. Or.
the other hand, existing incentives are insufficient to render investments financial-
ly profitable at the MEOR   in          northern beach hotels and four-star hotels
in the Imperial Citieb . Prices, even with incentives, would have to rise by
10-17% in four-star circuit hotels (depending on whether the return sought by the
investor is 10% or 15%), and by 50% in three-star northern beach hotels, in order
to make investment in these types of facility financially attractive at the MEOR.
Imperial Cities hotels would appear tc be profitable, at current prices and their
MEORs      ift"sectoral" occupancy rates were attained from the beginning of
operations.  This might be possible if the hotel is managed and marketed by a
well-established chain, or a large tour operator.  An in-depth cost-benefit
analysis would be necessary to reach a clear-cut conclusion on the effectiveness
and justification of the incentives system for Imperial Cities hotels, or even
on the need to provide more generous incentives. This cannot be done on the
basis of available information.
l1.     The results also call for the following observations concerning the
effects of incentives on hotel profitability: (a) the relative weight of the
different forns of investment incentives on profitability is evenly split
between the interest rate subsidy and the interest free Government loan, on
the one hand, and the various tax exemptions on the other; (b) the proposed -
reduction in the interest rate subsidy, which would raise the rate payable by
CIH's borrowers from 4.5% to 6%, would not significantly reduce the profitability
of those types of hotels which are already profitable.
1/ The bednights realized in any particular calendar year would be less in the
"without incentives" case than in the "with incentives" case, of course, due
to higher excess demand at the peak.



Figure I: Sensitivity of Investors' Rate of Return on         aNe  9
Equity _ Tariffs, Occupancy Rates, and              P    1
Incentives
Uith Tncentives                                  ;Without Incentives
(interest rate = 6%)                              (interest rate = 11%)
AGADIR 3*
Tarif fTari4f                                          F .. .
B,-e-~~- tr -   -                                   I-e 
-   -~~~~~~~~-   ~~~~~~~~~~~1   -J -:I
P~~~~~ ~ ~  . . .  :    _ 
40  t 50    60      70                  40      50     60    70
CASABLANCA 5*
CIRUI  *TT 
j,/D     IF-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                      
jg                /l-1                    /S-2-                  Kt
Base-                 X 1-
40    50      0     70                   40      50    60     70
CIRCUIT 14*
I;K~~~
I -+~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Annual Bed Occupancy Rate                Annual Bed Occupancy Rate
Tariff = room and food receipts per bednight; Base = 1975 level(see Table on page 2).



AI19
Estimated Long-run Effects of Removing Incentives (holding expected
rates of return constant)
Maximum effect     MaXimum effect         Maximum effect on
on prices          on occupancy           capacity necessary
(holding occupancy  rates, (holding       to handle a given
rates constant at  prices constant at   number of bed-
current levels)     current levels)       nights
Agadir 3* hotel
Expected return on
equity               10%           +21%               +26%                  -21%
15%          +23%               +29%                  -22%
20%          +27%                                       *
Circuit 4* hotel
Expected return on
equity            =  10%        +17%                  +22%                  -18%
150%      *                     *                     *
20%       *                     *                     *
Gasablanca 5* hotel
Expected return on      10%       +19%                  +19                   -16%
equity            -  15%         *                    +21                   -17%
20%        *                    +23                   -19%
* Tariffs and occupancy rates corresponaing to this rate of return were
not calculated and could not reasonably be extrapolated for both with and
without incentives cases.



ANNEX 9
Page 1.2
Rates of Return on Moroccan Hotels at Minimum Economic Occupancy
Rates, bensitivity to Assumptions about Incentives
With
With tax incen-    Tax        With
tives and inte-   Incen-   Interest
rest rate subsi-  tives    bubsidy
dy                  only      only    No Incentives
Interest rate assumption         4.5        6         11%         6%       11%
A.   Rate of Return on Equity
Casablanca 5*                   36.8       34.9       28.2       25.8      20.8
Casablanca 4*                   14.3       12.8        6.3        8.5       3.0
Casablanca 3*                   21.3       20.6       13.4      14.3        9.3
Agadir  4*                                 22.1                             9.2
Agadir  3*                      25.2       24.3       16.0      16.8       10.9
Agadir Vacation Village                    19.2                             6.7
Circuits 4*                                 2.3                            neg
North 3*                                    neg.
North Vacation Village                      neg.                            neg.
B.   Rate of Return (after tax)
on Total Investment
Casablanca 5*                   14.0      1i4.2       144.9      10.9      12.1
Casablanca 4*                    5.1        5.3        5.7        3.8       4.2
Casablanca 3*                    8.8        8.8        9.4        6.7       7.6
Agadir 4*                                   8.2                             7.1
Agadir 3*                         9.1       9.2        9.8        6.8       7.9
Agadir Vacation Village                     6.9                             5.9
Circuits 4*                                 0.7                             0.7
North 3*                                   neg.
North Vac&tion Village                     neg.                             1.1
C.   Rate of Return (before tax)
on Total Investment
Casablanca 5*                   18.2       18.2       18.2       16.3      16.3
Casablanca 4*                     8.0       8.o        8.0        6.5       6.5
Casablanca 3*                   11.8       11.8       11.8      10.2       10.2
Agadir 4*                                  11.4                             9.7
Agadir 3*                        12.2      12.2       12.2       10.5      10.5
Agadir Vacation Village                    16.8                            14.8
Circuits 4*                                 2.8                             1.2
North 3*                                   neg.
North Vacation Village                      2.3                            neg.
D.   "Simple" ERR's: Casablanca 5  = 21.0%; Casablalca 4* = 11%; Casab anca 3* = 14.3%;
Agadir 4* = 13.7%; Agadir 3* = 14.4%; Agadir Vacation Village =
19.6%: Circuit 4* = 6.2%; North 3* = negative; North Vacation
Village = 2.3%.
neg. = negative; blanks = not calculated.






ANNEX 10
MOROCCO                         Page  1
CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER
Major Assumptions for CIH's
Four Year Operational and Financial Forecasts
A. Operational Forecasts
Hotel Loan approvals:
They are based upon a detailed review of the status of projects
submitted and expected to be submitted to CIH in the next two years;
Commitments:
Assuming an average four-month lag between approvals and commitments,
it is expected that 65% of approvals are committed the same year and
35% the following year.
Disbursements:
Assuming an average hotel construction period of three years and
taking account of the fact that CIH starts disbursing only following
a full investment of equity and Government loan funds, commitments
will be disbursed as follows:
10% in the first year of commitment
40% in the second year
50% in the third year
B. Financial Forecasts - Income Statements
Interest on loans
8.75% for all loans outstanding up to November 1975, 10% on new
housing and other loans, 11% for new hotel laons thereafter
through 1979. Income on loans is computed on the average loan
portfolio outstanding at the beginning and end of each fiscal
year.
Commission:
1.27% of annual disbursements (based on the past three years' trend).
Dividend Income:
Assumed to increase by 17% in 1976, 30% in 1977, and 50%
in 1978 and 1979 respectively.
Other Income:
Includes revenue of 5% on equipment bonds interest received on
bank deposits and miscellaneous income.



ANNEX 10
Page Z
Interest Paid on Borrowings:
The following rates were applied to the average amount of out-
standing debt at the end of the year:
-  LT Bonds                                        7.50%
-  MT Notes                   5.75% (1976), 6.00% (1977), 6.50% (1978)
-  BCP loans in 1975                         6.80% to 7.20%
-  BNDE                                            7.50%
-  IBRD                                  7.0%,7.25% and 8.50%
-  Bank du Maroc                                   3.50%
-  Treasury Loans                             4.50% and 6.50%
-  Managed funds                                   3.50% and 4.50%
-  CDG                                             6.50%
-  Other Domestic borrowings (average)             5.80%
-  Other LT Debt (unidentified) 8.50% (1976), 9.0% (1977-79)
Other Financial Charges:
Resulting from the repayment of bonds - 1.50% of the interest
charged on, and 0.50% of the bonds being repaid. These charges
apply only to old issues since starting in 1975 CIH handles its
own issues.
Operating Expenses:
Salaries and Wages: have been forecast to increase by 15%
in 1976, 12% in 1977 and 10% thereafter.
Other Operating Expenses: include office supplies, legal fees,
documentation, missions,, receptions, and upkeep and rental costs
of regional offices. Estimated on a yearly basis by CIH.
Depreciation: of fixed assets and amortization of financial
costs related to bond issues and share capital increases are
forecast at 15% and 20% respectively.
Provision: for doubtful loans set at 2% on hotel loan dis-
bursements and 1% on others.
Income tax: as a percentage of profits before tax, calculated
as follows:
up to DH 500,000                 40%
DH 500,000 to 2.000,000          44%
over DR 2.0 million              48%
Investment reserve:
5% of the taxable profits between DH  50,000 and DH 150,000
and 8% of such profits ahcv.e DIH 150,000 are allocated to the
investment reserve; each, year 80% of the investment reserve
must by law be used for the purchase of ten-year equipment
bonds yielding a 5% interest.



ANNEX 10
Page 3
Appropriation of net profits:
Legal reserve                              5% net profit
Dividends                                  8% of share capital
Directors' fees                         1.57% share capital held
General reserve                            remaining balance.
EMENA/IC & DFC
April 1976



ANNEX 11
MOROCCO
CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER
Estimated Resource Needs and Financing Plan
(1976-1978)
RESOURCE NEEDS                                                       DH Million
Expected Commitments:                                       Total         Hotels
1976                                                        261.0          66.0
1977                                                        330.0          88.0
1978                                                        390.0          90.0
Total resource requirements:                             981.0         244.0
of which in foreign exchange (55% hotel loans)                        134.2
FINANCING
Local sources:
Balance available (Dec. 1975)                                 64.3
Cash generation (1975-1978)                                   50.3
Bond issues                                                 550.0
Notes issues                                                  17.0
Share capital increase (1977-1978)                           40.0 1/
721.6
Foreign Borrowings
Uncommitted on Loan 848-MOR (March 31, 1976)                   8.4
RESOURCE GAP                                                   251.0
(i)  In local currency                                      125.2
(ii)  In foreign currency                                    125.8  (US $30.4 million)
1/  The share capital will be increased by DH 20 million each year in 1977 an6 i978.
EMENA/IC & DFC
April 1976



MDROCCO
CREDIT If'RH)ILLIER ET HOTELIER
Loan Operations: Actual and Forecast LI
(DR xllion)
Approvals                          Co-  *aitents                      Dioburbei  ts
Actual            Hotels     other      Total         Hotels     Other      Total         Hotels       Other    Total
1973               50.8       61.8      112.6          24.7      51.3        76.o          47.7         54.0    101.7
1974               34.5      110.1      144.6          52.2     101.0       153.2          53.6         85.2    138.8
1975  (9 no.)      27.2      159.9      187.1          32.0     111.7       143.7          37.2         96.8    134.0
0  _
1975  (12  o.)    60.0       176.0      236.0          46.0     3.49.o      195.0          47.0        145.0    192.0 2
1976               80.0      206.0      286.0          66.o     195.0       261.0          50.0        196.0    246.0
1977               90.0      258.0      348.o          88.0     242.0       330.0          58.0        245.0    303.0
1978               90.0      310.0      400.0          90.0     300.0       390.0          77.0        278.0    355.0
1979              110.0      382.0      492.0         100.0     335.0       435.0          90.0        322.0    412.0
Total             430.0    1.332.0   1,762.0          390.0   1.221.0    1,611.0          322.0      1.186.0  1.508.0
1 Revised by the Mission
2/ Actual disbursements for 1975
Ft4ENA/IC & DFC
April 1976



ANNEX 13
MDROCOO
CREDIT IMNKBILIER ET HOTELIER
Projected Income Stat_m nt (Dece ber 31. 1975-1979)
(DE 1000)
1974                    -2976       i17           1978         1979
INCOME                                           (actual)   (Un4udited)
Interest on loans                               48,681      63,497       76,790      100,631     128,804      154,340
Cammisions                                       i.848       2,555        3.028        3.896       4,555        5,830
55 66,052                            104 527     133,359      160,170
Net income from managed funds                     38-m       1,866           n784                     B62         95O
Dividend Incoce                                    176          332         390          507          760       1,140
Other income                                      _442       3.733        2,863        3.606        3,517       3,681
TOTAL INCOME                 51730        71,983      83,784      109,424      138,498     165J941
EXPENSES:
Financial
Interest paid                                 28,500      39,000       55,931       74,412       96,927     117,846
Other financial charges                      _12           1,345          166          153          144     _1
27ga6o tt   40,345       7 97        _74,565       97-,071    1
Salare  and wages                             5,760       7,485        7,860        8,803       9,684       1O,652
Other operating expenses                       2,464       4,441       14,960        6,082        6,626       7,223
Depreciation                                   1,372       1,739        1,947        2,462        3,062       3,635
Provision for doubtfUl loans                    (971)      5,168        1,288        1.385       1.307
8rs625     18,833 fo,db  1f,732                  20.67l       22o.19
TOTAL EXPENSES               38,389       59,178      72,152       93.297      117 75o0     4n -967
INCOME BEFORE TAXES                               13,341       12,805      11,632       16,127       20,748      24,974
Income taxes                                6,328       6,039        5,583        7,741       9,959       11,987
NET PROFIT                                         7,013        6,766       6.049        8.386       10,789      12.987
APPROPRIATI0NS
Investment reserve                             1,032       1,016          930        1,290        1,660       1,998
Legal reserve                                    301          301         302          419          539          649
Dividends                                      3,200       4,800        4,800        4,800        6,400       8,000
General reserve                                2 480         649           17        1,877        2,190       2,340
6,766                    8,386       10,789       12,987
RATIOS
Income from loans as % of
average loan portfolio:                       9.0           9.3         9.3          9.7         10.0        10.0
Financial expenses as % of
average LT debt                               5.8           6.1         6.4          6.8          7,2          7.3
Spread                                          3.2           3.2          2.9         2.9          2.8          2.7
Interest coverage ratio                         1.5           1.4         1.3          1.2          1.2          1.2
Net profit as % average equity                  9.4           7.9                      8.  R.4      8.7          9.5
Cash dividends as % net profit                 45.2         71.0         79.6         57.2         74.1         61.6
Cash dividends as % par value                   8.o           8.0         8.0          8.0          8.0          8.0
EMENA/IC & DFC
April 1976



ANNEX 14
- DROCCO
CREDIT IIWBIRl  ST HOTELIER
Projected Source and    lication of Funds (1975-1979)
'MI000)
197a5        1w976         1977          1978          1979
SOURCES                                     (Eatimated)
Net Profit                                  6,766        6,049         8,386        10,789        12,987
Plus non-coaa ituez
- Depreciation                            1,739        1,947         2,462         3,062         3.635
- Provisions                              5,168        1.88          1,35          1.307         1,476
Cas sertion                          13,673  7 15               12,233
Loan collctlns                       45,413       46,240        61,800        85,240       112,870
Share capital increase                       _             -          20,000        20,000
Equity inveataent sales                     5,002        1,170         1,000           -
Borrowins:
!TYbonds                              110,000       140,000       180,000       230,000      290,000
jT notea                               29,100       17,000           -             -
BCP                                    30,000          -             -             -
IBRD                                   19,200        31,000       39,000        30,000        29,000
Trury                                  40,000          -             -             -             -
Unidentified                           10,300       64,745       100,000       130.000        70,000
238,600      252,745       319,000       37            389
TOTAL RESOURCES            302,688       309,439      414,033       490,398       519,968
APPLICATIONS
lHotl  loans                           47,000       50,000        58,o00        77,000        90,000
Housing loans                         105,000       140,000      190,000       220,000       250,000
Other loans                            40,000       51 000        60 000        63,000        67,000
192,000       310 000                                  407
Equity invesentas                      19,460        9
Purchase of equipent bond                     910          885         1,157         1,456         1,756
Parchase of fixed assets                      900          990         1,090         1,200         1,300
Cost of bond and share issues               2,200        2,800         3,600         4,600         5,800
Dividends and fees                          3,200        4,800         4,800         4,800         6,400
Incae tax                                   6,330         6,039        5,583         7,741         9,959
Repayment of borrowings:
LT bonds                               22,434        27,743       37,104        49,134        64,476
In notes                               15,020        17,020            20           20
BCP                                     5,250        8,250         8,250         8,250         6,250
IBRD                                    1,726         2,868        4,158         4,592         4,986
BNDE                                    2,223         2,139        2,238         2,265         2,251
Other debts                               - a                       7.500       15 500        18,100
_____798,610267                                        96.063
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                                                                5306 22"  "ha:
Net Increase (decrease) in
current assets                           31035        (14,095)       20.873       25,380       (10,310)
Det coverage ratio:                     0.90          0.96         1.26          1.26          1.38
L/ Excluding current portions of LT loans
ENBEA/IC & DFC
April, 1976



ANNEX 15
IVROCCO
CREDIT IXMoBT.IER ST HOTEIDa
Balance Sheeta. Actual and Pmrjected (December 31, 1974-1979)
(DEf '000)
ASSETS                                    1974           1975            19l6         1977           1978             1979
(Actual)     (Us.adited)
Current Assets
Cash and bank                           16,882          34,851          14,596        25,762         28,933          24,gE24
Past-due loan maturities                42,637         52,182           60,491        78,442         90,992          99,o1o
Less: Provisions                          (5,651)         (7,473)         (8,269)      ( 9,654)       (10,961)        (12,467)
Current maturities of loans             37,912          51,535          72,703       100,284)       132,786         14o,982t
Other receivables                       28,187          33,530          32,187        2538sa                         22.681
119,967        164,625         1717.08       Z2n 1.6         278,044         275,930
Investment Portfolio
Hotel loans                            354,641         385,377         423,980       473,513        514,513         504,959
Housing loans                          208,180         275,429        401,109        547,389        717,417         894,499
Other loans                             24,364          70,510         102,784       142,268        190,956         237,642
Less: current maturities                 (37,912)        (51,535)        (72,703)     (100,284)      (132,780)       (140,982)
549,273        679,781          855,170     1,062,886      1,290,100       1.556,118
Equity investments                      15,469          29,871          38,372        48,990         53,492          55,492
Equipment bonds                          3,714           4,605           5,274         6,820          6,424           6,954
Fixed Assets (net)                         2,370           2,581           2,808         3,903          3,021            3,009
Other Assets (net)                         2,156           2,853           6,053         9,075         12,396           16,686
TOTAL ASSETS                692,949         884,316       1,079,385      1,351,836      1.643.477       1
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities
Short-term borrowings                    6,790          10,000           9,465         -                               _
Current maturities LT debt              46,714          57,874          61,267       104,237        126,970         133,949
Interest payable                        10,400          18,056          11,59J4       12,616         12,928          16,323
Other current liabilities               17,579         12,164            8.693         R.186          8.915          12 Ont
8143           98,094          90,959        125,041        148,813         162.272
lOng-7erAL L'ebt 1/
If ~bondsq                             255,314         332,579         440,353       554,115        687,319         923,510
'IT notes                               52,000          66,100           65,410        65,390         65,37C          45,370
Subordinated  Government bonds          30,000          30,000          30,000        30,000         30,000          30,000
BCP                                     40,600          65,350          38,850        30,600          24,35f           4,100
BNDE                                    23,830          21,606          17,229        14,964          12,413           7,285
IBRD                                    45,630          64,216          89,366       123,774        148,78_         172,388
CDG                                     22,320          22,320              -           -               -               -
Banque du Maroc                        100,000         100,000         100,000       100,000        100,000          100,000
Gouvernment Funds                        4,123           4,221            4,343         4,471          4,604           4,742
Treasury advance                          -             40,000          40,000         40,000         40,000          40,000
Cther LT debt                             -             10,300           75,000      152.000         245,506         286,000
1/              573,817          756,692         900,551    1,115,314       1,358,344       1,613,395
Less: current portion  -                 (46,740)        (57.874)
527,077         698,818                                                        -
Fquity
Share capital                           60,000          60,o0o          60,ooo         80,000        100,000         100,0Oo
Legal reserve                            1,747           2,047           2,347          2,649          3,068           3,607
General reserve                         13,945          16,425          16,399         16,416         18,313          18 5nfl
Investment reserve                       5,902           6,966           7,880          8,810         10 lou          11',025
Retained earnings 2/                     2,795           1,966           1.249          3, .606        4,839           4 9^7
84,389          87,404         87,875        111.481        136-320         138.522
TOTAL LIABILITIES           692,949         884.316       1,079,385      1.351.836      1.64.4i77       Lla1
RATIOS
LT debt/Year end equity                   6.8             8.6               10.9        10.9           10.9             12.6
Debt/Equity (IBRD Agreement)              5.42/           6.9-/             6.2-         7.0-            7.7-            9.2-
IBRD debt as r of LT debt                 8.0             8.5               9.3         10.1            10.0             9.8
1/  Long Term Debt is net of current maturities in the projected data (1976-1979).
2!  Net of dividends and directors' fees for the year (included in "Othee current liabilities").
3/  Current definition: including DH 19 million of the subordinated government bonds as quasi-equity.
4/  Including in quasi-equity (a) DH 17 million of the subordinated Government bonds and (b) a decreasing
portion of the DH 40 million subordinated Government loan,, as explained in para. 5.07 rnd 5.08 of the text.
EMENA/IC & UFC
ADIil 1976



ANNEX 16
Page 1
MOROCCO
CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER
RECOMMENDED ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL APPRAISAL CRITERIA
for
CIH-FINANCED HOTEL PROJECTS
Introduction
1.       As reported elsewhere  (para 3.12)   CIHis appraisals of hotel projects
have improved substantially in recent years. These improvements have included
closer scrutiny of project costs, suitability of facilities for their intended
market, and strength of management of proposed hotels. Unfortunately, however,
projects which are sound financially and technically may not be economically
viable, in part due to Morocco's system of generous investment incentives. In-
sufficient information is available to make clear and complete recommendations
upon desirable changes in the incentives system which would eliminate conflicts
between financial and economic viability for all types of hotels in all regions
of Morocco. It is possible, however, to identify practical criteria, which, if
followed by CIH, would limit if not eliminate the possibility of excessive hotel
investment. It is the purpose of this annex to indicate the nature of a 'complete'
economic criterion for hotel investments, and to describe the 'practical' criteria
which are recommended in the short run.
Characteristics of a "Complete" Appraisal Criterion
2.       The objective of all economic appraisal criteria is to avoid investments
which add more to social costs than social benefits. Implementation of "complete"
criteria which involve direct calculation of all benefits and costs associated
with the expansion of hotel capacity is difficult for four main reasons:
a.  The main objective of Government policy on tourism is to maximize
the net returns from tourists' expenditures. Hotels are but one
activity among many which are used by tourists. A 'complete'
economic criterion for hotel investments must, therefore, take
explicit account of receipts and costs external to the hotel.
This presupposes the availability of sound estimates of external
receipts and costs for each type of hotel (and for each type of
client of a particular type of hotel) and also the adoption of
adequate procedures for allocating costs of such indivisible items
as infrastructures and Government training and promotional campaigns
to the individual hotel. (W1here hotels are on a 'circuit', some
external receipts and costs consist of receipts and costs of
tourists in other types of hotels.) These problems are not in-
superable, but their solutions require considerable analytical
effort and also data which do not presently exist in Morocco.
b.  Estimating costs requires adequate information upon the cost
breakdown of different items used inside and outside the hotel,
estimation (with the use of the input-output table or by other
methods) of the "indirect" as well as direct 'primary factors'
used to satisfy tourist demands (i.e. direct and indirect value-



ANNEX 16
Page 2
added of different types, foreign exchange, indirect taxes),
and application of appropriate shadow prices to these demands
for 'primary factors'. In addition to adequate information,
this exercise demands substantial computational capacity.
c. Increments in receipts due to an expandion of capacity are
generallyk less than the receipts which the new capacity will
receive, since without the new capacity, some tourists would
be accommodated in already existing facilities. (This may be
called the 'diversion effect' of new capacity.) In the context
of a growing sector, this consideration takes the form of
determining which of many alternative rates of capacity
utilization is most likely to be optimal.
d. In addition, to the extent that demand is less than perfectly
elastic with respect to prices charged, the marginal receipts
from the capacity expansion will be less than average receipts
(i.e. a capacity expansion will result in some reduction in
prices over what would have occurred without the capacity
increase; in a demand growth situation, higher occupancy rates
will tend to be associated with higher prices. /This may be
referred to as the 'revenue dilution' effect)._
3.       Even with availability of the data necessary to carry out the above
analyses, the desirability of carrying them out for every proposed hotel project
ls doubtful.  As noted above, hotels are but one component in tourism development
prograrns which also include heavy expenditures on infrastructures, administra-
tive overheads by the state, and investments in 'external' tourist activities.
It may well be that 'complete, economic analysis should be carried out to define
programs for particular regions, or for promotion of particular types of tourism.
One element of such programs would be the identification of target occupancy
rates and prices for different types of hotels. The appraisal of individual
hotels would then consist of ensuring that (a) they fall within the program
identified and/or (b) existing occupancy rates and prices approximate the
'optimal' ones implied by the program, and/or (c) new projects secure some ERR
(somehow defined) which, if achieved, would correspond to the optimum for that
type of hotel in that region. Which of these, or which combination of these,
should be applied would depend upon administrative convenience, and upon the
desired degree of decentralization of decision-making among the tourism authori-
ties, financial institutions, and individual investors.
1/ The diversion and revenue dilution effects may be ignored for projects of
ertirely new types in undeveloped regions which tap entirely new markets.
It should be noted that ho-tel capacity is not homogeneous, and that addition-
al capacity 'similar' to existing capacity may result in securing some new
business through (a) development of new marketing channels (b) slight quali-
tative differences in the product offered compared with existing hotels of
tho 'same' cype.



ANNEX 16
Page 3
4.       The statistical collection and masterplanning activities to be launched
in Morocco may assist with arriving at clear strategies and programs taking
account of the above considerations. In the meantime, however, it is necessary
to determine whether some more approximate criteria may be found which would, if
applied by CIH, ensure that clearly uneconomic projects were not approved.
Minimum Economic Occupancy Rate
5.       The basic concept on which the proposed criteria are based is the
'minimum economic occupancy rate' (MEOR). The MEOR is the maximum annual bed
occupancy rate which is consistent with maintaining the existing monthly p*atern
of bed occupancies, and a room occupancy rate in the peak month of 90-95%._/ At
annual occupancy rates higher than this, the proportion of bednights realized in
the peak month would decline due to higher turn-away demand in the peak. At lower
occupancy rates, the share of the peak months would increase (due to a reduction
in turn-away demand), but the incremental bednights attributable to incremental
capacity would also fall. The estimates of NEOR's are as follows:
Casablanca, Rabat                 65%
Agadir                            65%
Central Circuits (Fes, Meknes)   55%
Marrackech                        60%
Northern beach resorts            40%
It is proposed that the derivation of these MEOR's be discussed with the Moroccan
authorities, and that such elaborations as are possible with existing information
be introduced (for example, in distinguishing MEOR's by category as well as by
region), preparatoiyto agreeing the exact 1EOR's to be employed in appraisal of
hotel projects (see para. 7 below).
Rates of Return and Minimum Economic Occupancy Rates
6.       An examination of various measures of return on investment at the MEOR
for several types of Moroccan hotels indicates that there is no unique value of
any rate of return concept which would correspond to the MEOR for all types of
hotels in all regions. For some hotels, all normal financial and economic rates
of return are satisfactory at the MEOR without incentives. For others, financial
returns even with incentives are unsatisfactory at the MEOR (see Annex 9). In the
latter cases, further analysis would be necessary to determine whether policy
1/ This corresponds to a peak month bed occupancy rate of 80-85% in most
Moroccan destinations, except the business cities of Rabat and Casablanca
where it probably corresponds to a peak month bed occupancy rate of 75%.
These estimates are subject to a substantial margin of error, as they are
based upon very imperfect information (See Annex 9). For a sample of four
high class hotels catering largely to an individual clientele for which
information was available on daily occupancies, the MEOR would
involve capacity being fully occupied for 58 to 102 nights in the year
(depending upon the hotel and upon the assumptions about maximum peak
month occupancy rate). Estimated 'turn-away' demand at the MEOR for these
hotels ranges between 5 bednights and 20 bednights per year per bed.



ANNEX 16
Page 4
should aim at securing higher prices for these types of hotels (by holding back
expansion of capacity) or whether yet additional incentives would be justified
in order to make these hotels financially viable at existing tariff levels.
Recommended Criteria
7.       It is recommended that the CIH finance only those hotels (or hotel
expansions) which:
(a) are of categories and in regions where average occupancy rates
can reasonably be expected to equal the MEOR by the date when
the new capacity is opened for business; and
(b) are financially viable on the assumptions that the hotel
(i) eventually (after its start-up period of lower occu-ncy
rates) achieves but does not exceed the MBOR, or the sectoral
average, whichever is higher; and
(ii) secures tariffs and food and bar receipts no higher than
the average for its category and region. For purposes of
this criterion, financial viability would mean an after
tax return on equity of at least 12%, a return on total
investment of 10%,-17and a debt service ratio of 1.2 or
higher.
The above benchmarks for financial indicators have been determined partly
on the basis of past experience with CIH's project appraisal work (financially
viable hotels have been found generally to yield a rate of return higher than
10% on total investment), and partly on an estimate of the minimum financial
profitability (12% on equity in real termes) required in the Moroccan con-
text to ensure the continued enticement of investors in their projects. The
proposed 1.2 debt service coverage ratio is deemed to be the minimum suggested
by prudence, to ensure financial equilibrium of hotel enterprise.
8.       Although the proposed criteria may seem 'rough' and 'arbitrary7 they
shouldbe superior to existing ones. Certainly they would prevent a situation
in which financial (and economic, as now calculated) viability may result from
optimistic tariffs and occupancy rates based on the implicit assumption (only
sometimes borne out in practice) that the hotel will succeed in drawing clientele
from existing facilities. The inclusion of the 'financial' criteria under (b)
above are necessary and desirable since it is important that projects be
financially as well as economically viable. The criteria are not completely
mechanistic, as there would be substantial scope for delicate judgments in assign-
ing individual projects to appropriate reference groups. Adoption of the criteria
would give added impetus to gathering reliable information on existing occupancy
rates and tariffs of different types of hotels, thus improving the data base for
investment planning.
1/ This is a 'financial, criterion since it does not involve deduction of any
indirect taxes included in costs of investment or operation of the hotel.
It is recommended that the CIH continue to calculate the "ERR" net of all
indirect as well as direct taxes. The ERR will, of course, be higher than
the total financial return on investment before income tax.



ANNEX 16
Page 5
9.       It is recommended that exceptions to these criteria should be considered
only in the event of overriding considerations of a social nature (regional develop-
ment, income redistribution). Estimation of receipts and costs of projects of
an entirely new type, or a completely new region, would, of course, be based upon
the best estimates available rather than sectoral averages.
Future Criteria
10.      As more reliable information becomes available, it may prove desirable
to modify the above criteria. The Bank should be ready to discuss improvements
and modifications in the light of additional data and analysis.
EMENA/IC & DFC
March 1976



ANNEX 17
CREDIT IMMOBILIER ET HOTELIER
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
For the Proposed Loan
Yearly                    Cumulative
(Calendar years)               disbursements              disbursements
(in thousands of dollars)
1976
Fourth quarter                200                        200
1977
First quarter                300                         500
Second quarter               400                         900
Third quarter                800                       1,700
Fourth quarter             1,000                       2,700
1978
First quarter              1,500                       4,200
Second quarter             1,700                       5,900
Third quarter              2,400                       8,300
Fourth quarter             2,500                      10,800
1979
First quarter              2,700                      13,500
Second quarter             2,700                      16,200
Third quarter              2,500                      18,700
Fourth quarter             2,300                      21,000
1980
First quarter              1,700                      22,700
Second quarter             1,300                      24,000
Third quarter                 700                     24,700
Fourth quarter                300                     25,000
Based on the assumptions set out in Annex 10. Final date of
sub-project submission is June 30, 1978 and closing date is December 31, 1980.
EMENA/IC & DFC
April 1976



