D     IOCU M EN TS  LOAN NUMBER 2239 ZIM
Loan Agreement
(Manufacturing Export Promotion Project)
between
ZIMBABWE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                                 , 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2239 ZIK
LOAN      AENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1983, between
ZIMBABWE (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated January 10,
1983, from the Borrower describing a program of action designed
to assist in the promotion of exports, declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of that program and requesting
assistance from   the Bank in    the financing of part of the
essential imports required by the Borrower's manufacturing sector
as described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
(B) on the basis of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in
support of such program to provide assistance to the Borrower by
making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Gua-
rantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.,2. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe" means the bank established
by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe Act, Cap. 173, which is respons-
ible for the administration of foreign exchange pursuant to the
Exchange Control Act, Cap. 170; and
(b)  "SITC" means the United Nations Standard International
Trade Classification Revision 2, Statistical Papers, Series M,
No. 34/Rev. 2 (1975).


﻿. - 2-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
seventy million and six hundred thousand dollars ($70,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Lcan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable. cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) The Borrower shall cause to be opened and thereafter
maintained a Special Account (hereinafter called the Export
Revolving Fund Account) in the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Payments out of the
Export Revolving Fund Account shall be made exclusively to pay
the reasonable cost of goods and services required to carry out
the Project and to be financed by the Bank under this Agreement
in accordance with the provisions. of this Section and Schedule 1
hereto.
(c) The Bank may, after the Effective Date and at the
request of the Borrower, withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Export Revolving Fund Account
an amount in dollars of up to $15,000,000. In the event that the
amount of such initial deposit into the Export Revolving Fund
Account is less than $15,000,000, the Borrower may from time to
time request the Bank to withdraw from the Loan Account and make
one or more additional initial deposits into the Export Revolving
Fund Account, but in no event shall the amount of such initial
deposits exceed in the aggregate $15,000,000. Thereafter, at the
request of the Borrower, the Bartk shall further withdraw from the
Loan Account and deposit in the Export Revolving Fund Account
such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Export
Revolving Fund Account with amounts equal to payments made out of
the Export Revolving Fund Account for expenditures for the
Project eligible for financing under this Agreement, but only to
the extent that the amount of any such deposit, together with any


﻿-3-
amount remaining on deposit in the Export Revolving Fund Account
as of the date of such request, shall not exceed in aggregate
$15,000,000. Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine, each
such deposit after the initial deposits shall be withdrawn by the
Bank from the Loan account for imported items included in SITC
Divisions excluding those set forth in the Annex to Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as have been justified by the documentation
for the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph
(d) of this Section.
(d) Prior to or at the time of each request for a withdra-
wal by the Borrower from the Export Revolving Fund Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank in respect -of each payment
made out of the Export Revolving Fund Account such documents and
other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request, showing that
the payment was made on account of the reasonable cost of goods
or services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section.
(e) If the Bank shall have determined that any payment out
of the Export Revolving Fund Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible for financing by with-
drawal from the Loan Account, or (ii) was not justified by the
evid,nce furnished pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank and, unless
otherwise determined by the Bank, prior to any further deposit in
the Export Revolving Fund Account by the Bank, deposit in the
Export Revolving Fund Account an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
(f) Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph (c) of this
Section, no further deposit in the Export Revolving Fund Account
shall be made by the Bank when (i) the Bank shall have determined
that all further withdrawals from the Loan Account may be made
directly by the Borrower from the Loan Account pursuant to para-
graph (a) of this Section, or (ii) when the total amount with-
drawn from the Loan Account plus the amount of any qualified
agreement to reimburse made by the Bank and of any special com-
mitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions, shall have reached the equivalent of
$54,000,000, whichever shall be sooner. Withdrawal from the Loan
Account of the remaining amount of the Loan for the Project shall
follow such procedures as shall be agreed between the Borrower
and the Bank and shall be made only to the extent that the Bank


﻿-4-
shall be satisfied by the evidence submitted in support of the
applications  for  such withdrawal    that  all  payments by   the
Borrower out of the Export Revolving Fund Account were made on
account of the reasonable cost of goods or services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
procurement of goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1984 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to five hundred and twenty five thousand and five
hundred fifty eight dollars ($525,558).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this Section, the
interest rate for all Interest Periods commencing in 1982 shall
be 11.43% per annum.


﻿-5-
(d) For purposes of this Section:
(i)  "Interest  Period" means    the  six-month   period
comiencing on each date specified in Section 2.08
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii)  "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum.
(iii)  "Qualified Borrowings" means (A) outstanding bor-
rowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv)  "Semester" means the first six     months or    the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.10.,(a) The Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
(b) Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing,
the Borrower shall entrust the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe with
responsibility for the coordination and collection of relevant
documentation, and the preparation of withdrawal applications,
under the Loan. Each such withdrawal application shall include
evidence satisfactory to the Bank in respect of the goods for
which financing is requested under such application.


﻿- 6
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency,
(b) The Borrower shall take such action as may be required
to ensure that:
(i) there is made available to approved importers,
promptly as needed, such amounts of foreign
exchange as shall be required to import goods
financed under the Project;
(ii) the timely importation of such goods shall be
facilitated;
(iii) approval   shall be granted only in respect of
applications satisfying such criteria as to the
import priority of the goods required, their pro-
posed utilization, the operational and financial
qualifications of the applicant, and otherwise, as
the Borrower and the Bank may agree; and
(iv) such financial and administrative measures are
adopted and implemented as are necessary to ensure
that all goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan are utilized for the purpose for which the
relevant approval was given, and in accordance
with the terms of such approval.
Section 3.02. Any consultants employed by the Borrower for
the purpose of assisting it in the provision of export promotion
services shall have qualifications, experience and terms and con-
ditions of employment which shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Reserve Bank
of Zimbabwe: (i) to maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting


﻿-7-
practices its operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of the Project; and (ii) to operate an account in the name of the
Borrower (hereinafter called the Project Account), and to credit
to the Project Account, upon each withdrawal from the Loan, the
equivalent in Zimbabwe dollars of the currency or currencies
withdrawn from the Loan (such equivalent to be determined as of
the respective dates of such withdrawals).
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, withdrawals
shall be made from the Project Account exclusively to finance the
local currency capital or recurrent costs of development related
projects being carried out by the Borrower and included in its
Central Government Budget, and such withdrawals shall be reported
to the Bank as and when they shall occur.
(c) The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Account and
financial statements in respect of the Project are audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than June 30, 1984, (A) certified copies of said financial
statements as so audited and (B) the report of such audit(s) by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) to furnish to the Bank such
other information concerning the accounts and financial state-
ments related to the Project and the audit(s) thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that the
imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be insured, or that adequate provision shall be made for
their insurance, against hazards incidental to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or in-
stallation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable
in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair
such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the purposes of the
Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower: (i) shall cause to be
maintained records and procedures adequate to record and monitor
the progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits


﻿-8-
to be derived from it), te identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their
use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited
representatives to examine all relevant records and documents
concerning goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at regular intervals
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from it.
(b) Upon the award of any-contract for goods costing the
equivalent of $4,000,000 or more, to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the-Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the carrying out of the Project, its cost
and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the perfor-
mance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective obliga-
tions under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in


﻿-9-
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the, Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purposes of
financing the purchase of such property; or (ii) any lien arising
in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a
debt maturing not more than one year after the date on which it
is originally incurred.
(c) As used in this Section, the term. "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Bor-
rower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in carrying out the program referred to in the
Preamble to this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that an event has
occurred which shall make it improbable that the program referred
to in the Preamble to this Agreement (including the new system of
"replenishment licenses"), or a significant part of that program,
shall be carried out.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VI
nation
Section 6.01. The date               193, is hereby speci-
fied for the purpose of Se ion 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.10 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance, Economic Planning and
Development of the Borrower is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Treasury
Ministry of Finance, Economic
Planning and Development
Private Bag 7705
Causeway
Harare, Zimbabwe
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINFIN                            MINFIN 2141 ZW
Harare                            Zimbabwe
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ZIMBABWE
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 12 -
'    SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated                % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category           Dollar Equivalent)         to be Financed
(1) All goods                54,000,000            100% of foreign
imported into                                 expenditures
Zimbabwe, ex-
cept for the
goods set -
forth in the
Annex to this
Schedule
(2) Initial deposit          15,000,000
into Export
Revolving Fund
Account
(3) Services for              1,000,000            100%
export promotion
(4) Fee                         525,558           Amount due
(5) Unallocated                  74,442
TOTAL              70,600,000
2.   For  the  purposes of   this  Schedule, the    term  "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower.


﻿- 13 -
3.   The  disbursement   percentages  have   been  calculated   in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, *the Borrower on goods or services or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement, or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement;
(b) expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance;
(c) expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $5,000 equivalent; and
(d) expenditures for services to be financed under Category
(3) of the table in paragraph 1 above, until the Borrower shall
have submitted a program satisfactory to the Bank indicating the
types of export promotion services which shall be carried out
under the Project.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the


﻿- 14 -
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 15 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 1
1.   The following goods imported into Zimbabwe shall not be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan:
Division
Section      Code                         Division Heading
0       00 through 09 -   Food and Live Animals Chiefly for
Food
1       11 and 12      -  Beverages and Tobacco
3       32 through 35  - Mineral Fuels, Lubricants and
Related Materials
5       54 through 57 - Medicinal and Pharmaceutical
Products (except for sub-group 541.1
through 541.6)
-  Oil and Perfume Materials
-  Fertilizers Manufactured
- Explosives and Pyrotechnic Products
7       78             - Road Vehicles (including Air
Cushion Vehicles) other than kits
and components for the assembly of
such vehicles for export
8       83 through 85 -   Travel Goods, Handbags and Similar
Containers
- Articles of Apparel and Clothing
Accessories
- Footwear
8       88 and 89      -  Photographic Apparatus, Equipment
and Supplies and Optical Goods
n.e.s., Watches and Clocks


﻿- 16 -
Division
Section      Code                         Division Heading
- Micellaneous Manufactured Articles
n.e.s. (except 892.41 - decalco-
manias)
9       91 through 97 -   Commodities and transactions not
classified elsewhere in the SITC


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the promotion of the Borrower's
manufacturing export industries through the provision of foreign
exchange for the importation into Zimbabwe of raw materials,
spare parts, components and balancing equipment essential for the
expansion of the Borrower's exports and the provision of export
promotion services, including market evaluation, advisory and
consulting services and publications.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
beginning November 15, 1988
through   November 15, 2002.                2,355,000
On May 15, 2003                                  2,305,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 19 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                            Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                           0.15
before maturity
More than three years but                           0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                             0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                          0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not                          0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before                           1.00
maturity


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
1.   Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $4,000,000 or more each, shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Part A of the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" dated March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines),
subject to the following modifications:
(a) By the deletion of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines and
the substitution therefor of the following:
"1.2 Notification and Advertising
The international community shall be notified in a
timely manner (see also para. 3.1) of the opportunity to
bid. This will be done by advertising invitations to apply
for inclusion in a bidder's invitation list, to apply for
prequalification or to bid; such advertisements should be
placed in at least one newspaper of general circulation in
the Borrower's country and, in addition, in at least one of
the following forms:
(i) a notice in the United Nations publication,
Development Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii) an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international circula-
tion; or
(iii) a notice to local representatives of countries and
territories referred to in these Guidelines, that
are potential suppliers of the goods required."
(b) By the addition at the end of paragraph 2.9 of the
Guidelines of the following:
"As an alternative, bidding documents may require the
bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
used in international trade and specified in the bidding
documents."


﻿- 21 -
(c) By the deletion of sub-paragraphs (a) and (d) of para-
graph 2.10 of the Guidelines and the substitution for sub-
paragraph (a) of the following:
"(a) Payments under the contract will be made in the
currency in which the price has been stated in the
successful bid."
(d) By the deletion of the third sub-paragraph of paragraph
3.8 of the Guidelines and the substitution therefor of the
following:
"Customs duties and import taxes should be excluded for
the purpose of comparison among bids for the supply of goods."
(e) By the deletion of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
2.   Contracts and purchase orders for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of less than $4,000,000 each shall be awarded on
the basis of the normal procurement procedures of the purchaser
of such goods.
3.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with
the analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for
award, a description of the advertising and tendering procedures
followed and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
4.   With respect to each contract or purchase order referred to
in paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect thereof, such documentation and information as the Bank
may reasonably request to support withdrawal applications in
respect of such contract or purchase order.
5.    The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of a con-
tract or the documentation received, as the case may be, was not
consistent with the provisions of this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  9       day of        198  .
FOR SECRETARY


