                                                 Documentof
                                               The World Bank


                                       FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                                  Report No. 32369-UA




    INTERNATIONALBANKFORRECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT



                                        PROGRAMDOCUMENT

                FORA PROPOSEDFIRST DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN


                              INTHE AMOUNT OFUS$251.26MILLION


                                                      TO

                                                  UKRAINE


                                                 May 31,2005




PovertyReductionandEconomicManagementDepartment
Europe and CentralAsia Region


IThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only inthe performance of
 their official duties. I t s contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

                                               UKRAINE
                                FIRSTDEVELOPMENTPOLICYLOAN


                                         CurrencyEauivalents
                                        (Exchange Rate Effective)

                                      CurrencyUnit =Hryvnia       .
                                         UAH1.00 =US$0.198
                                           US$ 1.00 =UAH5.05

                                        GovernmentFiscalYear
                                        January 1-December 31

                                         Weights andMeasures
                                              Metric System

                                     Abbreviations andAcronyms

AML/CFT Anti-Money LaunderingKombating              LDP       Letter of Development Policy
          Financing of Terrorism                    M o U     Memorandumo f Understanding
BCP     Base1Core Principles                        M O       Mutual Offsets
CoM     Cabinet of Ministers                        MEEI      MinisterofEconomy andEuropeanIntegration
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy                NBU       NationalBank of Ukraine
CFAA     Comprehensive Financial                    NBFI      Non-banking Financial Institution
        Accountability Assessment                   NCRC      National Communications Regulating
CPAR     Country Procurement Assessment                         Commission
        Report                                      NGO       Non-governmental Organization
DFID    Department For InternationalDevelopment PAG           PrivatizationAdvisory Group
DPL     DevelopmentPolicy Loan                      PAL       Programmatic Adjustment Loan
EU       EuropeanUnion                              PFU       PensionFundo f Ukraine
FSAP    Financial Sector Assessment Program         PHRD      Policy andHumanResourcesDevelopment
GDP      Gross Domestic Product                                 Fund
HBS     HouseholdBudget Survey                      SME       Small- and Medium-sized Enterprise
HJY/AIDS Human ImmunodeficiencyVirus/Acquired       SPD       Social ProtectionDepartment
          ImmuneDeficiency Syndrome                 SOE       State-owned Enterprise
I A S    InternationalAccounting Standards          SOEE      State-owned Energy Enterprises
IBRD    InternationalBank for Reconstruction        TB        Tuberculosis
        and Development                             TRIPS     Trade RelatedAspects o f IntellectualProperty
IEA     Inter-enterprise Arrears                                Rights
IFC      InternationalFinance Corporation           USAID     UnitedStates Agency for International
IFRS    InternationalFinancialReporting Standards               Development
IMF     InternationalMonetary Fund                  WTO       World Trade Organization
KRU     Department of Control and Revision          VAT       Value-added Tax




                                Country Director: Paul Benningham
                                 Sector Director: Cheryl Gray
                                 Sector Manager:  Asad Alam
                                   Team Leader:   Mark Davis

                                                                                                   FOROFFICIAL USEONLY
                                                      TABLE OFCONTENTS

     LOANAND PROGRAMSUMMARY......................................................................................
     I INTRODUCTIONANDSTRATEGICCONTEXT                                                                                                                         1
     I1 RECENTECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTSAND PROSPECTS
      ..                                                                                     ..........................................................
                                                                                                                         .................................     2
       A.                                                 ...........................................................................................
       B.     ECONOMIC        DEVELOPMENTS                                                                                                                     2
              SOCIAL DEVELOPMENTS                   ...............................................................................................           10
     I11 THE GOVERNMENT'S POLICYAGENDA:"MEETING THE PEOPLE"
        .                                                                                                                                         ...........11
        A.    SEIZING OPPORTUNITY FOLLOWING                            THEPRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS                             ............................     11
        B.    THEGOVERNMENT'S                  ACTIONPROGRAM"MEETING PEOPLE"..............................
                                                                                                  THE                                                         13
     IV WORLD BANKSUPPORT FORTHE GOVERNMENT'S STRATEGY
        .                                                                                                                                  .................16
     V THE DEVET.OPMENT POLICYLOANPROGRAM
       .                                                                                           ...................................................        17
        A.    FRAMEWORK           ................................................................................................................            17
        B.    THEFIRSTDEVELOPMENT LOAN                  POLICY                  PROGRAM(DPL-1)......................................                          18
     VI .     OPERATIONIMPLEMENTATION                                          ......................................................................         24
        A.    EXPERIENCE         FROMTHE PAST PALPROGRAM                                ..............................................................        24
        B.    LESSONS PASTADJUSTMENT OPERATIONS.........................................................
                           FROM                                                                                                                               24
        C.    IMPLEMENTATION               ARRANGEMENTS                .............................................................................          25
        D.    MONITORING EVALUATIONAND                            .................................................................................. 26
        E.    LOAN    ADMINISTRATION                 ...............................................................................................          26
        F     POVERTY AND SOCIAL IMPACTANALYSIS                                  .................................................................... 27
        G..   FIDUCIARYASPECTS                 ....................................................................................................           28
        H.    ENVIRONMENTAL               ASPECTS         ..........................................................................................          29
        I.    BENEFITS       AND RrSKS          ....................................................................................................          29
      ANNEXES      ................................................................................................................................           32
        LETTERTHE GOVERNMENT UKRAINETO THEWORLD BANKREGARDINGDEVELOPMENT
                OF                                  OF
        POLICIES .................................................................................................................................
        DEVELOPMENT        POLICY LOAN             PROGRAM: POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL REFOILMMATRIX 45                                                     .....33
        MEDIUM-TERMMACROECONOMIC                           PROSPECTS           ......................................................................          54
        REDUCINGTHE COSTS OF DOINGBUSINESSUKRAINE                         IN                   ........................................................        59
        DEEPENING FINANCIALSECTORTHROUGHIMPROVEDREGULATION ..............................
                     THE                                                                                                                                       60
        CORPORATE GOVERNANCE LARGE             OF                STATE-OWNED ENTERPRISE                          ........................................      62
        STATEMENT OF LOANS CREDITS      AND                     .....................................................................................          64
        COUNTRY AT A GLANCE                .........................................................................................................           65

         The task teamincludes: Mark Davis. RuslanPiontkivsky. Yulia Snizhko. Oleksiy Balabushko. Svetlana
         Budagovskaya. Craig Neal. Svetlana Proskurovska(ECSPE); DusanVujovic. Oksana Martsenyuk.Kukharuk.
         Marina Koreniako (ECCUA); Claudia M.Pardinas Ocana (LEGEC); Sanjay Vani. Anna Wielogorska
         (ECSPS); Andrina Ambrose (LOAG1); DejanOstojic. Yuri Miroshnichenko (ECSIE); Victoria Siryachenko.
         Angela Prighozhina. Dmytro Kryshchenko (ECSPF); HidekiMori. Katia Petrina. Olena Bekh(ECSHD).
         Aleksander Kaliberda. JulianA          .Lampietti.      Grzegorz Peszko (ECSSD); Gareth Locksley (CITPO); William
         Leslie Dorotinsky (PRMPS). Philip Schuler (PRMTR). and Sean O'Connell. Steven Weisbrod. Chuck
         Woodruf. Luis Alvaro Sanchez. Stanislav Shlapak andRostyslav Zhuk (consultants)                                      .
         Wafik Grais (FSEGP) andWolfgang Fengler (EASPR) servedas peer reviewers.

This document has a restricteddistributionand may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
                                                                         .
without World Bank authorization.


                                      UKRAINE

                        FIRST DEVELOPMENTPOLICY LOAN
                         LOANAND PROGRAMSUMMARY

Borrower:                    Ukraine

Amount:                      U S $251.26 million
Terms:                       Variable SpreadLoan(VSL) inU S Dollars under standardBank terms
Commitment Fee:              Standard Bank terms


Objectives and Description:   The proposed First Development Policy Loan (DPL-1) will support
                              priority reforms in the social and economic spheres o f the program of
                              the Government of Ukraine, "Action Plan for Meeting the People".
                              By focusing on the institutional and policy changes necessary to
                              implement these reforms, inthe context of Ukraine's European Union
                              (EU)integrationefforts, the proposed loan is designedto be a valuable
                              tool in the process o f implementing the Ukraine-EU Action Plan,
                              which was signed on February 21, 2005.             The DPL program,
                               supported by the loan, seeks to integrate government and donor
                              activities under three broad themes to improve public governance:
                               (a) investment climate, (b) public administration and public finance
                              management, and (c) social inclusion.
                              The programbuildson anumber of accomplishments supported under
                               the Second Programmatic Adjustment Loan (PAL-2), which i s being
                               concluded in parallel with this loan. These include: elimination of
                              pension, wage and most other budget arrears, reduction o f tax arrears
                               and tax exemptions, improved business accounting standards and
                               practices, landreform, pension reform, establishment of a legal system
                               for mortgage and secured interest, better regulation of banks and other
                               financial institutions, and material progress towards World Trade
                               Organization (WTO) accession.
                               DPL-1 underscores accomplishments made by the Ukrainian
                               authorities duringthe first 100 days ingovemment. The loan program
                               provides a focused framework o f planned steps and outcomes which
                               will improve the economy and reduce poverty, while signaling the
                               Govemment's market friendly intensions. The loan will also provide
                               low cost extemal financing to facilitate the reforms planned. The loan
                               represents timely Bank support to Ukraine, including assistance to the
                               Government in coordinating the variety o f donors that are active in
                               Ukraine, especially inthe context o f the EU-Ukraine Action Plan.
                               Progress under the loan would set the stage for a future program of
                               DPL's which would demark Ukraine's subsequent progress in the
                               three thematic areas outlined above. DPL-1 proceeds will, among
                               other things, help the authorities meet the conditions o f the Acquis
                               Communautaire, thus preparing Ukraine for closer integration with
                               Europe.

                11
                * .




  The DPL program focuses on broad-based improvement of public
  governance, supporting and acknowledging the Government program
  inthe following areas:
  Improved investment climate: The Government's program to
  improve the investment climate is designed to attract investment,
  create jobs and provide an environment for new market entry and
  competition. The programreduces special privileges and opportunities
  o f state capture. It stresses the importance o f an efficient, just and fair
  court system. It envisages independence and accountability of special
  regulatory bodies (e.g., for energy), installation of modem tax
  collection procedures, reform o f the legal framework for corporate
  governance and better regulation of financial markets. The program
  puts emphasis on "radical simplification of the procedure of
  commencing entrepreneurial activity".            Early accomplishments
  include: (a) elimination of remaining privileged power tariffs for
  industrial consumers, (b) initiation of a program to de-shadow and
  deregulate customs clearance, (c) launching of a broad effort to
  deregulate the economy and reduce costs of doing business,
  (d) significant reductions in import tariffs; and (e) establishment of a
  communications sector regulator.

  Improvedpublic administration and public finance management:
  The Government's          program calls for       a broad overhaul o f
  administrative organization consistent with EU standards. It focuses
  on better public finance management during the process of budget
  formulation and execution, at both the state and local levels. This
  effort i s to be complimented by giving more attention to civil society
  outreach and monitoring. The Program would also establish more
  transparency and competition in the state sale of property, while
  improving the system of state corporate management.                    Some
  noteworthy steps already taken by the Government inthis direction are
  as follows: (a) integration of the State Treasury as a structural unit of
  the Ministry of Finance, (b) provision of dotted line authority o f the
  Ministryof Finance to coordinate tax administration and customs, (c)
  elimination of most remaining tax exemptions and privileges; and
  (d) tighteningofdividendpolicies for state owned enterprises.

  Social inclusion:The program calls for expanding access and quality
  o f education and healthcare for all Ukrainians, while improving
  efficiency and better targeted social safety nets.         As part o f this
  process, it focuses on improvements in an increasingly decentralized

, system o f local government finance, along with steps to encourage
  accountability of local govemment bodies, including through the
  efforts o f civil society groups. Recognizing Ukraine's comparative
  advantage inagriculture, and the fact that rural landholders are among
  Ukraine's poorest social groups, the program makes a special effort to
  complete land reform and encourage the development of a market for
  land and agricultural finance. Early steps already taken on these issues
  include the following: (a) increased social support to families with
  many children; (b) curtailment o f local capital outlays from the state
  budget that were previously assigned non-transparently;                   and

                           ...
                           111



             (c) initiation o f an information campaign to inform farmers about their
             rights and opportunities as landholders.
Benefits:    Helping the Government achieve priorities
             Endorsement of sound policy. Notwithstanding the many problems
             of the previous administrations, significant economic progress was
             made (inpart supported by the Bank's PALS). This noticeably raised
             the economic profile o f Ukraine and its investment attractiveness. The
             new Government's program seeks to substantially extend these
             successes ina wide range o f areas. The proposed DPL-1 would signal
             international support for the authorities' program. In turn, in addition
             to providing low cost finance to Ukraine, this would helpto strengthen
             the political imperative for delivery of the reform agenda, as well as to
             mobilize additional international support for the reforms.
             Vehicle for policy dialog. The DPL program provides a framework
             for the Bank's timely and deep engagement with the Government on
             its core economic and social priorities. This engagement and the DPL
             themes, provide a framework to integrate the Bank's policy dialog,
             technical assistance, economic and sector work, and investment
             operations inthe context o f the CAS Progress Report. It also provides
             a good platform for donor coordination of the government program
             and the EUintegration strategy.
Risks:       Political.     Political momentum following the 2004 presidential
             election has enabled the administration to act with a decisive mandate.
             However, the Verkhovna Rada (Ukraine's parliament) lacks a stable
             majority.     In addition, key economic regions are dominated by
             opposition parties.        These political factors may hinder timely
             formalization and implementation o f nationwide reforms.
             Economic.       Despite public commitments to fiscal discipline, the
             Government has laid out an ambitious social protection agenda, which
             i s in part reflected by Budget 2005. The Government expects (and to
             date has obtained) substantial jumps in revenues from improved
             management of customs and tax administration (a forecasted 3.6%
             percent o f GDP increase o f state budget revenues over actual outturns
             for 2004). The parliamentary elections scheduled for March 2006 also
             heightentensions regarding formulation of Budget 2006. Fiscal risks
             threaten to exacerbate existent inflationary pressures which began to
             buildduring2004 as a result of rapidand unsterilizedaccumulation of
             net international reserves under the de facto peg to the U.S. dollar,
             recent upwardpressure on world commodity prices, emerging capacity
             bottlenecks after four years of rapid economic growth, and a spike in
             public outlays in the lead up to presidential elections at the end of
             2004.
             DPL's design mitigates these risks. The loan ismade on the basis of
              accomplishments.        Future DPLs would be prepared based on an
              evaluation o f progress achieved under the current program.
              Engagement now will improve the Bank's capacity to help the
              authorities make appropriate policy decisions, increasingly so if the
              program i s successful. Ukraine has a low debt exposure and the

                                       iv


                          financial sector has deepened significantly since 2000. The content o f
                          the program creates the basis for sustained and diversified growth over
                          the medium term. More broadly-based and socially inclusive growth
                          should help to dampen the political costs o f reform while reducing
                          social and regional imbalances.

Disbursements Schedule:   US$250,003,700 upon loan effectiveness.

Poverty Category:         Poverty-Focused Operation,

Rate of Return:           Not Applicable.

Project IDNumber:         UA-PE-PO793 16.

                       I.INTRODUCTIONANDSTRATEGICCONTEXT



1.      The proposed First Development Policy Loan @PL-1) for Ukraine is being prepared at a
critical time in Ukraine's history. On January 23, 2005, Mr. Viktor Yushchenko, former Prime
Minister and Governor o f the National Bank o f Ukraine (NBU), was inaugurated President following
Ukraine's presidential elections. One o f President Yushchenko's first actions was to signal Ukraine's
desire for closer ties with Europe, especially with regards to EU Integration. As one o f Europe's largest
countries, Ukraine has much to offer as a strong and stablepresence.

2.       President Yushchenko moved quickly to articulate policy goals. In a January 28 address to
the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, Mr. Yushchenko presented a vision of a modem
Ukraine working toward EU integration from a position o f growing economic strength. This would be
based, among other things, on a broadened tax base, improved governance, a healthy investment
environment, and lower regulatory burden. The President also highlighted near term goals for accelerated
WTO membership and "market economy status". Subsequently, an EUAction Plan was negotiated and
signed by the EUCommission and Ukraine.

3.       The UkrainianGovernment is implementingits "ActionProgramfor Meetingthe People".
Prime MinisterTymoshenko was confirmed by the Verkhovna Rada on February 4,2005, inconjunction
with approval by the Rada o f the govemment program - "Meeting the People".               The Government
Program calls for a strengthening of the rights o f individuals, accelerating poverty reduction, a
comprehensive fight against corruption and implementation of the Ukraine-EU Action Plan.              The
Verkhovna Rada's approval of the program provides the Government with a one year mandate for its
implementation.

4.       The Government and the President have movedrapidly in a number of areas. Capitalizing
on political momentum, the authorities have, among other actions, (a) integrated the State Treasury into
the Ministry of Finance, (b) subordinated tax and customs administrations to the Ministry o f Finance; (c)
established a telecommunications regulator, (d) eliminatedremainingprivileged power tariffs of industrial
users, (e) eliminated most remaining tax exemptions and privileges; (f) significantly reduced import
tariffs and decreed a program "Contraband STOP" for rapid de-shadowization o f trade and customs
activity, (g) tightened accountability for management, tax and dividend policies o f large state owned
enterprises; (h) adopted a concept for public internal financial audit and control inline with EUstandards;
(i) increased social support to large families, young mothers and infants, and 0) launched an information
campaign to inform farmers about their rights and opportunities as landholders.

5.       Continued strong, broadly shared, and stable economic growth depends in large part on
continued and palpable improvements inthe investment climate, better public administration and
public finance management. In this context, momentum for reform can be strengthened by social
programs aimed at protecting the poor while helping rural and middle class citizens take part ineconomic
development. The Government has requested a development policy loan in support o f these priority
areas. The request includes assistance in change management through which the Government Program
can achieve these objectives within the framework the Ukraine-EU Action plan, within which the
Government and EU have already agreed on first year priorities. The Government has asked for the
Bank's help incoordinating donors inthis effort.

                                                    2


6.       The proposed DPL-1 is envisaged as a single-tranche loan in the amount of US$251.26
million in support of the economic and social priorities of the Government Program. The loan will
support better public governance by implementing policy and institutional reforms across three
overlapping areas: (a) improving the investment climate, (b) better public administration and public
finance management, and (c) broadening of social inclusion. The DPL program and supporting donor
assistance would complement the Bank's own policy dialog, technical assistance, economic and sector
work, and investment operations in the context o f the CAS Progress Report. A rapid response to the
Government's request would help ensure the Bank's place as a trusted and timely partner in the reform
process. The proposed DPL-1 underscores the reform actions taken to date, and outlines policy and
institutional changes which can lead to palpably better economic and social outcomes over a three year
period. It will help to ensure adequate financing for reforms in 2005, and create the track record
necessaryto enhance support for future reforms.

7.       The Government has also requested the second tranche of PAL-2. The new Government has
completed all outstanding benchmarks for PAL-2 second tranche release, with the exception o f the
passage of a comprehensive energy sector debt restructuring law and the launch of a privatization tender
for a group o f power companies. The Government has confirmed that it i s committed to continuing
energy sector reforms, but questions the timingand design o f the proposed debt restructuringlaw which is
a pre-requisite for further power company privatization. Inthe context o f significant achievements of the
PAL-2 program, and markedly better relatedoutcomes, it has been agreed with the Government to seek a
waiver o f those conditions, and proceed with the PAL-2 second tranche of US$172.5 million, with the
energy sector objectives of PAL-2 shifted to the program supported by the DPL.


              11. RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTSAND PROSPECTS

A. EconomicDevelopments

8.       The Ukrainian economy has performed well, though macroeconomic imbalances re-
emerged during 2004. Economic activity and exports have surged under a system of better financial
discipline and a cheap exchange rate policy in the years since the 1998 financial crisis. More recently,
Ukraine has benefited from a strengthening terms of trade. Over the past few years, it has enjoyed a
substantial current account surplus and has consequently accumulated a large pool of international
reserves. Under these favorable circumstances, households and businesses have gained confidence inthe
domestic currency and the banking system, resulting in a dramatic monetization of the economy.
However, election relatedmeasures in2004, and a modest policy response to the surging current account
receipts, have led to the growth o f fiscal and monetary imbalances. The new Government has already
initiated measures to address these problems, and has indicated that it will continue to take measures
necessary to address short term pressures while putting in place a program to address the underlying
imbalances.

EconomicProgresssince the FinancialCrisis

9.       Ukraine's growth performance has been strong. GDP growth totaled 50 percent for the period
1999 through 2004. At 12.1 percent in2004, Ukraine's growth was the highest inEurope. While growth
has been increasingly broad-based, industry has played the leading role    - during 1999-2004, industrial
production grew by 87 percent. Improved financial discipline, substantial real depreciation of the hryvnia
to western currencies in 1998-99, more prudent fiscal and monetary policies that followed the real
depreciation, and improvement o f the business climate, have all contributed to igniting Ukraine's
economic growth after the 1998 regional financial crisis.         Agriculture, agro-processing, chemical
manufacturingand retail trade were early growth leaders. As large, often state-owned, firms started to act
more like normal profit-seelung enterprises, management was improved, investments were made, and

                                                    3


unused capacity was utilized to dramatically increase production in some sectors, particularly metals
production. This then helped spur a rebound of small manufacturing and machine building. Inmetals,
when volumes leveled out about mid-year 2003, Ukraine's exporters were helped dramatically by rapidly
rising metal and ore prices. This combined with a weak real exchange rate and strong regional growth
trends contributed to large trade surpluses. Table 1below displays recent key macroeconomic indicators.

                          Table 1:Main Macroeconomic Indicators, 1999-2004

                                                     1999    2000     2001    2002     2003    2004
     Real GDP (change inpercent)                      -0.2     5.9      9.2      5.2     9.6    12.1
     Real Industrial Production (change in
     percent)                                            4    13.2     14.2        7   15.8     12.5

     CPI, a.0.p. (change inpercent)                  22.7    28.2        12      0.8     5.2        9
     CPI, e.0.p. (change inpercent)                  19.2    25.8       6.1    -0.6      8.2    12.3
     Real Exchange Rate, a.0.p. (change in
     percent, a decline means depreciation)           -2.7    -6.3      0.4    -5.2     -8.9     -5.7

     Current Account Balance (percent o f GDP)         5.4     4.6       3.7     7.5     5.8     10.5
     ForeignExchange Reserves(USDbillions)             1.1     1.5       3.1     4.4     6.9      9.5
     Fiscal Balance (percent of GDP)                  -2.4    -1.3      -1.6     0.5    -0.9     -4.4
     PPGDebt and Arrears (percent of GDP)            66.7       47     38.6    35.7    30.0     25.1

     Memo:
     Nominal GDP (inbillions of USD)                 31.6     31.3       38    42.4    49.5       65
     GNIper capita (USD, Atlas method)                760      690      720     780      970   1,260
     Source: SSC, NBU,IMF, WB

10.     The external position of Ukraine has been very strong. During the last 5 years, Ukraine's
current account surplus (CA) has grown, and the National Bank o f Ukraine (NBU) has accumulated
substantial foreign exchange reserves. Strong demand and improvements in the terms o f trade- in
particular, from the high world prices for steel-- resulted in a record USD 6.8 billion (10.5 percent o f
GDP) current account surplus in2004. Until very recently, the NBUhas continued its defacto fix of the
exchange rate against the U S dollar at around 5.3 UAHAJSD. In 2003-2004, the hryvnia depreciated in
real terms due to higher inflation in Russia, and Euro appreciation in international markets. Current
account surpluses, increased foreign direct investment, and borrowings on international capital markets,
led to further accumulation of international reserves by the NBU, which by the end of 2004 exceeded
USD9.5 billion, equivalent to 4 months of merchandise imports despite substantial reserve losses during
the tumultuous presidentialelections.

11.     International economic perceptions of Ukraine have improved and financial markets have
deepened. From 2000 to 2004, Moody's steadily upgraded Ukraine's Sovereign Domestic currency
rating from Caa3 to B1. Eurobond spreads are now comparable to Russia's at around 237 basis points
above LIBOR as of April 2005. Over the past year, Standard and Poor's has consistently rankedUkraine-
focused emerging market funds inthe top quartile of performance. Total banking sector assets have more
than doubled since 2002, from 28 percent to almost 40 percent o f GDP. Although such rapid banking
sector expansion posesrisks, the evidence thus far suggests that it has not been associated with any major

                                                         4


deterioration inthe mainprudential ratios, and confidence inthe National Bank of Ukraine remains high'.
Financial deepening and increased banking sector competition have resulted in increased lending and
more focus on lowering interest costs for borrowers, includingthrough reducedadministrative costs.

12.       The public debt to GDP ratio has declined. Primary surpluses of 0-2 percent of GDP during
1999-2003, and some debt restructuring in the wake of the 1998 crisis, reducedthe public and publicly
guaranteed (PPG) debt ratio (incl. IMF credit) from 67 percent of GDP in 1999 to 30 percent of GDP in
2003. Despite an increase in the budget deficit, the debt ratio further declined to 25 percent of GDP in
2004.

ExternalandInternalImbalancesbeganto emergein2004

13.       Despite the evident improvements on many economic indicators, a number of economic
imbalances beganto appear inthe second half of 2004:
0 Domestic inflationary pressures, while declining over 2000-03, increased since 2004. This is
largely the result of monetary expansion driven by large foreign exchange inflows combined with pro-
cyclical fiscal expansion. To keep the exchange rate fixed against the dollar, and inthe absence of tools
for sterilization, the NBUaccumulated intemational reservesby printing hryvnia, but left these purchases
largely un-sterilized. As a result, the money supply has increased by an average o f 42 percent per year
between 2000 and 2004. Since this was accompanied by a rapid increase in money demand, as the
citizen's confidence in the hryvnia increased, inflation was held in check. By mid-year 2004, however,
inflationary pressures again started to build, partly due to pass-through o f intemational commodity price
dynamics, reflected in particular by the fuel price hikes in May 2004, and emerging bottlenecks in the
rapidly growing economy. Then, fiscal policy turnedhighly expansionary duringthe presidentialelection
campaign. After the tumultuous presidential election, portfolio investors' interest has been strong and
capital inflows have been buoyant adding to loose monetary conditions since only parts o f these inflows
are beingsterilized.

0 Inter-generational tensions fueled the increase in inflation. The older generation has found it
difficult to adjust to the market economy, and they have lost many o f the social benefitsthat they enjoined
in the Soviet era. In the closely fought presidential election in 2004, this inter-generational tension
became a political issue with the incumbent government promising a large increase in pensions. In
September 2004, the government increased pensions by 70 percent on average, adding about 3 percent o f
GDP to recurrent spending, and bringing the minimum pension level to US$ 66 per month. This
redistribution of resources toward consumption reduced the rate of growth inmoney demand, and with it
the ability of the economy to absorb increases inthe money supply with moderate inflation. As a result,
consumer inflation for 2004 exceeded 12percent, while the producer price indexgrew by 24 percent.
@ The transition from an insider economy to greater openness and transparency affects economic
development. Strong economic growth inUkraine inrecent years was due to a combination o f structural
changes (such as financial discipline, management improvement, utilization of excess capacity) and
extemal factors (in particular, commodity price increases in the goods Ukraine exports, and strong
regional growth). The past few years have seen a domination of production and wealth generation by a
few influential financial industrial groups that have thrived in a nontransparent business climate. While
export driven growth has been spurred by favorable extemal conditions, more extensive domination by a
few financial-industrial groups could threaten medium-term sustainability Ukraine's exports are largely
                                                                                  .
concentrated within by a few product groups, there i s little two-way trade withinproduct groups, and the

'Thisconfidence    has been enhanced by the strong foreign reserve positiono fthe central bank that has resulted from
the current account surplus. These reserves, inturn, have providedassurancethat deposits will be convertible inthe
event o f a systemic threat o f crisis.

                                                        5


.level of processing of export goods is low. Much economic activity functions on the basis of informal
 relations, special privileges, and a handful of dominant politicized business groups which present
 obstacles to fair competition, business entry, access to foreign markets, and the realization o f true
 comparative advantage. The insider economy has discouraged foreign direct investment as well as
 foreign equity participation in Ukrainian enterprises. Ukraine may not fair nearly as well in a buyer's
 market for the goods it exports, particularly metals. Inorder to sustain a strong growth dynamic, Ukraine
 needs to diversify its economy and trade through creation of a better investment climate. As part of this,
 it will be importantto reduce barriers to entry, attract investment, improve technologicalandmanagement
 capacity, increase the quality and level of goods processing, and increasingly establish new trading
 partners.

 0 Regional imbalances have developed and are reflected in an East West divide. According to
                                                                               -
 household survey evidence, the West o f Ukraine showed slower growth and higher levels o f poverty than
 Eastern Ukraine - although pockets of poverty exist throughout Ukraine. Resource rich Eastern regions
 experienced wealth generation from a depreciating exchange rate, the export boom, and limited
 competition in its main exporting sectors. However, Westem parts o f the country didnot benefit equally
 from these dynamics, as it has a different base of natural resources. The murky business climate that
 benefited large industrial developers in the East, also kept out foreign investment in the West. All o f
 Ukraine needs foreign investment to help it benefit from its resources and comparative advantages (e.g.,
 labor, location and raw materials).

 14.      All these tensions came to a head in the political crisis in October through December 2004,
 testing the resilience of the financial system and economic institutions. Leading up to the elections, it
 was clear that Ukraine could easily face instability, and as a result there was growing uncertainty on the
 part o f depositors and hryvnia holders. The situation worsened in late-November, when a top official
 stated that the financial system would collapse ina matter of days. With real threat o f physical conflict
 and even secession o f some oblasts, the uncertainty boiled over in December, and depositors began
 withdrawing funds andor converting them to dollars and euros at a rapid pace. The street exchange rate
 dropped to 5.5 - 6.5 hryvnia per U S dollar in comparison to the official rate o f 5.3. Still, commercial
 banks stayed open and served depositors (though some lines were reported at some banks). ATM
 machines were reprogrammed to provide only small withdrawals, but for the most part they remained
 accessible.

  15.     The NBU, in close coordination with the Government, took decisive action to stabilize the
 financial sector. Given the strong economic fundamentals, a combination of market and administrative
 measureshelpedavoid a financial crisis. The NBUactedby providing about 3 billionUSD of liquidityto
 the banking sector throughreserve transactions from October through December 2004. AnNBUCouncil
 Resolution o f November 30th, (a) froze commercial bank's lending activities at their level on that date,
 (b) broadened the menu o f assets eligible as collateral for NBUrefinancing, (c) recommended banks to
 stop payments on term deposits withdrawals before maturity; and (d) introduced cash withdrawal limits
 for hryvnia and U S dollarsa2 On December 2nd, the NBU established easier terms for bank access to
 NBU stabilization loans and reduced the minimum requirements for obligatory reserves. While these
 decisions carried the risk o f creating an adverse reaction on the part of depositors, such as the one that
 contributed to the Argentina crisis, the medium-term economic fundamentals remained in support of a
  strengthening of the hryvnia. Indeed, the situation inthe banking sector stabilized as soon as the political
 crisis had been resolved, as evidenced by the rapid recovery o f central bank reserves, a fundamentally
  strong exchangerate, low real interest rates, and more than adequate inter-bank liquidity.


    More specifically: UAH 1,500 for daily cash withdrawal via ATMs andUAH80,000 monthly cash withdrawal by
  corporations(excluding salary and socialpayments; $1000daily cashwithdrawal for householdsandUS$SO,OOO
  corporatewithdrawal).

                                                      6


Economic Risks

16.      Although significant progress has been achieved in implementing the core reform agenda,
Ukraine's economic reform program still entails significant risks:
0 Monetary Policy Risk: Excessive monetary growth in the context of an undervalued pegged
exchange rate and large terms of trade gains are accentuating inflationary pressures.            In current
circumstances, this can be redressed only through an appreciation of the real exchange rate (i.e., through
inflation andor a nominal revaluation). The Government has moved in recent days to allow some
appreciation o f the nominal exchange rate. This policy change needs to be sustained and consistent with
an appropriate monetary and fiscal policy mix moving forward.

0 Risk of consumption-oriented fiscal policy:           The fiscal imbalances are largely driven by large
pensions and public servant wage increases. A continuation of large fiscal imbalances, would likely lead
to higher interest rates and inflation, and the crowding out of private investment. The Government
recognizes that restoration o f fiscal balance requires expenditure restraint. The policy measures so
adopted need to be consistent with the medium-term growth incentives that are being promoted by the
Government's economic program, such as further measures to lower tax rates and increase the tax base,
while increasingthe share o f expenditures allocated to public investment.

0 FinancialSystemRisk Thebankingsystemhasbeenableto withstandthe threat ofcrisis inlarge
part due to the strong reserve position of the central bank, and defacto regulation by banks, of each other,
through differentiated interest rates between banks on the inter-bank market. Systemic risk has also been
contained by the fact that large deposit banks have tended to act more prudentially than the smaller banks,
as well as by the fact that the state share of the banking sector has fallen from about 12.1 percent in 2002
to 7.8 percent today. Still, if external shocks, or a fast deterioration of the macroeconomic imbalances,
results in a rapid decline inthe current account surplus, the reserve position might weaken, which in turn
would weaken confidence inthe banking system. In such a case, threat o f accelerated capital flight is a
risk. Furthermore, the bankingsector isnottransparent, information about the quality ofloanportfoliosis
lacking, reported levels of capitalization are spurious, and under existinglegislation, the NBUhas limited
ability to perform its regulatory duties. Without better bank regulation, unforeseen risks may emerge,
especially ifthe real economy falters.

0 Risks of external shock: Despite genuine progress in economic transition and institutional
development, the rapid pace of growth is still supported by external factors that are either temporary or
inherently unpredictable. This includes a still exceptionally weak national currency, an undiversified
export sector, and the strong world prices for them, most notably of iron and steel. As these conditions
change, the challenges to economic policy will become greater, and the continuation o f the strong
favorable trends will be possible only through improvements in the overall climate in Ukraine for
business, investment,and fair competition.

0 Coherent macro strategy andcoordination: Fiscalandmonetary policycoordinationbetween the
Government and the Central Bank remains a challenge. Some o f the actions of the new Government,
such as attempts to fight inflation by administrative measures through regulations on meat and fuel
markets, and contradictory policy statements in public by top officials-reflect           inadequate policy
coordination. While these actions may reflect learning by doing and adjustment to new roles, unless
domestic policies are further adjusted and policy coordination i s strengthened, there i s a serious risk o f
macroeconomic instabilitygoing forward which would undermine investor confidence.

The Authorities' Response to Date to Potential Economic Risks

17.      While Government's medium-term agenda still needs to be more fully articulated, the new
Government's active recognition of, and response to the economic risks it inherited, and the well-

                                                      7


establishedtrack record of strong economic growth and stable macroeconomicindicatorsover the
recent past, indicate that the macro policy framework is adequate for the DPL to proceed. The
sustainability o f the measures to strengthen the macro framework will become clear only over time. To
date, growth continues to be strong, debt i s low and falling, and foreign reserves are at record levels. The
Govemment has targeted a halving of the inherited budget deficit as a proportion of GDP. Fiscal
performance through the first four months o f 2005 i s already ahead o f ambitious targets. The authorities
have introduced measures to combat inflation, liberalize the exchange rate, and strengthen overall
macroeconomic management. These policy actions, along with the Government's readiness to take
further and appropriate action as needed, suggests that the economy will likely move towards a more
sustainable outcome. The DPL will buildonthis and help further improve macroeconomic management.

18.     As a priority measure, the new Administration has revised the 2005 Budget through
parliamentary approval on March 25, 2005, and reduced the targeted consolidated deficit to 2.2
percent of GDP. While President Yushchenko has made it clear that the new administration would keep
the social promises legislated late last year, the Government has responded to the fiscal gap by enhancing
revenue measures and containing expenditure growth. Revenue measures include: (a) eliminating most
tax exemptions, (b) increasing excise taxes for fuel and alcohol, (c) charging higher rents for extractive
industries, (d) significantly lowering import some tariffs, and (f) seeking to improve SOE management
through profit incentives and associatedhigher profit transfers to the budget. There i s also a broad effort
to transfer shadow economic activity to the formal economy through better leadership and reduced
corruption, especially within revenue authorities. On expenditures, the Govemment has taken early steps
toward addressing the pensionproblem, including rebasing privileged pensions on their real levels at the
time of the 2003 pension reform, and indexing pensions only to CPI (not to CPI plus 20 percent o f the
nominal averagewage increase inthe economy).

19.     Early indicationsare positivein terms of tax revenue collections. Inthe first quarter of 2005,
the revenues of consolidated (state and all local) budget grew, inreal terms, by 28 percent year-on-year,
especially from increased VAT (up by 51 percent year-on-year) and the corporate profit tax (up by 34
percent year-on-year).    However, the high net VAT collections data overstates progress; gross VAT
collections were up by 28 percent only in real terms, while VAT refunds declined by 14 percent. The
STA insists that reductions in VAT refunds are due to technical and legal reasons, and the problem will
be addressed. The still substantial revenue increases may reflect a permanent reduction of the shadow
economy, particularly through changes inthe management o f Customs and the State Tax Administration,
or it may reflect a more temporary, risk averse behavior of tax inspectors, customs officials and
entrepreneurs, which will not be preservedwithout improvedtechnical administration to permanently stop
corruption.

20.     In responseto inflationary pressures, the Authorities have startedto re-align the exchange
rate. On April 20, the NBUslowed its purchases o f the net inflow o f dollars, allowing a one-off shift of
the de facto peg to 5.05 hryvnia per U S dollar. This moderate exchange rate realignment has helped
establish the basis to move toward a floating rate inthe context of the plan to move to inflationtargeting.
The exchange rate realignment will help to reduce inflationary pressures through a number of channels:
lowering prices of imported goods, reducing the current account surplus, and lowering the relative value
inhryvniaofnetinflows of foreign exchange. These factors willhelpreducemoney supply growth while
reducing opportunities for currency speculation.

21.      Policy coordination is improving. The Prime Minister has explained benefits of the NBU's
stance on revaluating the exchange rate, while noting the independence of the MU. At parliamentary
hearings after the exchangerate realignment, the Minister o f Finance supported the move by the MU. In
April, the Ministerof Finance managed to reduce the costs of debt service andhelpedthe NBUto sterilize
the money supply through buy-back o f the government debt held by the NBU. The Letter of

                                                       8


Development Policy (LDP) recognizes the importance of macroeconomic stability (see Annex 1). It
expresses the aim to strengthen the macroeconomic policy framework through adjustment of monetary
and exchange rate policies, impose more stringent budget restraints on consumption expenditures -
especially unsustainable recurrent transfers, eliminate uncertainty and excessive complexity in the tax
system, and adopt clearer principles of government borrowing. The Government has indicatedthat it will
take necessarycorrective actions ifmacroeconomic stability i s threatened.

22.     The strengthened macroeconomic management is reflected in market optimism. The
Ukrainian government has recently issued hryvnia-denominated Treasury bills with a maturity of one-
year, yielding 4.5 percent. This represents a dramatic decline from T-bill rates one year ago, which
exceeded 10 percent. The improved climate for government paper can be attributed to optimism for
current and future economic prospects as well as perceptions of a substantial undervaluation of the
currency. In May, Standard and Poor also upgraded Ukraine's sovereign credit rating from BB- to B+
reflecting, ingood part, the improvements ineconomic management.

23.     The authorities have indicated a willingness to engage with the IMF. The 12-month
precautionary stand-by arrangement between the IMF and Ukraine expired inMarch 2005. A review of
precautionary stand-by was not completed. Inparticular, the IMF noted pro-cyclical amendments to the
2004 budget and weak legislation on connected lending in the banking sector. The Authorities have
signaled general interest ina successorprecautionary arrangement, but have not yet indicated a timeframe
for discussion.

Medium-Term Macroeconomic Prospects

24.     Under the Government reform program, Bank Staff expect continued strong economic
performance. While growth is expected to level off at an average of 5.5 percent per year inthe medium-
term, qualitative improvements flowing from an improved investment climate are expected to make it
more diversified andresilient to shocks.

25.     The authorities are expected to gradually increase their focus on fighting inflation. The
current account surplus is expected to decrease due to world economic developments and a relative
deterioration of Ukraine's terms o f trade, combined with increased imports o f goods and services
associated with investment and more disposable income. Over time, this should reduce the need to
monetize net foreign currency inflows. Nevertheless, inflationary pressure will remain, especially if
attempts are made to further increase social transfers and public salaries in the lead up to the 2006
parliamentary elections. The NBUi s expected to move gradually to a system of inflationtargeting, while
fiscal policy i s not projected to significantly tighten, at least until mid-year 2006, but with much higher
probability by 2007.

26.     Bank Staff estimate that without additional measures, the implicit deficit of the general
budgetin2005 will morerealisticallybe3.5 to 4.5 percent of GDP (the point estimateis 3.8 percent
of GDP). Ifrevenue projections prove too optimistic, Ukraine is ina position this year to raise sufficient
additional domestic andor international finance, without significantly crowding out the private sector, or
threatening debt sustainability.      The medium-term projections are based on the following key
assumptions:

    0   The fiscal deficit will follow a declining path. Automatic stabilizers and intra-year adjustments -
        should they become more pressing, are expected to preserve sufficient fiscal prudence.

                                                 9


   0   The Govemment will be adjusting expenditures (as a ratio to GDP) through a government
       consumption ratio which does not increase relative to 2005, while decreasing the pensionbill by
       one percent of GDP per year in2006 and 2007.

   0   Combined with a gradual tighteningof fiscal policy, monetary policy will be used to assure that
       CPI inflation does not exceed 15% on a year on year basis, and with a goal to bring growth of the
       GDP deflator to single digits.

27.    The mainparameters of the macroeconomicforecasts under the DPL program are provided
in Table 2. Annex 3 provides more detail about projected macroeconomic developments over the
medium term.

               Table 2. Ukraine: Main Economic Indicators, Projectionsfor 2005-2008
                                                2005           2006          2007          2008
                   Real GrowthRate
    GDP                                         7.0%           6.0%          5.5%          5.5%
    Private Consumption                         9.4%           9.0%          5.9%          4.3%
    GDP deflator                                16.5%         10.1%          7.1%          5.5%
    Exports (GNFS)                               5.8%          4.6%          5.0%          6.1%
    Imports (GNFS)                              11.6%         10.0%          8.3%          5.6%
                        As % GDP
    Resource Balance                             3.5%          0.0%         -1.9%         -2.4%
    Current Account                              5.4%          1.9%          0.1%         -0.6%

    Domestic Savings                            21.8%         19.2%         18.7%         18.7%
    FixedInvestment                             18.9%         19.2%         20.5%         21.1%
      olw: Public                                1.1%          1.7%          2.1%          2.3%

     GovernmentRevenue                          38.0%         37.6%         37.0%         36.8%
      olw:Tax Revenue                           30.8%         30.8%         30.2%         30.2%
     GovernmentExpenditure                      41.8%         40.9%         39.8%         39.2%
     Fiscal Balance                             -3.8%         -3.3%          -2.7%         -2.3%

                                                     10




             B. SocialDevelopments

28.      High growth enabled Ukraine to lower poverty incidence, which declined from above 30
percent in 1999-2001 to 19 percent in 2003 and is expected to fall further in 2004 and 2005 (see
Figure 2). The reductionofpoverty hasbeen faster inUkraine than insome of the neighboringcountries.
In 1999, Ukraine had a poverty incidence higher than Poland, Russia, Lithuania, and Bulgaria. By 2003
poverty was the lowest among these countries. The improvement inlabor markets has been accompanied
by     impressive     productivity    gains.
Importantly, this has driven wage gains,                                  Figure 2
but it also contributes to increasedincome
disparity as low skilled workers are                              Ukraine Poverty Incidence
                                                          (percent o f population under the poverty line)
relatively   worse    off.     The   overall
improvement i s also tempered by an              40% 7

increasing poverty gap between rural and         35%
urban households, reflecting fast but
unbalanced economic growth.           Large      30%

cities have benefited from rapid industrial      25%
growth, coupled with increased activities
in construction and services, while rural        20%

areas    have     struggled    with   major      15%
restructuring in the agriculture industry.
These developments have also contributed         10%
to relatively lower poverty in the more                  1999         2000        2001        2002       2003
dynamic economies of the urban and                  --c Largecities + Smalltowns + Ruralarea
industrial Eastern region, than in the more     burce: WB estimates, Ukraine HBS
rural and agricultural Western regions.

29.      The profile of the poor inUkraine has changed dramatically since 1999. In 1999, about 36
percent of the poor lived in large cities, 35 percent in rural areas, and just less then 30 percent in small
towns. However, by 2003 almost half of the poor lived in rural areas, and still roughly 30 percent in
small towns. Reflecting their rural characteristics, the poor tend have larger families. Households with 4
or more children represent 20 percent o f families inUkraine, but 40 percent of poor families. Forty-two
percent o f the poor are children.

30.      Poverty, regional and social gaps have widened as market forces benefit some while others
are disadvantaged. Urban residents in Ukraine enjoy a greater degree of social inclusion than rural
residents. Rural areas have higher poverty incidence and less access to quality education and health care
services. Some programs, like utility subsidies, have built-inbias in favor o f urban residents. Resulting
pressures can have long run adverse consequences for the national economy, and risk creating inter-
generational cycles of poverty.

31.      Increasingly, social exclusion issues are related to decentralization. The education budget in
Ukraine, for example, i s largely determined by the number o f students, whereas actual expenditure
requirements are a function o f the number o f teachers. Inrural areas, the number o f students is declining
relatively sharply but the decline in the number o f teachers i s gradual. As a result, budgets for teaching
materials have been squeezedand education quality has suffered. Inhealth, public expenditures per capita

                                                    11


are lower inrural areas, since allocations to regions and providers of services are generally based on beds
and numbers of staff. The use o f input criteria has created incentives to overspend on beds and salaries
relative to equipment, supplies and pharmaceuticals.         Education and health systems need to be
transformed inthe context of a stable andworking systemof local government finance and accountability,
inwhich incentives arealignedwith delivery ofbetter services.


       111.THE GOVERNMENT'S POLICYAGENDA: "MEETINGTHE PEOPLE"

32.     Strong economic performance has enabled the Government to broaden focus from macro
stabilization to sustained growth, improving institutions, international integration and social
inclusion. The new government has articulateda vision for continuedreformandpoverty reduction inits
Action Program. Guidelines for the reform strategy were communicated to the Bank ina letter from the
Prime Ministeras follows:

            Securing stable macroeconomic dynamics and competitiveness o f the economy, and the
            ability to appropriately respond to negative internal and external factors;

            Improving the investmentclimate;

            Reforming the overall governance system;

            Developing enhancedcommunications between the state and the society;

            Adapting all systems to WTO and EU standards, and securing national interests inthe global
            world economy;

            Eliminating the shadow economy and fighting corruption;

            Radically enhancing social orientation of reforms, while balancing social payments with
            available resources. Reforming the human development sphere, primarily education and
            health.

A.     SeizingOpportunityFollowingthe PresidentialElections

33.     Following the success of the presidential elections, President Yushchenko published his
vision, "Ten Steps ForMeeting The People". The President's reformplanenvisages a strong economy
spurred by lower taxes and a broader tax base, reduced business regulations, and increased transparency,
including a dedicated anti-corruption policy. IfPresident Yushchenko can deliver on hispromises, it will
make Ukraine's EU aspiration credible among the several countries aiming for accession. The medium
term EU integration goals are expected to provide basic motivation to guide policy and institutional
reformtoward compliance with the EU'sAcquis Communitaire.

34.     Giventhe highexpectationsfromthe new Government, achievingresultswould be essential
to consolidating support for reforms. The Government has made numerous promises with regards to
eliminating corruption and generating inclusive growth. Basedupon the Government's actions during its
first 100 days, some early wins have been achieved (see Box 1).

                                                     12



             Box 1:Achievementsof the First 100 Days of the New Government

Investment Climate

   0    PresidentialDecree "On Liberalization of Entrepreneurial Activities and State Support to
        Entrepreneurship" issuedto rapidly deregulate business activity.

   0    Cabinet o f Ministers Program"Contraband STOP" issued and steps initiated to de-shadow
        and deregulate customs clearance.

   0    Considerable reductiono f import tariffs on food products, home appliances and some groups
        o f industrial equipment.

   0    Fivepercentrevaluationo fthe domestic currency.

   0    Adopted comprehensive plan to bringenergy companies to financial solvency.

   0    Eliminated all remainingprivilegedpower tariffs of industrial users

   0    Established a communications regulator (basic law enacted, all commissionmembers
        appointed, includingthe head, andbudget approved).

   0    Eliminated export surrender requirements.

   0    Created the normative and regulatorybasis for the functioning of non-government pension
        funds.

   0    Monitoringo f capital flows for reinsurance was brought to international standards.

   0    Created a stateregistry o fnon-bankingfinancial institutions.

Public Administration and Public Financial Management

        Adopted a revised 2005 Budget whichreduced the deficit by an estimated 3 percent of GDP
        (Bank Staff estimates).

        Implemented significant revenue policy changes: (a) elimination of most remaining tax
        exemptions and privileges, (b) reduction of some import tariffs, (c) increase of excises on fuel
        and alcohol, (d) increasedrents on naturalresource extractions and (e) tightened dividend
        policy o f majority state owned enterprises.

        Authority allocated to the Ministryo f Finance of Ukraine to implement direction and
        coordination o f the activities of the State Tax Administration andthe State Customs Service.

        Reorganizationof the StateTreasury of Ukraine by transforming it into a "government body
        of public administration" integrated into the Ministry of Finance o f Ukraine.

        Initiation o f a draft Law onthe Governance of State Owned Enterprisesand Property which
        would, inter alia, improve incentives and accountability o fmanagers, and enactmentby the
        CoM (Decree #234) "Oncompetitive selection of the managers of strategic state enterprises".

        Adoption by the Cabinet o fMinisters o f a Development Concept for Public Internal Financial
        Audit and Control (PIFC), inline with EUstandards.

        Initiation o f legislationto amend the Law on Public Procurement.

Social Inclusion

   0    Increased social support to families with many children, young mothers andnewborns.

   0    Initiated an information campaign to inform farmers about their rightsand opportunities as
        landholders.

                                                     13




35.      The Government's Program, and its request for a supporting DPL framework, recognizes
the importance of achieving convincing outcomes. Over the next 9 months, deliveringpalpable results
to the people on a medium-term agenda, and being recognized by the international community for
progress along the lines of EUintegration, are important for the Government to gamer popular support for
continued reforms. The March 2006 parliamentary election will provide an early report card on how the
Governmenthas performed and if a continued mandate exists.

B.     The Government's Action Program "Meeting the People"

36.      "Meeting the People" lays out an ambitious vision of equitable job creation, protected
family values, low levels of corruption, and strong social service provision. This vision is anchored
and supported by actions which would generate inclusive growth within a clearly delineated movement
toward WTO membership and EU integration.           A broad description of the Government Program is
outlined below. Key priorities of the program have been identified and highlighted within the Letter of
Development Policy o f the proposed DPL-1,        The operational strategy for achieving the Government's
priorities in the economic and social spheres, which has been agreed with Bank Staff to be supported by
the DPLprogram, i s outlined in Section V. of this report.

Bl. Improved Investment Climate.

37.      The Government's program to improve the investment climate is designed to attract
investment, create jobs and provide an environment for new market entry and competition. The
program calls for establishing a competitive market climate, which reduces special privileges and
opportunities of state capture by large financial industrial groups.       The program's anti-corruption
emphasis is largely focused on this issue through better operations o f public institutions in support o f
market economic activity, such as establishing an efficient, just and fair court system, independent and
efficient regulatory bodies of natural monopolies, and installation o f modem tax collection procedures.
High on the agenda is reform of the legal framework for corporate governance and for deepening of
financial markets, in the context of better accounting, auditing and disclosure policies o f public and
private enterprise.    The program puts emphasis on "radical simplification o f the procedure of
commencing entrepreneurial activity". This specifically targets reducing the number of activities that
require state authorization and/or licenses, limitingthe number o f control bodies while precisely defining
their functions to eliminate abuse, and elimination of duplication o f control functions by various
inspection bodies. The program focuses on increasing labor market participation through a significant
reduction ofpayroll taxes, which now are highand discourage official economic activity.

38.      The Government plans to address high-profile problems that are acutely visible to the
international investment community.          Efforts are planned to reinforce the trend toward financial
discipline and, inthat context, to undertake far reaching energy sector reforms that have stalled of late. In
support o f this process, the Government program calls for making operational the incentives and goals of
the Kyoto Treaty on Greenhouse Gas Reduction. This provides special opportunities for Ukraine to
attract investments for rebuilding energy producing and/or intensive infrastructure, while greening
Ukraine through reforestation.     The program would also re-examine the taxes and contributions on
investment, such as deductions existing now for various special purpose funds that have troubled
investment.

39.      Trade policy issues have taken center-stage in the government's economic strategy.
Completion of the WTO accession process, which i s necessary for Ukraine's EU aspirations, i s thus
among top government priorities. Inthe near term, this policy heightens a sense o f urgency with regards
to WTO membership and Market Economy status.

                                                     14


40.      Government policy is aimed at developing reliable and transparent financial service
markets as a key source of internal investment resources.           Broad themes running throughout the
Government's Program in this area are guaranteeing protection of ownership rights o f all participants in
financial markets, establishment o f transparent rules and procedures on the basis o f European legislative
norms, and creation of a competitive environment. Specific steps envisaged include establishing a single
state authority to regulate the markets of non-banking financial services and stock markets, strengthening
legislation and government bodies that regulate the functioning of banking and non-banking financial
sectors, and providing incentives and regulation for prudential development of the insurance industry.

41.      The Government's Programwould open formerly non-competitivesegments such as mining
operations, housingconstruction, and road repair. A key objective o f the Program is to diversify the
economic base. Opening up formerly protected sectors to market competition would lead to freer
mobility o f resources and more efficient allocation of resources. It could also lead to faster acceptance to
the WTO. An important parallel program will be increased vocational and other training to support
workers displaced by market forces, and to improve higher education and support academic institutes in
an effort to develop Ukraine's potentialinhightechnology industries.

B2. Improvedpublic administration andpublicfinancial management.

42.      Inits Action Program, the Governmentcommits to continued political, tax, and regulatory
reforms necessaryto improve public administration. The Program calls on all public bodies to come
up with organization plans consistent with EUprinciples. It calls for closer control by the Ministry of
Finance over the treasury function, tax administration and customs. It identifies reform o f the civil
service system as a first step to ensure political neutrality of public servants and reduced corruption,
including through application of transparent civil service recruitment conditions and remuneration
policies. The Program also focuses on better public finance management during the process of budget
formulation and execution, at boththe state and local levels.

43.      The Government Program calls for establishment of a medium term expenditure
framework, transparent data flows between core ministries, improved automation and objectivity
in budget execution, and development of an EU compatiblesystem of internal financial audit and
control. There is a strong focus on fiscal decentralization which can make local government revenue
more stable and locally raised. The Program supports an objective fiscal subvention formula for local
governments, with more shares of tax revenues assigned locally in a way that assigns local incentives
with national objectives. This effort is to be complimented by giving more attention to civil society
outreach and monitoring of the budget and government programs withinit.

44.      The Program would end illegal requisitionof state property, prevent "laundering" of state
shares in companies, ensure the state sale of property at a market price, and improve the system of
state corporate management. Expected legislationwould improve the governance framework for state
owned enterprises, address a new state privatization program to strengthen transparency, define distinct
well-grounded criteria o f categorizing enterprises not subject to privatization, and greatly increase the
responsibility of enterprise directors to meet financial targets pre-agreed with their majority (state)
shareholder. The program envisages an immediate analysis of unprofitable state enterprises and joint-
stock companies where the state share i s more then 50 percent, toward rationalizing management and/or
ownership.

B3. Social servicesprovision and inclusion.

45.      A key theme throughout the Government's Program is "freedom of the individual in an
equitable state". The Government has committed to strong anti-poverty measures including steadily
increasing the amount of material support to raise children. It endeavors to monitor discrimination

                                                     15


against women inthe labor market and take action to reduce it. The program calls for expanding access
and quality o f education and healthcare for all Ukrainians, while increasing targeted social safety nets and
alleviating poverty country-wide. An important sub-goal i s to enhance programs that protect national
health by addressing the incidence o f communicable diseases such as tuberculosis and HIV-AIDS. These
reforms are expected to result in significant improvements in citizen health and well-being, participation
ingovernment, increasedpower andrightsofindividuals, andasignificant reductionof socialrisks.

46.      The Program calls for creating equal opportunities across regions. The Government's
regional policy focuses on redistributing resources to support depressed territories and solve nationwide
problems (e.g., coal mines and polluted areas). The goal of the program i s to guarantee a standardquality
of life for every citizen irrespective of hisiher place o f residence. Key Government strategies to
accomplish these objectives include improving state transport and telecommunications infrastructure,
public-private partnerships on large investment projects, attracting credits received from international
financial organizations, and enhancing labor force mobility through vocational and other forms o f
training. The Programrecognizes that a significant contingent o f the poor reside inrural areas, where the
rights of new landholders promises a lever to increase their wellbeing. As such, the program emphases
the importance o f rural development and plans to establish a basis for agricultural land trading, combined
with a program to increase credit to farmers and ruralbusinesses, supported by development o f the legal
and institutional basis for mortgage and secured interest of movable collateral. Finally, the program
recognizes the importanceo fbringinggovernment to the people, especially through strengthening o f local
government inthe context o f strengthening civil society which can help ensure accountability at all levels
o f government.

                                                  16


          IV. WORLD BANKSUPPORTFORTHE GOVERNMENT'S STRATEGY

47.      The 2004-2007 CAS and CAS ProgressReport listsseven key objectivesto guidethe Bank's
engagement in Ukraine: (i)macroeconomic and financial sustainability, (ii)poverty reduction,
mitigation of social risks and strengtheningof the middle class, (iii)comprehensive and harmonized
human development, (iv) protection of the natural environment, (v) greater integration into the
world economic and financial systems, (vi) dynamic regionaldevelopmentand reductionof regional
imbalances, and (Vii) improvedtransparency, accountabilityand integrity of government. The CAS
i s designed as an integrated program of support to achieve measurable progress in these areas. The DPL
will be an integral part of the program, supporting Government policy initiatives and institutionalreforms
inwhich linkagesbetween sectorsare highlightedand leveraged to achieve results. Investmentprojects,
donor coordination and AAA will provide complementary building blocks for implementation. In turn,
the entire CAS will benefit from the cross-cutting policy reforms supported by the DPL program. More
details about the 2004-2007 CAS can be found inthe CAS Progress Report, which confirms that Ukraine
i s inthe Base Case.

48.      The DPL would be the centerpiece of the CAS. Several components of the PAL/DPL
sequence are directly.supportiveof CAS triggers. These include inthe base case: (a) a consistent and
sustainable macroeconomic policy framework, (b) satisfactory implementation of the Memorandum of
Understanding to improve Saving Bank, (c) implementation of a concept for development of Ukraine's

management and transparency of Naftogaz, (e) accelerated reforms of Saving Bank, (0 accelerated
system o f internal financial audit and control (PIFC), and additionally in the high case, (d) better

implementation o f the PIFC concept and (g) progress toward WTO membership and EUintegration. The
content of the DPL program is informed by the economic and sector work completed inUkraine to date
over the CAS period, and especially the Country Economic Memorandum, the Trade Study, a series o f
energy reports, the O E C D N B agriculturepolicy review, and the Poverty Assessment.

49.      The DPL is based upon an ongoing process of dialogue with the Government in all the
sectors in which the Bank provides support. In particular, an effort has been made to support
development of the Government's program and its early actions through delivery to the Government o f a
series of policy notes on some difficult andor important issues. These included, for example, on pension
reform, next steps inthe energy sector, making the .most of the Kyoto Protocol, and health and education
reform.    This package o f policy notes was preceded by an executive summary, A Strategy for
Modernizing Ukraine - Diversification, Public Governance and Social Inclusion, which was shared
with top leadership immediately upon their appointments. The policy notes program then integrated a
rapid response mechanism which provides policy advice and hands-on technical assistance to quickly
address questions raisedby the Govemment. Early advisory services included help on ways to bringthe
pension fund to actuarial balance, assistance in finalizing the Government's Concept Document on
Development of the System of Internal Financial Audit and Control to an EU Standard, assistance in
bank regulation, help in developing a better debt management strategy, and assistanceto the Ministry of
Finance and its subordinate bodies on their own internal reorganizationefforts.

50.      The proposedDPL-1would support, and be supportedby, the Bank's investmentprogram.
Following from the 2000 CAS, the 2004-2007 CAS envisaged full integration o f the policy and
investment loan programs. That is, the DPL program, as a cross-cutting, thematic, and potentially multi-
year instrument, would help provide the necessarypolicy conditions and ownership for the success of the
investmentportfolio. At the same time, all investment projects would be developed inthe context, and in
support of the objectives and components o f the programmatic program.

                                                     17


5 1.    As part of the CAS, the DPL program would provide a forum for donor coordination in
support of policy and institution-building. During the preparation of DPL-1, the Bank has worked
closely with the EUDelegation, the Japanese Government, CIDA, SIDA, USAID, UNDP and the EBRD.
The IMF participated throughout the loan preparation process and provided valuable inputs into
particularly macroeconomic issues.


                      V. THE DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOANPROGRAM
A.    Framework

52.     The Government has requested the Bank's support for implementing key elements of its
overall program. DPL-1 thus focuses on the key barrier to Ukraine's development -public governance.
By helping to implement the Government's aspirations inthis area, the programis envisaged to translate
into a better investment climate, improved public administration and financial management, and broader
inclusion o f society inthe benefits of economic development. Over the next three years, supported by the
DPL program, Ukraine is expected to achieve palpable progress along the path of policy and institutional
reform toward a better standard of living for Ukraine's citizens, and accomplishment of Ukraine's
aspirations toward EUintegration. An overview ofthe envisaged programi s provided inTable 2.

                                   Table 2: Overviewof the DPLprogram

                DPL:                         PotentialFutureDPLs:          ObjectivesandMediumTerm
        "SupportingReforms"               PolicyAction onInvestment                 Outcomes
                                        Climate, PublicGovernance,and
                                                SocialInclusion

  Government Program:                   Government Program:                       Improved
     e   Yushchenko's Ten Steps             e  Mediumterm plan with               macroeconomic and
         Program                               poverty reduction and EU           fiscal policies.
     e   Government Action                     integration focus.
         Program "Meeting the               e  Implementation o fthe EU-          Greater efficiency in
         People"                               Ukraine Action Plan                public administration
                                                                                  and the Civil Service.
     e    Firstyear goals o fthe EU-           through government
         Ukraine Action Plan.                  programs which implement           Low cost andhigh
                                               the National Strategy for EU       effectiveness business
                                               Integration.                       regulation.
                                                                                  Improvedpublic
  Focus                                 Focus                                     financial management
     e    Policydevelopment                 e  Policyimplementationand            Progress toward EU
     e    Improve InvestmentClimate            outcomes                           aspirations and WTO
     e    Improvepublic                     e  Improve Investment Climate         accession.
          adrmnistrationand private         e  Improve public
          governance                           administration and private         Strengthening o f the

     e    Ensure social services               governance                         energy sector.
          include all citizens,             e  Ensure social services             Balancingthe pension
          particularly the poor and            include all citizens,               fund
          most vulnerable.                     particularly the poor and           Improvedtargeting o f
                                               most vulnerable.                    social assistance

  CAS, Base Case,June 2005                                                         Improvedhealth and
                                                                                   educations sectors

                                                    18


53.      Facilitatingprogresstowards the Government's EUaspirations is a key motivationfor the
DPL program. Both the President's Davos speech and the Government's Program emphasize it as a
priority. Several o f Ukraine's peersthat are well on their way toward the EUhave benefited significantly
from policy and investment programs with the World Bank. The Government recognizes this and has
indicated its desire to work closely with the World Bank on its EUagenda. The Bank, through the CAS
and DPL program, can provide substantial counsel, technical advice and state-of-the-art investment
projects in areas crucial for Ukraine to achieve and benefit from WTO accession and move closer to its
EUaspirations. The EUCommissionwouldremaininthe leadinterms ofthe Action Plan, butthe World
Bank, through the DPL program especially, can assist the Government in implementing Ukraine's
programto fulfill it.

54.      First steps for Ukraine's EU aspiration are achieving Market Economy status and WTO

Achieving these goals by the nearest window - the WTO meetings in Hong Kong in December 2005,
membership. Movement towards WTO accession is an important context for the DPL program.

represents a test for the Government. Many difficult issues remain, such as adoption of a WTO compliant
standards regime, further reduction of protection for the auto industry, sugar and sunflower seed
processors, elimination of export controls, and enforcement o f intellectual property rights. The DPL and
Government program recognize these necessary steps, and the Cabinet of Ministers has approved a list of
priority legislationwhich would address them.

B.     The FirstDevelopmentPolicyLoanProgram@PL-1)

55.      The DPL programlays out a set of multi-year,core prioritiesacross three broad areas of
reform- (a) investment climate, (b) public administrationand public financialmanagement, and
(c) social inclusion. The focus of DPL-1 i s on supporting the Government Program and building
momentum for associated reforms. Successor operations would be triggered upon an adequate
macroeconomic policy framework and progress on implementation o f benchmarks within each of the
programthemes. Continuing the momentum, supported by DPL-1 and successor operations, on improved
performance of state owned banks and enterprises, better public sector accountability and progress
towards WTO accession(following the signingo f the EUAction Plan) would move Ukraine into the high
case of the CAS. The program outlined below reflects agreements with the Government about the key
actions it will take, with support of the DPL program, over the 2005 and 2006 period. Medium term
outcomes to meet the program objectives are targetedfor end of year 2007. This framework i s envisaged
to be updated annually, on a rolling basis, and should progress remain satisfactory, could be supported by
subsequent DPL operations.        The corresponding policy matrix o f the Government's Letter of
Development Policy -Annex 2, reflects this design and the keypriorities agreed.

Theme 1-Improving theInvestment Climate

56.      Government ObjectivesandActionFocus. The Government's main objectives are to grow and
diversify the economy, thereby strengthening it, making it less vulnerable to external developments, and
making it more inclusive o f society. Inorder to achieve this, the focus i s on reducing the costs o f doing
business, improving global integration o f trade, improving business and consumer services, enforcing
contracts and protecting property rights, strengthening corporate governance, and improving financial
sector regulation-bothofbanks and non-bank financial institutions.

57.      Prior Actions. The following actions to improve the investment climate were completed prior to
Boardpresentation of DPL-1:

    0    Cabinet of Ministers Program "Contraband STOP" issued and steps initiated to de-shadow and
         deregulate customs clearance.

                                                    19


     0   A communications regulator was established as reflected by passage of the basic legal
         framework, appointment of all eight commission members, including the head, and a budget for
         its operation is provided by the Budget 2005.

     0   Surrender requirements were eliminated on export operations.

58.      Next steps in the reform process. InMay, the President issued a decree "On Liberalization of
Entrepreneurial Activity" which calls for a rapid deregulation of business activity inorder to improve the
investment climate. Over the coming months, the Government will include abolition o f ten o f the worst
offenders interms of regulations which unnecessarily increase the costs of doing business. Beyond that,
the Government plans to more broadly and consistently implement Ukraine's legislation which already
calls for Regulatory Impact Assessments ( W s ) of all new regulations, and also allows for RIAs to be
applied retroactively to existingregulations. More detail on the deregulation process i s provided inAnnex
2 and in the Government's LDP (Annex 1). In parallel, efforts are already under way to simplify
procedures o f customs clearance for businesses, to establish a permanent dialogue between government
andbusiness, and to create an investment promotion agency.

59.      Recent reformof the tax system has included a flat personalincome tax of 13 percent and
corporate income tax of 25 percent. The Government supports a further reduction of VAT from 20
percent to 17 percent when it becomes clear that the tax base i s sufficiently broadening (see below). In
light of business surveys (e.g., 2004 Cost o f Doing Business Survey), inconsistency and un-transparency
o f tax rules and administration has been identified as more o f a barrier than tax rates at this time. Still,
payroll taxes total more than 37 percent for some workers. The Government plans to continue to adjust
the tax system in a step-wise manner over the next couple o f years, but as soon as appropriate, intends to
work with the Verkhovna Rada to lock it into a tax code.           At the same time, through efficiency
improvements andpolicy rationalization measuresto improve the social insurance system (see below), the
Government plans to support legislationto start the reductionof payrolltaxes.

60.      Toward diversifying trade and integrating trade globally, the Government endeavors to
enter the WTO in December of 2005, or soon after. A range o f measures and legal changes are under
preparation in that regard, the early stages of which are reflected in large part by the Action Program o f
the Cabinet o f Ministers for 2005. These include steps to harmonize Ukraine' legislation with WTO
requirements, elimination o f excessive protectionism, enforcement o f the TRIPSagreement and make
significant progress toward harmonization of product standards with those o f the WTO and EU. Specific
priority steps under the DPL program include enactment o f WTO and EU compliant legislation on
sanitary andphyto-sanitary standards and completion of a comprehensive reduction of import tariffs.

61.      A broad effort is envisaged to sustain and deepen financial intermediation in the economy.
This includes an array of measures well under formulation to define and protect property rights, enforce
contracts and strengthen financial markets.      Specific measures under the DPL are as follows: (a)
amendments to the Law on Stock and Stock Market and passage o f modem law onjoint stock companies,
(b) strengthening ofbanking supervision supported by revisions of the Law on Banks and Banking(e.g.,
to improve bank disclosure requirements, reduce connected lending and establish a sound basis for
corporate governance of remaining state-owned banks, inter alia), (c) clear Government support to the
non-bank financial institution regulator (NBFIR) inthe development and implementation o f a concept for
development and supervision o f the private insurance market, and (d) introduction o f a publicly accessible
registry of court judgments. Annex 5 provides more detail on the financial sector agenda, which is also
 summarized inthe Government's LDP.

 62.      As a 100 percent state owned bank, of which deposits are fully guaranteed by the state, and
which representsthe largestphysicalnetwork and about 8 percent of deposits inUkraine's banking

                                                    20


system, Saving Bank represents special issues in terms of economic development and mitigation of
contingent liabilities. Under the PAL program, significant progress was made to bring Saving Bank
back to profitability. Progresswas achieved under ajoint Memorandum of Understanding signed by the
Governor o f the NBU,the First Deputy Prime Minister and the Head of the Supervisory Boardo f Saving
Bank.    The MoU, which i s still in effect, limits deposit rates, reduces administrative costs and
significantly curtails risky lendingby Saving Bank. Under the MoU, due diligence of the portfolio was
carried out by an external auditor, a technical needs assessment was completed, and a three year business
plan was developed to strengthen the bank. The bank's financial position has improved significantly
under the MoU. Moving forward under the DPL program, the Government, the NBU, and Saving Bank
management intend to enter into a successor arrangement, "Memorandum of Development" which will
outline a plan o f action to support implementationo f the business plan, including through a strengthening
o f the bank's information management systems, and creating the basis for embarking on a conclusive
strategic direction of the bank. A decision on this strategic decision i s expected to be reached during
2006.

63.      The Government realizes that financial discipline, better regulation of natural monopolies,
and establishment of the basisfor private participation ininfrastructure development, are going to
be crucial to improve consumer and business services at a pace consistent with economic growth
projections.    Inthe energy sector, the Government will focus on consistent implementation of the
comprehensive plan to bring energy companies to financial solvency. This plan calls for improved cash
collection of energy related services, tariff increases to cost recovery levels, debt restructuring, and
privatization o f state-owned energy companies among other actions. Under DPL, the Government plans
to develop a concept for legal and technical harmonization of Ukraine's energy sector with the main
principles of the EUInternal Energy Market. As part o f the Acquis Communituire, success here could be
an early marker for EUintegrationprocess. Beyond that, the Government plans to support enactment of a
comprehensive energy sector debt restructuring law in parliament, which would set the stage for further
ownership transformationand increasing private sector participation.

64.      In the area of Information and Communications Technology (ICT), the Government will
focus on provision of telecom services throughout Ukraine. Given modem technologies, this can be
achieved through both wire line services and wireless-backbone. The communications regulatory body
(NCRC) has committed to encourage this development by liberalizing regulations, including through
tariff rebalancing, frequency allocations, issuance o f mobile licenses, and rationalization of
interconnectionfees. Under a better regulatory framework, the Government will consider privatization o f
Ukrtelecom.

65.      The Government has expressed its concerns about the untransparent nature of some recent
privatizations in Ukraine.       Based on a review o f many o f Ukraine's large privatization tenders,
President Yushchenko stated on May 15, 2005 that a list o f less than 30 enterprises will be announced
soon which will be subject to re-tendering for sale. The stated policy is to offer those companies for sale
ina new, competitive tender, at which time the incumbent owner will have an opportunity to match the
offer of the largest bidder. The process by which this would be carried out remains uncertain. The
Govemment has indicated that a law would be needed to proceed with this plan. The effects on the
investment climate from this review and potential re-privatization o f formerly state owned enterprises
remains subject to debate. Certainly, it means a distinct slowdown in the privatization process uti1 at
least after the March 2006 parliamentary election. Still, in2005, the Government plans to promote anew
and extensive privatizationprogramthrough the Verhkovna Rada.

66.      The Government plans to move quickly to capture the opportunities provided by the Kyoto
Protocol on Greenhouse Emissions. Ulcraine can raise significant resources by utilizing the credits
obtained from emitting less carbon than allowed by the protocol. Additionally, through the Green

                                                       21


Investment Scheme, infrastructure investments which reduce emissions qualify for bi-lateral co-
investmentinreturn for carbon credits. Inorder to make the most of this opportunity, the Government is
organizing itself andmobilizingresources to meet the UNeligibility requirements by January 1,2007.

67.     Expected Outcomes of the DPL Program. By the end o f 2007, the Government program
supported by DPL attempts to make Ukraine more attractive place to invest through improvements inthe
investment climate, corporate governance, and financial intermediation. Considerable improvements in
investment climate and corporate governance would be reflected in an increase inthe investment ratio by
2 percentage points of GDP (to about 22 percent of GDP), and doubling of the FDIper capita inflows.
The financial sector would further deepen without deterioration of mainprudentialratios. There will be
continuing diversification and strengthening o f the economy through reductions incost o f doing business,
and deepening integration into the world market, including WTO accession. The Program i s expected to
achieve improvements in the consumer and business services provision, including communications and
energy services.

Theme2 -Better PublicAdministration and Public Financial Management

68.     Government Objectives and Action Focus. The Government's main objective i s to create an
arms-length from business public administration which i s efficient and more immune to corruption.
While attempting to increase real incomes of the population, the Government acknowledges that it needs
to maintain financial discipline and create fiscal space for public and private investment ininfrastructure
andhuman capital. Inorder to achieve these objectives, it plans to manage economic risks representedby
its socially oriented budget in the context o f relatively high inflationary pressures, improve the
operational structure and efficiency o f its public financial management system, and over time, address the
imbalance of the pension fund, which especially represents an undue burden on the private sector and
increases risks to economic stability. As part o f better public administration, the Government also plans
to significantly improve the corporate governance andmanagement of state owned enterprises.

69.      Prior Actions. The following actions to improve public administration and public financial
management were completedprior to Boardpresentation o f DPL-1:

    0    Budget 2005 eliminated most remaining tax privileges.

    0    Authority was allocated to the Ministryo f Finance to implement direction and coordination of the
         activities of the State Tax Administration and the State Customs Service.

    0    The State Treasury (which earlier reported to the President) has been transformed into a
         "government body o f pubic administration" integrated into the Ministry o f Finance.

70.      Next steps in the reform process.           For the remainder o f 2005, the Government plans to
implement the macro-fiscal framework established inthe Budget 2005. As outlined above, inthe view of
Bank Staff, the budget's revenue and inflation assumptions are optimistic, especially representing risks
should the authorities not take sufficiently early action to maintain inflationary pressures. Inresponse to
this, the Government has indicated that it is aware of these risks and will take action as necessary to
contain them. As noted above, the NBU took action to revalue the exchange rate (and thereby contain
monetary growth) by about 5 percent in late April, 2005. Subsequently, some specific ceilings were
agreed with Bank Staff as upper limits on implementation o f fiscal policy for the remainder o f 2005 and
2006. These are reflected inTable 4 below, but are not designed to represent a consistent macroeconomic
policy framework. The Bank team will continue to seek IMF's assessments and advice on the coherency
and adequacy of the authorities' macroeconomic policy framework, and has encouraged the authorities to
engage more closely with the IMFinthe process o f designing andmanaging it.

                                                      22


                        Table 4. Limits on Fiscal Policy Implementation in 2005-2006

     DPL actionsplannedfor remainder of 2005           DPL actionsplanned (not later than) 2006
        Deficit of the consolidated budget no larger      Deficit ofthe consolidated budget no larger than
     than4%.                                           3.5% during 2006.
        No increase inbudget arrears.                     VAT Arrears (stock)/VAT Claims (quarterly
        VAT Arrears (stock)/VAT Claims (quarterly      flow) remainbelow 25% during 2006.
     flow) remain below 30%.                              Share ofpension expenditures to GDP reduced by
        Active tax arrears reducedas a share o f GDP   one percentage point in2006 relative to 2005 actual
     relative to 2004.                                 pension fund outlays, and reduction of an additional
                                                       one percent realistically programmed by the Budget
                                                       2007


71.     Moving forward, in the area of public administration reform supported by DPL, the
Government plans to complete comprehensive functional reviews of the Ministry of Finance and
Ministry of Economy. In parallel, it will also conduct a functional review of the Ministry o f Health,
which will serve as a basis to guide other ministerial reorganizations, and in a timely manner with a
strengthened reform strategy for the national health care system (see below).            In Budget 2005, the
Government continued to gradually raise the minimum public wage to reach the level of the minimum
pension (332 UAHper month) by the end of 2005, and execute modest wage decompression throughout
the wage scale, along with explicitly higher salaries for doctors. Over the medium term, the Government
plans to support enactment o f an EU compliant civil service law inparliament, and in the context of a
merit-based, competitive and transparent system of civil service hiring and promotion, undergo a more
serious civil service pay reform. Relatively early steps planned in this process would be to replace non-
cashremunerationand the lion's share of bonuseswith cashsalaries.

72.     Early administrative efforts have been made to improve the management of state owned
enterprises    - including a commitment, as yet only partially implemented, to hold open and
competitive tenders for managers of state owned enterprises, and to tie salaries to official
profitability of the companies. Beyond that, the Government plans to adopt and implement a concept
paper on corporate governance of large state-owned enterprises according to OECD principles during
2006. More detail on the Government's program to improve SOE management is provided in Annex 6.
Itis also summarized inthe Government's LDP.

73.      In the area of public finance management, the Ministry of Finance is reviewing the public
debt portfolio and will continue to reduce its cost and improve its management. As part of the
constitutional reform expected in late 2005, the Government supports giving authority to the Accounting
Chamber (of Parliament) to audit administration o f revenues. The Government plans to vigorously
implement the recently adopted PIFC Concept, which calls for significant reforms within the Control and
Revision Department (KRU) and establishment, and/or strengthening o f the role of internal auditors
within line ministries. This i s to be done in the context o f higher levels o f accountability o f budget
managers for their decisions and actions. Inthe area o f public procurement, the Government will refine
and approve a time bound strategy for its institutional development, while harmonizing the system with
the principles o fthe relevant EUdirectives.

74.     Expected Outcomes of the DPL Program. By the end o f 2007, the Government program
supported by DPL i s expected to facilitate development of a more efficient, transparent and accountable
management of public resources consistent with more stable, single digit inflation. There would be better
coordination between fiscal and monetary policy, in part reflected by an ongoing dialogue between the
Government and the National Bank. Improvements inpublic financial management would be reflected in
elimination of budget arrears, reduction of tax arrears, streamlining of tax administration. More adequate

                                                     23


and higher quality coordination and information flows are expected between Ministry o f Finance,
Treasury, STA and Customs Administration. The quality o f internal and external audits, o f both sides o f
the budget (revenue and expenditure administration), are expected to materially approve. Civil service
and procurement standards would gradually converge to EU standards. SOE management also would
improve considerably as reflected by increased SOE profitability levels. As a result of these
developments, credit ratings o f Ukraine are expected to approach investment grades.

Theme 3 -Broadening Social Inclusion

75.      Government Objectives and Action Focus. The Government's main objective i s to create the
basis for broad participation of society inthe benefits of economic development. As part o f this process,
the actions outlined above, in relation to the investment climate and better public administration, are
integral. Beyond them, the specific focus under the DPL program includes an effort to increase social
transfers for vulnerable layers of the population and streamline social protection administration, while
better targeting scarce public resources to the poor through reforms in social assistance programs.
Attention i s given to providing better access and quality of social service delivery within available
resources, increasingly through a strengthened role of local governments in the budget framework. The
program envisages more outreach to civil society groups in the context o f better local budget
accountability, and an integration of people's voice into the policy-making process. Finally, recognizing
the high potential for Ukraine's rural development, and the fact that poverty resides heavily among
agricultural landholders, a special effort i s being made to define and protect the property rights o f land
and movable property, and thereby help create the basis for increased crediting o f rural and agricultural
activities.

76.      Prior Action. The following action to broaden social inclusion was completed prior to Board
presentation of DPL-1:

    0     Initiation of an information campaign to inform farmers about their rights and opportunities as
         land holders.

77.      Next steps in the reform process. Inthe area of direct social assistance, the Government plans
to unify and make fully operational a database for the registry of all social privileges beneficiaries, as a
basis for streamlined administration and moving to a fully cash-based system (today, targeted fuel and
liquefied gas subsidies are already provided in cash). The Government plans to induce costs savings to
workers, employers and the budget by unifying collection o f all social insurance contributions within a
single agency, whereas today there remain four separate agencies collecting payrolltaxes. Finally, by the
end o f 2006, the Government plans to make a public commitment to phase out many social privileges,
improve poverty targeting of those that remain, and ensure that those transfers are paid in cash from the
budget.

78.      Inorder to improve social services, the Government will revise and adopt a reformstrategy
for the national health system, and revisit the national education strategy, in the context of realistic
estimates of financial resources for their implementation. Among other investment needs, social
sector reform will be supported by the development o f a system o f multi-year investment grants through
the State Budget, while creating a sound basis for local debt issuancethrough passage o f a revised law on
sub-sovereign debt. Finally, in an effort to reach out to local communities and encourage accountability
o f an increasingly locally decentralized fiscal system, the Government will work with the World Bank to
conduct a study on how citizens currently impact rayon and municipal budgets, to come up with
recommendations on how public consultations and accountability mechanisms can be made more
meaningful.

                                                    24


79.       The Government will attempt to resolve the problem of poverty of population, living in
rural area. Toward this goal, it will focus its efforts on continued implementation of land reform.
Immediately, the Government plans to follow through on its plans to create a single registry for land and
real estate within a single agency, supported by a nation-wide land cadastre. Along with refinement o f
the institutional requirements for secured interest and mortgage finance, this will provide a basis to
improve access to financing for farmers and rural businesses. The Government also plans to continue
developing laws and bi-laws necessaryto fully implement Ukraine's Land Code, allowing for a lifting of
the moratorium o f agricultural land trading in 2007. In an effort to help protect, especially poor, rural
households in this process, the Government has already begun an information campaign to inform rural
workers and landowners of their rights and opportunities.

80.     Expected Outcomes of the DPL Program. By the end of 2007, the Government program
supported by DPL i s expected to contribute to creation of the basis for broad participation of society in
the benefits of economic development and reduction o f social tensions. It will be done by encouraging
rural development reflected in high quality issuance of land titles, improving the efficacy o f social
services while increasing the flow o f resources to them, developing the mortgage system, strengthening
the financial system for local governments, bringingsocial insurance to actuarial balance without creating
undue burden for workers, improving the efficiency and transparency of social fund administration, and
improving the targeting of direct social assistanceprograms. As a result o f all these changes, the poverty
incidence i s expected to further decline by 3 percentage points, with a an even larger reduction inrural
poverty, by 6 percentagepoints.

                            VI.     OPEUTION IMPLEMENTATION

A.    Experiencefromthe Past PAL Program

81.     Under PAL, the Government made significant strides in the five thematic areas of policy
reform: (a) financial discipline, @) regulatory reform, (c) protection of property rights, (d) public
sector accountability, and (e) social and environmentalrisk mitigation. PAL-1 was fully disbursed
by December 2001 in the amount of US$250 million. The US$75 million first tranche of PAL-2 was
released in July, 2002. However, the second tranche of PAL-2 (US$175 million) took longer than
expected, bothbecauseinstitutional reforms have a long learning curve and take time to gain momentum,
and because ownership for politically difficult measures was lacking in the 2004 pre-election
environment. Withrespect to agreedbenchmarks, PAL-2 exceededthe original objectives ina number of
areas, including tax exemption reform, legislation- (on telecom, land reform, pension reform, mortgage
and secured interest legislation), cash collection in electricity and gas, and elimination of mutual offsets
and barter in the economy. Across the PAL matrix, two sub-benchmarks were unmet, namely, (a)
enactment of a law on settlement o f debts inthe energy sector and (b) privatization of the agreednumber
of power companies. As noted above, the Government has committed to implement these outstanding
issues duringthe DPL programperiod.

B.      Lessons from Past Adjustment Operations

82.     The proposed DPL-1benefits from important lessons from previous policy based lending,
includingthe PAL program. The main lessons which are incorporatedinto the design o f this operation
are as follows:

    (i)    Single-tranche operations within a multi-year program are preferable to multi-tranche
           operations. Traditional ex-ante conditionality, in a multi-tranche setting, based on future
           actions in a changing economic and political environment, risks weakening reform ownership
           and introduces unnecessary rigidity to program design, thus limiting Government flexibility.

                                                    25


          This lesson is consistent with the key messages from OEDs evaluations o fpolicybasedlending
          over the past decade:

          Upfront actionleads to better results than ex-ante conditionality. DPL-1 is basedon actual
          policy changes implemented, rather than promises. DPL-1 recognizes successful reforms thus
          far, and supports Government momentumto continue andconsolidate the reform process.

          Flexible support of the Government Program based upon its track record, and reform
          opportunities as they arise. The DPL and the programmatic approach will support a broad
          Governmentreformprogram and will predicate future Bank support on progress against a set of
          anticipated accomplishments.       Considering the medium term nature o f the Government's
          reform objectives, and its EUaspirations, it i s anticipated that progress may not always be even
          across all areas. As long as the overall program remains on-track, the proposed DPL program
          recognizes that slower progress insome areas may be compensatedwith actions inothers.

          Results-orientation and streamlined conditions. The DPL program targets reforms that are
          critical for achieving medium-term results. Similarly, a limited set of benchmarks describing
          sequencedpriorities o f the Government's program form a basis upon which future support can
          be evaluated.

          A high level, multi-sector, Government Working Group is an effective mechanism for
          following up on program progress and resolving issues. This approach was initiated in
          Ukraine under the PAL program. PAL integrated five thematic working groups on each o f the
          PAL themes. These working groups helped improve information flows across government
          agencies and provided a forum to design strategic decisions, as well as for monitoring their
          implementation. Inso doing, they often served as a catalyst for positive change.

          Aligning program loanswith the budgetarycycle. Ifcontinued, the proposed DPL approach
          i s designed to be closely aligned with the Government's annual budget cycle, to become a
          predictable source of long-term financing for the Government.            In the presence of good
          progress, should extraordinary levels of finance be needed, future DPL's can be brought
          forward and sized accordingly. However, should progress fall short o f expectations, time may
          be usedas a mitigating factor.

    (vii) Working with Development Partners. The EU Delegation, Dutch, SIDA, US-AID, CIDA,
          and the Government o f Japan are providing substantial financial support of Ukraine's policy
          based lendingprogram and EUAction Plan implementation. The Bank will work closely with
          all parties to coordinate this effort.

    (viii) Civil society outreach can be effective in ensuring the sustainability of the reform
          program. This was pioneered in coordination with the Ministry o f Economy and European
          Integration duringthe PAL program, and will be utilized for the DPL as well.

C.    Implementation Arrangements

83.      As all the actions supported by this proposed loan have been completed prior to Board
presentation, implementation arrangements are only relevant within the context of the Bank's
continuing program and the overall programmatic framework of support. The Bank and the
Government have agreed to maintain a close and continuing dialog on future policy actions for future
anticipated DPLs. The Letter o f Development Policy, signed by the PrimeMinister, i s a clear indication
that the Government considers implementation o f its reformagenda a primary Governmentresponsibility.
The Government Programis well-framed by the working group structure, which is a natural extension of
the previous, joint with the World Bank, PAL teams. A Supervisory Committee for DPL-1 has already
been established which includes the Vice-Prime-Minister o f Ukraine, the Minister of Economy o f

                                                      26


Ukraine, the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, and the, Governor o f the
National Bank o f Ukraine. Inpreparation for technical discussions in late April, a DPL-1 Government
Workmg Group (GWG) was established, headed by the Deputy Minister of Economy o f Ukraine, and
consisting o f representatives from across the Government. Eventually, the GWG i s envisaged to be
tailored to include three main working groups on (a) investment climate, (b) public administration and
public finance management, and (c) social inclusion. To ensure cross fertilization and institutional
memory across the main themes, this may be combined with three thematic task forces on three o f the
PAL-originated themes o f financial discipline, regulation, protection of property rights. The Bank will
coordinate on an on-going basis and will also leverage its other activities in Ukraine in support o f the
reform agenda. Members o f civil society will be asked to participate in working group meetings where
possible and appropriate.

D.    MonitoringandEvaluation

84.     The design of the DPL recognizes the importance of monitoring and evaluation as well as
stakeholder participation for the operation's success? The Government and the Bank will take
advantage of several important data sources and agencies to assess progress of the DPL program. These
include the following: (a) ongoing monitoring missions of the IMF to assess progress on developing a
more coordinated and effective macro-economic framework, (b) central and regional government budget
monitoring, (c) reports o f the State Statistical Committee (SSC), (d) investment climate surveys and
assessments (e.g., the Cost of Doing Business Surveys and the Index of Corporate Governance), (e)
financial sector reports and updates, (0Ministry o f Finance reports, (g) reviews and analyses o f laws and
implementingregulations from the Bank and other stakeholders, (h) financial audits, and (i) fromreports
advisory and working groups. With a few exceptions where monitoring indexeslsystems are under
construction, current baseline information i s already available regarding the various actions and desired
outcomes.     More detail on this is available in the policy and institution reform matrix of the
Government's LDP, and moving forward, Bank Staff will work with the Government on establishing a
monitoring matrix which will be available over the Government's web-site.

85.     Civil society outreach will be deepened moving forward, and utilized for monitoring and
evaluation. The People's Voice Program, in combination with expanded public consultation by the
Government, i s envisaged to be the facility for this dialogue. Inparticular, through the People's Voice
Program, efforts will be made to increasethe policy feedback component of civic consultations, as well as
to assist local civil society representatives to link up nationwide in an effort to monitor the Government
Program, as well as the behavior and efficiency of their own local administrations. Local government
monitoring, for instance, can be done through the report card approach, developing nation-wide databases
of social expenditures, and close monitoring o f budget formulation and execution at the local level.
Duringthe remainder of 2005, the Government plans to work with Bank Staff on preparationof a study
on how citizens impact rayon and municipality budget processes. This study i s envisaged to provide
recommendations on how public consultations by the Government can be made more meaningful,
especially at the local level. Onthe national level, a renewedeffort i s being made to elicit involvement of
think tanks andother NGOsto helpmonitor andcommentonthe DPLprogram.

E.    Loan Administration

86.     Borrower and Credit Amount. The borrower is the Government o f Ukraine represented by the
MinistryofFinance. This operation is a single-tranche variable spreadloan(VSL) ofUS$251.26 million.
The loanproceedswould be made available to the Borrower upon loan effectiveness, as all policy actions
supported by the loan have been completed prior to Boardpresentation.

  World Bank 2004. Programmatic AdjustmentLendingRetrospective, andWorld Bank2004: GoodPracticeNote:
DesigningDevelopmentPolicy Operations(OPCS website).

                                                   27


87.      Disbursement. Upon approval of the loan and notification by the Bank o f Loan effectiveness,
the Government will submit a withdrawal application. The International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (IBRD) will deposit the proceeds of the loan into deposit account at the request o f the
Ministry of Finance. Prior to that, the Bank will withdraw from the Loan Account a front-end fee
amounting to 1 percent of the loan amount. If, after deposit in this NBU account, the proceeds o f the
Loan are used for ineligible purposes (for example, to finance goods or services on the IBRD standard
negative list), the IBRDwill require the borrower to either: (i)returnthat amount to the account for use
for eligible purposes; or (ii) the amount directly to the IBRD, inwhich case the IBRDwill cancel
                             refund
an equivalent un-disbursed amount of the loan.

88.      Accounts, Auditing and ClosingDate. The Government will maintain accounts andrecords, or
ensure that such items are maintained, showing that loan disbursements were in accordance with
provision o f the Loan Agreement. Such accounts and records will be maintained in a form acceptable to
the Bank. Within seven days of the treasury's account at the NBUbeing credited, the government will
provide a confirmation to the Bank that the amount o f the loan has been creditedto the treasury's account
at the NBUthat is available to finance budgeted expenditures (including the date andnamehumber o f the
treasury's account in which the amount has been deposited). The Bank had chosen to exercise its
prerogative to audit the deposit account under the PAL program, and the audits were unqualified and
acceptable to the Bank. The IMF conducted a safeguards assessment o f the NBUinJuly 2004 and found
that the NBU had made progress in recent years to strengthen its safeguards framework. However,
further improvements could be made in some areas, notably the areas of financial reporting, legal
structure and independence. The main recommendations of the IMF Safeguard assessment included (a)
full adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), (b) a detailed review of the NBU
Law, and other legislation that impinges on the central bank, in order to strengthen the NBU's
independence, and (c) semiannual audits by the NBU's internal audit function o f the monetary data
reportedto the Fund. Moreover, the audit report on the financial statements o f the NBUfor the year 2003
provided a clean audit opinion. Past audits, and generally positive assessment by the IMF, indicate that
there are no strong reasons for asking additional safeguards such as an audit of the deposit account. As a
result of the above, no audit will be necessary under this DPL. The closing date o f the loan will be
December 31,2005.

IF".   Poverty and SocialImpact Analysis

89.      The Bank will be helping the Government undertake selected poverty and social impact
analyses where distributional impacts may be significant. Key issues o f the program that may have
poverty impact include energy price increases associated with sector restructuring, telecom tariff price
increases, and potential labor downsizing inthe public andprivate sectors.

90.      The Bank, in partnership with the Government and other stakeholders, has already been
leading significant poverty and social impact analyses in numerous key policy areas through the
ongoing Poverty and Urban Living Standards Evaluation (PULSE), multi-year program. A key
objective o f this program i s to monitor developments in poverty and income distribution. In addition,
PULSE includes background papers on efficiency and productivity o f agriculture, the relationship
between labor markets and poverty in Ukraine, job creation and job destruction, a review o f social
expenditures, and implementation of a household survey on health and education. While some o f these
ongoing initiatives may help establish some benchmarks and provide guidance on future DPLs, the
PULSE program and other Bank assistance, are better aligned to the operational needs o f the DPL
program. Additionally, a Labor Market Study i s under preparation by Bank Staff which would help
advise the Government on mitigation measures for policies which may lead to job destruction and
recreation. Moreover, continued work on improving administration and targeting o f social assistance
programs, would help to offset any negative impact telecom or energy tariffs may have. As regards

                                                      28


energy, Ukraine already has in place a means-tested social assistance program which covers the
difference between 20 percent of household income and its housing and communal service costs. The
Government's LDP outlines how this effort will be strengthened, through improved targeting and
administration o f social assistance, while gradually eliminating social privileges that are not poverty
targeted, and cashing out o f socialprivileges that remain.

91.       The above program of work would help provide relevant inputs into the design of future
DPLs. Overall, however, it is expected that given DPL-1's focus on promoting shared growth through
better macroeconomic and fiscal policies, and improvements in public governance, investment climate
and social inclusion, the overall impact of the program will be pro-poor. This i s further encouraged by
the relatively low cost o f Bank financing relative to alternative external sources o f budget finance.
Moreover, DPL-1 supports a Government Program, which focuses significant attention on better targeting
o f social protection expenditures, increasing real wages, and strengthening of the financial basis of the
pension fund.

G.     Fiduciary Aspects

92.       Froma weak baseline in 200112, the fiduciary environment has shown some improvement.
Yet a large agenda remains for the new Government to tackle. The Bank fiduciary assessments
conducted during 2001-2 include the Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA), Country
Procurement Assessment report (CPAR), and a Public Expenditure and Institutional Review
These assessments identified numerous weaknesses in the various aspects o f the fiduciary systems that
compromised the efficiency, transparency and accountability of the management and use of public
resources. Some o f the identified weaknesses have subsequently been addressed by the previous
Governments, in connection with the PAL program andor through the Bank financed Treasury Project.
Others are supported under the DPL programas outlined above.

93.       Among the most notable recent improvementsin the fiduciary systems is the development
of an interim treasury system, linking 27 oblast and 690 rayon treasury offices. The treasury system
implements a Treasury Single Account and serves all national and sub-national budget entities (including
village councils).    This system has improved payment processing, revenue collection, and timely
reporting of financial transactions. A number of improvements have been made in budget execution,
including the introduction in 2004 o f the "Budget Program Passport". This captures the objectives and
justification of a program, expected outputs and outcomes, performance monitoring indicators, budget
appropriation, and the 12 month budget allocation. The Treasury may refuse to make payments in the
absence o f the Passport. The recent development o f a Concept of the Development of the System of
Internal Financial Audit and Control According to EU Standards is another important step forward.
This concept envisions radical structural reformand conceptualization of a modem internal audit system
aligned with the EU Acquis. In response to criticism from FATF, Ukraine has established a State
Financial Oversight Committee on Money Laundering, concentrating some o f the functions distributed
among other state entities. As a result of Ukraine's efforts, it was removed from the FATF blacklist in
February 2004.

94.       The new Government has signaled a strong interest in addressing the problems in the
fiduciary systems. Inresponse to an early request from the Ministry o f Finance, inApril, the Bank has
initiated an advisory dialog with the Ministry. This dialog began by focusing on the planned
reorganization of the Ministry and the inter-relations among the fiscal agencies. It has also focused on


 Ukraine :Country Financial Accountability Assessment (Report No. 24242 datedOctober 15,2001), Country
ProcurementAssessment Report (Report No. 28846-UA dated- November, 2001), Public Expenditure and
Institutional Review (Report No. 23356-UA dated March 8,2002).

                                                    29


strengthening the internal financial control and audit concept paper. Among other things, the dialog is
intended shape a follow-on operation to the Bank financed Treasury Project - possibly in the form of a
broader public finance management operation. Inany event, there i s a need to undertake an updated and
integratedpublic finance management assessment. This will be necessary to support the public finance
management aspects o f the new Government's program (under the DPL program), as well as the Bank's
clear intentions to move toward greater reliance on country systems inits investment portfolio.

H. EnvironmentalAspects

95.      The Proposed loan will not support specific measures that are likely to have significant
effects on the environment. It is recognized, however, that sectors which will be supported in some
fashion through DPL-1 do pose environmental risks. Municipal and industrial pollution i s recognized by
Ukraine and international experts as a significant risk to human health and the environment. Pollution
loads have increased since the year 2000, following recovery o f industrial output. Large enterprises have
been particularly problematic in this regard. These unfavorable trends may be reversed in the near to
mid-term, however. The focus by the new Government on the rule of law, international markets,
European approximation, and more transparent privatization, should re-energize the inflow of modem
technologies and management culture. Environment i s coming back on the political agenda. While
Ukraine has a relatively modem framework environmentallaw, there are significant regulatory and policy
needs. The World Bank's stakeholder analysis found that industry i s interested in investment
opportunities that improve mediumand longer term profits, while reducing environmentalimpacts.

96.      The Government program has a renewed emphasis on good environmental management;
this is a direction supported by the past and current World Bank program. To assist the
Government to improve the efficiency of its natural resource management, the Bank completed a Public
Environmental Expenditure Review in2003. Subsequently, the Bank continues to assist the Government
on key aspects of sound environmental policy as well as the institutional framework and capacity to
safeguard and manage environmental resources and impacts. For example, the Bank's ongoing and
proposed activities support piloting o f a system of pollution permits for large industrial enterprises and
increasesinpollutionfees. Moving forward inthe updated CAS, and supported bythe proposed DPL, the
Bank would assist the Government in its efforts to qualify for trading o f excess carbon units under the
Kyoto Protocol. By qualifying for carbon unit trading, Ukraine would have a mechanism in place to
measure and verify its carbon emissions, and strong incentives to reduce them while attracting significant
resources through the Greening Investments Scheme, which i s an international investment program for
that purpose. The Government and the Bank are also considering a proposed forestry and bio-diversity
project, which would invest in the planting o f trees to reduce Ukraine's net emissions and thereby
increase its excess carbon units.

I. BenefitsandRisks

97.      On balanceof the risks and benefits,the proposedDPL should significantlycontribute to a
sustainablegrowth path, greater social inclusion and lower poverty. The new Government inherited
significant risks. These risks are o f both a medium term nature associated with the extent to which the
                                                                 -
economy i s concentrated, influencedby external market developments, and imbalancedregionally, and o f
a short term nature - associated with inflationary pressures and a loosening o f the fiscal program before
the presidential elections. One o f the key benefits o f the DPL program, i s that it mitigates risks for the
Government. Early engagement with the Government through DPL-1provides a supportive mechanism
to implement actions which address the sources of these risks, and does so ina way which buildssupport
for reform elements inthe country. DPL-1 also provides an early signal o f support at a critical time for
the new Government as it tries to address inherited imbalances, tackle institutional weaknesses, and
implement reforms toward an EU standard o f life in the country. Through its focus on public financial
management, the loan will also support capacity building toward the use of country systems for Bank

                                                     30


investment operations.    DPL-1's design mitigates risks to the Bank. DPL is built on a medium term
program which may be supported in the future upon maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic
policy framework and good progress on policy and institutional reforms. Shouldprogress be slow, or the
macroeconomic policy framework inadequate, Bank support would be appropriately calibrated. The
paragraphs below outline the benefits and risks of the programinmore detail.

98.      Benefits: The proposed DPL would bringthree sets of significant benefits to Ukraine.

0 TheDPLprovidesavehiclefor policydialogandBankengagementwith the newGovernment.
Itprovides a mechanism for early and serious engagement with the Government on forward-looking core
priorities as well as to enhance dialogue with civil society at a crucial time. By engaging rapidly in the
first few months o f the new administration, DPL-1 would also convey a strong positive signal to the
financial markets and the internationalcommunity, thereby enhancing the credibility of the Government's
program. This would help the Government consolidate its efforts and make the most of reform
momentum.

0 By supporting continued reforms, the DPL program would enhance prospects for robust
growth over the medium term. These reforms would help to reduce Ukraine's vulnerability to internal
stagnation and/or extemal shocks. The loan proceeds would also provide non-inflationary lower-cost
financing to the Government to help meet its financing needs. DPL-1 provides a roadmap for policy and
institutional reforms, and encourages better policy coordination (including of macroeconomic policies).
The DPL program also improves the social situation with a focus on reducing poverty and
improving social inclusion. It provides more opportunities for middle and lower income households to
share inthe benefits o f economic development, inbothurban and rural areas. As part of this process, it i s
envisaged to help direct technical assistanceto areas ofneed.

0 TheproposedDPLprogramwouldperforma crucialrole inhelpingUkraine movetowardsits
EUaspirations,inthe context of the EUActionplan, which includes implementinginstitutionalreforms
necessaryunder the Acquis Communautaire.

Risks: The key risks for the program are political and economic.

Political

0 The primary political risk lies in the ability of the new administration to overcome political
resistance to reforms. Although political momentum from the presidential elections i s enabling the
administration to act with a decisive mandate, it still lacks a stable majority in Parliament. This could
leadto policy divisions between the administration and the legislature. This i s particularly an issue inthe
context o f the March 2006 Parliamentary elections, which will determine whether the reform program i s
consolidated with a renewedpublic mandate. The upcoming election will determine inlarge part which
parties within the governing coalition secure that mandate. Inaddition, the majority o f local executives
and legislative bodies in the Eastern regions, which have been generating the lion's share of Ukraine's
growth over the past four years, are dominated by opposition parties. This, combined with the possible
push back of oligarchic groups to the reform program, increases risks of smooth implementation of
reforms nationally.

0 The proposedprogrammaticnatureofBankengagement, aswell as the triggerslaidout inthe
CAS, mitigate this risk to the Bank. The DPL design also mitigates this risk, as it i s driven by a
strategy of diversifyingthe economy through an improved investment climate, reducing corruption and
increasing the quality and effectiveness o f the public sector, as well as by working along multiple avenues
(e.g., investment in human capital through better social programs, increased competition, stable
macroeconomics, and targeted poverty assistance) to include all o f Ukraine's population inthe benefits o f

                                                    31


economic growth.      Future operations will be undertaken only if satisfactory progress is made on
implementingthe Government's reformagenda.

Economic

0 After severalyears ofstronggrowth,fuelledbycapitalutilizationintraditional industries,high
commodity prices in the goods Ukraine exports, current account surpluses, and rapidly increasing
money demand, some of these positivefactors        - and  consequent growth of the economy, will likely
slow over the next few years. This is normal, expected, and in some ways healthy for the economy,
especially if it becomes more diversified, both interms of regional development, participation, the mix of
economic activity, and trade. But this cyclical evolution i s of concern, and it could undermine some o f
the potentialbenefits from this operation.

0 There is significantuncertaintyaboutthe extentto which shadow economic activity exists and
can be brought into the official economy. Current revenue assumptions are based upon formalization
o f the economy, and the attendant revenue increases from broadening o f the tax base and strengthened
governance, tax administration, and statistical accuracy. Given the difficulty of assessingthese accurately,
there i s a risk o f optimism undermining fiscal improvements. This needs close monitoring during
program implementation, even as early results have been encouraging. Ukraine's debt i s projected to
remain sustainable for the foreseeable future,providedbudgetsremainreasonably prudent.

0 Internal and external imbalances threaten macroeconomicstability, and the banking sector
remains vulnerable to shocks. Regaining macroeconomic balance can be best achieved by tighter and
well coordinated monetary and fiscal policies, and will be mitigated somewhat by automatic stabilizers.
Although the authorities have lately shown increasing awareness and responsiveness to them, coherency
of the macroeconomic policy framework needs to be strengthened. These risks are more specifically
outlined in detail in paragraph 16 o f this report. Strengthening financial conditions o f banks and their
supervisioni s envisaged as part of the DPLmeasures.

0 A significant slowdown of commodity demand growth, adverse weather conditions and/or
exchange rate fluctuations of regional trading partners can provide an output shock. While any of
these would present downside risks for the macroeconomic policy framework, the economy i s becoming
more resilient, the debt portfolio is more balanced, and the country i s showing improved capacity to
adjust trade flows.   Nevertheless, a combination o f shocks, particularly in concert with slow andor
incomplete policy implementation, would put substantial strains on the economy.               A continued
relationship with the IMF, and support o f the World Bank and other donors, remains extremely important
for Ukraine's medium to longrunhealth.

                                               32


                                           ANNEXES

Annex 1: Letter ofDevelopmentPolicy bythe Government ofUkraine
Annex 2: Development Policy LoanProgram Policy Matrix
                                          -
Annex 3: Medium-Term MacroeconomicProspects
Annex 4: Reducingthe Costs ofDoingBusiness inUkraine
Annex 5: Deepeningthe Financial Sector ThroughImprovedRegulation
Annex 6: Strengthening the Corporate Governanceofthe Large State-owned Enterprise
Annex 7: Statement of Loansand Credits
Annex 8: Country at a Glance

                                                 33


                                                                                       Annex 1



                                       Unofficial translation



       Letter of the GovernmentofUkraineto theWorldBankRegarding
                                    DevelopmentPolicies


       Dear Mr.Wolfensohn:

The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine sets great store by the possibility of cooperating with the
World Bank. We would appreciate if the World Bank supported our strategy of economic
reform, which is based on the vision o f the President of Ukraine o f prospects o f medium-term
development o f our country. We are firmly convinced that the World Bank's support for this
strategy of reformo fthe economy is the motive force to speed up the transformation processesin
Ukraine, Inview of this, we are hoping for your support and cooperation so as to continue our
partnership within the framework o f a new loan for development policy support (DPL.)

The first and second Programmatic Adjustment Loans have had an important influence on the
growth o f Ukraine's economy and poverty reduction amidst material progress in the following
areas: 1. paying off a backlog o f wage and pension arrears inthe public sector; 2. improving an
environment conducive to the conduct of business; 3. launching a large-scale land reform,
specifically the adoption o f the Land Code and subsidiary laws; 4. reforming the budget sphere
- budgetary process transparency has been enhanced and the Budget Code adopted; 5.
increasing capitalization, improving sustainability and transparency o f the banks and non-
bankingfinancial institutions ,including through better regulation; 6. approving new guidelines
for granting targeted social benefits; 7. approving the legal framework for a modern, three-pillar
pension system, 8. abolishing tax breaks and exemptions; and 9. taking steps toward reforming
public administration and civil service.

At the same time, the new Government has inherited an unbalanced economic system: (1) in
2004 the budget had a deficit of Hr 10.7 billion, the largest in recent years, or 3.1 percent of
GDP; (2) the inflationary processes intensified (the Consumer Price Index o f December 2004 vs
December 2003 was 112.3 percent); (3) the situation on the currency market and the banking
services market had recently gone through difficult period during the presidential election
process.

Inorder to speed up production activity and improve the financial and economic situation, the
Govemment succeeded in overcoming the resistance o f certain vested interests and passing a
series of important and complex decisions regarding amending the Law o f Ukraine On the State
Budget of Ukraine for 2005, aimed at: (1) improving the well-being of the population; (2)
developing a transparent competitive environment; and (3) accelerating the process o f Ukraine's
integration into the international community. Some specific achievements represented by the
revised budget include (1) maintaining a low and sustainable level of the budget deficit, (2)

                                                   34


financing the pensions increased in 2004, (3) raising public sector salaries and gradual
differentiation o f salary scales for civil servants o f different categories, (4) eliminating almost all
remaining tax privileges, (5) increasing excise taxes on alcohol and tobacco, (6) increasingrents
on natural resource extractions, and (7) conducting tighter dividend policy toward major part o f
state owned enterprises.      In related moves, steps have been taken to reduce import tariffs,
eliminate tax evasion, and improve customs at the border.               This includes the Cabinet o f
Minister's issued "Contraband Stop" program to improve the customs process. Steps are also
beingtaken to stop shadow payment transactions through offshore zones.

Our early efforts resulted in accelerated growth o f real incomes o f population during the first
quarter o f this year (23.4% for January-March 2005 compared to 10.6% for January-March
2004),

As a result o f a widening o f the tax base and better tax compliance, not an increase intax rates,
for the first four months o f the year, tax revenues have increased by 34.6% innominal terms, and
15.7% in real terms over a comparable period o f 2004. The state budget is currently in surplus
(of UAH 2.9 billion, or 3.7 percent o f GDP in the first quarter o f 2005), and the Government
remains committed to meeting our deficit target for the year.

Inorder to address inflationary pressures, the Government andNational Bank of Ukraine have
been working at stabilizing the price situation inthe country. The Government has taken some
steps to discourage price gouging, cartel and monopoly behavior o f sellers, particularly in the
meat and fuel markets.        While some o f these steps go against our principles o f market
liberalization o f the country, as short term measures in the face o f market breakdowns, we
believe they are appropriate. However, especially we recognize that in order for farmers to
invest in agriculture, they must benefit from high price periods as well as manage when prices
are low. Moving forward, will take action to liberalize market, attract new entry, and allow
competition to help keep prices at reasonable levels for consumers.

The NBU, recognizing that further rapid increases inmoney supply can generate more inflation,
has already taken action toward liberalizing the currency market. It has also increased reserve
requirements to commercial banks and strengthened position o f the national currency to UAH
5.05 to U S dollar

We are aware o f the need for continued consolidation o f these reforms through focusing on the
restoration o f a macroeconomic equilibrium, enhancing fiscal discipline in the public sector,
promoting the business environment and creating conditions for attracting foreign investments.
We intend to pave the way for Ukraine's accession to the WTO, increase the protection o f
ownership rights in the rural economy, introduce a more efficient welfare system, enhance
transparency o f the privatization process and continue enhancing transparency o f the budgetary
processes. We intend to reduce the rate o f poverty inUkraine, especially inrural areas where it
is highest.

This letter contains the position o f the Cabinet o f Ministers o fUkraine on future institutional and
structural reforms under the Development Policy Support Loan. This letter (for the DPL period)
is inline with the more general reform strategy set forth inthe Action Program o f the Cabinet o f

                                                 35


Ministers o f Ukraine Toward the People (attached herewith) and the Ukraine-EU Action Plan,
which describe the priorities and key areas o f Ukraine's economic policies, both internal and
external, in 2005 through 2009, as well as with the President o f Ukraine Decree On the Priority
Areas o f Activities of the Cabinet o fMinisters o fUkraine in2005.

The relevant medium-term objectives plannedby the Government are as follows:

    e   securing macroeconomic stability, competitiveness o f the economy and its resistance to
        negative external and internal factors;
    0   improving the investment climate;
    0   radically strengthening the social content o f reforms andbalancing social assistance with
        the volume o f resources. Reforming the humanitarian sphere, above all education and
        healthcare;
    e   reforming the management systems;
    0   bringinglegislation into consistency with EUstandards andpromotingnational interests
        inconditions o fglobalization.

        In order to successfully work toward achieving the objectives set, the Cabinet o f
        Ministers intends to carry on consultations with the civil society and increase its
        involvement in decision-making and assessment o f its activities, broaden economic
        freedoms and continue liberalization o f the national economy as well as provide more
        economic freedom to the regions.


Representatives o f the Cabinet o f Ministers and the World Bank worked together developing the
activities associated with DPL that are intune with the priorities and objectives o f the Cabinet o f
Ministers for 2005 -2006. The benchmarks describing the progress o f DPL activities are
summarized in the Matrix of Institutional and Political Results (attached.) Inaddition to the
underlying process o f restoring a sound and resilient economic framework, these proposed
benchmarks measure specific results o f reforms and are grouped by three areas that correspond
to the most important directions of planned institutional transformations. Among these are the
following: (a) investment climate reform, (b) public administration reform, and (c) socially
oriented reforms.

Implementing this Program requires financial support so as to ensure macroeconomic stability,
notably budget equilibration in the reform period. Such financial support can be provided under
the DPL. Also, in order to successfully carry out its Action Program, the Cabinet o f Ministers
needs: (1) assistance in making a fimctional diagnosis o f major government ministries, (2)
prompt technical aid and analytic support, assistance inthe area o f institutional capacity building
and staff training, and (3) professional advice on coordination o f political activities that are
carried out byministries and other central bodies o f executivepower. The Cabinet o f Ministers is
prepared to make its contribution to this process and ensure that all resources available with us
will be used. We are looking to the World Bank for support in the form o f permanent
consultations, coordination of efforts in providing donor technical aid and assistance in
institutional capacity building.

                                                36


                       Restoring the Principles of Macroeconomic Stability

Addressing the problems o f an unbalanced budget and inflationary pressure that have recently
arisen is one o f the mainpriorities o f the Government o f Ukraine. The macroeconomic basis will
then be strengthened through adjusting monetary policies and exchange rate policies, imposing
more stringent budget restrictions, eliminating uncertainty and excessive complexity in tax
assessment and adopting clearer principles o f government borrowing. As part o f this effort, we
highlightthe following issues.

    (a) The Government intends to implement the 2005 Budget and develop a 2006 budget which
        helps Ukraine meet the objectives o f the Government program. This includes making
        sure that, the budget remains consistent with available financial resources, represents a
        reduced burden on the business community andpopulation, and executes more efficiency
        inthe use ofpublic funds. Provided the revenue side of the budget is not executed, the
        Government i s ready to take respective actions to change the situation to ensure the
        budget execution is within its deficit target, since the first responsibility o f the
        Government, andmost important one with respect to poverty reduction inparticular, is to
        ensure a strong and stable economy. In 2006, the public wage to GDP ratio will not
        increase, but efforts will be made to increase salaries o f the most valuable public servants
        by achieving greater efficiency.       Significant steps will be taken to improve VAT
        processing and thereby reduce VAT refund arrears, without allowing an increase in tax
        evasion. Moving forward, the Government will develop, and submit to the Verkhovna
        Rada o f Ukraine, changes to tax legislation for relieving the tax burden. In 2006, the
        consolidated budget deficit will be decreasing further as a share o f GDP. At the same
        time, efforts to rationalize recurrent expenditures will make it possible to increase the
        capital expenditures share o f the budget in an effort to address the critical infrastructural
        needs o f Ukraine.

    (b) The Government will conduct economic policy in close cooperation and coordination
        with the National Bank o f Ukraine. For instance, the Government will, with the National
        Bank o f Ukraine, will work to ensure that inflationary pressures are reduced. The NBU
        will pursue monetary policy inline with the task o f slowing down inflationary processes,
        as well as prudent exchange rate policies, at the same time providing more volatility for
        the basic exchange rate vs. the U S dollar, while working toward continued gradual
        strengthening o f the national currency.

    (c) As o f today, considerable accumulation o f VAT refund arrears have occurred, and the
        reasons o f it lay in the year 2004. First, the risk assessment based corridor system was
        only a pilot, and so far is not sufficiently adapted to implement for all claimants. Also, it
        allowed using the VAT administration system to defer the VAT refunds by putting
        companies into the red corridor. Second, Ukraine's legislation calls for all refunds to be
        conducted within 20 days, yet now the State Tax Administration lacks the capacity to
        implement this decision without allowing tax evasion on a potentially massive scale. As
        a result of it, as well as a stocktaking of the arrears inherited from the previous
        government, the VAT refund arrears as o f April 1,2005 constitute UAH 1.6 billion. The
        Government will take steps to significantly improve the situation already in 2005 by

                                                37


       working to eliminate the above mentioned problems, particularly by improving the
       overall VAT administration, including improvement of the corridors system. Inorder to
       do that, the Government would like to work with the World Bank through the State Tax
       Service Modernization Project, and seek additional technical assistance as appropriate.
       As part o fthisprocess, the Government has apolicy of openness with regard to provision
       o f general tax information. Through this process, the STA will significantly reduce the
       stock of tax arrears on VAT as a ratio to the quarterly flow o f claims, as reflected inthe
       DPL policy matrix. Moving forward, the Government will promote in legislation to
       streamline tax administration inthe Verkhovna Rada.

   (d) The Government will continue to strengthen budget restrictions: (i)     prohibiting mutual
       offsets and undertaking not to make a new write-off o f tax debts outside o f special cases
       agreed with the Verkhovna Rada (such as through the proposed debt restructuring law o f
       the energy sector), (ii)reducing a backlog o f tax arrears and budgetary payment arrears,
       and(3)taking additional measuresto dulypay for energy supplies.

   (e) We will carry on the practice o f holding quarterly seminars on macroeconomic
       forecasting at the Ministryo f Economy for the purpose of exchanging informationamong
       the major forecasting agencies, both governmental and nongovernmental research
       organizations and international financial institutions, thereby improving the reliability
       andquality ofmacroeconomicprojections that are included inthe budget.

   (f) We will approve a debt strategy for cost reduction and risk management, which will
       include relevant regulation o f local andquazi-budget borrowings.

   (8) We will endeavor to complete the reform of the tax system, with particular emphasis on
       further reform of the VAT system and excises, and eventually basing them in a new tax
       code, as well as completing the reform o fthe social insurance system so that payrolltaxes
       canbereduced and thus represent less o f aburden onbusinesses and workers.


                               InvestmentClimateImprovement

Urgent and substantial changes are required in order to improve business climate in Ukraine.
Efforts should be supplemented by provision o f basic services, which will ensure economic
growth combined with improvedsocial protection.
With the purpose to improve investment climate there are required urgent changes on
establishment o f constructive dialogbetween the authorities andthe investors. Itwill be achieved
through the following.
   (a) Deregulation o f business activity and provision o f reliable protection o f the right o f
       private ownership. Actions will include radical simplification o f the procedures on
       business activity initiation, increasing the number o f business activities, which may be
       carried out without issuing o f permits and licenses, limitation o f the number o f
       controlling bodies and clear identification o f their functions, liberalization o f tax
       inspection o f those subjects of business activity, who are conscientious taxpayers. Over
       time, the Government will ensure the compliance with the Law of Ukraine on the State

                                             38


   Regulatory Policy. This i s especially so in the part related to conducting regulatory
   assessment and publishing its results before registration o f any act in the Ministry o f
   Justice, In order to make early progress and give a strong signal o f the Government's
   good intensions to the business community, a list o f the 10 worst offending regulations
   for the doing business will be agreed with the World Bank and the Cabinet o f Ministers,
   andthen promptly removed.
(b) The Ukrainian Agency for Promotion o fForeign Investmentwill be established and start
   operating.
(c) The Government will take actions to prevent settlement o f accounts through off-shore
   zones. The Government will also proceed with general de-monopolization o f some
   economic sectors, improvement of corporate governance practice andreform o f corporate
   governance legislation (adoption o f the Law on Joint Stock Companies and Amendments
   to the Law o f Ukraine On Securities and Stock Market, which improve legal framework
   o f corporate governance and securitization), as well as step-by-step application o f Base1
   principles on crediting o f related persons andessential participation.
(d) Reforms in fuel and energy sector will be carried out by timely implementation of the
    Cabinet o f Minister's comprehensive plan to bring enterprises o f the fuel and energy
   complex to financial solvency and attract investment. Among other actions, this plan
   calls for (1) reduction o f cross subsidization through the tariff system, (2) adoption o f the
   law on energy debt restructuring, (3) energy tariffs approach to cost recovery level, (4)
    further progress on electricity cash collections, (5) steps to improve the financial
   performance o f large state-owned energy enterprises, (6) and establishing conditions for
   privatization o f separate enterprises. The Government will also work to take advantage
   o f excess power generation capacity, and Ukraine's beneficial location vis-a-vis
   European trading partners where power sells at a higher price than it currently does in
   Ukraine. To do this, the Government will work with the World Bank to develop a
   concept for legal and technical harmonization o f the Ukraine energy sector with the main
   principles o f the EUInternal Energy Market.       .
(e) The law strengthening (administrative and financial) independence and accountability of
   the regulatory body for electricity, will be enacted andobserved.
(f) The Government will submit a Privatization Program for 2005-2008 to the Verkhovna
   Rada and initiate it as a strategic planto further transform property and increase private
   participation in the economy.       At the same time, the Government has expressed its
   concerns about the non-transparent nature o f some past privatizations inUkraine and will
   continue to consider violations within the legal framework. A renewed privatization
   process will be launched after the March 2006 parliamentary election, though the
   Government plans to promote a new privatization program through the Verhkovna Rada
   already in2005.
(g) Information and communication technologies (IKT) will be utilized inorder to speed-up
   global economy approximation, improve management and services provision.                   The
   National Strategy on IKT Development will be published. Steps have recently been taken
   to establish an independent communications regulatory body, including passage o f the
   necessary legislation (The Law on Telecommunications), appointment o f the head o f the
   body and its commissioners, and providing a budget for the regulator as part o f Budget

                                            39


   2005. The specific steps envisagedmoving forward inthe reform o f telecommunications
   inparticular include rebalancingtariffs, developingproceduresonallocation offrequency
   resources and their transparent division. The Government will develop a mobile
   communication development concept, in particular issuing o f new licenses and
   development o f fair principles of operators relationship.
(h) Improvement of the court reform will be carried out. Specifically, we will introduce a
   registry for court decisions and ensure access to it. Reforming Ukraine's judiciary i s an
   area o fhighest priority. The government is committed to improving governance, reducing
   corruption, and spurring economic growth andprivate sector development. An inefficient
   judicial system threatens to remain a major constraint. Priorities include more rigorous
   judicial selection and training, a stronger I T network (which would facilitate the sharing
   o f laws and regulations, the publicationof rulings, and the random assignment o f cases to
   judges), andpublic outreach to informcitizens about their legal rights.
(i)Wewilldevelopandimplementaunifiedregistryoflandandrealestatewithinasingle
    agency, incorporating both the legal description and the map-basedproperty description
    of the land and real estate being registered. Moving beyond this, the Government will
    work on development of landand property relations, including through promotion of the
    Law of Ukraine "On LandMarket" and introductiono f amendments to the Land Code o f
    Ukraine, inpart related to cancellation o fthe moratoriumon agricultural land sale.
(i) Further on mortgage development, in particular adoption of a Law of Ukraine "On
    mortgage bonds". The Government will provide its utmost support to (i)            harmonizing
    Ukrainian legislation with the provisions o f the Law on Mortgage (July 2003), (ii)
    developing efficient single Register for registration o f the real estate title and mortgages;
    (iii)establishing adequatelegal framework for the issue andcirculationoflow risk
    mortgage securities compliant with best international practices; and (iv) continue working
    on the development o f a comprehensive regulatory framework for mortgage finance.
(k) The Government plans to advocate prompt enactment of the respective amendments to
    the Law on Banks and Banking to improve both the legal framework regulating banking
    activities, as well as to firther develop the capacity o f NBU in the area o f banking
    supervision. These amendments will include, inter-alia, (1) the creation of an adequate
    framework for corporate governance and risks management o f banks, (2) disclosure o f
    information about banks' real, including beneficial, owners; (3) enforcement of
    limitations for related parties transactions; and (4) the legal basis to move toward
    comprehensive consolidated supervision o f banking and financial groups according to
    internationally comparative standards. In doing so, the amended Law on Banks and
    Banking, and other respective legal revisions, will endeavor to reinforce the role and
    responsibilities o f banks' external auditors and their cooperation with the banking
    supervision. The National bank o f Ukraine also plans to improve supervision and apply
    adequate sanctions to problem banks. This i s intendedto minimize the fiscal and social
    cost associated with potential banking failures, as well as to prevent contagion for the
    banking sector as a whole. Importantly, appropriate legal protectionwill be provided to
    supervisors andofficials implementingthe above enforcement andresolution actions.
(1) We will improve legal and regulatory environment in order to improve regulation and
    supervision for the capital markets and non-banking financial institutions through (1)

                                                  40


        strengthening institutional capacity and regulatory powers o f the State Securities and
        Stock Market Commission and State Commission for Regulation o f Financial Services
        Markets, which will envisage elimination o f barriers for adequate operational and
        financial independence, staff development, accountability and legal protection, IT
        development, and adoption of the amendment to the Law o f Ukraine "On Financial
        Services and State Regulation o f Financial Services Market"; (2) comprehensive concept
        o f development and rehlation o f insurance market is enacted, introduction o f prudential
        requirements compliant with MIS, improvement o f corporate governance, improved
        transparency and solvency o f non-banking financial institutions, improved insurance
        services consumer protection.
    (m)Under the principles of, (1) simplifying the tax system, (2) stabilizing the tax system and
        making it more transparent, (3) reducing tax rates and increasing the tax base, and (4)
        improving tax administration, the Government will continue to work toward a modem
        and efficient tax system, supported by modem tax legislation. As noted above, the next
        step envisaged in this process, i s among the most important - adoption of the legislature
        on streamlining tax administration and consolidation of the progress by adoption and
        enactment o f the Tax Code.


                                   PublicAdministrationReform

The main purpose o f administrative reform i s the establishment o f a system o fpublic
management, which will correspond to the standards o f democratic jural state, to needs and
requirements o f all citizens.
The government system will be transformed through replacement o f direct branch and functional
management by the development andimplementation o fthe state policy inthe corresponding
areas, The government is responsible for implementation o frights and freedom o fthe citizens,
attraction o fbroadpublic masses to formation o f government policy and establishment o f a
system o fpublic control over the activity o f central and local bodies o f executivepower. It is
necessary to implement the following steps.
  (a) The Government will revise the structure o f corporative management at large state
      enterprises by (1) specification and strengthening o f legal basis conceming rights o f
      ownership and control, (2) appointment o f managers according to standards, which will
      provide high qualification o f candidates and prevent conflict o f interests, (39 revision o f
      engagement and remuneration policy, in order to make stimulation correspond the desired
      results, (4) introduction o f control over branch establishments, (5) increase o f requirements
      to accounting, audit and reporting, and (6) putting clear goals in the context o f nationally
      approved and published branch strategies, (7) establishment o f an efficient system for
      financial plans o f enterprises approval.
  (b) Within the civil service reform, these steps envisaged to develop the civil service high
      ranked staff. Criteria will be developed for hiring high ranked officials. The personnel
      management in the system of civil service will be strengthened, including role and
      responsibilities of human resource departments in the areas related to selection o f the
      candidates, assessment of job performance, career planning, educational opportunities, and
      motivation of civil servants. Also the Government plans to (1) reform the system o f

                                                 41


      remuneration for the civil service based on the unification of the wage structure; (2)
      develop the transparent design o f the base salaries based on the new classification o f the
      civil servants; and (3) reform system o f the professional training o f civil servants to
      approach the needs of the modem public administration. These steps will be reflected in
      legal acts developed for implementation o fthe Law ofUkraine "On the Civil Service".
 (c) To put special bodies o f executive power (State customs service, State tax administration,
      Control and Revision Board and Derzhspozhyvstandart) under supervision of the
      corresponding bodies in the Government in order to improve the system o f public
      administration andinformationexchange.
 (d) The Government plans to modernize the system of public finance funds management
      (purchases, intemal financial audit andsupervision, andextemal highest audit) according to
      EUpractice, andto extend the coverageof sucha systemto all earnings andexpensesat all
      government levels. For instance, adoption o f the Strategy of Institutional Development o f
      Public Procurement System for medium term and decreasing share o f single source
      procedures from 20% to 15% will be undertaken by end-2007. The plan of the public
      procurement harmonization with EU norms i s to be adopted. In the field o f intemal
      financial control, the Government will implementthe Concept o f IntemalFinancialControl
      andAudit adoptedinMay2005.
 (e) The Government will facilitate crossing Ukrainian frontiers by simplification of
      procedures, necessaryfor control at check points..


Radical Strengthening of Reforms Social Orientation, Balancing of Social Compensations
                                  with the Amount of Resources

The Government will take drastic measures in order to make public expenses adequate to the
needs of the population. The standards o f public services provision are out of date and
conflicting, social assistance i s not addressed and local authorities, which provide the greatest
part of services and assistance, have insufficient resources and capability. Inthis effort, steps
will be taken to attract the input o f public opinion during the development o f the policy as well
as to provide accountability ofthe government of all levels. Key steps envisaged are as follows:
  (a) The Government will publish a national strategy, which will make the system o f public
      assistancemore oriented for overcoming of poverty. Also, the Concept of Social Policy in
      Ukraine will be developed and adopted. This Concept will cover fields of healthcare,
      education and communal issues. The draft Resolution o f the Cabinet o f Ministers on
      Approval of the Concept on improvement o f legislation in the area o f privileges provision
      will be elaborated. The national computer-aided register of persons, who according to the
       legislation have the right for public privileges i s supposed to be finalized by the end o f
       2005. Based on the register there will be a personified accounts system o f actual provision
       o f privilegedservices to the population. The Government will form a unified, transparent
       and efficient system of privileges financing, including unified norms for privileges
      provision, and also possibility to cash out privilegeper recipient request. It must be noted
      that actions o f the government concerning improvement o f the system of privileges
      provision are taken with accounting of negative experience o f N I S countries, inparticular
       Russian Federation.

                                                  42


(b) The Government plans to reform the social insurance system. Social insurance payments
   will be adequately financed throughresources accumulated as a result o f economic growth.
   The efficiency o f the current mechanism of social insurance funds management will be
    improved due to introduction o f unified system o f collection and registration o f social
    insurance fund payments. This will reduce costs and help create the basis to reduce payroll
    taxes.
(c) The national discussion on decentralization i s to be held, in order to start solving the
   problem of regional imbalance, to consider the opportunity o f provision larger powers to
    local communities and authorities in relation to resources management, administrative
    rights and accountability mechanisms for efficient provision o f public services. As first
    steps, (1) to improve the system o f transfers on the basis o f formula approach, (2) to
   identify additional opportunities for local authorities to get income and to secure
    administrating o f physical persons income tax on the basis o f the place o f residence, and
    (3) to clarify the rules o f division o f long-term investmentgrants and local loans. Later on,
   to introduce the system o f incentives for efficient fulfillment o f strategic tasks in a system
   o f inter-budget transfers combinedwith further on decentralizationo f tax authorities.
(d) The Government will ensure further development obligatory state pension system and
    creation o f accumulation pension system. We will attempt to ensure financial stability o f
    the pension system. The pension expenditures will be decreasing as a share of GDP while
    the pension system will move towards balanced state. The complex reform o f the social
    insurance system will be carried out by creating the unified system o f collection and
    registration o fpayments andintroduction o f single social fundpayment.
(e) The Government will resolve the problem o f poverty o f population, living in rural area,
    including through implementation o f landreform, which provides for creation o f conditions
    for functioning o f land market, as well as implementation o f mechanisms for crediting on
   the security o f landplots owned by farmers. The creation o f the registry for land and real
    estate, and the financial sector steps which can create the basis for tradability o f land, are
    intended to benefit one o f the poorest groups in Ukraine - working rural families and
    landholders. Toward this end, an information campaign has already been launched, and
    will be expanded, to informrural workers andlandownerso f their rights and opportunities.
(f) The Government commits to establish conditions for public consultations on local budgets
    issues, to create conditions where local groups o f civil society can take their own steps to
    improve accountability in the use o f public funds, such as through the establishment o f
    ``public accounting cards" on quality o f services provision at local level, andlor
    introduction of social programs value monitoring system, which could be applied for
    comparisonthroughout participating localities across the whole country.
(g) There is an effort to adopt the national health protection reform strategy and to revise the
   national education reform strategy. The health reform strategy will envisage structural
   reform o f the health sector which will increase effectiveness, quality and accessibility o f
   health services available to the public. Inorder to provide population with accessible and
    quality medical assistance there will be broader use o f family doctors, and re-stressing the
   primary healthcare in the financing o f the healthcare in general.            The Government
   envisaged gradual introduction o f the obligatory medical insurance as component o f the
   reform strategy, and is ready to support the creation o f a voluntary system o f medical

                                                43


     insurance, however, doing so in a way which does not increase the tax burden on workers
     or businesses. By June 2006 the Government will adopt the new National TB Strategy
     endorsed by the World Health Organization. The Government intends to provide equal
     access to quality education, support to innovation, and conditions to use Internet in
     educational institutions will be created. A unified testing system for higher educational
     institutionswill be introduced, the computer corporate education networks will be created,
     and integration into the world scientific educational system and innovation will be
     facilitated.


    EUApproximationofAll Systems, ProvisionofNationalInterestsinConditionsof
                                          Globalization

Try to obtain quick granting to Ukraine the status o f a country with market economy, to
accelerate WTO membership, to move towards agreements on free trade, to provide benefits o f
Kyoto Protocol.
 (a) The Government will accelerate entry into the WTO by taking concrete steps be strengthen
     the position of Ukraine through, (1) harmonization o f the national legislation with the
     requirements o f WTO agreements, (2) adoption and publication o f remaining technical
     procedures compliant with the EU "New Approach", (3) taking necessary steps for
     enactment of WTO and EUcompliant legislation on sanitary and phyto-sanitary standards;
     (4) solving the problem of privileges, which are granted to home producers in motor-car
     industry, (3) approval of amendments to the laws with the purpose to improve legal
     protection o f intellectual property rights in relation to licensing o f CD-ROM production,
     export (import) and matrixes for their production, and further harmonization of the national
     legislation with the statements of TRIPS agreement, and (4) recognition of goods, which
     have international certificates, without requiringadditional domestic certification.
 (b) The obligations will be taken to implement the Action Plan Ukraine-EU within the
     framework o f European Union Neighborhood Policy. The Government plans to further
     develop its relationship with European Union, to attract technical assistance and to move
     towards institutional harmonization with the purpose to attract investments, technologies
     andopen access to EUmarkets.
 (c) In the context of preparatory steps to moratorium on state enterprises bankruptcy
     cancellation and actual progress in privatization processes andjudicial system reform, try
     to obtain recognition from EUandthe USA as a country with market economy.
 (d) The Government will promote the strategy of regional trade integration under condition
     that no agreements contradict to WTO membership (e.g., customs unions with countries,
     which are not WTO members).
 (e) To use considerable benefits provided by Kyoto Protocol, which came into effect in
     February2005. The Government has already taken the initial steps to qualify for trading of
     excess carbon units under the Kyoto Protocol. By qualifying for carbon unit trading,
     Ukraine will have a mechanism in place to measure and verify its carbon emissions. By
     doing this, we will be inaposition to trade excess carbon units andreceive co-financing for
     carbon saving investments through the Greening Investments Scheme.

                                                 44



                                               Risks

The Cabinet o f Ministers ofUkraine is firm inimplementation o f the stated inthis letter Reform
Program as well as in acceleration of institutional changes, which will bring to considerable
improvement of economic situation in the country. However there exist risks, which may
become apparent duringthis program implementation, namely:

        0  Refusal of Verkhovna Rada to pass laws, which are decisive for Reform Program. In
order to reduce this risk the Cabinet o f Ministers of Ukraine will constantly cooperate with
Verkhovna Rada;
        0  Not sufficient public support. Inorder to reduce this risk the Cabinet o f Ministers o f
Ukraine will constantly cooperate with public organizations;
           Worsening of external economic situation, especially from extemal shocks.           The
Government will protect against this by taking steps to strengthen the macroeconomic policy
fkamework and diversify production andtrading partners.

                               DPL Coordination andMonitoring

From the very beginning of the Development Policy Loan Assistance (DPL) Project the Cabinet
o f Ministers supports the transparency o f decision-making process and establishes the
mechanism ofpublic consultations.
For DPA control and preparation there will be established an Interdepartmental Coordination
Council, which will coordinate the activity o f ministries anddepartments.
The Cabinet o f Ministers o f Ukraine will make every effort to achievement o f DPL Project
results. By active attraction o f public and different kinds o f polling it is planned to develop a
monitoringmechanism inorder to monitor the implementationof DPLrequirements.
This letter was prepared in cooperation with representatives o f public organizations, who
participated inthe work o f a task force, responsible for the letter drawing.
We expect that openmechanism ofcooperationbetween the Cabinet ofMinisters o fUkraine and
the population will provide successful implementation o f DPLprogram measures.
According to the decision o f the Cabinet o f Ministers o f Ukraine the Ministry of economy i s
appointed to be Implementation Body within the framework o f DPL Project. (Signed copy is
available on file).

.    -
0


a
a
R

+-
Bm

4
Q


      s


      m
      B



0
v,    3
      $0
      c
      0
      m
      c)
      m
      cu
      0

    2
    a




r-



r

    0s C C l Q
       o m

k
!i
w

c
$
.n
v)
3v1
I

.n
 m
0
P
c
w
P
m
L8
B0
C




c
*n
 v)

a3
 m
3E
 90


2
a n


c
 w
 v1

aw
c
 $
 v1
 3
CI
 0
aQ)
i
'Fl
 9
 L
 0
 0
 a
 a4

c
9
 0
 w
i!
 L

 $
9a2a,ii-
 c..
c3

1
mi?
.n
I
g0
 Q)




 C
 Be
 E




c7
-


                                                   54


                                                                                                  Annex 3



                          Medium-TermMacroeconomicProspects


1.    This annex outlines macroeconomic prospects assuming implementation of the DPL program and
establishment, at least by 2006, of a more clearly sound macroeconomic policy framework. The starting
point of this forecast - the year of 2005 - is inmany regards the tumingpoint for the development of the
Ukrainian economy. Economic performance i s expected to be affected by closing stages o f the sources of
recent rapid growth, combined with a transition from the previous insider economy to greater openness
and transparency. Recent economic growth in Ukraine was based on undiversified, but strong export
growth, from sectors controlled by financial industrial groups which operated through informal relations
and special privileges. Utilization of excess capacity intraditional industrial sectors, and external factors,
particularly, highworld commodity prices inthe goods Ukraine exports, help drive growth over the past
four years. Inthe context of the reform program o f the new Govemment, the economy i s expected to
diversify through creation o f abetter investment and continued strong business entry. Key factors toward
this objective include Wher tax reform, better public administration, deregulation, delineation and
protection of property rights, better corporate governance, and improved financial sector regulation. This
should result infurther reduction o f quasi-fiscal activity and more investment, both foreign and domestic.
The structural reforms to be implemented, such as creation of more fiscal space for infrastructural
development, are expected to help facilitate the consumer and business services consistent with more
moderate, but continued strong economic growth.
2.    Real sector. Over the mediumterm, Bank Staff expects that after the peak o f the cyclical growth in
2004, the economy will grow at a slower pace, at around 5.5 percent per year. Investment growth i s
expected to decline considerably in 2005, and be strong at an average annual rate o f growth higher than
10 percent by at least 2007, based increasinglyon FDIinflows. The agricultural sector will grow at about
6 percent per year in 2005-2008, with upward potential depending on the pace o f further market
liberalization and landreform. The industrial growth i s forecasted to continue and diversify as a result o f
better investment climate, and decelerating o f the world commodity prices pace o f growth. On the
demand side, the key factors underlyingthese assumptions are the following:
         a. The terms o f trade will grow less favorably over time, as international prices for key
        Ukrainian exports (metals and chemicals) will not keep the pace o f growth in2003-2004;
        b. Inflationary pressures are expected to lead to a more restrictive monetary policy, and more
        prudent exchange rate policy. After the hryvna appreciation in April 2005, as a reaction to large
         current account surplus, inflationary pressures are expected to lessen gradually, and get back to
         single digits by 2007;
         c. Fiscal policy i s expected to tighten after the Parliamentary election year, of 2006, and
        potentially earlier should revenue performance be weaker than expected and/or should the
        Authorities perceive inflationary pressuresdemand a fiscal policy downward adjustment.
3.    Growth will be largely consumption driven in 2005-2006 due to the social orientation o f fiscal
policy, expected in the context of the upcoming parliamentary election. Fiscal policy is expected to
substantially adjust by 2007, including a relative public investment increase in the composition of
expenditures. Positive signals from the IFIs, continued macro-growth, and a better investment climate are
expected to encourage foreign and domestic investors alike.
4.    External position. The current account surplus reached a record o f 10.4 percent o f GDP in 2004.
Itis expected to decline significantly over comingyears, as the country purchasesmore capital goods and

                                                      55


financial services, and as the commodity prices of Ukraine's exports level off. Resource balance will
decline considerably, due to slow down trend in export growth all the way through 2007, followed by a
more diversified come back starting in 2008. The forecasted current account balance will decline to 5.4
percent of GDP in2005, and then gradually go into small deficit by 2008. Capital inflows are expected to
remain relatively strong. National Bank foreign exchange reserves are expected to continue to increase to
5 months o f merchandise imports in 2005, and 6.5 in 2008. However, this projection i s especially
tentative, depending on monetary policy steps necessary to control inflation, and the pace of change of
Ukraine's resource balance. FDIi s expected to pickupreachingUSD3.2 billion in2007.
5.     The external creditworthiness. From 2000 to 2004 Moody's steadily upgraded Ukraine's
Sovereign Domestic currency rating from Caa3 to B1. Eurobond spreads are now around 237 basis points
above LIBOR as o f April 2005. Over the past year, StandardandPoor's has consistently rankedUkraine-
focused emergingmarket funds inthe top quartile ofperformance.
6.     Given the estimated 5.5 percent average real GDP growth, slow real appreciation o f the currency,
and a few more years of current account surpluses, the total debt to GDP ratio i s projected to decline to
19.2 and debt service to GDP to 5.7 percent of GDP by 2008. With regardto the IFI's share of the debt
portfolio, preferred creditor debt to total debt i s expected to gradually decline to 18.9 percent in 2008.
The share of IBRD debt in the total debt is expected to increase over time, but not excessively. The
Govemment is expected to continue follow a strategy o f decreasing the share of extemal debt in total
debt.
7.     Fiscal position. Though the budget execution in the first quarter of 2005 i s promising, the fiscal
situation for 2005 still raises concems. The fiscal deficit i s expected to reach 3.8 percent o f GDP in2005,
and decline only modestly inthe budget o f 2006, primarily due to pressures preceding the parliamentary
elections o f 2006. Starting 2007, fiscal policy i s expected to become tighter, decreasing the fiscal deficit
to slightly higher than 2 percent o f GDP in 2008. After the boost in pension spending to just under 15
percent of GDP in2005, the share o f pension spending in GDP i s projected to decrease by 1percent per
year through 2007. Public wages and salaries are expected to stay constant as a ratio to GDP. While the
share of Govemment revenues are expected to increases significantly in 2005, the Government's medium
term program calls for a broader tax base and lower tax rates, along with a downsizing of the public
sector. Thus, revenues are expected to fall by at least 2 percent o f GDP by 2008. Also, after the year
2006, it i s expected that there will be a shift in the structure o f the budget towards public investment to
address better infrastructural needs o f the country.      Along with that, infrastructure investments are
expected to be helpedby increasedpublic-private partnership.
8.     Money and inflation. After nominal appreciation o f Ukrainian currency from UAH/USD 5.25 to
5.05 in April 2005, we expect the National Bank o f Ukraine to maintain a relatively stable, slightly
appreciating, real exchange rate, gradually switching to inflation targeting.         However, some further
revaluationmay benecessary in2005. The considerable budget deficit in2004, the consumption oriented
budget of 2005, and limited prospects for drastic improvements in 2006, along with the emerging
bottlenecks in some sectors as the economy continues to rapidly growth, will create inflationary pressures
whichneedto be watched closely. The NationalBank of Ukraine has started to cut the rate of real money
growth. Real money growth i s expected however as long as money demand remains strong. Growth o f
the GDP deflator i s expected to exceed 16 percent in 2005, but then is projected to slow down, coming
back to single digits in 2007. The NBU will continue to focus on lowering real interest rates while
strengtheningthe banking system through better bank and non-bank financial regulation, and continued
improvements inauditing and accountingpractices.

                                                   56



Ukraine: MainEconomicIndicators

                                                      2005     2006     2007     2008

               Real Growth Rate

GDP                                                   7.0%     6.0%     5.5%     5.5%
Private Consumption                                   9.4%     9.0%     5.9%     4.3%

Inflation                                            16.5%     10.1%    7.1%     5.5%

Exports (GNFS)                                        5.8%     4.6%     5.0%     6.1%
Imports (GNFS)                                       11.6%     10.0%    8.3%     5.6%

                   As % GDP

Exports                                              53.9%     48.0%    44.2%    42.6%
Imports                                              50.5%     47.9%    46.1%    45.0%
Resource Balance                                      3.5%     0.0%     -1.9%    -2.4%
Current Account                                       5.4%     1.9%     0.1%     -0.6%

Domestic Savings                                     21.8%     19.2%    18.7%    18.7%
Fixed Investment                                     18.9%     19.2%    20.5%    21.1%
  olw:Public                                          1.1%     1.7%     2.1%     2.3%

Government Revenue                                   38.0%     37.6%    37.0%    36.8%
  olw: Tax Revenue                                   30.8%     30.8%    30.2%    30.2%
Government Expenditure                               41.8%     40.9%    39.8%    39.2%
Fiscal Deficit                                        -3.8%    -3.3%    -2.7%    -2.3%

Memo:
Government
FixedInvestment                                                    1.7%    2.1%     2.3%
Savings 21                                              -1.1%
                                                         1.O%      0.0%    0.9%      1.3%

Private Sector
Fixed Investment                                        17.7%     17.5%   18.3%     18.8%
Savings                                                 22.8%     19.2%   17.8%     17.3%



External (=Resource) Balance                             3.5%      0.0%    -1.9%    -2.4%

 11Government Savings = FiscalBalance + Public Investment

                                                       57



Ukraine: Balance of Payments (millions of US dollars)

                                                     2005           2006            2007      2008

Merchandise Exports (FOB)                          40214.9        41586.4         43140.3   45542.2
Nonfactor Services                                  5536.3         5900.3          6147.0    6465.2
Exports of GNFS                                    45751.1        47486.7         49287.3   52007.4

 Merchandise Imports (FOB)                         36097.4         39875.4        43102.4   45943.9
Nonfactor Services                                  6720.3         7566.2          8289.9    9001.0
Imports of GNFS                                    42817.7        47441.6         51392.3   54944.9
  olw: Energy                                       12449.4        13137.9         13363.0   13724.3
  olw: Capital Goods                                6724.2         8200.9          9936.1    11239.9

Resource Balance                                    2933.5          45.1           -2105.0   -2937.5

Net Factor Income                                   -927.8         -990.5          -948.8    -1053.4
  Factor Payments                                   1247.6         1446.6          1634.7    1860.3
    olw:Interest                                    1224.8         1282.1           1332.8    1396.6
    olw: Profit Remittances                          22.8           164.5           301.8     463.7
 Factor Receipts                                     319.8          456.2           685.8     806.9

Current Transfers                                    -15.3          -15.6           -15.9     -16.2
Workers Remittances                                  154.0          158.6           163.3     166.6

Current Account Balance                             4556.5         1912.0           110.3     -721.4

 Direct Foreign Investment                          2200.0         2400.0           3200.0    4250.0
 Portfolio Investment                                 0.0           100.0           200.0     200.0

Net Long-Term Loans                                  285.7          932.3           1120.6    1265.3

 Other Capital Flows 11                             -3500.0        -3910.0         -3080.0   -1900.0

Change inNet Intl.Res. ( - = increase)              -5687.4        -2429.6         -2049.6   -1863.7
IMFCredit                                            -301.4         -414.5          -414.5    -320.4

Memo:
  GDP (milU S $)                                    84,825          98,996         111,411   122,171
  RealExchange Rate 21                                84.6           77.6            73.3      71.0
  Terms o f Trade 31                                  98.9           97.5            96.3      94.6
  Reserves inMonths ofImports                         5.0            5.7             6.2        6.5

 11 Includes exceptional financing errors and omissions and other short term flows.
 21Decrease=Appreciation
 31Increase = Improvement

                                                       58



  Ukraine: Debt Indicators

                                                         2005    2006    2007    2008


   Total DOD(US$M)                                      21131.0 22612.5 23447.8 23430.0
   Debt Service (US$M)                                   4742.2  5677.2  6592.2  6971.5

   Total Debt'GDP                                        24.9%   22.8%   21.0%   19.2%
   DebtService / GDP                                     5.6%    5.7%    5.9%    5.7%
   Interest'GDP                                          1.4%    1.3%    1.2%    1.1%
   DebtService / Total Exports                           10.3%   11.8%   13.1%   13.2%
   DOD/Export                                            46.2%   47.6%   47.6%   45.1%


I  IBRDDebt (US$M)                                       2821.O  3154.7  3531.5  3934.3
   IBRDDebt Service Due (US$M)                            79.8   91.2     98.9   121.0
   IBRDDebt'GDP                                          3.3%    3.2%    3.2%    32 %
   IBRDDebt'Total DOD                                    13.4%   14.0%   15.1%   16.8%
   IBRDDebt Service / GDP                                0.1%    0.1%    0.1%    0.1%
   IBRDDebt Service / Total Exports                      0.2%    0.2%    0.2%    0.2%
   IBRDDebt Service / Total DebtService                  1.7%    1.6%     1.5%    1.7%



   PreferredCreditors Debt (US$M)                        4409.3  4298.5  4293.2  4420.3
   PreferredCreditors Debt Service Due (US$M)            124.5   128.1   129.0   145.8
   PreferredCreditors Debt'GDP                           5.2%    4.3%    3.9%    3.6%
   PreferredCreditors Debt'Total DOD                     20.9%   19.0%   18.3%   18.9%
   PreferredCreditors Debt Service / GDP                 0.1%    0.1%     0.1%   0.1%
   PreferredCreditors Debt Service / Total
  Exports                                                0.3%    0.3%     0.3%    0.3%
   PreferredCreditors Debt Service / Total Debt Service  2.6%    2.3%     2.0%    2.1%

  PreferredCreditors include World Bank, IMF, and EBRD.

                                                        59


                                                                                                   Annex 4


                    Reducingthe CostsofDoingBusinessinUkraine

InJanuary 2004, the Law on Regulatory Policy came into effect. The most important provision of the
Law was the requirement that all proposedregulatory acts draftedbynational, oblast and local authorities,
with the exceptionTreasury and the NBUBoard, be accompanied bya Regulatory ImpactAnalysis (RIA)
to clearly identify and quantify the projected benefits and the costs associated with the proposed
regulation. RIAs prepared by all regulatory authorities are to be verified by the State Committee o f
Ukraine for Regulatory Policy (SCURPE).           Inaddition the Law requires the following: (a) all draft
regulations and R I A s must be published and interested parties are given from one to three months to
comment on the proposed regulation before it becomes effective; (b) every regulation's effectiveness
mustbe tracked and measured against abaseline survey conducted before the act becomes effective, with
follow up surveys carried out after one year and then every three years, thereafter; and (c) every authority
mustpublishitsregulatory plans for the comingyear.
While certain pilot programs at the municipal level have subjected over 400 regulations to RIA
methodology, there has been widespread non-compliance with the Law and very little effort to enforce it.
Govemment acknowledges that, to date, implementation o f the Law has been unsatisfactory and under
DPL it has made a commitment that by the endof 2006 the Law will be strictly enforced.
The draft o f the Law on the Business Permit System has been submitted parliament. The stated intent o f
the Law i s as follows: (a) reduce the level of the state's regulation of intervention inbusiness activity; (b)
make sure that the obligation o f business entities to obtainpermit documents i s stipulated by law only; (c)
assure the soundness and substantiation o f the process o f introducing new permits; (d) introduce new
permit documents solely with the aim of safeguarding the well-being and safety of citizens, economic
competition, and security o f the state; (e) ensure the simplicity, speediness, and transparency of permit-
issuingprocedures for businesses; (f) provide unrestricted access o f businessesto regulations describing
how to start and/or run a business and ensure the consistency and clarity o f such regulations; and (g)
ensure that local permit-issuing authorities issue business permits in keeping with the one-stop shop
principle. Under DPL it i s expected that the Law will be fully ineffect by the end of 2006.
The Govemment intends to make early progress, even before these laws are made effective. In the
meantime, it intends to send a clear and unequivocal signal to the business community that it urgently
wants to pursue deregulation. Toward rapid implementation, by the end of 2005, inconsultationwith the
business community, it will identify and rescind at least 10 o f the regulations which are the most
problematic interms o f doing business inUkraine. The Govemment and the World Bank have agreed to
work together on this endeavor, by first holding ajoint GovemmenWorldBank/Business workmg group
to identifythe specific list o f regulations that will be lifted.
Moving forward, once the SCURPE has the necessary capacity, the Law on Regulatory Policy will be
appliedretroactively and usedas a guillotine to reduce and rationalize the existingpool of regulations.

                                                    60


                                                                                                    Annex 5



            Deepening the Financial Sector Through ImprovedRegulation

Despite the rapid growth of the financial sector during 2001-2004, it remains relatively small and
inefficient. The cost o f borrowing for Ukrainian enterprises i s still very high and thus financial services,
including bank lending, are often inaccessible and unaffordable, especially for SMEs and businesses. The
financial sector is dominated by the banking industry, while the non-bank financial institutions remain
small, undeveloped and undercapitalized.        The legal and regulatory framework for regulation and
supervision of financial institutions requires further strengthening. Financial markets lack consolidation,
transparency, efficiency and competitiveness.

Inorder to addressthese issues, the overallobjectives ofthe Government areto (a) increaseresilience,
transparency and capitalization o f the financial sector and first of all, the banking system; (b) create a
conducive framework for increased competitiveness andefficiency of the Ukrainian financial institutions
domestically, and in the international markets, by strengthening corporate governance, disclosure of
information, reporting, and businesspractices; (c) promote development of the new financial services.and
institutions by creating an adequate legal framework and opening the financial markets to foreign direct
investors, and (d) strengthening the effectiveness and efficiency o f the financial sector regulation and
supervision.

To achieve this, the Government plans to advocate prompt enactment of the respective amendments to the
Law on Banks and Banking to improve boththe legal framework regulating barhng activities, as well as
to further develop the capacity o f NBU in the area of banking Supervision. These amendments will
include, inter-alia, (a) the creation of an adequate framework for corporate governance and risks
management o f banks, (b) establishment of transparency and disclosure of information about banks' real
and beneficial owners, corporate structures of banks, and banking and financial groups; (c) enforcement
o f limitations for related parties transactions and reduction o f insider lending that will be crucial for
ascertainment o f banks' real capital and risks exposures; and (d) the legal basis to move toward
comprehensive consolidated supervision of banks and financial groups according to internationally
comparative standards. Indoing so, the amended Law on Banks and Banking,and other respective legal
revisions, will endeavor to reinforce the role and responsibilities o f banks' external auditors and their
cooperation with the banking supervision. The Nationalbank of Ukraine also plans to develop and apply
a more anticipatory set of prompt corrective and risk minimization actions as well as more adequate
sanctions in the process of problem bank resolution. This i s intended to minimize the fiscal and social
cost associatedwith potential banking failures, as well as to prevent contagion for the banking sector as a
whole.      Importantly, appropriate legal protection will be provided to supervisors and officials
implementingthe above enforcement andresolutionactions

To support the above measures,NBUBoard will develop and adopt a comprehensive and forward looking
institutional development program     - a Supervisory Development Plan (SDP) with respective progress
indicators, with a clear timetable.     The plan will build on previous successes and implement new
institutional reforms of bankingsupervision in order to promote good governance and risk management
practices in the banking industry. The NBU will also develop respective procedures and practices to
implement the objectives outlined above. This includes, (a) introducing consolidated supervision o f
banks, banking and financial groups, (b) streamlining the problem bank supervision process; (c)
enhancing its institutional capacity (including training, human resource development and promotion) of
banking supervisors, and (d) reflecting other regulatory changes required to implement the new provisions

                                                    61


o f the Law on Banks and Banking. The central focus of these reforms will aim at increasing the
transparency of banks, including by holdingbanks' boards and senior management responsible to fulfill
their fiduciary duties, and enhancing market discipline and risks management skills. In so doing, over
time, a continued effort will be made to ensure practical implementation of the Basle Core Principles for
Banking Supervision.

To mitigate the contagion for the banking sector, reduce regulatory arbitrage, and encourage development
o f the longterm financial markets, the Government plans to support a continued strengthening o f the legal
and regulatory framework for non-bank financial institutions          - the Non-Bank Financial Institution
Regulator (NBFIR) and the State Securities and Stock Market Commission (SSSMC). First of all, the
Government plans to endorse a comprehensive concept paper for the development and regulation of the
insurance market. This concept, under preparation primarily by the NBFIRegulator, will envision, inter
alia, (a) prompt amendment of the insurance legislation to bringit into compliance with EUdirectives on
insurance, (b) introduction of MIS-compliant prudential regulations to strengthen corporate governance,
(c) transparency and solvency o f insurance companies, and (d) increase protection o f interests of
insurance policy holders.

The Government will also support the reforms aimed at increasing the effective capital o f the insurance
industryto the EUlevels and streamlining supervisory powers and procedures (including full scope on-
site examinations and adequate remedial actions and sanctions) indealing with non-compliant insurance
companies. To develop sound financial sector regulation and supervision of non-bank financial
institutions, the Government plans facilitate necessarylegal and institutional reforms aimed at increasing
independence, strengthening the regulatory powers, and enhancing institutional capacity (funding, human
resource development, accountability and legal protection) of the financial sector regulators (NBFIR and
SSSMC). This reform is to promote, among others, introduction of the amendments to the Law on
Financial Services and State Regulation of Financial Services Markets, Law on State Regulation o f
Securities Market, Law on State Regulatory Regime, and the Law on Licensing o f BusinessActivities.

To facilitate introduction of consolidated supervision of financial conglomerates and reduce regulatory
arbitrage, the financial regulators (NBU, SCRFSM and SSCMC) plan, over time, to develop strong
cooperation and information exchange in regulation and supervision of financial groups, including joint
on-site examinations.

The Government strategy for development o f the housing market inUkraine envisions prompt and sound
development of private mortgage finance market in Ukraine. To encourage development o f primary and
secondary long term mortgage finance markets, the Government will provide its utmost support to (i)
harmonizing Ukrainian legislation with the provisions o f the Law on Mortgage (July 2003), (ii)
developing efficient single Register for registration o f the real estate title and mortgages; (iii)
                                                                                                  establishing
adequate legal fiamework for the issue and circulation of low risk mortgage securities compliant withbest
international practices; and (iv) continue working on the development o f a comprehensive regulatory
framework for mortgage finance.

                                                      62


                                                                                                 Annex 6

               Corporate Governance of Large State-owned Enterprise


Giventhe Government's current approach to privatization, it can be expected that many large enterprises
will remain in state majority ownership for some time. The Government intends to promote a new
privatization program through parliament in 2005, and seriously renew the privatization drive in the
second quarter o f 2006. Many of the remaining state owned enterprises are performing quite poorly.
Some are large loss-makers andmany have accumulated large tax arrears to the budget. The Government
recognizes that for such enterprises to operate effectively for the benefit o f the economy, workers,
government revenues and other shareholders, there needs to be a major improvement in the legal and
institutionalframeworks for corporate governance.
There are several initiatives to strengthen the legal and policy framework for the corporate governance of
SOEs. Perhaps the most important i s the draft Law on Joint Stock Companies which was submitted to
parliament in 2004. This law will apply to all joint stock companies and was drafted with considerable
technical assistance from the Bank Group (including IFC) as well as input from the ROSCanalysis of the
existing legal framework for corporate governance. As a result o f this assistance, the draft law largely
conforms with the principles of corporate governance adopted in 2004 by the OECD. It i s expected that
this law willbe fully ineffectbyno later thanthe endof2006.
Another draft law recently submitted to parliament i s the Law on the Governance of State-owned
Enterprises and Property This law specifies the powers and responsibilities o f various authorities with
respect to the governance and management of enterprises andproperties inwhich the Statehas an interest.
These authorities range from the Council of Ministers to the State Property Fundand local governments.
The law requires that persons appointed as SOE managershave the necessary qualifications and are free
of any conflicts of interest. The law also provides for performance and incentive based remuneration of
SOEmanagingdirectors. The law stipulates requirements as follows: (a) financial controls; (b) audits and
financial reporting; (c) the setting o f performance goals for SOEs; and (d) procedures and systems under
which the various authorities will review and adopt financial plans for the SOEs. It is expected that this
law will be ineffect by the end o f 2005.
The government recognizes that it does not have the capacity to ensure adequatecorporate governance for
the 3000 enterprises inwhich the State currently has an interest. It would be particularly difficult inthe
case of so-called unitary enterprises which are enterprises which have not been corporatized and,
therefore, are not joint stock companies. The new privatization program i s expected to address this
problem through rapid privatization and/or selling o f residual shares through tenders. Out of necessity,
however, the main focus will be on the large SOEs. To provide further guidance on the implementation
of the new legal framework for corporate governance, by the end o f 2006 the Government intendsto have
published a policy paper which will incorporate the forthcoming OECD principles for the corporate
governance, a draft of which i s now being discussed by the members o f OECD. Adoption o f this policy
by the large SOEs will, at a minimum, require the remaining large unitary enterprises to become joint
stock companies. It will also provide for decentralization of the corporate governance function as SOE
managers would be accountable to boards of directors who inturn would be accountable to shareholders.
A policy based on the draft OECD principles would require the following: (a) the corporate governance
framework for SOEs should be developed with the view to its impact on SOEs overall efficiency, and in
order to ensure a level playing field with the private sector in competitive sectors; (b) there should be a
clear separation between the ownership function and government's other roles, particularly inregulation
and industrial policy, that may influence the conditions for SOE's activities: (c) governments strive to
simplify and streamline as much possible the legal form under which SOEs operate as well as their
operational practices; and (d) any specific obligations that an SOE is required to undertake in terms of

                                                     63


general and public service provision or socialhpecial responsibilities, beyond the accepted norm, should
be clearly identified by laws and regulations, disclosedto the general public, and provision made to cover
relatedcosts ina transparent manner.
The Govemment i s aware that efforts, in other transition economies, to establish good corporate
governance in a large number of large SOEs have largely been unsuccessful and that, in the end,
privatization may prove to be the best solution.

                                                         64


                                                                                                                   Annex 7

                                      Statementof LoansandCredits
                    -                                                                                  Difference between
                                                      Original Amount inUS$                           expected and actual
       Proiect ID      FY          Puruose                   Millions               Cancel.  Undisb.     disbursements

                                                                                                                   Frm.
                                              IBRD    IDA      SF    GEF                            Orig.         Rev'd
 PO77738        2005   EQUAL ACCESS TO          86.6   0.0     0.0     0.0       0.0       86.6        0.0           0.0
                       EDUC
 PO74972        2004   PAL 2                   250.0   0.0     0.0     0.0       0.0       172.5    172.5            0.0
 PO76338        2004   DEVSTAT                  32.0   0.0     0.0     0.0       0.0       32.0       15.9
 PO57815        2003   ST TAX SERV MOD          40.0   0.0     0.0     0.0       0.0       38.4        3.9           0.0
                       PROG(APL #1)
 PO69857        2003   TBIAIDS CNTRL            60.0   0.0     0.0     0.0       0.0       59.1       21.2           0.2
 PO35777        2003   RURAL LAND              195.1   0.0     0.0     0.0       0.0       192.4       2.3           0.0
                       TITLING &
                       CADASTRE
 PO74885        2003   E-DEVT TA                 5.0    0.0    0.0     0.0       0.0        4.9        2.7           0.0
 PO69858        2002   SIF                      50.2    0.0    0.0     0.0       0.0       41.4        Na            0.6
 PO54966        2002   PRIV SEC DEV (APL        30.0    0.0    0.0     0.0       0.0       28.3        Na            0.0

 PO48790        2002   AZOV-BLK SEA              0.0    0.0    0.0     6.9       0.0         7.6       4.4           3.2
                       CORR BIODIV
                       CONSV (GEF)
 PO35786        2001   L V N WATEWWW            24.3    0.0    0.0     0.0       0.0        20.1      21.2           6.7
 PO55739        2000   K Y NPB ENERGY           18.3    0.0    0.0     0.0       2.0         3.3       3.2           3.O
                       EFFIC
 PO44832        1998   K Y NDISTRICT           200.0    0.0    0.0     0.0       40.0      101.1     141.1          16.4
                       HEAT.

                              Total:           991.5    0.0    0.0     6.9      42.0       181.7    388.4           29.5


                                                      UKRAINE
                                              STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                           HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                              InMillions ofUSDollars


                                                       Committed                                    Disbursed
                                                      IFC                                         IFC

FY Approval    Company                    Loan       Equity     Quasi     Partic.    Loan        Equity       Quasi      Partic.

1996           FUIB                       0.00         5.00       0.00     0.00         0.00        5.00        0.00          0.00
0198           HVBBank Ukraine            0.00         2.28       0.00     0.00         0.00        2.28        0.00          0.00
2001           JSC Okean                  10.00        0.00       0.00     0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00          0.00
2000           MBU                        3.50         1.70       0.00     0.00         3.50        1.70        0.00          0.00
1994196        Ukraine VC Fund            0.00         1.15       0.00     0.00         0.00        1.15        0.00          0.00
                                                                                                                            ~~


                          Totalportfilio:  13.50      10.13       0.00     0.00         3.50       10.13        0.00          0.00


                                                                               ~~


                                                                    ApprovalsPendingCommitment

                FY Approval   Company                           Loan       Eauitv          Quasi       Partic


                                   Total pendingcommitment:      0.00      0.00            0.00         0.00

                                                                     65


                                                                                                                                  Annex 8

                                                   Country at a Glance

                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                     Euroae 8        Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                      Central      mlddle-
                                                             Ukralne      Asla       Income       Developmentdiamond'
2003
Population, mid-year(millions)                                  48.4       473         2,855
GNi per capita (Atlas method, US$)                               970      2,570                                 Lifeexpectancy
                                                                                       1.480
GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                                 46.9      1.217        3,934
Average annual growth, 1997-03                                                                                         T
Population (%)                                                   -0.8       0.0          0.9
Labor force (%)                                                  -0.4       0.2          I.2      GNi                                    Gross
                                                                                                  per                                  primary
Most recent estlmate (latest year available, 1997-03)                                             capita                              nrollment
Poverty (% ofpopulationbelownationalpovertyline)
Urban population(% of totalpopulation)                            67         63           50
Life expectancyat birth (years)                                   68         69           69
Infant mortality(per 1,000livebirths)                             16         31           32
Child malnutrition(% of children under5)                           3                      11            Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improved water source (% ofpopulation)               98         91           81                                                   I
Illiteracy(% ofpopulationage 15+)                                  0           3          10
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)             90        103          112         _I__    Ukraine
    Male                                                          91        104          113                 Lower-middle-Income arou~)
    Female                                                        90        102          111

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                   1983         1993      2002         2003
GDP (US$ billions)                                               65.6      42.4         49.5      Economicratios*

Gross domestic investmenUGDP                                     36.3      18.7         19.3
Exportsof goods and ServiceslGDP                                 25.9      55.1         52.9                         Trade
Gross domestic savingslGDP                                       36.0      23.0         24.0
Gross national savingslGDP                                                 26.1         25.2
Current account baiance/GDP                                      -1.3        7.5         6.2
Interest paymentslGDP                                             0.1        1.3         1.2      Domestic                           Investment
Total debUGDP                                                     5.9      32.0         23.1      savings

Total debt servicelexports                                        1.3      13.7         10.6
Presentvalue of debUGDP                                                    29.8
Present value of debtlexports                                              53.4
                                                                                                                   indebtedness
                                      1983-93 1993-03           2002      2003       2003-07
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                       -5.6       -1.6         5.2        9.4         5.0          -Ukraine
GDP per capita                            -5.9       -0.8         6.0      10.2          5.7          -- -.Lower-middle-incomegroup
                                                                                                           -
Exportsof goods and services                         5.3          9.1        5.0         4.8                                                   I

STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                    1983        1993      2002          2003     IGrowth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                                                                                      c
                                                                                                                                               I
Agriculture                                                      21.7       15.3         14.1     40T
Industry                                                 ..      37.7      38.2         40.3      2o
   Manufacturing                                                 29.9      23.2         25.0       o
Services                                                 ....    40.6      46.5         45.6     -20

Privateconsumption                                       ..      48.0      57.0         60.2     -401
General government consumption                           ..      16.0      20.0    '     15.8
importsof goods and services                                                                                 -GDI             -GDP




(average annualgrowth)
Agriculture                                                                                       30
Industry
   Manufacturing
Services
Privateconsumption
General govemmentconsumption
Gross domestic investment                                        -5.1     -22.3          16.3             -Exports           -O-lmports
Importsof goods and services

Note:2003 data are preliminary estimates.
This table was producedfrom the Development Economicscentraldatabase.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
    be incomplete.

                                                                                                                                        I
PRICESand GQVERNfflENTFINAMCE
                                               1983     2993          2002      2003
Domesbc prrces
f% change]                                                                                 33

Consumer prices                                   ..10.125.a            0.8        1.I     20
lmplicil GDPdeflator                                  3,3348            5.1        6.9

Government finance                                                                          io
                                                                                                                                      "I
   of G W .inchrdes cwmt giants)                                                             a
Currantmwnue                                             42 a          35.3      34.2                68    89    OD     01      m
Currantbudget talanm                                    -254             3.3        1.5
Overallsurplusldefiat                                   -28 1            0.6      -0.4                       DPQflstor  -PI


TRADE
                                               -f983    1993           2002      2003
(US$milmnsl
Total exports (fob)                                   12,796         18.669    21,225
  Ferrous and non-preawsmetals                                        7.126     8,745
  Mineral products                                                    2,389     2,558
  Manufactures                                                        3,509     3,540
Total imp'ts (cf)                                     15.315         17.958    20,029
  Food                                                                1.114     1,225
  Fueland energy                                        6,156         6,940     7,2M
  Capitalgoods                                                        3.785     4,714
Exportprice index (6995=100)                                             99        1W
Imprt pncaindex(fQQ5=IW                                                 114        115
Terms of trade (lQQ5=fOO)                                                87          93

BALANCEof PAYMEMS
                                               1983     1993           2002      2003
(U5S mdiiom]                                                                                 currant accoui>tnaianceto GDP(%)
worts ofgoodsand sewices                              15,860         23,351    26,240        117
lmprts of goods and ~BNICBS                            16,755        21,494    23,922
 Rfxroumbalance                                          -905         1,857      2,318
                                                                                              1
 Net income                                                49          -606       446
 Netcurrent transfers                                                  1,922     1,187
Currentamunt balance                                     -a54         3,173      3,099        0

 Financing items(net}                                      817        -2.128      -406
Changesin net reserws                                       37        -1.045    -2,653        5
Mnn10:
 Rmerwsincludinggold [US'S mdlrons)                                   4,417      6,874
Converstcnrate(DEC, Iac&MSSJ                          2 26E-2            5.3        5.3
                                                                                           I
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCEFLOWS
                                               1983      1993          2002       2003
 pJ5$m d l I 0 ~ ~                                                                            Composltloii d 2005debt (US6 mlll.)
Totaldebt outstandingand disbursed                      3,855        13,555     11,445
   l0RD                                                      0        2,233      2,121
   IDA                                                       0             0          0
Total debt S~NICB                                          3-32        3.243     2,817
   IBRD                                                      0           198        203
   IDA                                                       0             0          0
Composition of net reaoumflows                                                                  F 3852                            C 1680
   Offiaal grants                                          117           120
   Offidelcreditors                                        307         -272        -285
   Pnvatacreditors                                         441           689    -1,578                                            333
   Foreigndirect imestment                                 3-30          693
   PortfolioequQ                                             a        -1,958                                     E:2.884
 World Bankprogram
   Commibnents                                              27            82          0                                      E Bilateral
   Disbursements                                             0            45         28       A IBRD
                                                                                              B IDA
                                                                                                --      D-0Rmmlllsteral      F Riwb
                                                                                                                                --
   Principalrepayments                                       0           121        1%        C-IMF                          C Short-I"
                                                                                                                                -
   Netflows                                                  0           -76       -111
   Interestpayments                                          0            77         To
   Nettransfers                                              0         -153        -181

 The WorldBank Group: This table was prepred bycounby unit start figures msydiffer from other World Bank published data.            8 m W

