Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1590 
Operation Name 
Development Policy Loan (formerly PAL 3) 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P079316 
Borrower(s) 
Government of Ukraine 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
12/2, Hrushevskoho Str., Kyiv 01008 
Date PID Prepared 
May 2, 2005 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
May 10, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 16, 2005 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The Government aims to sustain as well as to attain more broadly shared economic growth, which 
depends largely on continued and transparent improvements in governance via the requested 
development policy program. 
 
The Country Assistance identifies seven main objectives for Bank
’s involvement: (i) 
macroeconomic and financial sustainability, (ii) poverty reduction, mitigation of social risks and 
strengthening of the middle class, (iii) comprehensive and harmonized human development, (iv) 
protection of the natural environment, (v) greater integration into the world economic and financial 
systems, (vi) dynamic regional development and reduction of regional imbalances, and (vii) 
improved transparency, accountability and integrity of government.  The DPL as an integral part of 
the program focuses on the above-mentioned CAS objectives, supporting Government policy 
initiatives and institutional reforms in which linkages between sectors are highlighted and 
leveraged to achieve results.   
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The proposed Development Policy Loan (DPL) supports enhanced economic growth and poverty 
reduction through:  
(i) 
Sustaining the investment climate
 by reducing costs of doing business
,
creating the basis for 
deepened trade integration, improving business transparency, better enforcing contracts, and 
deepening financial intermediation.  
(ii) 
Improving public administration and public finance management
 by reforming ministerial 
and state agency structures, modernizing the civil service system, and improving management of 
state assets.  
(iii) 
Broadening social inclusion
 by improving access and quality of social services, better 
targeting of social assistance programs, improving fiscal sustainability of the pension system, 
refining the system of local public finance and accountability, and helping to ensure that land 
reform benefits rural landholders.   
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
Page  2
The proposed DPL is envisaged as a single-tranche loan in the amount of US$400 million in 
support of the economic and social priorities of the Government Program.  The loan will support 
better public governance by implementing policy and institutional reforms across three 
overlapping areas:  (a) improving the investment climate, (b) better public administration and 
public finance management, and (c) broadening of social inclusion. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
The proposed DPL will not support specific measures which are likely to have an effect on the 
environment and no environmental impact assessment will be required for this operation. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 0 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
400 
 Total 
400 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Mark S. Davis 
Title: Sr Economist 
Tel: 5256+263 
Fax:  
Email: Mdavis4@worldbank.org 
Location: Kiev, Ukraine (IBRD)
 
