Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1655 
Operation Name 
First Development Policy Loan  
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P079316 
Borrower(s) 
Government of Ukraine 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
12/2, Hrushevskoho Str., Kyiv 01008 
Date PID Prepared 
May 27, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
May 10, 2005 
Date of Board Approval 
July 5, 2005 
1. 
Country and Sector Background. 
Over the last several years Ukrainian economy 
performed well. GDP growth totaled 50 percent for the period 1999 through 2004.  At 12.1 percent 
in 2004, Ukraine’s growth was the highest in Europe.  Improved financial discipline, substantial 
real depreciation of the hryvnia to western currencies in 1998-99, more prudent fiscal and 
monetary policies that followed the real depreciation, and improvement of the business climate, 
have all contributed to igniting Ukraine’s economic growth after the 1998 regional financial crisis.  
2. 
The Government aims to sustain as well as to attain more broadly shared economic growth, 
which depends largely on continued and transparent improvements in governance, through policy 
and institutional reforms in three overlapping areas: (a) improving the investment climate, (b) 
better public administration and public finance management, and (c) broadening of social 
inclusion.  In order to support reforms in these priority areas, the Government has requested the 
Bank’s assistance via the development policy program. 
3. 
The proposed DPL-1 is envisaged as a single-tranche loan in the amount of US$251.26 
million in support of the economic and social priorities of the Government Program.  The proposed 
DPL-1 underscores the reform actions taken to date, and outlines policy and institutional changes 
which can lead to better economic and social outcomes over a three year period.  It will help to 
ensure adequate financing for reforms in 2005, and create the track record necessary to enhance 
support for future reforms.    
4. 
Operation Objectives. 
The First Development Policy Loan (DPL-1) supports enhanced 
economic growth and poverty reduction through:  
(i) 
Sustaining the investment climate
 by reducing costs of doing business
,
creating the basis for 
deepened trade integration, improving business transparency, better enforcing contracts, and 
deepening financial intermediation. The concrete steps to achieve this include initiation of a 
program to de-shadow and deregulate customs clearance, launching of a broad effort to deregulate 
the economy and reduce costs of doing business, significant reductions in import tariffs; and 
establishment of a communications sector regulator. 
(ii) 
Improving public administration and public finance management
 by reforming ministerial 
and state agency structures, modernizing the civil service system, and improving management of 
state assets. The first steps to be taken here are integration of the State Treasury as a structural unit 
of the Ministry of Finance, provision of dotted line authority of the Ministry of Finance to 
coordinate tax administration and customs, elimination of most remaining tax exemptions and 
privileges; and tightening of dividend policies for state owned enterprises. 
Page  2
(iii) 
Broadening social inclusion
 by improving access and quality of social services, better 
targeting of social assistance programs, improving fiscal sustainability of the pension system, 
refining the system of local public finance and accountability, and helping to ensure that land 
reform benefits rural landholders.  Early steps to be taken on these issues include increased social 
support to families with many children and initiation of an information campaign to inform 
farmers about their rights and opportunities as land holders. 
5. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement. 
The Country Assistance identifies seven main 
objectives for Bank
’s intervention: (i) macroeconomic and financial sustainability, (ii) poverty 
reduction, mitigation of social risks and strengthening of the middle class, (iii) comprehensive and 
harmonized human development, (iv) protection of the natural environment, (v) greater integration 
into the world economic and financial systems, (vi) dynamic regional development and reduction 
of regional imbalances, and (vii) improved transparency, accountability and integrity of 
government.  The DPL as an integral part of the program focuses on the above-mentioned CAS 
objectives, supporting Government policy initiatives and institutional reforms in which linkages 
between sectors are highlighted and leveraged to achieve results.  Investment projects, donor 
coordination and AAA will provide complementary building blocks for implementation.  In turn, 
the entire CAS will benefit from the cross-cutting policy reforms supported by the DPL program.   
 
6. 
Financing
 
Source: (US$ 
million) 
IBRD 251.26 
Total
251.26 
 
7. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements.  
The Government has taken a number 
of steps to put in place the appropriate institutional arrangements and structures to ensure the 
successful implementation of the program.  The Bank and the Government have agreed to maintain 
a
close and continuing dialog on future policy actions for future anticipated DPLs.  The 
Government Program is well-framed by the working group structure.  A Supervisory Committee 
for DPL-1 has already been established which includes the Vice-Prime-Minister of Ukraine, the 
Minister of Economy of Ukraine, the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, the Minister of Justice of 
Ukraine, and the Governor of the National Bank of Ukraine.  In preparation for technical 
discussions in late April, a DPL-1 Government Working Group (GWG) was established, headed 
by the Deputy Minister of Economy of Ukraine, and consisting of representatives from across the 
Government.  Eventually, the GWG is envisaged to include three main working groups on (a) 
investment climate, (b) public administration and public finance management, and (c) social 
inclusion.  The Bank will coordinate on an on-going basis and will also leverage its other activities 
in Ukraine in support of the reform agenda.  Members of civil society will be asked to participate 
in working group meetings where possible and appropriate.   
8. 
Benefits and Risks.
 The DPL will help the Government implement medium-term reform 
program aimed at promoting growth and reducing poverty through improvements in the 
governance and efficiency of the public sector.  The reform program would be consistent with the 
Government’s aspiration for eventual EU membership. 
9. 
 The DPL program provides a framework for the Bank’s timely and deep engagement with 
the Government on its core economic and social priorities.  This engagement and the DPL themes, 
provide a framework to integrate the Bank’s policy dialogue, technical assistance, economic and 
sector work, and investment operations in the context of the CAS Progress Report.  It also provides 
Page  3
a
good platform for donor coordination of the government program and the EU integration 
strategy.   
10. 
There are some political and economic risks. While the new government shows strong 
ownership over declared path of reforms, the parliament of Ukraine lacks a stable majority, and 
ambitious reform agenda that the DPL supports might test its commitment to reform as 
parliamentary elections scheduled for March 2006 approach.  In addition, key economic regions 
are dominated by opposition parties.  These political factors may hinder timely formalization and 
implementation of nationwide reforms. 
11. 
Additionally, despite public commitments to fiscal discipline, the Government has laid out 
an ambitious social protection agenda, which is in part reflected by Budget 2005.  However, 
improved management of customs and tax administration in January - April 2005 allowed the 
Government to increase general fund revenues by 46.8% y/y. Improved customs revenue 
performance is reflected in 70.1% y/y increase over the same period of time. The parliamentary 
elections also heighten tensions regarding formulation of Budget 2006.  Fiscal risks threaten to 
exacerbate existent inflationary pressures which began to build during 2004. 
12. 
These risks are mitigated by 
DPL’s design.  The loan is made on the basis of 
accomplishments.  Future DPLs would be prepared based on an evaluation of progress achieved 
under the current program.  Engagement now will improve the Bank’s capacity to help the 
authorities make appropriate policy decisions, increasingly so if the program is successful.  The 
content of the program creates the basis for sustained and diversified growth over the medium 
term.  More broadly-based and socially inclusive growth should help to dampen the political costs 
of reform while reducing social and regional imbalances. 
13. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects.  
The Bank will be helping the 
Government undertake selected poverty and social impact analyses where distributional impacts 
may be significant.  Key issues of the program that may have poverty impact include energy price 
increases associated with sector restructuring, telecom tariff price increases, and potential labor 
downsizing in the public and private sectors. 
14. 
The Bank, in partnership with the Government and other stakeholders, has already been 
leading significant poverty and social impact analyses in numerous key policy areas through the 
ongoing Poverty and Urban Living Standards Evaluation (PULSE).  A key objective of this 
program is to monitor developments in poverty and income distribution.  Additionally, a Labor 
Market Study is under preparation by Bank Staff which would help advice the Government on 
mitigation measures for policies which may lead to job destruction and recreation.  Moreover, 
continued work on improving administration and targeting of social assistance programs, would 
help to offset any negative impact telecom or energy tariffs may have.  As regards energy, Ukraine 
already has in place a means-tested social assistance program which covers the difference between 
20 percent of household income and its housing and communal service costs.   
15. 
The above program of work would help provide relevant inputs into the design of future 
DPLs.  Overall, it is expected that given DPL-1’s focus on promoting shared growth through better 
macroeconomic and fiscal policies, and improvements in public governance, investment climate 
and social inclusion, the overall impact of the program will be pro-poor.   
16. 
The proposed First DPL will not support specific measures which are likely to have an 
effect on the environment and no environmental impact assessment will be required for this 
operation. 
17. Contact point 
Contact: Mark S. Davis 
Page  4
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: 5256+263 
Fax: (8-044)490-66-70 
Email: Mdavis4@worldbank.org 
Location: Kiev, Ukraine (IBRD) 
18. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
