                                Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                  Report No: ICR0000787




         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                               (IBRD-47990)

                                   ON A

                                   LOAN

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$251.6 MILLION

                                    TO

                                 UKRAINE

                                   FOR A

                    FIRST DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN




                               June 18, 2008




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Europe and Central Asia

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                        (Exchange Rate Effective June 18, 2008)

                               Currency Unit = Hrivnya
                                   US1$=4.85 UAH

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1 ­ December 31

                        ACRONYMS AND ABREVIATIONS
AAA      Analytical and Advisory Assistance   OECD        Organization for Economic Co-
AMC      Anti-Monopoly Committee                          operation and Development
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy          PAL         Programmatic Adjustment Loan
CIS      Commonwealth of Independent          PAYG        Pay-As-You-Go
         States                               PEFA        Public Expenditure and Financial
CIT      Corporate Income Tax                             Accounting
CoM      Cabinet of Ministers                 PFM         Public Financial Management
CPAR     Country Procurement Assessment       PFR         Public Finance Review
         Report                               PIFC        Public International Financial
DPL      Development Policy Loan                          Audit and Control
EBRD     European Bank for Reconstruction     PIT         Personal Income Tax
         and Development                      PPP         Public-Private Partnership
EU       European Union                       RBS         Risk Based Supervision
FDI      Foreign Direct Investment            ROSC        Report on the Observance of
GDP      Gross Domestic Product                           Standards and Costs
HIV/AIDS Human Immunodeficiency               SCC         Special Control Commission
         Virus/Acquired Immune Deficiency     SSCMC       State Stock Market and Securities
         Syndrome                                         Commission
IFC      International Finance Corporation    SCRFMS State Commission for the
IMF      International Monetary Fund                      Regulation of Financial Markets
JSC      Joint Stock Companies                SME         Small and Medium Enterprise
KRU      State Control-Revision Service of    SOE         State-Owned Enterprise
         Ukraine                              TB          Tuberculosis
LPI      Logistics Perception Index           TC          Tender Chamber
MIGA     Multilateral Investment Guarantee    TIMSS       International Mathematics and
         Agency                                           Science Study
MoE      Ministry of Economy                  USAID       United States Agency for
NBU      National Bank of Ukraine                         International Development
NERC     National Electricity Regulatory      VAT         Value Added Tax
         Commission                           VR          Verkhovna Rada
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization        WTO         World Trade Organization


        Vice President: Shigeo Katsu
       Country Director: Paul G. Bermingham
       Sector Manager: Asad Alam
     Task Team Leader: Martin Raiser
      ICR Team Leader: Viktoria Siryachenko

                                        UKRAINE
                  FIRST DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN


                                       CONTENTS




1.   Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ..................................... 1
2.   Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ....................................... 7
3.   Assessment of Outcomes................................................................................... 11
4.   Assessment of Risks to Development Outcomes............................................... 16
5.   Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .............................................. 16
6.   Lessons Learned................................................................................................. 19
7.   Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower ......................................................... 20


Annex 1: Development Policy Loan Program: Key Performance Indicators.............. 21
Annex 2: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ........... 27
Annex 3: Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR.................... 28
Annex 4: List of Supporting Documents ..................................................................... 33

MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                      Development Policy
Country:               Ukraine                 Program Name:
                                                                      Loan (formerly PAL 3)
Program ID:            P079316                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-47990
ICR Date:              06/19/2008              ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:    DPL                     Borrower:              UKRAINE
Original Total
                       USD 251.3M              Disbursed Amount:      USD 251.3M
Commitment:
Implementing Agencies:
No Implementing Agencies
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date              Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        04/21/2005     Effectiveness:        07/15/2005        07/15/2005
Appraisal:             05/10/2005    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              07/05/2005    Mid-term Review:
                                      Closing:              12/31/2005        12/31/2005


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Moderate
Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:            Satisfactory      Government:               Not Applicable

Quality of Supervision:      Satisfactory      Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:          Not Applicable

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:                 Satisfactory      Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance             Indicators              (if any)              Rating:

Potential Problem
                                               Quality at Entry
Program at any time      No                                         None
                                               (QEA):
(Yes/No):



                                               i

Problem Program at any                         Quality of
                          No                                       None
time (Yes/No):                                 Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General energy sector                                           9                 9
General industry and trade sector                             29                29
General public administration sector                          43                43
Non-compulsory pensions, insurance and contractual
                                                              10                10
savings
Other social services                                           9                 9


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                             Primary          Primary
procurement
Regulation and competition policy                            Primary          Primary
Social safety nets                                          Secondary        Secondary
Tax policy and administration                                Primary          Primary
Trade facilitation and market access                        Secondary        Secondary


E. Bank Staff
        Positions                      At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:           Shigeo Katsu                     Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:         Paul G. Bermingham               Paul G. Bermingham
Sector Manager:           Asad Alam                        Asad Alam
Program Team Leader:      Martin Raiser                    Mark S. Davis
ICR Team Leader:          Viktoria Siryachenko
ICR Primary Author:       Viktoria Siryachenko



F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The DPL 1 aims to improve public governance by supporting priority reforms in social
and economic spheres of the Government's "Action Plan for Meeting the People" relating
to (a) the investment climate, (b) public administration and public finance, and (c) social
inclusion.



                                              ii

  The following outcomes are expected:
  (a) Investment climate - by the end of 2007, the Government program supported by
DPL attempts to make Ukraine more attractive place to invest through improvements in
the investment climate, corporate governance, and financial intermediation. Considerable
improvements in investment climate and corporate governance would be reflected in an
increase in the investment ratio by 2 percentage points of GDP (to about 22 percent of
GDP), and doubling of the FDI per capita inflows.The financial sector would further
deepen without deterioration of main prudential ratios.         There will be continuing
diversification and strengthening of the economy through reductions in cost of doing
business, and deepening integration into the world market, including WTO accession.
The Program is expected to achieve improvements in the consumer and business services
provision, including communications and energy services.

  (b) By the end of 2007, the Government program supported by DPL is expected to
facilitate development of a more efficient, transparent and accountable management of
public resources consistent with more stable, single digit inflation. There would be better
coordination between fiscal and monetary policy, in part reflected by an ongoing
dialogue between the Government and the National Bank. Improvements in public
financial management would be reflected in elimination of budget arrears, reduction of
tax arrears, streamlining of tax administration.      More adequate and higher quality
coordination and information flows are expected between Ministry of Finance, Treasury,
STA and Customs Administration. The quality of internal and external audits, of both
sides of the budget (revenue and expenditure administration), are expected to materially
approve. Civil service and procurement standards would gradually converge to EU
standards. SOE management also would improve considerably as reflected by increased
SOE profitability levels. As a result of these developments, credit ratings of Ukraine are
expected to approach investment grades.

  (c) Social inclusion - by the end of 2007, the DPL is expected to contribute to creation
of the basis for broad participation of society in the benefits of economic development
and reduction of social tensions. It will be done by encouraging rural development
reflected in high quality issuance of land titles, improving the efficacy of social services
while increasing the flow of resources to them, developing the mortgage system,
strengthening the financial system for local governments, bringing social insurance to
actuarial balance without creating undue burden for workers, improving the efficiency
and transparency of social fund administration, and improving the targeting of direct
social assistance programs. As a result of all these changes, the poverty incidence is
expected to further decline by 3 percentage points, with a an even larger reduction in
rural poverty, by 6 percentage points.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)




                                             iii

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target    Formally        Actual Value

    Indicator        Baseline Value           Values (from      Revised         Achieved at
                                                approval         Target       Completion or
                                               documents)        Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :    Gross domestic fixed investment as share of GDP
Value
(quantitative or 19.4% (revised)           22%                              26.9%
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2004                12/31/2007                       01/01/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :    Gross annual FDI in US$ per capita
Value
(quantitative or $36                       $70                              $148
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2004                12/31/2007                       01/01/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :    Single digit inflation
Value
(quantitative or 9.4                       single digit                     16.6%
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2004                12/31/2007                       01/01/2008
Comments         Single digit inflation target in medium-term has not been achieved. After a
(incl. %         sharp decline through mid-2006, the increase in energy and food prices has led
achievement)     to inflation growth up to 16.6% in 2007.
Indicator 4 :    Incidence of poverty
Value
(quantitative or 22                        19                               17
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2003                12/31/2007                       01/01/2008
Comments         Poverty incidence measured using the PULSE method (jointly defined by the
(incl. %         Government and the Bank) reduced from 19.8% in 2003 to 17%, rural poverty
achievement)     incidence reduced from 28% to 22%.



(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target    Formally        Actual Value

    Indicator        Baseline Value           Values (from                      Achieved at
                                                approval        Revised        Completion or
                                               documents)    Target Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 :    Consolidated budget deficit as % GDP
Value            4.4%                      <=3.5%                           <3%



                                                iv

(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2004            12/31/2006               01/01/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                    Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived             DO                     IP         Disbursements
                                                                (USD millions)
  1     12/30/2005         Satisfactory          Satisfactory            251.26



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                           v

1.      Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1     Context at Appraisal

        The First Development Policy Loan (DPL-1), a single tranche operation in the
amount of $251,260,000, was approved in May 2005. It was designed as the first loan in
a programmatic series, with future DPLs envisaged in 2006 and 2007. In the event
program implementation was delayed and the second loan in the series (DPL-2) was
approved only in December 2007, 29 months after DPL-1 was approved. This ICR is
prepared to take account of this delay and to update the Board on results achieved since
DPL 1 was approved. Table 1 provides an overview of the programmatic sequence
envisaged by the DPL program.

Table 1: Overview of the DPL Program

                                 Potential Future DPLs:

            DPL-1:             Policy Action on Investment
                                                                Objectives and Medium
    "Supporting Reforms"       Climate, Public Governance,
                                    and Social Inclusion            Term Outcomes

 Government Program:          Government Program:             Improved macroeconomic

 Yushchenko's Ten Steps       Medium term plan with           and fiscal policies.

 Program.                     poverty reduction and EU        Greater efficiency in public

 Government Action Program    integration focus.              administration and the Civil

 "Meeting the People".        Implementation of the EU-       Service.

 First year goals of the EU-  Ukraine Action Plan through     Low cost and high

 Ukraine Action Plan.         government programs which       effectiveness of business
                              implement the National          regulation.
                              Strategy for EU Integration.    Improved public financial
                                                              management.

 Focus                        Focus                           Progress toward EU

 Policy development           Policy implementation and       aspirations and WTO
                                                              accession.
 Improve Investment Climate.  outcomes
                                                              Strengthening of the energy
 Improve public               Improve Investment Climate.     sector.
 administration and private   Improve public administration
 governance.                  and private governance.         Balancing the pension fund.

 Ensure social services       Ensure social services include  Improved targeting of social

 include all citizens,        all citizens, particularly the  assistance.

 particularly the poor and    poor and most vulnerable.       Improved health and
 most vulnerable.                                             educations sectors.

 CAS, Base Case, June 2005




                                              1

        The DPL-1 was prepared at a critical time in Ukraine's history, in early 2005,
after the political turnover in the 2004 Presidential election, often referred to as the
"Orange Revolution". The new government in its program "Meeting the People" called
for strengthening of the rights of individuals, accelerating poverty reduction, a
comprehensive fight against corruption and implementation of the Ukraine-EU Action
Plan. DPL-1 was designed in a very short time to support this reform agenda, building on
the track record of the Bank as a key partner in Ukraine's structural reform efforts since
the late 1990s.

        DPL-1 was designed against the background of a solid track record in economic
growth and strong external performance (see Table 2): GDP growth totaled 49.5 percent
for the period 1999 through 2004; industrial production grew by 87 percent; high world
prices for steel resulted in a record US$6.9 billion (10.6 percent of GDP) current account
surplus in 2004. These factors, along with increased foreign direct investment and
borrowings on international capital markets, led to further accumulation of international
reserves by the National Bank of Ukraine (NBU), which by the end of 2004 exceeded
US$9.5 billion. From 2000 to 2004, Moody's steadily upgraded Ukraine's Sovereign
Domestic Currency rating from Caa3 to B1. Total banking sector assets more than
doubled since 2002, from 28 percent to almost 40 percent of GDP by end 2004.

        Rapid economic growth began to trickle down into impressive results in poverty
reduction with the poverty rate falling below 20 percent in 2003 and below 15 percent in
20041. However, despite these impressive improvements the social aspirations of the
majority remained unfulfilled, fuelling election related increases in public consumption
and transfer spending in 2004. The fiscal deficit widened to 4.4 percent of GDP, inflation
was accelerating and with political uncertainty reaching a climax in the closing weeks of
2004, confidence in the currency waned. The NBU, in close coordination with the
Government, took quick decisive actions and was able to stabilize the financial sector and
to avoid a financial crisis.

        Against this background, the new Administration revised the 2005 Budget
through parliamentary approval on March 25, 2005 which reduced the targeted
consolidated deficit to 2.2 percent, introduced measures enhancing revenue contributions,
containing expenditure growth, combating inflation, liberalizing the exchange rate, and
strengthening overall macroeconomic management. With these budget amendments, the
fiscal outlook started to stabilize and Bank management concurred that on the whole the
macroeconomic framework was adequate for DPL-1 to proceed. However, the amount of
the loan was reduced from the originally intended US$300,000,000.




1Calculated on the basis of an absolute poverty line using Household Budget Survey data.


                                             2

Table 2: Main Macroeconomic Indicators, 2000-2006

                                       2000  2001   2002   2003 2004      2005    2006
Real GDP (change in percent)            5.9   9.2    5.2    9.6   12.1     2.7     7.3
Real Industrial Production (change in
percent)                               13.2  14.2    7.0   15.8   12.5     3.1     6.2
CPI, a.o.p. (change in percent)        28.2  12.0    0.8    5.2    9.0    13.5     9.1
CPI, e.o.p. (change in percent)        25.8   6.1   -0.6    8.2   12.3    10.3    11.6
Real Exchange Rate, a.o.p. (change in
percent, a decline means depreciation) -1.4  11.2   -3.7   -8.2   -2.1    10.2     4.6
Current Account Balance (percent of
GDP)                                   4.6    3.7    7.5    5.8   10.6     2.9    -1.5
Foreign Exchange Reserves (USD
billions)                              1.5    3.1    4.4    6.9    9.5    19.4    22.3
Fiscal Balance (percent of GDP)        -1.3  -1.6    0.5   -0.9   -4.4     -2.3   -1.3
PPG Debt (percent of GDP)               47   38.6   33..5  29.0   24.7    17.7    14.8
Memo:
Nominal GDP (in billions of USD)       31.3  38.0   42.4   50.1   64.9    86.2    107.8
GNI per capita (USD, Atlas method)     690   720    780    970    1260    1520    1940
Source: SSC, NBU, IMF, WB


1.2      Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

         The Development Policy Loan program aimed to support priority reforms in the
social and economic spheres of the government program focusing on public governance,
in particular: (a) investment climate, (b) public administration and public finance
management, and (c) social inclusion. Table 3 below lists the main medium-term
outcome indicators contained in the Program Document to measure progress against the
development objectives. The DPL-1 included a full-fledged policy and institutional
reform matrix designed to cover DPL-1 and future DPLs, by laying out a series of future
benchmarks and detailed medium-term outcome indicators. Annex 1 contains a detailed
assessment of results achieved to date against the full set of medium-term outcome
indicators.




                                           3

Table 3. DPL­1 Program Development Objectives and Key Indicators

 Program
 Development                                     Outcome indicators
 Objectives

 1) Improved          Increase in the investment ratio by two percentage points of GDP (to
 Investment Climate   about 22 percent of GDP).

                      Doubling of the FDI per capita inflows.

                      Deepening of the financial sector and improvement in main prudential
                      ratios.

                      Continuing diversification and strengthening of the economy through
                      reductions in cost of doing business, and deepening integration into the
                      world market, including WTO accession.

 2) Improved public Transparent and accountable management of public resources consistent
 administration and with more stable, single digit inflation.
 public     financial Elimination of budget arrears, reduction of tax arrears, streamlining of
 management           tax administration.

                      Credit ratings of Ukraine are expected to approach investment grade.

 3) Improved social   The poverty incidence declined by three percentage points, with an even
 services provision   larger reduction in rural poverty, by six percentage points.
 and social
 inclusion



1.3     Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
        and Reasons/Justification

        The PDOs were not revised.

1.4     Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

        The DPL-1 was designed as a cross-sectoral operation. Its three main pillars
corresponded to the three main thrusts of the Government's program "Meeting the
People" and were consistent with the main directions of the CPS.

        Improved investment climate:         The Government's program to improve the
investment climate was designed to attract investment, create jobs and provide an
environment for new market entry and competition. Thereby it was strongly anchored in
Ukraine's European aspirations and in creating the conditions for Ukraine's access to the
WTO.

        The program called for establishing a competitive market climate and for a radical
business deregulation effort, which was to reduce special privileges and opportunities of
state capture by large financial industrial groups. The program further emphasized
institutional reforms, including the creation of an efficient, just and fair court system,
independent and efficient regulatory bodies for natural monopolies, a modern tax


                                                4

administration, and reform of the legal framework for corporate governance and the
development of financial markets.

    Prior actions supported by the program included:

    · Issuing by the Cabinet of Ministers Program "Contraband STOP" and initiation of
        steps to de-shadow and deregulate customs clearance.

    · Establishing a communications regulator as reflected by passage of the basic legal
        framework, appointment of all eight commission members, including the head,
        and provision in the Budget 2005 funds for its operation.

    · Eliminating foreign exchange surrender requirements on export operations.

    Following the Contraband Stop Program initiative, customs documentation
requirements were unified and a risk-based system of customs inspections was introduced.
Import duties for over 70% of the commodity nomenclature were reduced; most specific
and combined tariffs were transformed into ad valorem tariffs. In late 2005, Ukraine was
granted market economy status by the EU, and in 2006 by the US, paving the way
towards WTO accession. The 4.4 percent nominal revaluation of the Hryvnia in April
2005 also contributed to raise competitive pressures on the domestic market, helping to
bring down inflationary pressures, while the abolition of export surrender requirements
was aimed at strengthening Ukraine's export competitiveness.

    In the financial sector, the program focused on support for the development of non-
bank financial institutions, including the normative basis for the functioning of non-state
pension funds, measures to contain tax evasion in the insurance sector, and the
establishment of a registry of non-bank financial institutions.

    The program recognized the role of infrastructure in supporting a good investment
climate, and in addition to the above mentioned prior action in the telecommunications
sector, included the elimination of privileged power tariffs for industrial consumers and
the adoption of a comprehensive plan for financial solvency in the energy sector.

    Improved public administration and public finance management: The program was
aimed at improved public sector governance in line with EU principles. Specifically it
supported closer control by the Ministry of Finance over the Treasury, tax administration
and customs, civil service reform, and improved public finance management at both the
state and local levels. Another focus of the program was to increase transparency and
competition in the state sale of property, while improving the system of state corporate
management. An early emphasis of the dialogue was on re-establishing fiscal control,
given that election related spending increases had led to a widening of the fiscal deficit to
4.4 percent of GDP in 2004 and a forecast of 7.5 percent for 2005. The 2005 budget
made a number of important corrections, including abolishing tax loopholes, raising
excises and containing pension spending together with institutional reforms to improve
public financial management.




                                             5

    Prior actions supported by the program included:

    · Elimination of most remaining tax privileges in the revised Budget 2005.

    · Allocation of authority to the Ministry of Finance to set the direction for and
        coordinate the activities of the State Tax Administration and the State Customs
        Service.

    · Integration of the State Treasury (which earlier reported to the President) into the
        Ministry of Finance as a government body of pubic administration.

    The revised 2005 Budget took a number of additional measures to increase revenues,
reduce the shadow economy, and contain spending, thereby bringing the fiscal deficit
from an earlier projected 7.5 percent of GDP to an end-year result of 2.3 percent, despite
considerably lower growth than originally forecast. Improvements in public sector
governance were initiated through a decree on the selection of managers of state-owned
enterprises (SOE), initiation of work on a new law on SOE management, adoption of a
concept for Public Internal Financial Audit in line with EU standards, and work on a
revised public procurement law.

    Social inclusion: The program called for expanding access to and quality of
education and health care for all Ukrainians, while increasing targeted social safety nets
and alleviating poverty country-wide. The Government's regional policy focused on
redistributing resources to support depressed territories while solving other problems
nationwide.

    Prior actions supported by the program included:

    · Providing increased social support to families with many children;

    · Initiating of an information campaign to inform farmers about their rights and
        opportunities as land holders.

        The Bank's support concentrated on reforming social transfers and privileges,
launching reforms by developing clear roadmaps in health care and education, and on
providing tradable land rights to rural farmers.

1.5     Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)

        N/A

1.6     Other significant changes

        As mentioned above, the DPL-1 was designed as the first in a programmatic
series, with additional DPLs envisaged to support program implementation after 1-1.5
years each. This ambitious time schedule could not be kept. However, the design of the
program, the thematic areas, and implementation arrangements remained unchanged,
despite significant political turnover, testifying to the broad consensus around economic
reforms that the DPL program was built on.


                                              6

2.      Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1     Program Performance

        DPL-1 was conceptualized, completed, and approved in record breaking time not
just for Ukraine but for Bank operations in general. The DPL program was recognized
by the Government as an attractive as well as timely financing vehicle bundled with
critical policy dialogue from the Bank during the country's political and economic
transition. The reforms supported by the operation were based on the government's own
reform program, reinforcing country ownership of the development process. Significant
steps supported by DPL-1 were achieved during the first 100 days of the new
administration, demonstrating strong reform ownership and allowing the Bank to proceed
quickly with Board approval. (Table 4, prior actions are in bold).

        Subsequent to DPL-1 Board approval, reforms continued, if at a somewhat more
moderate pace, and implementation of the DPL program remained well on track. At the
time of DPL-2 approval in late 2007, around 85 percent of all the benchmarks for 2005
and 2006 had been met. At the same time, and despite the slower pace of overall program
implementation, the majority of medium-term outcomes specified for 2007 had been
achieved and some exceeded by a considerable margin (see Annex 1).

Table 4. Achievements of the First 100 Days of the Government.

 Investment           · Presidential Decree "On Liberalization of Entrepreneurial Activities
 Climate                 and State Support to Entrepreneurship" issued to rapidly deregulate
                         business activity.

                      · Cabinet of Ministers Program "Contraband STOP" issued and
                         steps initiated to de-shadow and deregulate customs clearance.

                      · Considerable reduction of import tariffs on food products, home
                         appliances and some groups of industrial equipment.

                      · 4.4 percent revaluation of the domestic currency.

                      · Adopted comprehensive plan to bring energy companies to
                         financial solvency.

                      · Eliminated all remaining privileged power tariffs of industrial users.

                      · Established a communications regulator (basic law enacted, all
                         commission members appointed, including the head, and
                         budget approved).

                      · Eliminated export surrender requirements.

                      · Created the normative and regulatory basis for the functioning of
                         non-government pension funds.

                      · Monitoring of capital flows for reinsurance was brought to
                         international standards.

                      · Created a state registry of non-banking financial institutions.




                                             7

Public               · Adopted a revised 2005 Budget which reduced the deficit by an
Administration          estimated 3 percent of GDP (Bank Staff estimates).
and Public
Financial            · Implemented significant revenue policy changes: (a) elimination of

Management              most remaining tax exemptions and privileges, (b) reduction of
                        some import tariffs, (c) increase of excises on fuel and alcohol, (d)
                        increased rents on natural resource extractions and (e) tightened
                        dividend policy of majority state owned enterprises.

                     · Authority allocated to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine to
                        implement direction and coordination of the activities of the
                        State Tax Administration and the State Customs Service.

                     · Reorganization of the State Treasury of Ukraine by
                        transforming it into a "government body of public
                        administration" integrated into the Ministry of Finance of
                        Ukraine.

                     · Initiation of a draft Law on the Governance of State Owned
                        Enterprises and Property which would, inter alia, improve
                        incentives and accountability of managers, and enactment by the
                        CoM (Decree #234) "On competitive selection of the managers of
                        strategic state enterprises".

                     · Adoption by the Cabinet of Ministers of a Development Concept
                        for Public Internal Financial Audit and Control (PIFC), in line with
                        EU standards.

                     · Initiation of legislation to amend the Law on Public Procurement.

Social               · Increased social support to families with many children, young
Inclusion               mothers and newborns.

                     · Initiated an information campaign to inform farmers about
                        their rights and opportunities as land holders.


      Beyond the prior actions the following progress was achieved as for the actions
planned for 2005:

      · Abolition of at least ten "Worst Offender" regulations or normative acts
          which present major problems for conducting business. Following the launch
          of a major deregulation effort 9,340 regulatory acts were reviewed, out of
          which 4,940 were abolished. However, because the majority of them were
          either outdated or ineffective in practice they had limited impact on economic
          activity.

      · Establishment of an investment promotion agency. This was established in
          August 2005 and became operational in early 2006.

      · Adoption and publication of all remaining technical procedures according to
          the EU's "New Approach" on technical procedures. Out of 28 technical
          procedures planned by 2006, 20 were elaborated (71%). Out of them 16 were
          adopted (57%).



                                             8

· Development of a concept for legal and technical harmonization of Ukraine's
  energy sector with the main principles of the EU Internal Energy market.
  This was completed during 2006 and approved by the Cabinet in late 2007.

· Concrete steps taken on communications sector liberalization (telecom tariff
  rebalancing, frequency allocations, mobile licenses and interconnection).
  Major progress was achieved with respect to radio frequency allocations
  during 2005. The Cabinet of Ministers approved a new national spectrum
  table which allocates around 70% of the spectrum to civilian usage. More
  generally the telecommunications sector has seen major advances in recent
  years, and Ukraine now has one of the highest mobile phone penetration ratios
  in the region (more than one registered connection per capita).

· NBU adoption of a Supervisory Development Plan (SDP) for banking
  supervision. A draft Supervisory Development Plan was developed and is
  being implemented through annual Action Plans.             However, the SDP
  contained few measures to track implementation, and risk-based and
  consolidated supervision remain to be achieved.

· Signing of a Memorandum of Development of Saving Bank (MoD) as a
  successor document to the Memorandum of Understanding on Saving Bank
  (MoU). The MoD was prepared in draft form, but pending a political decision
  on the future strategy with respect to Savings Bank, this was never signed.
  With the Savings Bank's financial performance much improved, and its
  systemic importance much diminished, the Bank dropped this benchmark
  from future DPLs.

· Endorsement of a comprehensive concept for insurance market development
  and regulation. The comprehensive concept was adopted in August 2005.

· Further improvement of the legal and regulatory framework for mortgage
  system. A Law on Mortgage Bonds was adopted by Parliament on December
  22, 2005 enabling banks to mobilize long-term market funding. Mortgage
  funding has expanded rapidly, but lack of confidence in the legal system and
  significant underlying foreign exchange risk remain challenges to be
  addressed.

· Amendments to the Law on Stock and Stock Market which improved the legal
  framework for corporate governance and securitization were approved in
  early 2006. The Law established basic rules for the issuance of securities and
  the operation of stock markets in Ukraine, but did not tackle issues of
  shareholder protection, which remain to be addressed by a new Joint Stock
  Company Law.

· Progress towards WTO accession. WTO accession was originally expected
  for late 2005. Significant trade liberalization took place in 2005 and by mid-
  2006 Ukraine had signed bilateral protocols with all major economies and
  achieved market economy status by the EU and the USA. Further legislative
  changes were adopted in late 2006 and mid-2007 paving the way for
  Ukraine's accession to the WTO in 2008.


                                    9

        These achievements confirm that the program supported by DPL-1 was broadly
on track during 2005-2007, albeit at a pace somewhat slower than had been envisaged.

2.2    Major Factors Affecting Implementation

        Ukrainian politics in the recent past has been volatile. The "Orange revolution" in
late 2004 signified a breakthrough in the country's democratic culture, in the
establishment of political and media freedoms, and in improvements in government
transparency. The price Ukraine has been paying for this progress is a significant level of
political instability, as different political forces have competed for leadership of the
country.   During the period of implementation of the previous Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) from 2003 to 2007, Ukraine had no fewer than four different
Governments. This inevitably led to delays in program implementation.

        Yet, a similarly enduring feature of Ukraine's political system has been the ability
to generate compromise and this has allowed reforms to proceed against the background
of a shared consensus on the country's key development objectives.

        Ukraine's access to international capital markets has improved consistently
throughout the recent period. This has allowed Ukraine to attract very significant external
funding, in particular in the private sector, whilst benefiting from the world-wide trend of
declining yields on fixed income instruments of emerging markets. The successful re-
privatization of Krivorizhstal steel company, generating close to US$5 billion in revenues
for the budget served as a symbol both of Ukraine's increased commitment to
transparency and openness and its attractiveness as a destination for private capital.

        Although subsequent governments have found it difficult to move forward on
privatization, Ukraine's image as an investment destination nonetheless received a
permanent boost.

        In addition, Ukraine has had access to growing donor support, from the European
Union (including grants from the European Commission, loans from EBRD and more
recently the EIB), from the United States (USAID and the Millennium Challenge
Corporation) and a host of other bilateral donors. World Bank financing plays a much
smaller role today in the country's budget and balance of payments than seven years ago.
This has reduced financial leverage whilst increasing the need for coordination with other
donors.

        While reform implementation was slower than originally anticipated, growth has
been buoyant, averaging 7.5 percent since 2000. In this environment, the urgency of
reform was reduced. On the whole, reforms continued to move forward. However, there
was also procrastination in key areas (including land reform, which received significant
emphasis in the DPL design) and backtracking in some others (most importantly reform
of public procurement, where Ukraine moved from an imperfect but nonetheless broadly
workable system to a system where the state has almost lost control over the public
procurement function, which has essentially been captured by private interests).




                                              10

2.3     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

        Monitoring of the program was conducted through the MOE and regular meetings
of the Inter-governmental Working Group (GWG) with high level of representation. The
meetings aimed to review the stock of accomplishments, identify the major problems and
impediments and steps to address them.                    The MOE coordinated the collection of
information on program implementation and results, and sent quarterly updates to the
Bank. Bank staff used both targeted staff visits on particular issues (e.g. mortgage
financing, telecom deregulation, bank supervision, capital markets etc.) and regular DPL-
1 supervision visits to prepare updates on program implementation and identify key
policy issues. Staff also commissioned or prepared analytical materials to develop
specific policy recommendations, drawing on the Bank's existing AAA program, sector-
ESW and donor funded and/or executed research.

2.4     Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any)

        The DPL-1 is the first in a series of three operations. The second operation in the
series (DPL-2) was approved in December 2007, based on the achievement of around
85% of all the benchmarks agreed in the original matrix of institutional and policy reform.
A third operation is planned for late 2008 or early 2009, picking up key reforms that have
not yet been implemented as triggers (including a reform of the public procurement
system, approval of the joint stock company law, establishment of an independent energy
sector regulator and a further reduction in the quasi-fiscal deficit in gas and electricity,
and the approval of a law unifying social insurance payments) whilst maintaining focus
on prudent macroeconomic management, against the background of a less favorable
international environment.

3.      Assessment of Outcomes

3.1     Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

        The DPL program constituted a core part of the 2004-2007 CAS and matched its
thematic focus to the main development goals of the overall strategy agreed with the
Government. The seven CAS pillars2 are relatively straightforwardly mapped into the
corresponding DPL pillars. The dimensions of macroeconomic and financial
sustainability, and greater international integration, map into the first pillar of improving
the investment climate.            Improved transparency, accountability and integrity of
government represent the second pillar of improved public governance. Poverty reduction,
mitigation of social risks, comprehensive human development, and reduction of regional
imbalances represent elements of the third pillar of social inclusion.



2The 2004-2007 CAS was built around seven pillars: (i) macroeconomic and financial sustainability; (ii)
poverty reduction, mitigation of social risks and the strengthening of the middle class; (iii) comprehensive
and harmonized human development; (iv) protection of the natural environment; (v) greater integration into
the world economic and financial system; (vi) dynamic regional development and reduction of regional
imbalances; and (vii) improved transparency, accountability and integrity of government.



                                                      11

        While financing needs no longer dominate in the dialogue with the authorities, the
Bank's involvement in the reform program through the DPL program has been regarded
by successive governments as an important signal to domestic political constituencies and
international financial markets. In this context, the cross-sectoral nature of the DPL
program has played a useful role in bringing different government agencies and
ministries together and focusing reform efforts on concrete next steps. Through the DPL
program the Bank has helped to concretize the realization of the Government's broad
vision of economic reform and protect the quality of policy making against interference
by special interest groups. By the same token, DPL-1 served as a platform for the
coordination of donor support and has provided a stable roadmap of concrete reform
benchmarks throughout a turbulent political period. However, playing this role
effectively as its financial role has diminished has also required the Bank to become more
selective in its policy interventions and adopt greater flexibility in response to domestic
political realities.

3.2     Achievement of Program Development Objectives

        The DPL-1 policy actions and medium term outcome indicators are summarized
in Annex 1. Out of a total 42 medium-term targets, 20 had been met by late 2007, of
which seven were overachieved by a considerable margin. However, there are also some
areas where progress has been less fast than envisaged and additional efforts are needed,
as reflected in the targets set for DPL-2.

        Improved investment climate: In the area of the business climate, initial efforts
with DPL-1 support targeted trade and customs reform, development of the non-bank
financial sector and the deregulation of economic activities. Significant gains were made
in attracting foreign direct investment, which averaged US$7 billion (US$148 per capita)
in 2005-2007, arguably supported by the continuous progress made towards WTO
accession (Ukraine was finally invited to join WTO on February 5, 2008, ratified the
protocol of accession on April 16 and is expected to formally accede May 16, 2008).
Significant import liberalization is reflected in a highly open economy, although the
diversification of exports by destination and product composition did not advance as
expected (partially because the external environment favored traditional exports). The
financial sector developed extremely fast, with all medium-term outcome indicators
exceeded.     Access to external financing promoted greater enterprise transparency,
although the corresponding legal changes (in particular a new Joint Stock Company law)
were delayed. The business deregulation efforts remained incomplete, and although
business entry has continued to be rapid, little improvement was made in reducing the
cost of doing business. In infrastructure, huge progress was achieved in
telecommunications reform with corresponding fast increases in mobile penetration,
while in the energy sector the goal of full cost recovery tariffs failed to be reached despite
significant domestic adjustment, in light of the increase in gas import prices from US$60
to US$135 per 1000 cm.

        Improved public administration and public finance management: In the area of
public finance and public administration, DPL-1 focused on maintaining fiscal discipline,
elimination of remaining tax privileges and arrears, and enhancing the institutional
capacity and efficiency of public administration. The DPL-1 contributed to maintaining

                                              12

fiscal prudence as reflected in fiscal deficits averaging less than two percent of GDP in
2005-2007, a significant reduction in tax arrears, the close to full elimination of budget
arrears and a reduction by one percent of GDP in pension system outlays. Public financial
management reforms are ongoing, but apart from a reform of public sector remuneration
in 2005, public administration reform has not proceeded. Medium-term targets are not
being achieved in the area of reducing inflation to single digits (after a sharp decline
through mid-2006, the increase in energy and food prices has led to a significant
acceleration of inflation), the reduction of the stock of VAT arrears (huge progress was
made through mid-2006, but after the change in government arrears started to accumulate
again), improvements in auditing and reporting by state-owned enterprises, and
establishment of internal audits in all ministries. The targets for the functioning of the
procurement system have become secondary in the light of present distortions to the
institutional organization of public procurement.

        Social inclusion: In the area of social inclusion the program supported selected
measures to improve the targeting and efficiency of social insurance and social transfers,
reduction in poverty, promote the creation of rural land rights, widen access to mortgage
financing for households and initiate reforms in the health and education sectors. The
most impressive progress was made in poverty reduction (down to eight percent in 2005,
around half the target level) and in the increased access to mortgage financing which
surged to well over five percent of GDP by end 2007. However, the establishment of
tradable rural land rights has been delayed despite progress in land titling, in the absence
of a unified land and real estate registry and with the moratorium on land sales remaining
in place. The reform of social transfers is progressing through pilot interventions and with
some improved targeting. Education reforms are proceeding towards European standards,
while health reforms have yet to begin.

3.3     Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

        The overall outcome is rated satisfactory, reflecting the fact that the DPL program
was highly relevant to the new incoming government, remained the main plank of the
Bank's policy dialogue with the authorities throughout the period 2005-2007 and
implementation remained broadly on track. The DPL was the core of the Government's
reform program and translated its development vision into concrete actions. This allowed
the authorities to maintain forward momentum despite significant political volatility. The
majority of medium-term outcome indicators (designed for the whole DPL program) have
been achieved or exceeded.         Prior actions for DPL-1 were concentrated in trade
liberalization, communications reform, tax policy reform, public finance management,
and land reform. In all these areas, with the notable exception of land reform, progress
has been significant and sustained.




                                             13

3.4     Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a)     Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

        Overall outcomes varied across themes. The largest progress was achieved in
developing the financial sector and attracting international sources of investment, thereby
contributing to the strong overall economic performance, even though the business
climate continues to be rated poorly by existing ratings. Trade liberalization and energy
sector reforms were other areas where Ukraine moved decisively forward. Reforms of
public financial management have on the whole progressed less fast, although still
satisfactorily. In the area of social inclusion, progress was mixed ­ very significant in the
area of poverty reduction (see Figure 1), much less significant in the reform of social
services, social assistance, and in land reform. Also, given the focus of the government's
2005 program on improvements in public sector governance, it should be noted that while
great strides were made in opening the society and thereby creating the basis for greater
transparency and accountability, much less consistent advances were made in tackling
corruption and the capture of the state by vested business interests. This would have
required persistence and greater political continuity, and progress thus fell victim to the
frequent turnover of political leadership.

        Figure 1: Poverty Rate in Ukraine, 2000 - 2005

         (Poverty line = 1813 UAH per person per year; in percentage points)
      35%

      30%

      25%

      20%

      15%

      10%

        5%

        0%
                 2000         2001           2002          2003    2004    2005

        Source: Ukraine Household Budget Survey, World Bank



(b)     Institutional Change/Strengthening

        The CAS Evaluation acknowledges the strong role adjustment lending played in
achieving the institutional development outcomes. The IEG evaluation of the PAL
program rates the outcome of PAL 1 and PAL 2 satisfactory, the institutional
development impact likely and high likely respectively, the risk to development outcomes
as negligible to low.

        DPL-1, as a successor operation significantly contributed to institutional
development.      As described above, the DPL program provided for sustaining and
deepening financial intermediation in the economy, strengthening of the capital market
institutions, strengthening of banking supervision to improve bank disclosure


                                                   14

requirements, reduce connected lending and establish a sound basis for corporate
governance of remaining state-owned banks. Also, under the DPL program measures
have been taken to provide clear government support to the non-bank financial institution
regulator (NBFIR) in the development and implementation of a concept for development
and supervision of the private insurance market. Some progress was made in improving
the regulation of natural monopolies. As part of WTO accession efforts, the country put
in place a modern regulatory framework for telecommunications. Also, the DPL agenda
includes the strengthening of the energy regulator--NERC--and the continued
liberalization of the telecommunications sector (tariff rebalancing, frequency allocations,
mobile licenses and interconnections).

        An objective of the DPL program was to help the country set the institutional
basis for better corporate governance. The idea was to help Ukraine's legislation and
practices move to EU standards. Progress has been mixed. On the one hand some of the
large financial and industrial groups (FIGS) initiated governance reform, pressured by the
need to operate in the global economy, and several pieces of legislation, such as a Stock
and Stock Market Law were adopted, and accounting practices modernized. On the other
hand, a new Joint-stock Company Law has not been approved and remains in the DPL
agenda.

        The progress made on the oversight on public enterprises has been limited; only
recently did Parliament approve legislation on State Holding Companies as well as a
framework law on SOEs signaling a renewed interest in the governance of public
enterprises. The Bank has highlighted the importance of improving corporate governance
in public enterprises through dialogue on adjustment and analytical work. Both public
and private corporate governance remain important items of the broader competitiveness
agenda, where better governance and deepening of the financial sector need to develop in
parallel.

        While all the main political forces stress their commitment to fight corruption,
their incentives to undertake the political and institutional changes that would lead to a
radical improvement are more limited. Vested interests within the bureaucracy but also
among the domestic business groups are strong. These interest groups may support the
corporate governance agenda if it plays to their advantage (e.g., access to international
capital markets), but have in the past resisted faster institutional changes.

        Consequently, although institutional reforms, including reforms of the judiciary
and of public administration, are high on the political agenda, implementation remains
uncertain. A civil service law was drafted in compliance with EU standards, but its
approval remains uncertain. Two presidential decrees outline the country's vision on
judicial reform.    Yet without a resolution of the underlying constitutional issues, a
fundamental reform of the judiciary seems difficult.             Efforts are more likely to
concentrate on improving material conditions in the judicial system, and modernizing the
courts so as to lay a basis for more efficient operation and increased credibility in the
eyes of the public. More generally, institutional reforms in the public sector have tended
to lag behind reform measures designed to support private sector development. This
pattern may continue.



                                              15

(c)     Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

        There were no unintended outcomes.

3.5     Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

        Not applicable.

4.      Assessment of Risks to Development Outcomes

Rating: Moderate

        The risks to development outcomes are assessed as moderate, reflecting the fact
that the DPL program implementation remains on track, with DPL-2 approved in 2007
within the same overall programmatic framework foreseen by DPL-1. It bears emphasis
that this framework has survived through four different Prime Ministers since early 2005,
and is likely to remain in place going forward. This shows that significant consensus
exists regarding the principles of Ukraine's development path.

        The moderate rating does, however, reflect the fact that the overall pace of
implementation has been less than had been envisaged, while development outcomes
benefited from exogenous factors that were not a function of program implementation.
Should the external environment worsen significantly, Ukraine would need to accelerate
reforms to safeguard the achievements made to date. Arguably the country has crossed a
critical threshold in this regard, but complacency would be inappropriate.

5.      Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1     Bank Performance

(a)     Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

        DPL-1 was designed quickly, responsively and in accordance with the best
principles of Development Policy Lending. Prior actions were selective (a total of seven),
focused and relevant. With the exception of the prior action linked to land reform, the
changes they sought to promote have been sustained. Country ownership was at the core
of the DPL's design, reflecting the emerging Bank-wide lessons from adjustment lending.

        The DPL program was designed in a way that followed logically from the
priorities articulated in the government program and the continued progress in its
implementation testifies to its relevance. The programmatic and cross-sectoral approach
was appropriate in Ukraine's circumstances, providing continuity in the dialogue, focus
around a clearly articulated roadmap and a vehicle for coordination across a fragmented
government counterpart. In choosing a cross-sectoral design, the DPL followed the
lessons learned from the PAL program on the significant synergies between market




                                             16

supporting institutions.3 This allowed multi-sectoral reform challenges to be addressed in
a coherent manner, whilst retaining sufficient flexibility to adapt to changing political
priorities.

          One question on the design of DPL-1 is the choice of a programmatic approach
without the use of specific triggers to focus program implementation over the course of
the series. One the one hand, this allowed the dialogue to respond flexibly to changing
policy priorities within the framework of an overall agreed workplan. The fact that 85
percent of the DPL program benchmarks have by now been reached testifies to the
consensus that exists regarding the main development vision for Ukraine. On the other
hand, the absence of triggers reduced coherence of the program over time. Subsequent
operations in the series have re-introduced a very selective use of triggers whilst
maintaining overall flexibility of the design.

(b)       Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

          Quality of supervision was satisfactory on the whole. The MOE and the Bank
convened inter-ministerial meetings to monitor progress with program implementation on
a quarterly basis. The Bank also mobilized additional consultancy support to help develop
specific policies or assist in the development of methodologies to monitor progress
towards medium-term outcomes.

          However, it should be noted that the M&E framework probably still contained too
many indicators, and that the Bank was not able to always focus the government's own
monitoring efforts on performance rather than compliance. As a result, in many cases
independent staff assessments were required to establish qualitatively and substantively
whether progress was being made potentially reducing government ownership in the
process. It should also be noted that in some cases, supervision efforts were hampered by
either a complex technical design of the monitoring indicators (e.g. in the case of trade
diversification) or the lack of willingness of counterparts to provide the data required (in
case of customs clearance and the stock of VAT arrears).

(c)       Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

 Rating: Satisfactory

          Despite the issues with the monitoring framework noted above, on the whole
Bank performance was satisfactory during DPL-1 implementation. The dialogue with the
borrower was maintained at all times, the Bank showed pragmatism and flexibility in
dealing with a complex political environment and was able as a result to support the
government to navigate its reform program against the resistance of multiple vested
interests.



3"A cross-cutting, thematic design provides both flexibility and depth for addressing systematic
institutional reform" (ICR for PAL II, p. 24).



                                                    17

5.2     Borrower Performance

(a)     Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

        The Government maintained the course of economic reforms through a turbulent
political period and at no point abandoned the DPL program. Close alignment of the
policy matrix with the priorities of the government ensured smooth implementation
during the initial months. Subsequently, repeated parliamentary elections and the long
delays in forming a functioning government following these elections meant that
legislative efforts in particular were delayed, while the government's capacity was
limited due to the need of political leaders to concentrate on their electoral campaigns.
Despite the resulting inconsistency of reform efforts, it is still notable that the underlying
commitment to reforms has remained intact throughout changing administrations.
However, borrower performance arguably suffered from lack of prioritization and
weaknesses in implementation. As a result, some of the initiatives supported by DPL-1
have not had the desired impact. This is evident, for instance, in the area of business
deregulation, where despite much emphasis during 2005, progress on the ground has
remained fairly limited as testified by business surveys as well as the Doing Business
assessments.

        Implementation of the DPL program was supported by the Supervisory
Committee for DPL-1 including the Vice Prime-Minister, the Minister of Economy, the
Minister of Finance, the Minister of Justice, and the Governor of the National Bank of
Ukraine. A DPL-1 Inter-governmental Working Group (GWG) was also established,
headed by the Deputy Minister of Economy of Ukraine, and consisting of representatives
from across the Government. This GWG served as an effective vehicle for dialogue
between the Bank and the borrower and for internal government coordination.

(b)     Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

        Due to the nature of this operation there is no implementing agency. However,
the implementation of the project was supported by the Inter-governmental Working
Group (see above).


(c)     Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

        Overall Borrower performance is rated moderately satisfactory on account of
overall good program implementation, but with significant delays and sometimes
remaining inconsistencies between declared policy objectives and the reality on the
ground.




                                             18

6. Lessons Learned

    1. The flexible design, fast delivery and client-centered approach of
       development policy lending is well suited to a MIC borrower like Ukraine.
       DPL 1 characterized the switch in adjustment lending from the PAL series,
       to more flexible, faster disbursing and overall more borrower-friendly
       development policy lending.       The borrower appreciated the advantages
       provided by the new borrowing instrument and quickly seized the
       opportunities it provided. The DPL-1 design reflected well the lessons
       learned under the PAL program in emphasizing government ownership, a
       multi-sectoral approach, realism in the choice of benchmarks and limited
       use of conditionality. Going forward, the challenge will be to adapt DPL
       lending further to ensure more reliable annual support for the budget, and
       using the leverage this provides to assist reformers in keeping the reform
       agenda on track in a difficult political environment.

    2. Vested interests remain strongly aligned against reforms in some areas, and
       additional efforts at coordination inside the Bank and with outside
       stakeholders and other donors may be needed to identify and then support
       strong reform champions within the government. Public procurement,
       corporate governance and land reform have now migrated from one program
       agenda to the next without much visible progress (or even backtracking as in
       the case of public procurement). More joint efforts with other donors,
       careful political economy analysis leading to targeted advocacy campaigns
       coordinated with all pro-reform forces, as well as champions among top
       politicians are needed to push such reforms through. The financial leverage
       of DPL lending alone is not enough in these cases. Indeed, triggers in such
       areas should only be established once a clear strategy combining all above
       elements exist to avoid failure and loss of credibility on both sides. This
       requires intensive coordination both within and outside the Bank.

    3. The cross-sectoral nature of development policy lending remains adequate
       for a country still facing broad reform challenges. The cross-sectoral design
       has the advantage of (i) reflecting the broad nature of Ukraine's reform
       challenges and the correspondingly broad ranging government reform
       programs, (ii) allowing for support to be adapted flexibly to changing
       political priorities within this broad agenda, and (iii) providing an
       instrument from inter-agency coordination on the side of the authorities and
       inter-sectoral coordination on the side of the Bank.

    4. Monitoring and Evaluation indicators should be well defined in terms of
       availability of data and relatively easy methodology, clear for both sides. In
       some cases, especially in the areas of trade diversification, corporate
       governance and parts of the energy sector, the suggested indicators turned
       out to be too complex for the borrower to calculate them. In some cases the
       methodology, which the borrower used, was not clear to the Bank. As a
       result, the calculated indicator was meaningless, and monitoring hampered.
       Future operations should aim to have a more limited number of outcome

                                      19

             targets, drawing on publicly available information and mutually understood
             methodologies.

         5. Closer collaboration with IFC within the DPL framework resulted in more
             effective use of internal resources and prevented overlapping of efforts. IFC
             staff led on the private sector development dialogue in the context of the
             DPL as core team members. Key benchmarks under the investment climate
             pillar, in particular adoption of new permits and inspection legislation;
             standardization reform; corporate governance and tax reform were
             developed and monitored jointly. IFC's large technical assistance presence
             on the ground added additional leverage and capacity building to these
             efforts and contributed to the overall progress (albeit at a still rather
             moderate pace).

         6. Coordination of activities with other development partners provides
             valuable synergy and has been beneficial for the country reform agenda.
             Regular meetings were held with major donors, including the Government
             of the Netherlands, SIDA, USAID, the EU Delegation, CIDA, and the
             Government of Japan. Close coordination of policy advice was achieved in
             particular with USAID on capital markets (leading to a joint technical
             assistance initiative) and with the EU on energy sector reforms (with the EU
             adopting a policy matrix for their first budget support operation closely
             aligned with the DPL). Donor collaboration also allowed background
             analytical work to develop new policies to be supported with donor financial
             assistance, including from the Governments of Japan and the Netherlands.

7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower

(a)    Borrower/Implementing agencies

       The government provided comments (attached in Annex 3), which focused mostly
on the factual numbers and performance indicators.          Many of these have been
incorporated into the text. However, differences in definitions and methodology of
calculation preclude the adoption of all suggested changes. There were no comments on
the assessment of the performance of either the Bank or the Borrower.




                                             20

Annex 1: Development Policy Loan Program: Key Performance Indicators


Actions Supported by DPL-1 (2005)                        Medium Term Outcomes ( as envisaged by DPL-1        Actual Outcomes
Bolded Benchmarks are Prior Actions.                     Project Document for the end of 2007)


Improving the business environment                       · Annual rate of growth of business entry at least     · Annual rate of growth of business entry up to
· Presidential Decree "On Liberalization of              7%.                                                        8% (data for 2006).
Entrepreneurial Activities and State Support to                                                  (Achieved)
Entrepreneurship" issued to rapidly deregulate business  · Gross Domestic Fixed Investment reaches at least     · Gross Domestic Fixed Investment was 24.6%
activity.                                                22% of GDP, up from a preliminary estimate of              of GDP in 2006 and 26.9% in 2007.
· Cabinet of Ministers Program "Contraband STOP"         20.2% in 2004.
issued and steps initiated to de-shadow and deregulate                                           (Achieved)
customs clearance.                                                                                              · Net FDI inflows during January-September
                                                         · Gross annual inflow of Foreign Direct Investment         2007 were US$9.2 billion.
                                                         reaches 70 US$ per capita, up from 36 US$ in 2004.     · Gross annual inflow of Foreign Direct
Diversifying trade and increasing integration into the                                           (Achieved)         Investment reaches 148 USD per capita.
international marketplace
· Considerable reduction of import tariffs on food       · Market Economy status achieved.

products, home appliances and some groups of industrial                                          (Achieved)     · Index of Intra-Industry Manufacturing Trade
equipment.                                               · Improvement in the Index of Intra-Industry               Intensity in 2005 is 35.9 (according to the WB

· NBU allowed 5% revaluation of the nominal exchange     Manufacturing Trade Intensity as compared to 2002          estimates).

rate to fight inflation and encourage economic           (38.4 according to the WB estimates).                  · Improvement in the Index of Trade
diversification.                                                                              (Not achieved)        Complementarily (rank correlation) with the
                                                                                                                    EU as compared in 2005 is 37 (according to
                                                         · Improvement in the Index of Trade                        the WB estimates).
                                                         Complementarily (rank correlation) with the EU as
                                                         compared to 2002 (33 according to the WB               · Improvement in the Index of Export
                                                         estimates)                                                 Diversification in 2005 - 0,235. (Indicator
                                                                                                                    improves for smaller values)
                                                                                                 (Achieved)
                                                         · Improvement in the Index of Export
                                                         Diversification compared to 2002 (0,257 according      · According to Doing Business Report (IFC)
                                                         to the WB estimates).                                      Ukraine has moved from 132 in 2005 to 128
                                                                                                                    rank in 2006, but dropped to 139 in 2007.
                                                                                                 (Achieved)
                                                         · Cost of doing business decrease by 15%,
                                                         compared to 2004.                                      · WTO General Council approved Ukraine's
                                                                                                                    application on February 5, 2008, and formal




                                                                          21

                                                                                                 (Not Achieved)             membership is attained on ratification by the
                                                          · Custom's clearing for business at Ukraine's                     Ukrainian parliament.

                                                          border decreased by at least 50%.
                                                                                            (No available data)
                                                          · WTO accession achieved.
                                                                                                     (Achieved)
· Adopted comprehensive plan to bring energy              · Improvement of EBRD Infrastructure Reform                   · Improvement of EBRD Infrastructure Reform
companies to financial solvency.                          Index as compared to 2003 (EBRD Transition                        Index by one notch in 2006.
· Eliminated all remaining privileged power tariffs of    Report).                                                      · Cash collection level for electricity in 2007
industrial users.                                                                                    (Achieved)             was at 99% while in 2006 was at 101, 6%.
· Established a communications regulator (basic law       · Cash collection ratios of gas and electricity                   Cash collection for gas was at 86, 7% in 2007
enacted,4 all commission members appointed, including     remain above 95%.                                                 while in 2006 was at 86, 5%.

the head, and budget approved).                                                            (Partially achieved)         · Payment arrears from end-consumers to
                                                                                                                            Oblenergos reduced in 2006 from 10, 5 bln.
                                                          · Reduction of payment arrears from end-                          UAH to 9, 7 bln. UAH and then to 9, 6 bln.
                                                          consumers to electricity suppliers by at least 50%;               UAH in 2007 (totally reduced by 8.6%).
                                                          and of payment arrears from end-consumers to gas
                                                          suppliers by at least 80%.                                    · In gas sector arrears from end-consumers to
                                                                                                                            gas suppliers (Naftogaz) increased from 4,6
                                                                                           (Partially achieved)             bln. UAH in January 2005 to 5,7 bln. UAH at
                                                          · Reduction of cross-subsidies from non-household                 the end of 2007 (totally increased by 24.5%)
                                                          (non-HH) to household (HH) consumers of gas and               · Cross-subsidies from non-HH to HH
                                                          electricity, as measured by the ratio of non-HH to                consumers in electricity sector increased (ratio
                                                          HH tariffs.                                                       grew from 1, 43 in 2004 to 1, 7 in 2007).
                                                                                                 (Not Achieved)             Cross-subsidies from non-HH to HH
                                                          · Cost recovery of gas and electricity tariffs for all            consumers in gas sector also increased from 1,
                                                          categories of consumers (including households and                 74 in 2006 to 2, 2 in 2007.
                                                          budgetary institutions) approaches 100%.
                                                                                                 (Not Achieved)
                                                          · Measurement methodology of Index reflecting
                                                          carbon dioxide emissions volume in relation to real
                                                          GDP developed.



4"Enacted" is defined to mean, adopted by the Verkhovna Rada, signed by the President, and published in the national standard ­ "Uryadovy Courier".




                                                                            22

                                                                                             (Partially achieved)
· Elimination of export surrender requirements.            · Consistent improvement in the Corporate              · On December 19, 2006 State Commission on
· Created the normative and regulatory basis for the       Governance Index, including introduction of the           Securities and Stock Market (SCSSM) issued

function of non-government pension funds.                  benchmark index during 2005.                              the    Regulation      regarding     information
                                                                                                                     disclosure    by    securities    issuers,  and
· Monitoring of capital flows for reinsurance was brought                                     (No available data)
                                                                                                                     established       a       specialized     Web:
to international standards.                                                                                          stockmarket.gov.ua,         where        regular
· The state registry of non-banking financial institutions · Sample of annual reports of 40 listed companies         information about issuers' events is posted. It
is created.                                                on free website provided by State Securities and          also established the Agency for Ukrainian
                                                           Stock Market, reveals continual improvement in the        Stock Market Infrastructure Development,
                                                           availability and quality of disclosure of listed          along with its Web site, www.smida.gov.ua,
                                                           companies.                                                where a solid database of securities issuers is

                                                                                                       (Achieved)    published.
                                                                                                                  · Standard & Poor's launched Transparency
                                                                                                                     Index for listed public companies in 2007.
                                                                                                                     Baseline index is 23.9%, considerably below a
                                                                                                                     similar index calculated for banks. According
                                                                                                                     to S&P's the main reason is lacking incentives
                                                                                                                     due to limited need to access international
                                                           · No deterioration in the solvency of the banking         capital markets.
                                                           sector as reflected by prudential indicators and
                                                           supervisory ratings.                                   · The capital adequacy ratio (CAR) has been
                                                                                                       (Achieved)    fluctuating from 14.95% in the end of 2005 to
                                                                                                                     14.19% in the end of 2006 and to 13.92% in
                                                                                                                     the end of 2007, although it has maintained
                                                                                                                     above the limit of 10.00% required by the
                                                                                                                     National Bank of Ukraine.
                                                           · Deepening of equity markets, as measured by
                                                           FUTS capitalization growth to 30% of GDP,
                                                           compared to 22% of GDP in 2004
                                                                                                       (Achieved) · Market capitalization increased as measured
                                                                                                                     by FUTS capitalization growth to 40% of
                                                                                                                     GDP in 2006.
                                                           · Increased confidence in the banking sector as
                                                           reflected by further financial deepening (deposits to
                                                           GDP ratio from 23.6% GDP in 2004 to 28% of GDP)        · Increased confidence in the banking sector as

                                                           and capital growth.                                       reflected by the ratio of deposits to GDP at 35
                                                                                                                     percent in 2006.
                                                                                                       (Achieved)




                                                                             23

                                                           · On sight examination of the 20 largest insurance
                                                           companies shows compliance with EU recommended
                                                           capital requirements.
                                                                                             (No available data)
· Budget 2005 revised with revenue and expenditure         · Average annual CPI inflation under 10%.             · Single digits inflation target in medium-term
measures reducing the targeted budget deficit by an                                               (Not achieved)    has not been achieved. After a sharp decline
estimated 3% of GDP ( relative to the original 2005                                                                 through mid-2006, the increase in energy and
budget).                                                  · Pension Fund outlays down by 2 percent of GDP,          food prices has led to inflation growth up to
                                                           compared to 2005.
· Revenue policy changes: (a) elimination of most                                                                   16.6% in 2007.

remaining tax privileges, (b) reduction of some import                                                (Achieved) · Pension outlays were kept under control after
tariffs, (c) raising of excises on fuel and alcohol, (d)   · Deficit of the consolidated budget is under 3%         the 2005 surge (2006 expenditure was 0.7
increased rents on natural resource extractions, and (e)   GDP.                                                     percent of GDP below the level of 2005). The
tightened dividend policy of majority state owned                                                     (Achieved)    official data for 2007 is not available yet, but
enterprises.                                                                                                        staff estimation based on available
                                                           · Elimination of all budget arrears.                     information is 2007 expenditures were 0.4%
                                                                                                      (Achieved)    below the level of 2006 or 1.1% below that of

                                                           · Tax arrears are brought under 3% of GDP.               2005.
                                                                                                                 · Budget arrears fell to just 0.14 percent of
                                                                                                      (Achieved)    GDP.
                                                           · VAT Arrears (stock)/VAT Claims (quarterly           · Tax arrears at 1.4 percent of GDP
                                                           flow) remain below 15% during 2007                       outperformed DPL I medium-term targets.
                                                                                                  (Not achieved)
                                                           · Upgrading of credit rating of sovereign debt from   · On VAT arrears huge progress was made
                                                           current levels which are as follows: Moody's: B1,        through mid-2006, but after the change in
                                                           S&P: BB-, Fitch: BB-.                                    government arrears started to accumulate
                                                                                                  (Not achieved)    again. A change in the legislation means no
                                                                                                                    official data on VAT refund arrears are
                                                                                                                    available after 2005, but WB estimates put the
                                                                                                                    ratio at above 40% in mid-2007.
· Authority allocated to the Ministry of Finance of        · Share of base salaries to total civil service       · Base salaries increased to an estimated 60% of
Ukraine to implement direction and coordination of the     remuneration packages reaches 80% from a currently       total compensation as a result of remuneration
activities of the State Tax Administration and the State   estimated 30%.                                           reforms introduced in 2005.
Customs Service.                                                                            (Partially achieved) · Naftogaz Ukraine, Ukrexim Bank and Oshad
· Initiation of a draft Law on the Governance of State    · Random sample of 5 audit reports of large state-        Bank remain the only large SOEs publishing
Owned Enterprises and Property which would, inter alia,    owned enterprises shows improvements in auditing         IFRS audits.
improve incentives and accountability of managers.         and reporting.




                                                                            24

· CoM Decree #234 "On competitive selection of the                                                (Not achieved)
managers of strategic state enterprises" enacted.
· Adoption of a Development Concept for Public Internal    · Internal audit units established in all ministries
Financial Audit and Control (PIFC), in line with EU        and central executive bodies.
standards.                                                                                        (Not achieved)
· Reorganization of the State Treasury of Ukraine by      · Share of procurement, measured by value,
transforming it into a "government body of public                                                                  · Institutional structure of public procurement
                                                           according to single source selection, reduced to less
administration" integrated into the Ministry of Finance                                                              reversed to highly non-transparent.
                                                           than 10% excluding natural monopolies, and 15%
of Ukraine.                                                including natural monopolies.                           · Although a positive trend toward more
· Submission to the Verkhovna Rada of legislation to                                                                 competitive methods has been observed, the
                                                                                                  (Not achieved)
amend the Law on Public Procurement.                                                                                 use of the sole-source method of procurement
                                                                                                                     is relatively high--15.3 percent of the total
                                                                                                                     2005 volume (estimated at US$4.1 billion).
                                                                                                                     This figure does not include some exempted
                                                                                                                     items and some SOE, which if included would
                                                                                                                     significantly worsen the indicator. (Data from
                                                                                                                     Ukraine Country Procurement Assessment
                                                                                                                     Report 2006).
· Increased social support to families with many children, · Ratio of effective collection rate to stated rate of
young mothers and newborns.                                social insurance contributions up from 60% at
                                                           present to 70%.
                                                                                             (No available data)
                                                          · Time spent on processing of documents for              · Processing times for social benefit
                                                           obtaining social benefits reduced from 2.5 hours in       applications in 245 offices that introduced the
                                                           early 2005 to 1.5 hour.                                   single-window model is down to 3.5 hours
                                                                                            (Partially achieved)     against a national average of 4 hours. Baseline
                                                          · Poverty incidence measured using the PULSE               data in DPL 1 document could not be verified
                                                           method (jointly defined by the Government and the         and may be wrong.
                                                           Bank) reduced from 19.8% in 2003 to 17%, rural          · Overall poverty is down to 8%, rural poverty
                                                           poverty incidence reduced from 28% to 22%.                to 14% (2005). Poverty according to the
                                                                                                      (Achieved)     government's relative poverty definition has
                                                                                                                     not declined, largely because the social
                                                           · Poverty incidence, according to the government          minimum has been raised at or above the rate
                                                           definition of complex poverty assessment, reduced         of average nominal income growth.
                                                           from 17.9% in 2003 to 15%.
                                                                                                  (Not achieved)




                                                                            25

                                                      · The share of preventive & primary health care in
                                                      the structure of health care services provision
                                                      increases from current 5% to 10%.
                                                                                         (No available data)
                                                      · Modernization and alignment of education with           · At the beginning of 2007 all the higher
                                                      the Europe-wide Bologna process, as measured by             education institutions (350 institutions) of 3-4
                                                      the implementation of credit system of education in         level of accreditation implemented the credit
                                                      the institutions of higher education from 106               system of education. The Bologna process is
                                                      institutions as of early 2005 to all institutions of 3-4    being implemented but is not yet complete.
                                                      level of accreditation.
                                                                                                    (Achieved)
· Initiation of an information campaign to inform     · High quality issuance and registration of 6.5
farmers about their rights and opportunities as land  million land titles.
holders.
                                                                                                    (Achieved)
                                                      · Agro-cultural land market is de-facto functioning       · Moratorium on land sale has not been lifted,
                                                      (registry, legislation, moratorium lifted, program to       registry is not functioning.
                                                      inform farmers in place).
                                                                                               (Not achieved)
                                                      · Increase in the volume of mortgage finance as a         · Mortgage financing has reached over 5% of
                                                      ratio to GDP from 0.6% of GDP in 2004 to [1.5%] of          GDP (far in excess of the 1.5% target)
                                                      GDP.
                                                                                                    (Achieved)
TOTAL No. of Outcome Indicators of Which:                                        42
Fully met                                                                        20
Partially met                                                                    5
No available data                                                                5
Not achieved                                                                     12




                                                                         26

Annex 2: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

              Names                          Title                  Unit       Responsibility/
                                                                                 Specialty
Lending
Mark Davis                  Senior Economist                     ECSPE      Task Team Leader
Ruslan Piontkivsky          Economist                             ECSPE     Team Member
Oleksiy Balabushko          Economist                             ECSPE     Team Member
Svetlana Budagovskaya       Economist                             ECSPE     Team Member
Dusan Vujovic               Country Manager                       ECCUA     Team Member
Anna Wielogorska            Senior Procurement Specialist         ECSPS     Team Member
Philip Schuler              Senior Economist                      PRMTR     Team Member
Dejan Ostojic               Lead Energy Specialist                ECSSD     Team Member
Angela Prighozhina          Senior Banking Specialist             ECSPF     Team Member
Olena Bekh                  Education Specialist                  ECSHD     Team Member
Katerina Petrina            Senior Social Protection Specialist   ECSHD     Team Member
Julian A. Lampiett          Lead Specialist                       ECSSD     Team Member
Aleksander Kaliberda        Senior Projects Officer               ECSSD     Team Member
Andrina Ambrose             Senior Finance Officer                MTI       Team Member
Claudia M. Pardinas Ocana   Lawyer                                LEGEC     Team Member
Supervision




(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                              Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                 Stage
                                          No. of staff weeks       USD Thousands (including
                                                                   travel and consultant costs)
Lending
   FY03                                           5                            8.36
   FY04                                         37                            87.90
   FY05                                         56                          191.39
   FY06                                                                       14.15
                            Total:              98                          301.80
Supervision/ICR
   FY03                                                                        0.00
   FY04                                                                        0.00
   FY05                                                                        0.00
   FY06                                           6                           39.11
                            Total:                6                           39.11




                                              27

Annex 3: Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
                                      (Unofficial translation)

                                  MINISTRY OF ECONOMY
                                         OF UKRAINE
                            01008 Kyiv, 12/2 M. Hrushevskogo Str.
                                  Tel.: 253-9394, fax: 226-3181
                       www.me.gov.ua, e-mail: meconomy@me.gov.ua

Outgoing registration 65-20/61
Dated 10.04.08

To: Martin Raiser
Economic Advisor

Dear Mr. Raiser,

       Ministry of Economy of Ukraine expresses its sincere gratitude for your cooperation and
assures you in its respect for the World Bank Country Office in Ukraine and informs you on the
following.

       In response to your letter as of March 11, 2008, The Ministry of Economy of Ukraine in
cooperation with other governmental agencies has reviewed draft Implementation Completion
Report for Development Policy Loan-1 (DPL-1) and is providing proper recommendations
which are to be used for further editing of the abovesaid document. We also ask you to limit the
publication of the information mentioned in this Report mainly those regarding the reduction of
outlays of the Pension Fund of Ukraine in percentage to GDP.



Attachment 1: Proposals and Comments of Central Executive Bodies on the World Bank ICR on
First Development Policy Loan


                                             Sincerely,


                                   Deputy Minister of Economy
                                        Iryna Kryuchkova




                                                28

  Proposals and Comments of Central Executive Bodies on the World Bank ICR on First
                                   Development Policy Loan
Received by the letter from the Ministry of Economy as of April 10, 2008 # 65-20/61 signed by
Deputy Minister Irina Kruychkova to Task Team Leader for DPL-1 Martin Raiser

As regards:
Chapter 1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

     Under the Poverty Reduction Strategy, approved by Presidential enactment, poverty in
Ukraine is determined by a relative criterion (75% of median total costs per conditional adult).
     The primary information base for poverty appraisal is a household budget survey that is
conducted by the State Statistics Committee of Ukraine.
     According to the survey, the poverty rate in 2004 was 27.3% against 26.6% in 2003
(Ministry of Labor).
     The words "GDP growth totaled 50 percent for the period 1999 through 2004 "should be
changed for "GDP growth totaled 49.5 percent for the period 1999 through 2004";
     The words "USD 6.8 billion (10.5 percent of GDP) current account surplus in 2004" should
be changed for "USD 6.9 billion (10.6 percent of GDP) current account surplus in 2004".
     The words "fiscal deficit widened to 4.4 percent of GDP" should be changed for
"consolidated budget deficit in 2004 was 3.2 percent of GDP".
     The words "which reduced the targeted consolidated deficit to 2.2 percent" should be
changed for "reduced the state budget deficit targeted for 2005 to 1.6 percent of GDP".


     Table 2: Main Macroeconomic Indicators
       Change the title "Foreign Exchange Reserves ((USD billions)" for "International Foreign
Exchange Reserves ((USD billions)", "Fiscal Balance (percent of GDP)" for "Consolidated
Budget Balance (percent of GDP)". Change the numbers:
   -   Real GDP (change in percent): in 2006 " 7.1" for "7.3";
   -   Fiscal Balance (percent of GDP): in 2000 " ­1.3" for "-0.8", in 2001 "-1.6" for "-1.5", in
       2002 "0.5" for "0.7", in 2003 "-0.9" for "-0.2",in 2004 "-4.4" for "-3.2", in 2005 "-2.3"
       for "-1.8", in 2006 "-1.3" for "-0.7";
   -   PPG Debt (percent of GDP): in 2002 "36.5" for "33.5, in 2006 "15.0" for "14.8";
   -   Nominal GDP (USD billions): in 2005 "86.1 for "86.2", in 2006 "106.5" for "107.8".
       Add (if appropriate) statistics for 2007: Real GDP ­ 7.3 percent, CPI, a.o.p. (change in
percent)­ 12.8 percent, CPI, e.o.p ­ 16.6 percent, International Foreign Exchange Reserves ­
USD32.5 billion, consolidated budget balance ­ "minus" 1.1 percent of GDP, PPG Debt percent
of GDP­ 12.5 percent of GDP, Nominal GDP ­ USD140.5 b billion (Ministry of Economy)

     Subitem 1.4 Achievements of the First 100 Days of the Government
       In the part concerning public administration and public finance management, we suggest
bringing the information related to giving authority to the minister of finance to direct and




                                                29

coordinate certain executive bodies into consistency with Enactment of President of Ukraine
#676 date3d 04.20.2005, Issues of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, by wording it as follows:
        "Allocation of authority to the Minister of Finance to implement direction and
coordination of the activities of the State Customs Service of Ukraine, the State Tax
Administration of Ukraine, and the Main Auditing and Inspection Administration of Ukraine".
       In Table 4 of the ICR, we suggest bringing the information related to the adoption by the
Government of a Development Concept for Public Internal Financial Audit and Control (PIFC)
into consistency with Cabinet of Ministers Edict #158-r dated 05.24.2005 by deleting from the
title the words "and audit" (Ministry of Finance).

        Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program
    -   in the fifth paragraph, change the word "surrender" for the word "sale";
    -   in the sixth paragraph, change the words in the last sentence "the abolition of export
        surrender requirements was aimed at strengthening Ukraine's export competitiveness" for
        the words "abolishment of mandatory sale of FOREX receipts in favor of residents of
        Ukraine has made it possible: (a) for an exporter of goods to avoid additional costs in the
        purchase-sale of FOREX and independently dispose of FOREX receipts from conducted
        transactions, and (b) even-out the excessive FOREX supply on the interbank market".
        Also, in the same sentence, change the words "the 5 percent revaluation of the hryvnia"
        for the words "the 4.4 percent revaluation of the hryvnia" (NBU).
        Replace the words "the 5% nominal revaluation of the hryvnia in April 2005" with "the
nominal revaluation of the hryvnia to the US dollar by 4.37% in April 2005."
        Change the words "led to a widening of the fiscal deficit to 4.3 percent of GDP in 2004"
and "to a widening of consolidated budget deficit to 3.2% of GDP in 2004". Delete the words
"and a forecast 7.5% in 2005."
        Delete the words "thereby bringing the fiscal deficit from an earlier projected 7.5 percent
of GDP to an end-year result of 2.3 percent, despite considerably lower growth than originally
forecast" (Ministry of Economy).


        2.1 Program Performance:
        Table 4 "Achievements of the First 100 Days of the Government", the fourth paragraph
of the second column of "Investment Climate" does not cite the period in which the 5%
revaluation of the hryvnia took place. It should be specified that in April 2005, hryvnia
revaluation was 4.4% and during 2005, 4, 8%.
        On page 9, in the Table (the section Investment Climate), the word "surrender" should be
changed for "sale."
        On page 11, change the language of the seventh paragraph as follows:
        "NBU adoption of a Supervisory Development Plan (SDP) for banking supervision." By
NBU decree of 02.23.2006, a NBU Supervisory Development Plan for banking supervision for
2006 ­ 2010 was adopted as an individual integrated document to define the strategy and priority
areas of banking supervision development. To detail the activities included in this long-term plan,
the NBU annually develops an action plan to improve the banking supervision system" (NBU).

        3. Assessment of Outcomes
        Subitem 3.2. Achievement of Program Development Objectives. Social Inclusion



                                                30

       In 2005, the poverty rate was down 0.2% on the previous year and constituted 27.1
percent (Ministry of Labor).
       3.5. Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
       (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
       According to an assessment of the poverty situation in the course of Poverty Reduction
Strategy implementation, the indicators show stable trends. With the poverty line doubled (from
UAH 175 in 2001 to UAH 365 in 2005), the poverty rate was 27 percent (Ministry of Labor).
       In the second paragraph, change the language of the second sentence as follows: "As
described above, the DPL Program provided for support for and deepening of financial
intermediation in the economy, strengthening of capital market institutions and improvement of
the banking supervision system and bank corporate governance practice" (NBU).

Annex 1. Development Policy Loan Program: Key Performance Indicators

       The activity "On sight examination of the 20 largest insurance companies shows
compliance with EU recommended capital requirements "
       Use the following language: "On sight examination of the 20 largest insurance companies
that receive most insurance payments shows their compliance with Ukraine`s legislation
regarding solvency" (State Committee for Regulation of Financial Services Markets).

       The activity "Increased social support to families with many children, young mothers and
newborns"
       Poverty incidence in 2005 was 27.1% against 26.6% in 2003; this indicator in rural areas
was 35.2% against 36.7% respectively (Ministry of Labor).

       The activity "Abolishment of mandatory sale of 50% of export receipts." Change the
word "financing" in the sentence "Created the normative and regulatory basis for the financing
of non-government pension funds" for the word "function" (Ministry of Labor).

       The column Actual Outcomes
    - Change the word "Regulation" for "Statute in the sentence "On December 19, 2006 State
       Commission on Securities and Stock Market (SCSSM) issued the Regulation regarding
       information disclosure by securities issuers, and established a specialized Web:
       stockmarket.gov.ua, where regular information about issuers' events is posted. It also
       established the Agency for Ukrainian Stock Market Infrastructure Development, along
       with its Web site, www.smida.gov.ua, where a solid database of securities issuers is
       published".
    -  In the sentence "Market capitalization increased as measured by FUTS capitalization
       growth to 40% of GDP as of 2006", change the words "as of 2006" for the words "in
       2006" (SCSSM).
    -
Development Policy Loan Program: Key Performance Indicators
     In the column Actual Outcomes, change:
    -  The second sentence for the following: "Gross Domestic Fixed Investment was 24.6% of
       GDP in 2006 and 26.9% in 2007";



                                               31

- The third sentence for the following: "Net FDI inflows during 2007 were USD7.9 billion
  "(according to Statistics Committee methodology).
- The second sentence for the following: "Increased confidence in the banking sector as
  reflected by the ratio of deposits to GDP at 33.9% in 2006 and at 39.5% in 2007"
  (Ministry of Economy).




                                         32

Annex 4: List of Supporting Documents

1. Program Document for a Proposed First Development Policy Loan
2. Program Document for a Proposed Second Development Policy Loan




                                            33

