Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11001-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - RAJASTRAN
OCTOBER 23, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVATENTS
Currency Unit = Rupees (Rs.)
US$l = Rs. 26
WFTGTHTS AND ME'ASURES
The metric system is used throughout the report.
ARRREVTATTnNS AND ACRONYMS
AAO    -       Assistant Agricultural Officer
ADP    -       Agricultural Development Project
AIU    -       Agricultural Information Unit
ASP    -       Agricultural Strategy Paper
CBR    -       California Bearing Ratio
DOA    -       Department of Agriculture
DOAH   -       Department of Animal Husbandry
DOH    -       Department of Horticulture
ERR    -       Economic Rate of Return
GDR    -       Gross Domestic Product
GOR    -       Government of Rajasthan
GOI    -       Government of India
ICAR   -       Indian Council for Agricultural Research
ICB    -       International Competitive Bidding
IRC    -       Indian Roads Congress
JRY    -       Jawahar Roggar Yojana
KUMS   -       Krishi Upaj Mandi Samities
LCB    -       Local Competitive Bidding
MB     -       Marketing Board
MDR    -       Major District Roads
MNP    -       Minimum Needs Program
NARP   -       National Agricultural Research Program
NH     -       National Highways
PCC    -       Project Coordination Committee
PCU    -       Project Coordination Unit
PGC    -       Project Guidance Committee
PWD    -       Public Works Department
RAU    -       Rajasthan Agriculture University
RSEB   -       Rajasthan State Electricity Board
RSSC   -       Rajasthan State Seeds Corporation
TA     -       Technical Assistance
SDP    -       State Domestic Product
SH     -       State Highways
SLAO   -       Special Land Acquisition Officer
SSCA   -       State Seed Certification Agency
VR      -      Village Roads
GLOSSARY
kharif  -      Monsoon season
rabi    -      Dry/Winter season
gopals  -      Community based volunteers for livestock care
FISCAL YEAR
GOI, State - April 1 to March 31
This report is based on the findings of an IDA Appraisal Mission which visited Rajasthan in
May 1992. The mission comprised Messrs./Mme. R. Hanan (Task Manager), D. Ahluwalia, C.
Antholt, U. El-Hanbali, S. Khan (Bank), and A. Chaudhry, R. Lacroix, C. Nawathe, K. Shah and
H Singh (consultants). The report is endorsed by Messrs. H. Vergin (Director) and S.
Barghouti (Division Chief). Assistance was also provided by A. Cittati (Rural Roads) and B.
Albinson (Water Resources), and by peer reviewers C. Antholt, W. Price and G. Pursell.



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMZNT PROJECT - RAJASTUAN
Table of Contents
I.    CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                                1
II.   THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Agriculture in the National Economy                                4
Agriculture in Rajasthan                                           5
Experience with Past Bank Lending                                  6
III.  THE PROJECT                                                               7
Rationale for Bank Involvement and Origin                          7
Project Objectives                                                 8
Policy Reforms                                                     8
Subsidies and Cost Recovery                                  8
Water Resources                                              9
Cooperative Development                                     10
Promotion of Agro-processing and Marketing                  10
Agricultural Technology Generation and Dissemination        10
Detailed Investments                                              11
Crop Husbandry                                              11
Horticulture                                                12
Animal Husbandry                                            12
Water Resources                                             13
Agricultural Research and Training                          14
Rural Roads                                                 14
Environmental Strengthening                                 15
Complementary Activities                                          15
Extension, Demonstration and Training                       15
Technical Assistance                                        16
Support to Women and NGOs                                   16
Project Costs and Financing                                       16
Procurement                                                       18
Disbursements                                                     19
Retroactive Financing and Special Account                         20
Accounts and Audit                                                20
Project Coordination and Implementation                           20
Institutional Arrangements                                  20
Annual Action Plans                                         21
Monitoring and Reporting                                    21
Benefits and Justification                                        22
Project Risks                                                     24
IV.   AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION                                            24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance 
of their oMeisl duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- iL -
Annex  1:   Policy Reform Program
Annex  2:   Growth, Incentives and Public Expenditure
Annex  3:   Agricultural Subsidies and Cost Recovery
Annex  4:   Project Coordination and Management
Annex  5:   Economic Analysis
Annex  6:   Crop Husbandry
Annex  7:   Horticulture
Annex  8:   Animal Husbandry
Annex  9:   Water Resources Planning
Annex 10:   Agricultural Research and Training - RAU
Annex 11:   RAU - Terms of Reference for Modernization of Institutional
Policies, Performance Standards, Research Agenda and Campus
Facilities
Annex 12:   Rural Roads
Annex 13:.  Rural Roads Component:  Terms of Reference for Consultancy
Services
Annex 14:   Extension, Demonstration and Training
Annex 15:   Technical Assistance on Water Issues in Indira Gandhi Nahar
Project
Annex 16:   Environmental Aspects
Annex 17:   Project Costs
Annex 18:   Schedule of Disbursements
Annex 19:   Project Implementation Schedule
Annex 20:   Documents Available in Project File
Map: IBRD 24015



INDIA
AGRICULTURAL DZVELOPMENT PROJECT - RAJASTHAN
I.    CRZDIT  AND  PROJECT  SUMKARY
Borrower:                India, Acting by its President.
Executing  Agency:    The State of Rajasthan.
Amount:                  IDA Credit SDR 73.1 million (US$106 million equivalent).
Terms:                   IDA:  Standard with 35 years maturity.
Co-Lending  Terms:    Government of India would make the proceeds of the
Credit available to the State of Rajasthan (GOR) under
standard arrangements for developmental assistance to
the States of India. GOI would assume the foreign
exchange risk.
Project  Description: The project would address the problems of agricultural
development in Rajasthan through a broad approach
linking policy reforms and public investments. The
project's objectives are to: accelerate the growth of
agriculture through improved technical, financial and
economic use of resources; enhance sustainability of the
productive resource base; and improve equity within the
sector. Policy reforms would include full cost recovery
for publicly provided goods and services, reduced inputs
subsidies, improved efficiency and sustainability of
water use, institutional reforms of rural cooperatives,
alleviating constraints to private investment in agro-
industry, and strengthening of GOR's environmental
oversight for agriculture. Investment components would
include crop husbandry, horticulture, animal husbandry,
water resources, agricultural research and training,
rural roads, project coordination, and environmental
strengthening. The project would be implemented over
five years.
Benefits  and  Risks:  The policy reforms would help GOR and the private sector
to allocate resources to higher priority investments for
agricultural development. Improved efficiency would
lead to increased productivity and growth. The project
would increase or upgrade 1,600 km of the State's rural
road network. It would also: enhance the availability
of higher quality seeds, seedlings and livestock;
improve agricultural research, training and extension;
help GOR to assess the availability of water resources
and to prepare a State master plan for long-term water
availability and use; improve project planning and
implementation; and strengthen GOR's efforts towards
resource conservation, poverty alleviation and
environmental oversight for agriculture. The main risk
of the project would be the timely implementation by GOR
of the agreed policy reforms. Close IDA supervision
would help minimize this risk.



- 2-
Eatimated Project Costal:
Tae I     rn±GM  Tna    LjA1  Forcngn Total&
Coggnnnt                     ---- Rs. Million ----  ---- US$ Million ----
A. Crop Husbandry                    360.3  106.2   466.5       13.8    4.0   17.8
B. Horticulture                      117.0   60.1   177.1        4.5    2.3    6.8
C. Animal Husbandry
1. Livestock                      205.6   37.8  243.4         7.8    1.5    9.3
2. Sheep/Wool                      59.0   34.l    93.19       2_    1-3  .3_A
Sub-Total                            264.6   72.7   337.3       10.1    2.8   12.9
D. Water Resources                   166.3  222.6   388.9        6.3    8.5   14.8
E. Agricultural Research             400.2   76.8   477.0       15.3    2.9   18.2
and Training
F. Rural Roads                       834.6   94.4   929.0       31.9    3.6  35.5
G. Project Coordination               75.4   73.7   149.1        2.9    2.8    5.7
H. Environmental Strengthening        16.5   15.2    31.7        0.6    0.6    1.2
Total BASELINE COSTS                2234.9  721.7 2956.7        85.3   27.5 112.8
Physical Contingencies            225.5   72.8  298.2         8.6    2.8   11.4
Price Contingencies               576.9  2.33I  f10-5        1       2Z1 2.8 
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                 3037.3
Note:  The costs of Extension, Demonstration and Training, and Technical
Assistance are incorporated in the above components.
rinancing Plan
LocalI       FQreLgn            ,Total
----------- USS Million -----------
GOR                                    22.5             -               22.5
Beneficiaries                           1.8             -                1.8
IDA                                    73,0         133,
Total                           97.3           33.0              130.3
lIncluding taxes and duties of US$12.4 million.



- 3-
Istimated Disbursements:
TDA Fiscal Year
(US$ million)
JU     94          X     96  22       X   22
Annual                   5.3   15.9  21.2  21.2   21.2  15.9   5.3
Cumulative               5.3   21.2  42.4  63.6   84.8 100.7 106.0
zconomic Rate of Return:  Not applicable
MAP: IBRD No. 24015 - Agricultural Development Project - Rajasthan.



- 4 -
II.    TUZ AGRICULTURZ  SZCTOR
Agriculture in the National Economy
2.01 India's Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew at about 3% per annum in the
1960s and 1970s, accelerating to 4.5% in the 1980s. Agriculture grew at about
2.5% until the early 1980s, which is modest compared to other Asian countries.
Since the mid 1980s, the rate of agricultural growth has declined, and latest
indications are that it has stagnated. Foodgrain production registered a 1.5%
decline in 1991-92 despite a relatively good monsoon, raising questions about
whether the country will manage to sustain its achievement in food self-
sufficiency. Reestablishing growth of agriculture has become a critical
objective of the Government of India (GOI).
2.02 Agriculture's importance in the economy is reflected by its 35%
contribution to GDP and the large population involved in the sector. About 65%
of the total adult population in India is directly employed in the sector, and
about 75% of the population lives in rural areas. The declining rate of growth
of agriculture has significant repercussions on employment and rural incomes.
While per capita income has increased by about 2% per annum to reach about
US$300 in the country as a whole, there has been little improvement in the
standard of living of the poor or in redressing under-employment, particularly
in rural areas. Of the total population of over 850 million, an estimated 280
million, or 33%, live below the poverty line. One-third of the agricultural
labor force are women, and agriculture is the main source of employment for
women in rural areas. It follows that the health of the overall economy and
alleviation of poverty are linked strongly to the performance of agriculture.
2.03 The emphasis of GOI and state governments in the past has been on
promoting food production, with the goal of achieving food security, augmenting
agricultural exports, alleviating poverty, and creating employment. Increasing
foodgrain production has been pursued through: (a) the development of improved
technical packages -- fertilizers and improved seed varieties; (b) expansion of
irrigation; and (c) improvement of institutions and support services --
extension, research, seed production, credit and marketing. Notwithstanding
these efforts, and the technical success of the "Green Revolution" of the
1970s, overall performance has been disappointing. Growth has been constrained
by pervasive central and state interventions, declining capital formation,
outdated systems of agricultural research and extension, and substandard
management of irrigation infrastructure.
2.04 The pressures of increasing population on limited land resources mean
that future growth must rely on intensifying production on both irrigated and
rainfed land, increasing diversification to higher-value crops, and improving
the efficiency of resource use and farming systems. With no major
technological leaps on the horizon, few surface water systems remaining for
exploitation and severe limits on the availability of public funds, a bold new
strategy is necessary to reestablish growth of the sector. Growth must be
accompanied by more equitable distribution of its benefits and by ensuring
sustainability of the resource base. Defining the strategy and implementing it
is the main agricultural challenge for GOI and state governments as they look
towards the next century. The proposed project has been designed to assist the
Government of Rajasthan in this transformation.



-5-
Agriculture in Rajasthan
2.05  General Features.  Rajasthan is situated in north-west India (IBRD Map
No. 24015).  It is the second largest state of the Indian Union, with a
geographical area of 342,800 km2 (11% of all-India land area). Of the total
population of 44 million (1991 census), over 75% live in rural areas and about
70% of the labor force is engaged in agriculture. Agriculture's share of State
Domestic Product (SDP) fell from 64% in 1970/71 to around 50% in 1988/89.
Livestock is an important sub-sector of agriculture, involving especially
poorer farmers: it contributes about 13% of SDP.
2.06  Land Use and Natural Resources.  Of the total area of 34.3 million ha,
17.9 million ha are cultivated (1989-90) with an average cropping intensity of
115%. The remaining land is divided into pasture and grazing land (1.8 million
ha - 5.3%), forests and tree crops (2.3 million ha - 6.7%), fallow and
wasteland (13.0 million ha - 39.9%) and non-agriculture (1.6 million ha -
4.7%). Irrigation covers 4.5 million ha, i.e. about 25% of the total cropped
area. In the arid and semi-arid west, comprising over 50% of the land area in
the State, livestock is the main rural activity. Rajasthan produces 41% of
India's wool from 30% of the number of sheep. Other important livestock are
milch cattle, buffaloes and, more recently, poultry. In the central and
eastern regions of the State, where rainfall varies from 40 - 90 cm per annum,
the main activity is crop production, complemented by livestock.
2.07 Rajasthan has only 1% of India's total water resources. The average
annual rainfall is 58 cm, varying from 15 cm in the dry, hot west to about 90
cm in the east, and 90% of the rainfall is during the monsoon season (July -
September). In addition to the spatial variation in rainfall, there is great
variability from year to year. About three years out of five, severe droughts
occur in the State, particularly in the west, which also has large areas of
light sandy and/or salt-affected soils and high wind velocities. In rainfed
areas, the low water availability and erratic rainfall place severe constraints
on the introduction of improved, sustainable production systems.
2.08 Given the fragility of the resource base in much of Rajasthan, agri-
culture is a high risk activity. Agricultural development has already led to
environmental and social problems. These include: crop production on lands
unsuitable for agriculture; declining groundwater tables (except in the canal
irrigated areas); increasing salinity of groundwater; large pockets of water-
logging and salinity buildup in the command areas of major irrigation projects;
and a tendency towards indiscriminate use of agro-chemicals in irrigated areas.
2.09 Souresn of Growth. Agricultural production in Rajasthan has been
dominated by traditional food crops, particularly pearl millet, sorghum, maize
and pulses. Under irrigation, improved varieties of commercial crops have been
introduced, such as wheat, oilseeds, cotton and sugarcane. Through the mid
1960s, the major contributor to growth was increases in the cultivated area.
Since then, the major contributor has been increases in productivity. The
production of foodgrains grew at a compound rate of 2.8% per annum from 1962 to
1989, of which 2.2% was due to increases in yields and 0.6% to increases in
area. Since the early 1980s, the production of oilseeds, cotton, coriander,
cumin, chillies and wheat has increased, while that of other cereals and pulses
has stagnated or declined. The compound rate of growth of oilseeds over the
period (mainly mustard) has been impressive, at over 7% per annum.



- 6-
2.10 Based on past sources of growth and analysis of potential, future growth
will depend largely on improved exploitation of irrigation, improved varieties,
breeds and technologies, involving particularly non-traditional crops, and
improved management of farming systems. For the rainfed arid areas, the
prospects for increasing yields and expanding crop production are limited.
Future growth in these areas is likely to derive from further development of
livestock (sheep and cattle), in combination with mixed farming and agro-
forestry. In the center and east, more intensive farming systems incorporating
horticulture, agro-forestry and livestock, including improved fodder
production, should be expanded. These approaches must be accompanied by
greater attention to soil and water conservation in rainfed areas, water
quality, better land use and management, and expansion of agro-industries.
Over the past 18 months, in consultation with the Bank, GOR has prepared a new
agricultural strategy (para. 3.04) to help exploit future growth potential,
consistent with more equitable and environmentally sound practices.
ExpAriAnna with Past Bank Landina
2.11  Bank Supported Proiects.  The Bank has been supporting agriculture in
India since the early 1950s. To date, 130 agricultural projects in India have
received US$10.2 billion equivalent IBRD/IDA financing (81% IDA and 19% Bank).
The majority of these projects has been for irrigation. In addition, projects
have been for agricultural support services (credit, research and extension);
commercial agriculture (seeds, fisheries and agro-industry); forestry, water-
shed and resource conservation; livestock development and drought assistance.
The basic thrust of Bank involvement in Indian agriculture has been to: (a)
increase the area irrigated and improve water use efficiency; (b) improve
lending capability of institutions; (c) increase production of high-value
products, such as seeds, fish and silk; (d) improve storage, processing and
other agricultural marketing facilities; (e) afforest degraded areas to reduce
soil erosion; and (f) introduce sustainable land management systems affecting
rainfed agriculture. Of the 130 projects, ten have been completed in Rajasthan
since the approval of the first agricultural project in 1971, and nine are
ongoing. These projects have supported development of agricultural research;
the T&V system of extension; production of high-yielding variety seeds; major
and minor irrigation; forestry and watershed protection; dairy, cotton and
oilseeds; and improved storage and marketing for agricultural products.
2.12  I      ntAtion Parformann. and Lessons Learnt.  Many agricultural
projects in India have suffered from implementation problems, resulting in
delays in disbursements and completion. Common problems are: (a) delays in
project mobilization; (b) delays in procurement; (c) poor quality irrigation
and civil works; (d) institutional weaknesses; (e) insufficient local funding;
and (f) insufficient preparation of resettlement and rehabilitation components.
In Raj&xthan, most of the Bank/IDA-financed projects have shown an improving
trend. Progress in broadbaoing agricultural extension has been satisfactory,
with extension field staff performing well. Research efforts under the
National Agricultural Research Project II are also progressing well. Rajasthan
is performing better than other states participating in the National Social
Forestry Project. Under the Watershed Management Project (Plains), project
startup has been satisfactory. However, projects involving cooperatives--
members' initiatives and organizational strengthening--have often been hampered
by excessive Government intervention. Implementation delays have led to cost
escalations, particularly for projects with substantial civil works. Other
problems relate to the poor performance of cooperative banks and the



- 7 -
deteriorating rural credit system. The main lessons from the experience in
Rajasthan are that: (i) institutional arrangements should be established from
the beginning of a project to ensure adequate and timely funding, monitoring
and coordination; (ii) the availability of funding should be reviewed
periodically to ensure that operating costs are properly provided; and (iii)
GOR's interventionist posture should be reduced. These lessons, together with
GOR's proposals to alleviate constraints and improve incentives for accelerated
growth in agriculture, are central to the proposed project.
II.    THE PROJECT
Rationale for Bank Involvement and Origin
3.01 Acting mainly through the Central Government authorities, the Bank has
had limited success at encouraging Government (GOI and state governments) to
enact agricultural reforms. Contentious areas of reform include improving cost
recovery for goods and services provided by the public sector, e.g. charges for
irrigation water, tariffs for electric power and costs of seedlings, reducing
expenditures on subsidies, e.g. for fertilizers and seeds, reforming rural
cooperatives to make then financially viable and under control of their farmer
members, and reining in escalating costs of public enterprises in the sector.
Constitutionally, agriculture is a state responsibility. Therefore, the Bank
has agreed with GOI that the Bank's lending strategy for agriculture should be
to address most problems of the sector on a state-by-state basis. The exercise
entails analyses of past and likely future sources of growth, identification of
physical, economic and institutional constraints to growth, and identification
of policy reforms and priorities for future public and private investment in
the sector. The essence of a state Agricultural Development Project (ADP) is
that once the Bank has agreed with a state government on a broad strategy for
agricultural growth and on specific reform measures, the Bank would help
finance priority investments in the sector. It is expected that the proposed
project for Rajasthan will be followed by ADPs for several other states over
the next few years. The Bank, with its considerable experience in India, is
well positioned to assist the states with their analyses of constraints and
priorities for reforms and investments in agriculture.
3.02  The basic strategy for agricultural reforms in India, as summarized in
the FY91 CEM, is to: (a) improve the structure of incentives; (b) increase the
efficiency of public investment and promote private investment; (c) encourage
technology generation and adoption; and (d) improve the performance of
irrigation.  For Rajasthan, this strategy is equally appropriate.  Agricultural
growth in the State has been constrained by the harsh physical conditions and
by GOR policies. Various input subsidies and other interventions and
regulations have served as disincentives to private sector investment.
Furthermore, the State Agricultural University has not been effective in
carrying out research and training in non-traditional crops and livestock, and
the performance of surface irrigation has been far from satisfactory. As a
result of these restrictive influences, agriculture in Rajasthan (excepting
certain oilseeds crops) has failed to take off on a long-term, self-sustaining
path of growth.
3.03 The project would confine itself to strategies and reforma that are
within the purview of GOR. Pricing policies (for inputs and outputs) or
product support programs that derive from GOI would not be addressed; it is



-8 -
expected that these will be taken up in a broader context with GOI directly.
Also, policy issues pertaining to surface irrigation in the State would be
better dealt with through a State Water Resources Consolidation Project.
3.04 The project was prepared jointly by GOR and IDA in 1990-92. The proposed
strategies and most of the reforms are included in an Agricultural Strategy
Paper (ASP), which was prepared by GOR and approved by the State Cabinet in
early May 1992. The project would assist GOR to implement its strategies for
the sector. Receipt of an ASP acceptable to IDA was a condition of appraisal.
The project was preappraised in February 1992 and appraised in May 1992.
Project Objectives
3.05 The project would assist GOR to implement its new agricultural strategy.
In its ASP, GOR has defined the main objectives of its strategy as: (a) to
accelerate the growth of agriculture through improved technical, financial and
economic use of resources; (b) to enhance the long-term sustainability of
growth through appropriate management and conservation of natural resources;
and (c) to improve equity through better targeting of development programs to
the poorer strata of the rural population. The latter objective would include
the provision of greater opportunities for women to participate in the growth
process. These objectives would be supported by specific policy reforms and
related investments, as indicated below. The project is expected to be
completed by March 31, 1999.
Policv Reforms
3.06 The policy reforms would address issues surrounding public expenditures
in agriculture, the incentives framework and constraints to private sector
development, subsidies for inputs, irrigation and electricity use, development
of agro-processing and marketing, livestock improvement, the generation and
dissemination of productive and sustainable agricultural technologies, and the
environment. The reforms would include: (a) pricing the supply of goods and
services by the public sector to agriculture (except irrigation and electric
power) at full cost to encourage greater participation by the private sector;
(b) eliminating or reducing subsidies provided by GOR -- those that are
maintained would be better targeted; (c) improving the efficiency of water use
and sustainability of the resource; (d) preparing a review of the constraints
to the development of agro-industries and marketing; (e) increasing emphasis on
livestock to exploit its potential for growth and poverty alleviation; (f)
undertaking institutional reforms of rural cooperatives to make them more
democratic and responsive to their members; (g) strengthening GOR's capacity to
evaluate public investments through financial and economic analysis; and (h)
strengthening GOR's environmental oversight for agriculture. Details are in
the Policy Reform Program (Annex 1). The basis for the reforms is as follows.
3.07  Subaidia  and Cost Recoverv.  During the Seventh Five-year Plan (1986-
90), GOR increased its budgetary support for lowering prices of farm inputs
(capital and recurrent). For agriculture activities excluding irrigation in
1987/88, GOR's cost recovery was only 7% as compared to the total cost of
providing the goods and services. This figure compares with an average of 29%
for all-India in the same year, and with 21% in Rajasthan ten years earlier.
The deterioration in cost recovery and increasing input subsidies have occurred
when fixed public investment in Rajasthan's agriculture has declined at a real
rate of 7.51 per year (1984 to 1989). Since 1989, GOR's expenditures on



- 9 -
explicit subsidies have accelerated further -- for crop production by over 150%
per year. The dramatic increase has occurred mainly because of GOR's
introduction of subsidies for certified seeds, irrigation sprinkler sets and
field channels, community tubewells and fodder development. Additional
explicit subsidies are provided by GOR as counterpart funding to tied aid from
GOI's Centrally Sponsored Schemes. The reduced sale prices for publicly-
supplied inputs discourage participation by the private sector, especially for
investments in agro-processing. The increased subsidies have also crowded out
needed expenditures for expanded public capital formation in the sector.
Notably, they have occurred also at a time when rates of agricultural growth
have declined or stagnated. (See Annex 3 for further details.)
3.08 In addition to the explicit subsidies, large i±mprr.Jt subaidies are
provided to Rajasthan's farmers, mainly for surface irrigation water, electric
power, credit and fertilizers. Because the cost of the fertilizer subsidy is
borne entirely by GOI, it has no impact on GOR's finances, although it does
distort the efficiency of fertilizer use. (In 1990/91, the cost to GOI of the
subsidy for fertilizer consumption in Rajasthan was US$62 million equivalent,
compared to the all-India cost of US$2.3 billion.) Measurement of the implicit
irrigation subsidy is difficult because records of capital costs and collected
water charges are not readily available. One GOR estimate has placed the net
annual subsidy in 1987 at US$330 million equivalent, with farmers paying about
3% of the financial cost of delivered water. This subsidy is likely to be
considerably higher in 1992. Similarly, the electricity subsidy to agriculture
in terms of reduced tariffs was estimated at US$145 million equivalent in
1987/88. No recent figures are available on implicit subsidies for credit.
3.09 The magnitude of these subsidies, together with increasing amounts being
spent by GOR on completing the Indira Gandhi Nahar Project (the Rajasthan
Canal) along the western border of the State (para. 3.28), suggests that GOR
should reassess fundamentally its expenditure priorities for agriculture. A
reallocation of public expenditures away from certain recurrent items and
towards capital formation (infrastructure, technology generation and
dissemination, and development of human resources) is likely to contribute to
accelerated and more equitable, long-term growth in the sector.
3.10 Under the Policy Reform Program, full cost recovery would be introduced
for most agricultural goods and services provided by the public sector, e.g.
for horticultural seedlings, fish seedlings, day-old chicks, genetically
improved bulls and rams, artificial insemination services, and for inputs
provided by the Rajasthan State Seeds Corporation. Those subsidies remaining
(other than those under programs promoted by GOI) would be better focused and
targeted, to assist farmers in poorer rainfed areas to adopt improved
technologies. Full cost recovery would increase incentives for the private
sector to compete with public enterprises, would increase incentives for public
enterprises to operate efficiently, would help to convey correct input price
signals to farmers, and would help GOR to reduce its fiscal deficit.
3.11 Water Resaurces. With only 1% of India's water resources and 11% of its
area, Rajasthan is an extremely dry state. Surface water brought south by
canal from the Indus Basin and groundwater are vital resources for agricultural
production and human survival. In the case of groundwater, the availability of
GOR subsidies -- for digging wells, electricity connections and metered and
flat rate electricity tariffs -- have contributed to over-exploitation of the
resource, such that in many areas the water table has been steadily declining



- 10 -
(by an average of some 3 meters per year), and water quality has been
deteriorating. These phenomena, together with limited knowledge about
groundwater reserves, and extraction and aquifer recharge, imply that GOR has
inadequate control over the State's most precious resource; exploitation of the
resource is neither efficient, equitable nor sustainable.
3.12 In July 1992, GOR raised its rural electricity tariff from paisa 42 to 50
per kWh. Under the Policy Reform Program, GOR plans, by June 30, 1993, to
raise its flat rate rural tariffs to an equivalent level (20% of rural power
connections are charged on a flat rate basis). In addition, GOR plans to
introduce penalties for overdue rural electricity payments. GOR plans also to
carry out a Water Resources Planning Study for the long-term, sustained use of
the State's water resources for agricultural, municipal and industrial uses
(para. 3.26); and to establish a standing State Water Resources Committee with
membership and terms of reference acceptable to IDA.
3.13 Cooperative Development. Most cooperatives in India have been started
with public sector seed capital. Because of this predominant shareholding and
the limited managerial capability of the cooperative membership, state
governments have appointed civil servants as directors and managers of the
institutions. Over time, this has established a self-perpetuating bureaucracy
of public sector management and a passive membership dependent on government.
Most Indian cooperatives are essentially public enterprises. The proposed
policy changes in Rajasthan are intended to initiate the process of weaning
selected rural cooperatives from State control and putting their management in
the hands of true voluntary associations of their members. Under the Policy
Reform Program, GOR would authorize rural cooperatives to make their own
business decisions, and ensure that no GOR director would be appointed to a
rural cooperative board where the State has no equity or loan guarantees.
3.14 Promotion of Agro-processing and Marketing. The long-term growth of
agriculture in Rajasthan is tied critically to the State's ability to shift the
sector from primarily subsistence, low-value and high water-consumption field
crops to higher-value, non-traditional products. Agro-processing and marketing
are key elements in the evolution of a modern agri-business system. Several
GOR policies and regulations have constrained growth of this subsector.
Besides the less than full cost recovery by public enterprises, the private
sector faces limitations or regulations not always applied to the public
entities. Under the Policy Reform Program, GOR, in consultation with the State
Chamber of Commerce, would carry out an opportunity survey and constraints
analysis of agro-industries, including a study of the legal framework for trade
in agricultural products. This work would facilitate amendments to regulatory
practices and serve as a basis for an investment promotion campaign.
3.15  Agricultural Technology Gongration and Disseminaton.  GOR established
the Rajasthan Agricultural University (RAU) at Bikaner in 1987; until then the
State Agricultural College was located at Udaipur. RAU is responsible for
-ultural research, graduate and post-graduate agricultural education, and
extension education. In 1992, RAU had 920 assistant, associate and full
professors and about 2,000 students. RAU is ill-equipped to respond to the
challenges of the 21st century, including: increasing integration of
agriculture in the State with the rest of India and beyond; the changing
structure of demand for agricultural products; the fragility of the natural
resource base in Rajasthan, especially with respect to water; a shift from
traditional crops to more scientifically-based products and production systems;



- 11 -
and greater scarcity of public resources. GOR has proposed that the relevance
and responsiveness of RAU's education and research programs should be
comprehensively reviewed, as should institutional issues such as faculty
performance and inbreeding, professional isolation, promotion criteria,
graduation standards, financial sustainability, and the physical requirements
of a modern university. The comprehensive review, to be carried out by RAU
with assistance from consultants, would result in a Strategic Development Plan
for the University (para. 3.29). Further details are in Annexes 1, 10 and 11.
3.16 The proposed reforms are integral to GOR's strategy for development of
its agricultural sector.  At negSZtatiLna assurances were obtained from GOR
that: (a) it would carry out the Policy Reform Program as set out in Annex 1;
and (b) it would review annually with GOI and IDA its progress in implementing
the reforms and their contribution to GOR's strategies for the sector.
Dtailed  nvestments
3.17 The reforms to be implemented by GOR would be accompanied by mutually
supporting investments under the project. The investments were identified
during project preparation as being those most likely -- technically,
financially and environmentally -- to contribute to the objectives of the
project. The project, thus, would finance the following components: (a) Crop
Husbandry; (b) Horticulture; (c) Animal Husbandry; (d) Water Resources; (e)
Agricultural Research and Training; (f) Rural Roads; (g) Project Coordination;
and (h) Environmental Strengthening. For (a), (b) and (c), the project would
support GOR in reallocating resources from production subsidies to a stronger
focus on demonstrations, field trials and training. These three activities
have proven to be more effective and less costly than subsidies in encouraging
farmers to adopt new technologies. The water resources component would
strengthen GOR's knowledge and planning for sustained use of surface and
groundwater throughout the State. The agricultural research and training
component would assist GOR in transforming RAU to become a center of excellence
in the generation and dissemination of new technologies for all subsectors of
agriculture in the State. Expansion of the rural roads network is essential to
GOR's production and social objectives. Through reduced unit input costs and
increased farmgate prices, the roads would help make new technologies more
attractive to farmers financially, would facilitate an expansion of agro-
industry, marketing and rural commerce, and would enhance opportunities for the
poorer sections of rural Rajasthan to contribute to agricultural growth.
Environmental strengthening would be important to ensure that all investments
in agriculture, both within and outside the project, would be carried out
according to sound environmental principles.
3.18 Crop Husbandry (16% of baseline costs). This component would be
implemented by GOR's Department of Agriculture (DOA). Investments in
demonstrations and training would be carried out on selected farmers' fields.
The associated costs would be shared between GOR and the farmers. The
activities would focus on land rehabilitation, improvements in the efficiency
of water use, fodder development and promotion of new crops. Investments would
also be in information media support, computerization, development of regional
training institutes, training of women farmers, participatory development, and
training of artisans in the manufacture of small goods.
3.19 An estimated 1 million ha of potentially arable land in Rajasthan suffers
from excessive salinity, alkalinity and lack of organic matter. Gypsum is used



- 12 -
to help reclaim these lands. Investments under the project would include on-
farm demonstrations and experimental works combining gypsum applications with
drainage on surface irrigated lands. More efficient water use would be
supported through demonstrations of sprinkler and drip irrigation, and
development of community lift irrigation systems. Fodder development would be
supported by promotion kits, and demonstrations of forage and alley cropping.
New crops such as sunflower, safflower, castor, ratanjot, tumba and jojoba
would be promoted through demonstrations.
3.20 The Agriculture Information Unit, established with FAO assistance in DOA
in tha 1980s to support extension activities, would be upgraded. Investments
would include new audio-visual equipment and training for its operation. For
district-level computerization, investments in data processing and
communications networks, and in maintenance contracts, would be supported.
Development of regional training inatitutes would include civil works,
equipment and operations, and would be undertaken at existing Zonal Research
Stations (not at DOA's Agricultural Training Centers). Women's training would
be effected through training camps and women motivators. Small infrastructure
projects would be supported through GOR's participatory development program,
where beneficiaries are involved in concept design and implementation, and
share the capital costs with GOR through their provision of labor and/or cash.
This approach would also be followed for pilot extension activities. Further
details of the crop husbandry component are in Annex 6.
3.21 Horticulture (6% of base costs). This component, to be implemented by
the Department of Horticulture (DOH), would promote the cultivation of higher-
value crops. Investments would include development of DOH nurseries and of
progeny and demonstration centers, raising of fruit plants, training of men and
women farmers, nursery owners and DOH and DOA staff, demonstrations of
intensive horticulture (fruits, spices and vegetables), plant propagation
technology, and horticulture marketing and processing studies. Investments
would also support advertizing, marketing and publicity of horticultural
activities. The development of horticultural "clusters3 would be supported by
some 35,000 demonstrations of fruit and vegetable crops in geographically
compact blocks. Each demonstration would be from 0.2 to 0.4 ha on farmers'
fields. Details of this component are in Annex 7.
3.22 Animal Humbandry (11% of base costs). This component would be
implemented by the Department of Animal Husbandry (DOAH). The livestock
subcomponent would support breed improvement, animal markets, management
information systems and media support, disease surveillance and diagnostic
services, technology dissemination and training. It would also support
promotion of private clinics and expanded coverage of community based
veterinary volunteers (gopals). For the sheep breeding and wool subcomponent,
support would be provided for training, reorganization of State sheep breeding
farms, and upgrading of the existing sheep population. Details of these
subcomponents follow below (and are elaborated on in Annex 8).
3.23 For livestock, the Rajasthan Institute of Livestock Management and the
four existing para-veterinary schools would be strengthened, and the numbers of
para-veterinary staff would be increased. To promote privatization of
veterinary services, GOR plans to encourage commercial banks to make loans to
veterinarians for their purchase of equipment to start private clinics. DOAH
plans to provide gopals with stipends, to be phased out over three years, while
full costs would be phased in for semen straws, liquid nitrogen and artific1 



- 13 -
insemination (AI) tools. The gopals would set their own fees for their
services. DOAH would provide training to gopals and would monitor the
effectiveness of the new arrangements.
3.24 Animal markets would be improved through development of 300 cattle fair
grounds at the panchayat level, enhancing 50 panchayat samity fairs, and
developing 30 weekly exchange markets at the municipal level. At DOAH
headquarters, management information systems would be improved through the
provision of computers and associated support.  Improvements of surveillance,
forecasting, diagnosis, treatment and monitoring of animal diseases would be
introduced under the project. A technology dissemination and media support
unit would be set up for effective communication with target groups through the
use of audio visuals, mass media and electronic media.  Recent advances in
veterinary and animal production practices, for staff, gopals and farmers,
would be disseminated through training, particularly for women.
3.25 State sheep breeding farms would be improved by importing exotic ewes and
increasing their carrying capacity through pasture improvement, fencing, etc.
Cross-bred rams would be made available to private sheep breeders for breed
improvement. In addition to this genetic upgrading, the existing sheep
population would be improved by upgrading nutritional support and health care.
DOAH training facilities would be expanded to provide three months' training to
about 4,000 rural youth.
3.26 WateQr smourcAs (13% of base costs). Efficient planning and use of all
water resources in Rajasthan are critical for the State's development. This
component, to be implemented by the Groundwater Department of the Secretariat
of Public Health, would comprise: (a) improvement of data collection and
processing for surface and groundwater; (b) completing groundwater
investigations; (c) a Water Resources Planning Study; (d) strengthening of the
Remote Sensing Application Center at Jodhpur; (e) carrying out experiments and
atudies on artificial recharge and conjunctive use; (f) procurement of
equipment; (g) training; and (h) technical assistance. The water resources
planning study would enable comprehensive planning for the long-term
agricultural, municipal and industrial use of all water resources in the State.
At negotiations, GOR agreed that: (a) by March 31, 1993 it would employ
consultants under terms of reference acceptable to IDA to carry out the Water
Resources Planning Study, by December 31, 1995 it would submit the results of
the Study to IDA, and thereafter it would take IDA's comments into account in
formulating and implementing its future water resources plans; and (b) the
Groundwater Department would complete by December 31, 1996 a detailed study for
proposed experimental recharge schemes, including a water balance study, to
confirm the availability of water for auch schemea, and would provide to IDA
for its review and comments the results of the study.
3.27 The project would help finance community lift irrigation schemes where at
least 20% of the costs of construction would be shared by beneficiaries
(through labor and/or cash contributions) and no more than 80% by GOR's
Irrigation Department (ID). Provision would be included for technical
assistance, training, software and hardware, and for improved administration
and monitoring. Scheme beneficiaries would be required to form water user
associations. Each association would enter into a contract with ID, which
would provide, intor  alia, that all costs of managing and operating the scheme
would be borne by the association. These and other requirements for
implementation of this subcomponent, including devolution by GOR to water users



- 14 -
of operation and management of minor irrigation schemes, are set out in the
Policy Reform Program (Annex 1). Further details are in Annex 9.
3.28 The Rajasthan Canal, also known as the Indira Gandhi Nahar Project, runs
450 km south, parallel to the western border with Pakistan. In the northern,
Stage I area, command development of 540,000 ha was financed by IDA (Cr 502-IN)
in 1974 and by IFAD (Loan 32) in 1980. Both project areas have developed
severe problems of waterlogging and salinization. For the southern, Stage II
area, GOR has proposed a command development of 1 million ha, and has
approached IDA for financing. IDA's concerns regarding further development
relate to poor soils, and waterlogging and salinization (both caused by the
absence of adequate drainage). Before further development takes place, it is
essential that a solution be found to the drainage problems (the area is a
large sinkhole with no surface outlet), and that sustainable systems of
agriculture be identified. In early 1992 GOR completed extensive studies of
the area, which have been reviewed by IDA. Further studies are necessary,
however, particularly to evaluate irrigation performance and carry out pilot
drainage programs in the Stage I area, to assess whether the Stage II area is
irrigable, and to carry out a thorough environmental assessment. The pilot
programs are likely to take up to five years before results become available.
Under the project, US$3 million would be included to help finance the
additional studies and the pilot programs on about 1,000 ha of the Stage I
command.  GOR agreed at nacgtiatioan  that by June 30, 1993 it would employ
consultants under terms of reference acceptable to IDA to carry out the
additional studies and to advise on the design and implementation of the pilot
drainage programs in the Stage I command area. A list of the proposed studies
is in Annex 15.
3.29 AgEriultural Researnh and Training (15% of base costs). This component,
to be implemented by RAU assisted by consultants, would include preparation of
a Strategic Development Plan (SDP) for RAU and selected investments (para.
3.15). Investments would be in buildings, equipment, hostels, libraries, staff
quarters, etc. at: the main campus and College of Agriculture at Bikaner;
College of Home Science at Bikaner; College of Agriculture at Udaipur; College
of Dairy Science at Udaipur; and College of Agriculture at Jobner; and in
improved training curricula. Institutional strengthening would be supported by
scholarships, international collaboration and faculty training. GOR agreed at
ne*gotiations that by March 31, 1993 RAU would commission a study under terms of
reference acceptable to IDA for the preparation of a Strategic Development Plan
for RAU, including: greater research and training support for thrust areas of
horticulture, livestock, integrated pest management, farming systems,
information dissemination, post-harvest technology, crop mix and agro-forestry;
and a master plan for the physical and institutional development of all
campuses of RAU. It would be a condition of disbursement for this component
that the Strategic Development Plan was acceptable to IDA. Details are in
Annexes 10 and 11.
3.30  Rural Roads (31% of base costs).  This component, to be implemented by
GOR's Public Works Department (PWD) and the State Marketing Board, would
provide for the construction and improvement of about 1,600 km all-weather
roads. First priority would be to join villages with populations of 1,000 or
more, as per the 1971 census, in the 14 agriculturally most important districts
of the State. Second priority would be to upgrade gravel roads connecting
GOI's Minimum Needs Program target villages in those districts. All roads to
be included in the project have been identified. The minimum length of a rural



- 15 -
road would be 2 km (except for small roads of less than 2 km to be constructed
under GOR's participatory development program - para. 3.20). Little land
acquisition is foreseen for the roads, as they would be built along existing
alignments. Land would be acquired only where old, inferior alignments should
be improved, and where the available land width was not according to Indian
Roads Congress standards. PWD would have overall responsibility for the
component, including quality control over works executed by the Marketing
Board. Field works would be the responsibility of the respective staff of PWD
and the Board, while all construction would be undertaken by private companies
under contract to PWD or the Board. The Board finances construction of certain
rural roads from marketing taxes. In July 1992 GOR created a Technical
Committee comprising the Secretary, PWD, the Chief Engineer, PWD and the
Administrator of the Marketing Board to review and monitor the rural roads
component.  GOR agreed at ngntiartiona that for roads to be financed under the
project: (a) they would be selected according to criteria and constructed
according to technical standards acceptable to IDA; (b) they would be properly
maintained after construction; (c) consultants would be employed by PWD under
terms of reference acceptable to IDA to inspect and verify the technical
quality of roads constructed under the project; (d) if additional land is
required, the land acquisition process would be completed and compensation paid
prior to calling for tenders; and (e) project funds would not be used for
construction of roads in the command area of the Rajasthan Canal, except in
Sriganganagar District.  It would be a condition of dishursemant for the rural
roads component that consultants had verified that the roads had been
constructed in accordance with standards satisfactory to IDA. Further details
are in Annex 12.
3.31 Environntn a1 StrenathAning (1% of base costs). To strengthen GOR's
capability for environmental oversight for agriculture in the State, GOR would
establish a permanent Environment Cell in GOR's Office of the Development
Commissioner. The Cell would be responsible for assessing the environmental
and sociological impact of investment plans, initially for the project and
progressively during project implementation for all proposed investments in
agriculture (including surface and groundwater irrigation), for monitoring the
environmental and sociological impact of investments already undertaken, and
for reviewing and updating GOR's environmental and sociological criteria and
regulations pertaining to the sector. GOR agreed at nagotiations that: (a) it
would maintain the Environment Cell with key staff whose qualifications and
experience are acceptable to IDA and with environmental criteria and operating
procedures acceptable to IDA; and (b) the Environmental Cell would review and
endorse each annual action plan (para. 3.48) from environmental points of view
before the plan is submitted to the Project Guidance Committee for approval
(para. 3.46). Further details are in Annex 16.
Complempntary Activities
3.32 Extension. Demonstration and Training. Support for extension,
demonstration and training is included in the respective crop husbandry,
horticulture and animal husbandry components. Demonstrations would be
established jointly by the DOA and RAU (and DOH, DOAH and RAU), and would
popularize site-specific, improved technologies for different crops and
livestock. The essential elements of the extension activity would include
regular village/farm visits, periodic staff training, and close extension-
research linkages. Extension reach would be enlarged through more contacts,
including group contacts, and reaching more farm women. Experimental



- 16 -
approaches to privatizing extension services would be supported under the
participatory development program (para. 3.20). The quality, including
broadbasing, of extension would be improved through enhancement of DOA's
Agricultural Information Unit and through training of extension staff at RAU's
Zonal Research Stations (para. 3.20). Details are in Annex 14.
3.33 Technical AssiatAnca. Technical assistance (TA) would be provided for
project startup activities, implementation support, studies and agricultural
policy analysis. The latter would assist the Project Coordination Unit (para.
3.46) in identifying reforms and priority investments. TA would also address
the production, marketing and household concerns of farm women.
3.34 SuRnort to Women and NGOS. In the rural areas of Rajasthan, 50-60% of
women are involved directly or indirectly in agriculture. Agriculture
represents the sole source of income for 70% of women in the State and 25-30%
of agricultural households are headed by female farmers. The participation of
women in agriculture and in other income-generating activities improves their
status within the family, raises overall health and nutrition standards, and
increases their access to basic needs. Special efforts would be made through
the project to increase opportunities for women. The efforts would include
training to improve their access to agricultural extension, credit and
information services, and for family farm enterprises and productive self-
employment, including artisanal activities. For extension and business
support, selected NGOs would assist in the training of trainees and farmers in
group formation, book-keeping and entrepreneurial development.
iro-ect Costs and Financing
3.35 Proiect Costs. Total project costs are estimated at US$130.3 million
equivalent, including physical and price contingencies and US$12.4 million in
local taxes (see Credit and Project Summary). The direct and indirect foreign
exchange is estimated at US$33 million, or 25% of project costs. Physical
contingencies were added to baseline costs at the rates of 10% for civil works,
goods and incremental operating costs, and 20% for vehicles. Price
contingencies of 3.7% for 1992 and thereafter were added for the foreign
exchange component. For local costs, price contingencies were added at 9.5% in
1992, 8.0% in 1993, 7.0% in 1994, 6.2 % in 1995 and 5.5% in 1996. No
additional staff would be financed under the project. Details of project costs
are in Annex 17.



- 17 -
Katimated Project Coats2:
LncaI   ErAeugr  Zantal   Lnfal   ForEsgi     ZntAl
Cnmnnant.                      ---- Rs. Million ----         ---- US$ Million ----
A. Crop Husbandry                      360.3   106.2    466.5    13.8       4.0     7.8
B. Horticulture                        117.0    60.1    177.1     4.5       2.3     6.8
C. Animal Husbandry
1. Livestock                       205.6    37.8    243.4      7.8      1.5      9.3
2. Sheep/Wool                      5i.     34-L    I3-L        2.I      1..      31S
Sub-Total                             264.6    72.7    337.3    10.1       2.8    12.9
D. Water Resources                     166.3   222.6    388.9     6.3       8.5    14.8
E. Agricultural Research               400.2    76.8    477.0    15.3       2.9    18.2
and Training
F. Rural Roads                         834.6    94.4    929.0    31.9       3.6    35.5
G. Project Coordination                75.4    73.7    149.1      2.9       2.8     5.7
H. Environmental Strengthening          16.5    15.2     31.7     0.6       0.6     1.2
Total BASELINE COSTS                  2234.9   721.7   2956.7    85.3      27.5   112.8
Physical Contingencies             225.5    72.8    298.2      8.6      2.8    11.4
Price Contingencies                576.9  233.6    B10.5       3.2      2,       Li
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                    7.   1029.    46.         91
Note:  The costs of Extension, Demonstrations and Training, and Technical
Assistance are incorporated in the above components.
3.36  Proiect Finanning.  The proposed IDA Credit of US$106 million would
finance about 90% of total project costs net of taxes, or 80% of total costs
including taxes. It would finance 100% of the direct and indirect foreign
exchange costs and 75% of local costs. GOR's and beneficiaries' contributions
would be US$22.5 million and US$1.8 million equivalent, respectively, as shown
in the following table.
L cal        Foreicn              Total
---------- USS Million -----------
GOR                                      22.5             -                 22.5
Beneficiaries                             1.8             -                  1.8
IDA                                      71.                               1
Total                             97.3          33.0                 130.3
The Credit would be made available to GOI on standard terms and conditions and
on-lent to GOR under standard arrangements for developmental assistance to the
states. An understanding was reached with GOI at negotiations that it would
transfer budgeted allocations in advance to GOR sufficient to cover GOI's share
of GOR's expected project expenditures for the ensuing quarter in accordance
with the quarterly amounts established in the annual action plans (para. 3.48).
Correspondingly, an understanding was reached with GOR at naginL±at.ona that
upon receipt of the funds from GOI, it would transfer such funds, together with
its quarterly counterpart contributions, immediately to project accounts of the
participating entities.
2/    Including taxes and duties of US$12.4 million.



- 18 -
PrournaymAnt
3.37 Civil works consist of construction of rural roads, livestock markets,
university buildings, office and residential buildings, training centers,
laboratories, etc., costing US$65 million equivalent. These works are small
and scattered around several sites. As such, they are unlikely to attract
foreign bidders. Hence, they would be procured using Local Competitive Bidding
(LCB) or Force Account procedures as follows:
(a) LCB: All local competitive bidding (LCB) would be in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to IDA. Works, amounting to an aggregate of US$60
million equivalent, would be grouped into packages to encourage bidding by
larger contractors; most contracts are expected to be for at least US$500,000
equivalent. Land acquisition, if necessary (para. 3.30), and detailed design
and engineering of the works would precede invitations to bid. For all
contracts expected to cost RS. 20 million (US$770,000) or more, contractors
would be prequalified under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. Contracts
would be entered into following standard bidding procedures and a standard
bidding document, both of which are satisfactory to IDA. Foreign contractors
would not be precluded from participating in LCB.
(b) Force Account: All small civil works not exceeding the equivalent of
US$10,000 each would be carried out by the respective line agencies under force
account, up to an aggregate of US$5 million. These works would not be suitable
for competitive bidding because of the small amounts involved, scattered
locations and the objective of encouraging beneficiary participation. In
selected cases, small works valued at less than US$10,000 within the aggregate
limit may be let by inviting bids from at least three qualified contractors.
3.38  Vehicles. fotda. emipMnt and Su2p1IA.  The total cost of vehicles,
machinery, equipment and goods/supplies is estimated at US$31.6 million
equivalent. Packages costing more than US$200,000 equivalent would be procured
following International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures, amounting to
US$8.5 million equivalent, in accordance with IDA's procurement Guidelines. A
price preference of 15% would apply to bids from local manufacturers.
Machinery, goods, equipment and supplies amount±ng to US$16.9 million are small
in nature and would be procured over the lifetime of the project in scattered
locations and hence are unlikely to attract foreign bidders. These items
therefore would be procured following LCB procedures acceptable to IDA.
Foreign bidders, however, would be allowed to bid. Local shopping (comparison
of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers) amounting to an
aggregate value of US$3.3 million equivalent would be used for the procurement
of goods, equipment and supplies for items costing less than US$20,000 per
package. Construction materials required for force account works, up to an
aggregate value of US$2 million equivalent, would be procured following local
shopping procedures. Vehicles, estimated to cost US$1.2 million equivalent,
would be procured in small lots by different implementing agencies and spread
over the project implementation period. They would represent a small addition
to the existing fleet and because of the need for reliable services and
available parts, local shopping or direct contracting procedures acceptable to
IDA would be followed.



- 19 -
3.39  Livestock (for hreading ourpsOmsA. I cds. SAman. Aaricultural Tnputm And
AlliAd MAteralai, estimated to cost US$9 million equivalent, would be procured
by shopping (local or international) or direct contracting (up to an aggregate
amount not exceeding US$l million) under procedures acceptable to IDA.
3.40 Conmultanny Services, estimated to cost US$16 million equivalent, would
be contracted in accordance with IDA's Guidelines for consultants.
3.41 Contrant Review. All bid packages and bid evaluation reports for civil
works estimated to cost over US$200,000 equivalent or for equipment and
vehicles estimated to cost over US$100,000 equivalent, and contracts for
consultancy services, would be subject to IDA's prior review. The packages
would represent at least 80% of procurement carried out through competitive
bidding. Selective post-review of awarded contracts below the threshold levels
would be carried out by IDA during supervision. A procurement schedule is at
Annex 19. GOR provided assurances at nagotiationa that the above procurement
arrangements would be followed. They are summarized in the following table.
Summary of Pronoped Procurement Arrangements
Procurement Method         Non-Bank          Total
ICB   LCB   Others          Financed          Cost
Prolect Element          ------------------ USS Millinnb -------------------
1. Civil Works                        60   5.2a/           0.06             65.3
(48)  (4.2)                            (52.2)
2. Goods/Equipment
Equipment             8.5   13.1   2.0b/              1.70             25.3
(6.8)  (10.5)  (1.6)                            (18. 9)
Supplies                     3.8   1. 3b/                             5*3
(3.0)  (1. 0)                            (4.0)
vehicles                            1. 2b/                            1.2
(0.9)                            (0.9)
3. Agriculture Inputs                      6. lbl                            6.1
(4.9)                             (4.9)
4. Animals                                 2.3b/                             2.3
(1.7)                             (1.7)
5. Consultancies                          15.86            0.04             15.9
(15.86)                           (15.86)
6. Training                                4.7                               4.7
(4.7)                            (4.7)
7. Incremental
Operating Costs                        4.4                               4.4
(2.8)                            (2.8)
Total                       8.5   76.9    43.1             1.80             130.3
(6.8)  (61.5)  (37.7)                           (106.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the IDA Credit.
a/  Force Account.
b/  Local Shopping.
LCB - Local Competitive Bidding. ICB - International Competitive Bidding.
ni shurmentsx
3.42 The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed against:
(a)   80% of expenditures on civil works for roads, buildings,
laboratories, and seed and semen installations;



- 20 -
(b)   100% of foreign expenditures or 100% of ex-factory costs, or 80% of
expenditures for locally procured vehicles, equipment, furniture,
materials, livestock, planting materials and semen;
(c)   100% of expenditures on technical assistance, training and NGO
support; and
(d)   70% of expenditures covering the period through March 31, 1995, 50%
of expenditures from April 1, 1995 through March 31, 1996, and 25%
of expenditures thereafter, for incremental operating costs.
3.43 Disbursements against expenditures on contracts for vehicles, machinery
and equipment and for consultants and training exceeding US$100,000, and for
civil works exceeding US$200,000, would be fully documented. For all other
expenditures, IDA would disburse against Statements of Expenditure (SOEs).
Supporting documents for SOEs would not be submitted to IDA, but would be
retained by GOR and be available to IDA staff during supervision.
Retroactive Financing and Special Account
3.44 To expedite project startup, IDA would finance retroactively project
expenditures incurred after April 1, 1992 to the date of Credit signing, up to
a limit of US$4 million equivalent, provided that procurement procedures
acceptable to IDA were followed. Expenditures on vehicles and equipment,
consultancy services, training, establishment of nurseries for planting
materials, other preparatory activities and incremental operating costs would
be eligible. To facilitate IDA disbursements, a Special Account in US dollars
would be established in the Reserve Bank of India with an initial deposit of up
to US$5 million. This deposit is based on estimates of the project's financing
needs and projected IDA disbursements (Annex 18). The Closing Date of the
Credit would be September 30, 1999.
Accounts and Audit
3.45 Separate project accounts would be maintained by each participating
entity. The accounts would identify all project transactions on an on-going
basis, including contributions from GOR, GOI and the Credit. GOI and GOR
agreed at nagotiatnsna that: (a) all accounts would be maintained and audited
annually in accordance with sound auditing standards consistently applied by
independent and qualified auditors acceptable to IDA; (b) certified copies of
the annual financial statements and SOEs together with the auditor's report,
which would comment separately on the SOEs, would be submitted to IDA no later
than nine months after the close of each fiscal year; and {c) the Special
Account would be audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA,
and the audited statement and the auditor's report would be submitted to IDA no
later than nine months after the close of each fiscal year.
Proiect Coordination and TIplementatJOD
3.46 nstitutional Arrangem-ents. The line departments/agencies operating
under each participating secretariat and RAU would be responsible for
implementing their respective components of the project. It has been IDA's
experience generally that the entities are competent at implementing publicly-
financed programs (para. 2.12). Guidance and coordination of the project would
be carried out through a Project Guidance Committee (PGC) and a Project



- 21 -
Coordination Committee (PCC). The former, to be headed by the Chief Secretary
to GOR, would provide guidance and direction to the project, approve annual
action plans (para. 3.48) and take strategic policy decisions. The PCC, to be
headed by the Development Commissioner, would review progress of the project
and take decisions on project-related matters. A Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) would be located in the Office of the Development Commissioner and would
be headed by a Senior Administrative Officer.
3.47 The PCU's main responsibilities would include evaluating and assigning
priority to investment proposals, preparing detailed annual investment plans,
activities and budgets for the project, coordinating execution across
participating entities, monitoring and evaluating results, and reviewing on a
continuing basis the policy framework and incentives for the development of
agriculture in the State. Early responsibilities of the Senior Administrative
Officer would be to establish the Unit and train its staff, to develop
coordinating, operating and monitoring procedures with participating project
entities, to initiate studies and to prepare the first annual action plan - for
1993/94 (para. 3.48). Consultants would be hired by the PCU to assist in these
startup activities, and to arrange workshops to inform participating entities'
staff about GOR's agricultural strategy and the purposes of the project.
Consultants would also be hired by the PCU to carry out studies on agricultural
policy issues, both for those discussed in this appraisal report and for those
arising in the course of project implementation. Periodically the PCU would
arrange seminars with staff of the participating entities and representatives
of the private sector to discuss GOR's agricultural strategy and implementation
of the reform measures. Further details of the composition and
responsibilities of the PGC, PCC and PCU are in Annex 4.
3.48 Annual Action Plans. Annual action plans would assist project planning
and implementation, and supervision by IDA. They would also facilitate
flexibility year-to-year in amending project components (or possibly, in
accordance with IDA's procedures, introducing new components) based on
implementation experience. The PCU would prepare action plans that would
define for each project component and participating entity proposed physical
and expenditure targets, by quarter, for the coming year. Consultants would
assist the PCU in designing standard formats for the entities to present their
action plan information, and in conducting training sessions of participating
entities' staff to facilitate this startup activity. The action plans would
provide details of when and how the policy reforms to be implemented the
following year would be carried out. Appropriate procedures for coordinating
with the Environment Cell would also be established. Further details of the
annual action plans are in Annex 4. At nAgntiLAtina, GOR provided an assurance
that by December 31 each year it would provide to IDA for its review and
comments a copy of its approved action plan for the following year.
3.49 Monitoring and Reporting. Physical and financial monitoring of project
progress would be the responsibility of the PCU. Data on key project
indicators (preharvest and postharvest), including increased participation of
women, would be collected and analyzed regularly to assess progress, exercise
control and identify possible problems. The participating agencies would
submit progress reports quarterly to the PCU, which would prepare a
comprehensive progress report every quarter for submission to the PGC. The
reports would not only quantify and compare progress with the action plans and
the Staff Appraisal Report, but would discuss the reasons for progress or lack
of progress for each component, and propose measures to resolve any problems.



- 22 -
The comprehensive progress reports would also include descriptive sections on
the implementation of the reform measures and how they have contributed to
GOR's sector strategies, and on the activities of the Environment Cell.
Prior to December 31, 1995, GOR and IDA would carry out jointly a detailed mid-
term evaluation of project progress and possible need for adjustments to
components, implementation arrangements or reforms. GOR provided assurances at
negotiatinns that the PGC would submit every six months to IDA a consolidated
progress report in such content and detail as IDA may require. A Project
Completion Report would be prepared by the PCU on the basis of IDA's guidelines
no later than six months from the Closing Date of the Credit.
Benefits and Justifination
3.50 Project Benefits. Through preparation and appraisal, including
preparation by GOR of its Agricultural Strategy Paper, the proposed project has
already had a substantial impact on GOR's capacity to address agricultural
policy issues in Rajasthan, and to formulate specific proposals for a reform
agenda. It would have the long-term benefit of establishing a permanent sector
policy planning and review capability in the State. As such, it would make a
substantial contribution to GOR's development objectives of accelerating long-
term growth, alleviating poverty and conserving resources. It would also help
GOR to rationalize public expenditures and improve the efficiency of public and
private investment in agriculture.
3.51 The project would help increase farm prices of outputs and reduce prices
of inputs through construction and improvement of a rural road network of 1,600
km. The network would contribute to GOR's objective of providing road links to
all villages with populations of 1,000 and above by the end of the project
period. The project would also help to assess the extent, locations, quality
and sustainability of water in the State for municipal, industrial and
agricultural uses. It would enhance the availability of higher quality seeds,
seedlings and livestock, would introduce improved farm management systems, and
would enhance opportunities for poorer sections of the rural population,
particularly women, to contribute to the process of growth. It would also
strengthen GOR's capability for carrying out environmental assessments and
monitoring for agriculture in the State. The reductions in explicit subsidies
for crop production, horticulture, livestock and fisheries would result in
savings of about US$1 million equivalent over the next three years, or about
50% of the amount spent by GOR on these items from 1987/88 to 1989/90.
Increases in rural power tariffs are expected to generate the equivalent of
US$35 to 50 million per year in additional revenues to the RSEB. Not least,
the project would support the Bank's overall effort to assist GOI and state
governments in carrying out agriculture sector reforms, following on from the
recommendations in the FY91 CEM (para. 3.02).
3.52  Economic Analysis.  The investment components are of a supportive nature
and, other than the rural roads component, do not allow quantification of
financial or economic benefits. They are designed to improve the enabling
environment for agricultural growth, to strengthen GOR's capability to provide
high quality services to agriculture, and to plan for exploitation of the
natural resource base in a sustainable manner. Benefits arising from the
institutional development aspects, such as improved planning, extension,
training, research, environmental strengthening and poverty alleviation, are
not easily attributable to specific components and therefore have not been
included in the analysis. For the rural roads component, an economic rate of



- 23 -
return (ERR) of 17% was estimated. Incremental benefits were estimated on the
basis of reduced vehicle operating and maintenance costs, and a reduced number
of trips required to transport freight (saved travel time). Economic costs
were estimated by adjusting the local cost element by a Standard Conversion
Factor (SCF) of 0.8. The assumptions and analysis are given in Annex 5. Other
benefits that would be difficult to quantify are due to increased agricultural
production, increased incidence of literacy, improvements to health, access to
off-farm employment, etc. through the improved roads network. The net present
value (NPV) of the roads component (discounted at 12% opportunity cost of
capital) was estimated at Rs 68 million (US$2.6 million).  Switching vlng
show that the component costs would have to increase by 18%, or benefits
decrease by 23%, for the ERR to fall to 12%.
3.53  Cost Recovery and Cost-sharing.  GOR's policy of full cost recovery for
all goods and services supplied by the private sector would enhance the
enabling environment for private sector participation. The pricing of water
from major and medium irrigation schemes, however, is not within the scope of
the project. The investment costs of animal exchange markets would be
recovered over five to six years through GOR's standard policy of levying
cesses on the sale of animals. Under the participatory development program
(for e.g. lift irrigation, some link roads and rehabilitation of minor
irrigation works), the beneficiaries would share in the capital costs with GOR
through their provision of labor and/or cash. Thereafter they would assume all
costs of management and operation. For experimental approaches to privatizing
extension services, groups of beneficiaries would contract their own extension
officers under a cost sharing arrangement with GOR where each year the
beneficiaries would assume a greater proportion of the costs.
3.54  Rola of the Pri.at   Sector.  The role of the private sector and its
participation in rural economic activity would be considerably enhanced through
the project. The policy reforms are designed to lessen regulatory constraints
and encourage greater private sector investment in the State. The increased
investment is likely to be in the areas of seed and seedling production, inputs
supply, fish fingerling and day-old chick production, provision of veterinary
services, agro-processing and marketing. Private initiatives would also be
strengthened outside the project scope as the economic environment is
liberalized and Government interventions reduced.
3.55 Impact on Women. As in most states of India, rural women in Rajasthan
contribute to almost all farm and household operations. Women are involved
especially in horticulture, livestock and post-harvest activities. Improving
women's access to more productive and sustainable agricultural technologies
through expanded training and contacts with extension staff would enable them
to participate in these activities more effectively, raising their productivity
and income earning capacity. Women's involvement in community development and
participatory planning would also enhance their share of project benefits.
3.56 Environmental ImTact. Based on an environmental impact assessment, the
project has been classified as "B". None of the project components are
expected to have an adverse environmental impact. Water resources planning
would assist GOR in planning for sustainable exploitation of Scarce water in
the State. For rural roads, potential adverse effects arising from a loss of
agricultural or forest land, soil erosion or traversing protected habitat have
been minimized by the criteria for road selection. The environmental analysis
has included an evaluation of construction and rehabilitation standards and



- 24 -
practices followed by GOR's PWD and Marketing Board and by private contractors.
To help address environmental issues relating to the project and to the generic
iasues of the agricultural sector as a whole, an Environment Cell would be
established by the project. The responsibilities of the Cell would be expanded
during project implementation to cover environmental impact assessment and
oversight capability for all agricultural activities in Rajasthan.
Project Risks
3.57 The main project risk would be the timely implementation and adherence by
GOR to the agreed policy reforms, including implementation of recommendations
from studies supported by the project. Preparation by GOR of its Agricultural
Strategy Paper, official clearance of the Paper by the State Government, and
the carrying out of certain reforms already, are persuasive evidence of GOR's
commitment to address policy issues and effect change. A continuing dialogue
with IDA during supervision on the reform process and on progress of the
studies should minimize the risks. Legislative approval would not be required
for any of the proposed reforms.
IV. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
4.01 At negotiations assurances were obtained:
a)    from GOR that: (i) it would carry out the Policy Reform Program as set
out in Annex 1; and (ii) it would review annually with GOI and IDA its
progress in implementing the reforms and their contribution to GOR's
strategies for the sector (para. 3.16);
b)    from GOR that: (i) by March 31, 1993 it would employ consultants under
terms of reference acceptable to IDA to carry out the Water Resources
Planning Study, by December 31, 1995 it would furnish the results of the
Study to IDA, and thereafter it would take IDA's comments into account in
formulating and implementing its future water resources plans; and (ii)
by December 31, 1996 its Groundwater Department would complete a detailed
study for proposed experimental recharge schemes, including a water
balance study, to confirm the availability of water for such schemes, and
would provide to IDA for its review and comments the results of the study
(para. 3.26);
c)    from GOR that by June 30, 1993 it would employ consultants under terms of
reference acceptable to IDA to carry out studies and to advise on the
design and implementation of pilot drainage programs in Stage I of the
Rajasthan Canal command area (para. 3.28);
e)    from GOR that by March 31, 1993 RAU would commission a study under terms
of reference acceptable to IDA for the preparation of a Strategic
Development Plan for RAU, including: greater research and training
support for thrust areas of horticulture, livestock, integrated pest
management, farming systems, information dissemination, post-harvest
technology, crop mix and agro-forestry; and a master plan for the
physical and institutional development of all campuses of RAU (para.
3.29);



- 25 -
f)    from GOR that for rural roads to be financed under the project: (i) they
would be selected according to criteria and constructed according to
technical standards acceptable to IDA; (ii) they would be properly
maintained after construction; (iii) consultants would be employed by PWD.
under terms of reference acceptable to IDA to inspect and verify the
technical quality of roads constructed under the project; (iv) if
additional land is required, the land acquisition process would be
completed and compensation paid prior to calling for tenders; and (v)
project funds would not be used for construction of roads in the conimand
area of the Rajasthan Canal, except in Sriganganagar District (para.
3.30);
g)    from GOR that: (i) it would maintain the Environment Cell with key staff
whose qualifications and experience are acceptable to IDA and with
environmental criteria and operating procedures acceptable to IDA; zed
(ii) the Environment Cell would review and endorse each annual action
plan from environmental points of view before the plan is submitted to
the Project Guidance Committee for approval (para. 3.31);
h)    from GOR that the procurement arrangements in paras. 3.37 to 3.41 would
be followed;
i)    from GOI and GOR that: (i) all accounts would be maintained and au&_-
annually in accordance with sound auditing standards consistently app.ied
by independent and qualified auditors acceptable to IDA; (ii) certified
copies of the annual financial statements and SOEs together with the
auditor's report, which would comment separately on the SOEs, would ize
submitted to IDA no later than nine months after the close of each fisc.al
year; and (iii) the Special Account would be audited annually by an
independent auditor acceptable to IDA, and the audited statement and the
auditor's report would be submitted to IDA no later than nine months
after the close of each fiscal year (para. 3.45);
J)    from GOR that by December 31 each year it would provide to IDA for its
review and comments a copy of the approved annual action plan for the
following year (para. 3.48); and
k)    from GOR that the Project Guidance Committee would furnish to IDA every
six months a consolidated progress report in such content and detail as
IDA may require (para. 3.49).
4.02  Conditions of disbursement would be:
(a)   for the agricultural research and training component that the Strategic
Development Plan for RAU was acceptable to IDA (para 3.29); and
(b)   for the rural roads component that consultants had verified that the
roads had been constructed in accordance with standards satisfactory r.c,
IDA (para. 3.30).



- 26 -
4.03 Understandings were reached during negotiations:
a)    with GOI that it would transfer budgeted allocations for the project in
advance to GOR sufficient to cover GOI's share of GOR's expected project
expenditures for the ensuing quarter in accordance with the quarterly
amounts established in the annual action plans (para. 3.36); and
b)    with GOR that upon receipt of project funds from GOI, it would transfer
such funda, together with its quarterly counterpart contributions,
immediately to project accounts of the participating entities (para.
3.36).
4.04 with the above assurances and understandings, the project would be
suitable for an IDA Credit of SDR 73.1 million (US$106 million equivalent) on
stpndard terms with 35 years maturity.



- 27 -
,Annex I
Page 1 of 4
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - RAJASTHAN
POLICY REFORM PROGRAM
Banskgound
1.    The prime thrust of the project ia to assist-the Government of Rajasthan
(GOR) to carry out its agricultural strategy. To this end, GOR prepared, as
part of project preparation, an Agricultural Strategy Paper (ASP). The ASP
embodies the following broad objectives:
(a)   to encourage accelerated growth of agriculture through improved
technical, financial and economic efficiency;
(b)   to enhance the long-term sustainability of-growth through
appropriate management and conservation of natural resources; and
(c)   to improve the social dimensions of development in the sector,
particularly poverty alleviation and increasing the contribution
of women to the development process.
2.     GOR's strategies for achieving these objectives, as elaborated in the
ASP, include:
(a)   enhancing the incentive framework and institutional support upon
which agricultural development, including postharvest activities,
depends;
(b)   expanding opportunities for increased investment and participation
by the private sector, particularly for agro-processing and
marketing;
(c)   improving the Government's capability to identify constraints and
opportunities, and evaluating priorities for future public and
private investment in agriculture; and
(d)   effecting a rationalization of State Government expenditures in
agriculture, particularly by reducing certain recurrent (revenue)
expenditures and making more funds available for investments in
public capital formation that is vital for future growth and
improved equity in the sector.
3.    Based on these strategies, GOR prepared a number of specific reforms,
which are listed in a matrix annexed to the ASP. The ASP document, including
the proposed reforms, was approved by the State Cabinet prior to appraisal of
the project in May 1992. The document was then submitted to the Bank
officially before negotiations in October 1992.



- 28 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 4
4.    In discussions with GOR officials, the appraisal mission selected
amongst GOR's reform measures to arrive at a limited number of the more
important reforms to include in the Policy Reform Program of the project. In
addition, the appraisal mission strengthened the reforms relating to the
exploitation of groundwater, and to GOR's oversight of environmental matters
in agriculture. Further refinements were agreed upon at negotiations. It
should be pointed out that GOR has been concerned for some time to define and
implement a more effective strategy for its agricultural sector, and certain
reforms had already been initiated at the time that preparation of the ASP
began. The ASP exercise, together with an ongoing dialogue with IDA staff,
has helped to sharpen the effort.
Focus of the Reform
5.    Consistent with the above strategies, reforms would be carried out in
the following areas: (a) goods and services supplied by the public sector to
agriculture (except irrigation) would be priced at full cost to encourage
greater participation by the private sector; (b) subsidies provided by GOR
would be eliminated or reduced -- those that are maintained would be better
targeted; (c) the efficiency of water use would be improved and measures in
support of sustainability of the resource would be strengthened; (d)
constraints to the development of agro-industries and marketing would be
reviewed; (e) programs for the development of livestock to exploit its
potential for growth and poverty alleviation would be increased; (f)
institutional reforms of rural cooperatives to make them more democratic and
responsive to their members would be undertaken; (g) GOR's capacity to
evaluate public investments through financial and economic analysis would be
strengthened; and (h) GOR's environmental oversight for agriculture would be
enhanced.
6.    The reforms to be carried out by GOR constitute the Policy Reform
Program. The Program comprises specific reforms or actions, which are set out
below and, for convenience, also presented in a matrix (Attachment 1). The
matrix presents the reforms under four headings: Issues, Strategies, Measures
and Actions. Some reforms that relate directly to proposed investments, e.g.
studies for preparation of a long-term Water Resources Plan and of a Strategic
Development Plan for RAU, are covenanted directly. In that case they are
included in the Project Agreement and not in the reforms enunciated below
(although they may be included in the attached matrix). GOR agreed at
negotiations to carry out the Policy Reform Program. The Policy Reform
Program with its list of agreed reforms and the matrix were attached to the
Minutes of Negotiations and is cross-referenced to the legal covenants.
SAifi   fo
7.    GOR agreed at negotiations that it will:
a)    by March 31, 1993 submit to IDA for its conments a plan to cause the
Rajasthan State Seeds Corporation (RSSC) to contract with selected
_a_-mers the production of foundation seed on an increasing scale;



- 29 -
Annex 1
Page 3 of 4
b)    (i) cause the RSSC to phase in full cost recovery for its goods and
services by July 1, 1995; (ii) phase in by March 31, 1996 full cost
recovery for horticulture plants, fish fingerlings, day-old chicks and
artificial insemination services produced or provided by the public
sector; and (iii) arrange for the full costs of the itemized goods and
services1 to be determined annually and make such costs available to IDA
by June 30 following the fiscal year to which they apply;
c)    phase out the subsidy on the price of fodder seed provided by the public
sector by March 31, 1996;
d)    (i) by November 30, 1992 furnish to IDA an analysis of the equivalence
of the present flat rate power tariffs to the present metered rural
tariff of paisa 50 per kwh, and to the extent that the per kWh
equivalents of such flat rate tariffs are less than the metered tariff
GOR will, by June 30, 1993, increase such flat rate tariffs so that
their weighted average is fully equivalent to the present metered rate;
and (ii) by March 31, 1994 introduce a penalty of at least 5 paisa per
kWh for overdue rural electricity payments;
e)    (i) by March 31, 1993 establish a standing State Water Resources
Committee with membership and terms of reference acceptable to IDA; and
(ii) by March 31, 1994 furnish to IDA for its comments a plan for
transferring responsibility for operation and maintenance of canals and
distributaries of small and minor public irrigation tanks to beneficiary
communities on a pilot basis, and after taking IDA's comments into
account, implement the plan;
f)    (i) by March 31, 1993 furnish to IDA for its comments a plan to transfer
to farmers full operational responsibility for all publicly-managed lift
irrigation schemes up to 40 ha in size and after taking IDA's comments
into account, implement the plan; and (ii) by March 31, 1993 furnish to
IDA for its comments a plan to transfer to water users the management of
distribution networks in selected locations of major and medium
irrigation commands in the State on a pilot basis and after taking IDA's
comments into account, implement the plan;
g)    by March 31, 1993: Ci) authorize cooperatives to make their own business
decisions, determine their product ranges and fix their product prices;
(ii) provide that no GOR director will be nominated to a cooperative
board where there is no State equity or where GOR has not guaranteed
repayment of loans assumed by such cooperative; and (iii) cause
elections to be held for board members of all block, district and State-
level rural cooperatives;
h)    by March 31, 1993, in consultation with the State Chamber of Commerce
and under terms of reference acceptable to IDA, commission an agro-
1 Examples of the application of the full cost formula, as applied to semen and seeds,
and to horticultural plants are in Attachment 2.



- 30 -
Annex 1
Page 4 of 4
industrial opportunity survey and constraint analysis amongst agro-
industrial entrepreneurs in the State, including intXr alin the legal
framework for trade in agricultural products addressing commercial
contracts, personal liabilities of agents active in markets, licensing
procedures, regulation and supervision of organized markets, numbers and
levels of all taxes, levies, etc., and movement restrictions on trade of
agricultural commodities; and upon completion of the survey and
constraint analysis share the results with IDA;
i)    by September 30, 1993 prepare a plan, to be discussed with IDA, on
strengthening the State's information services that collect and
disseminate daily prices, stock movements and related trade data for all
agricultural products; and
j)    (i) double the number of places for veterinary students at RAU during
the project implementation period; (ii) limit the number of new clinical
veterinary service centers opened by GOR during the Eighth Plan to less
than 50% of the number opened during the Seventh Plan, and by June 30,
1993 submit to IDA for its comments a plan to encourage private
participation in these services; (iii) by June 30, 1993 furnish to IDA
for its comments a plan to shift the relative emphasis in the public
sector from the provision of veterinary health services to breed
improvement services by increasing the number of genetically improved
animals and artificial insemination services in the private sector; and
(iv) expand and broaden the training of veterinarians and technicians
with greater emphasis on breed improvement.
8.    In addition to the above reforms, GOR agreed at negotiations that for
any lift irrigation schemes to be financed under the project:
(i) prior to approval of such a scheme, GOR will review the proposal to
ensure its technical and financial viability; (ii) schemes on inter-
state rivers will be implemented within existing water allocation
agreements; (iii) schemes will be constructed only where existing
gravity irrigation projects are capable of providing full irrigation to
their existing commands and to any proposed extensions to those
commands; (iv) where the above criteria are met, the water source to be
exploited shall have been assessed over at least three years to
determine its reliability; (v) there will be no pumping from canals; and
(vi) scheme beneficiaries will form a water users association with a
management committee, which will enter into a contract with GOR to
provide inteL  Alia that all costs of managing and operating the scheme
will be borne by the water users association.



INDIA
AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - RAJASTHAN
MATRIX OF POLICY REFORMS
Issues                  PoliceIs                  Measures                                      Actions
1    Provision of Goods  Encourag-gr-ater           Goods and services       i)  COR will submit to IDA, by March 31, 1993, a plan to
and Services by     participationby the        supp l ld by Government       cause the RSSC to contract with sl ected farmers the
the Public Sector.  private soctor in the    will be priced at full          productIon of foundatIon seeds on an increasIng scale.
provialon of goods and    cost recovery,
services In               excepting rural power    ii)  RSSC wIll introduce full cost recovery for a*1I to goods
agriculture,              tariffs and wator from        and services by July 1, 1996.
a Jor and medium
irrigatIonschema.        ill) GOR will phase In by March 31, 1996 full cost recovery
for horticulturepIants  f ish fingerlings, day old chicks
and artificial insemlnation services produced or provided
by the public sector.
iv)  Full cost for the above goods and s*rvices will be
determ ind annualIy by GOR according to a formula agr- d
upon by COR and IDA. Such costs will be made avallable
to IDA by June 39 following the fIscal year to which they
apply.
2.   Input Subsidies     Expenditures on            SubaIdIes will be used   I)  The sale prIce subsIdy for fodder seed provided by the
subsidIes should be       exclusIvely to promote        public sector will be phased out by March 31, 1996.
phasoed out or applied    the adoption of new
more effectively,         technologls and
their applicability
will be lIlmitd to
;______________  __pred-terminedp-rlods.
I-A
0S
m 



Issues                   Policios                   Measures                                       Actions
3.   Water Resources      Tho State's water          Improve water              i)  GOR, by March 31, 1993, will furnish to IDA for Ito
resources should be        resources pIann ing and        comments a pIan to transfer to farmers full operational
deployed In an             mnagemnt through               responsibilityfor all publicly-managedlift irrigation
efficient, oquitable       devolutIon by GOR of           schems up to 40 ha In size and after taking IDA's
and sustainablemnnor.   operational and                   comments into account, Implement the plan.
mnagemnt
responsibilItyto          II)  COR, by March 31, 1993, wIll furnIsh to IDA for Its
water users, and               comments a pIan to transfer to water users the management
carrying out of a              of dIstrIbutIon networks In sel cted locatIons of mjor
Water Resources                and medIum IrrigatIon commands In the State on a pilot
Planning Study.                basIs and after taking IDAIa comments Into account,
Iopleent tho pIan.
III) GOR, by March 31, 1994, w Il i furnish to IDA for Ito
comments a plan for transferrIng responsIbilIty for
operatIon and mIantenance of canaIs and distrIbutarIes of
smll and minor IrrigatIon tanks to beneficIary
communities on a pilot basis, and atter taking IDA"s
comments Into account, Implemnt the plan.
iv)  COR, by March 31, 1993, wio  l comlsslon a Water Resources
Planning Study, will furnish to IDA for Its review and
comments the results of the study by Deember 31, 1995,
and wIll take such commenta Into account In formulating w
and Implementing Its long-ter water resources plan.
Raise power tariffs       I)  COR w il furnIoh to IDA by Nove_mr 3t, 1992 an ahalyseI
for groundwater                of the equIvalene of the prosent tIat rate power tarifft
pumping and strengthep         to the present metered rsa l tariff of paIas bl per kWh,
col-ectIon procedures.         and to the extent that t^ per kWh equIval Int of such
flat rate tariffs are- .le than the mtered tariff It
will, by June 8, 1993, lnrease such flat rate tariffs
so that theIr weIghted agroge Is f ully equIve  nt to the
present metered rate.
11) GOR will Introduce by March 81, 1994 a penalty of at
least paisa 5 per kWh for overdue rural electricity
payments.
0r
0



Izvuoz         |         Policl           |        Messuroe                       _               Actions
4.   Rural Cooperativo   Improvo tho economic        Cooporativ managemnt   i)  GOR will, by March 31, 1993, authorize cooporativ-rto
Development          viability and autonomy    will be restructured            make thlIr own business docisione, detormino their
of the cooperative        with a view to                 product rangex and fix their product prices.
system In the State.      cresting econom IcIly
viable units through      ii)  From March 31, 1993, no COR director will be nominated to
devolution of decision         cooperatives where there Is no State equIty or where COR
making, control and            has not guaranteed repaymnt of loans assumed by such
supervisIon from COR           cooperatives.
to the cooperatives.
il) Elections for Board Members of all block, district and
Stte Ieve-l rural cooperativeowill be held by Ma rch 31,
1993.
5.  Agro-processing       Encourage the further    Foster cooperation          i)  GOR will comission, by March 81, 1993, In consultation
and Marketing        developmentof agro-       between publIc and              wIth the Chamer of Commerce an agro-IndustralI
Industries and            prIvate sectors,               opportunity survey and constraint analysis amongst agro-
m*rketing activities,      identify and redress           industrial entrepreneurs in the State that will form the
Inequities and help In         factual basis for an Invstment promotIon campaIgn and a
Identifying                    constructive dialogue betwoen the publIc and private
opportunities, and             sectors. The survey and constreint anolyseI wIll Include
simplify legal and             Inter aIln the Igal framawork for trade In agrIcultural
regulatory                     products addressing commercIal contracts, personal 
requirement offecting          lIabilIti esof agents active In markets, lIcensing            U
agro-processing*nd             procedures, regulatIon and supervisIon of organized
marketing enterprisee.         markets, numbers and levels of a l  taxes, levies, etc.,
and movement restrIctIons on trade of agricultural
commoditIas, and upon completIon of the survey share the
results wIth IDA.
Improve the operational  Improve market             I)  COR will prepare, by Septembor S0, 1993, a dotailed plan
efficlencyof markets    transparency.                    to strengthen the State I InformtIon sorvices that
for agricultural                                         provide daily prIces, stock movements and re Iated trad
products,                                                data for farmers and commrce, for al agrIecultural
products.
S.  Technology            Improv-d research and      Enhance development,      i)  COR w Il comIassIon, by March 31, 1993, a study for the
QenoratIonand        trainingfor the            pIanningand technical          preparatIonof a StrategicDovelopmentPlan for RAU
Dissemination         usta Inable dve-lopment   easistance for                 Including: (a) greater research and training support for
of agriculture,           agricultural research          thrust arsea of horticulture, livestock, integrated post
and training,                  management, farming systs, Informtion dissemination,
post harvest technology, crop mix and agro-forestry; and
(b) a master plan for the physical and Institutional
develo pnt of all ca puses of RAU.
OQ1



Issues                   Policies                  Measures                                      Actions
7.  Livestock             Increase attentIon        Improv- the offIcIency   i)  COR will double the number of ploces for veterinary
devoted to the            of supply of                   students at RAU during the project Ipl ementation period.
livestock sector.         voterinary services.
11)  GOR wIll li it the number of new clinical voterinary
services opened by Goverment durIng the VIII P I an to
I*ss then 60X of the number opened durIng the VII PlanD
and by June 3J, 1993 will furnIsh to IDA for Its comments
a plan to encourage private participation in these
services.
Ili) GOR wIll, by June 30, 1993, furnish to IDA for Its
comments a plan to shift the reltiv o emphasis In the
public sector from the provisIon of veterInary heaIth
services to breed improvement servIeos by Incrossing the
number of geneticaIly improved an ImIs and arti fIcla
Inem inotIonservIces In the prIvate sector.
Iv)  COR will expand and broaden the tralning of veterinarians
and technicIons wIth greater emphasis on breed
improvement.
I-h



- 35 -
Annx
Attachmant 2
Page 1 of 3
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - RAJASTHAN
METHODOLOGY FOR DETERMINING FULL COST OF PRODUCTION FOR SEMEN AND SEEDS
I.    CAPITAL CORTS
A.    Land:  Market value x 18% interest*
B.    Livestock:  Convert into an annuity using market value, years of
useful life and 18% discount rate
C.    Buildings:  Annual rental value or yearly depreciation
(0.05 x construction cost)
D.    Equipment/Laboratories/Machinery, etc.:  Convert into an annuity
using replacement value, useful life and 18% discount rate
E.    Vehicles:  Convert into an annuity using market value, years of
useful life and 18% discount rate
F.    Inventories:  Market value x 18% interest
G.    Other
II.   OPERATING COSTS
A.    Staff costs/Labor costs
B.    Utilities/Office expenses
C.    Transport/shipping/storage/liquid nitrogen
D.    Petroleum, oil and lubricants (POL)
E.    Inputs, e.g., seeds, fertilizers/pesticides
F.    Purchase price of seed from grower
G.    Other
III. UNTT COSTS
Capital Costs + Operating Costs (value)   - Unit costs
Production - Losses (units)
*Actual rate of interest should be prevailing rate charged by commercial
banks.



- 36 -
AnnexA
Attachment 2
Page 2 of 3
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - RAJASTHAN
METHODOLOGY FOR DETERMINING FULL COST OF PRODUCTION OF HORTICULTURE PLANTS
activity: Horticulture Nursery of 2 ha
production capacity:  120,000 plants (1 lakh grafted; .2 lakh seeded)
cost    (sub)
component totals9
Inveatments
land
purchase cost in Rs
interest rate on long-term borrowing in %yr                         10,000(rented)
yr.cost of land (purch.cost x int.rate, or rent)
buildings
construction cost (36 m2 area x 2,000 Rs/M2)             72,000
yearly depreciation (0.05 x constr.cost)
or annual rental value                                               3,600
equipment (incl.machinery and vehicles)
with useful life of 10 years
yearly depreciation (0.10 x total cost)                                  0
with useful life of 5 years                               4,000
yearly depreciation (0.20 x total cost)                                80
Total Yearly  Investment  Related Costs                          14,400
Operating Costs
fixed (i.e.,  independent  of production  level)
direct personnel1/                                       57,600
indirect personnel                                            0
budgeted operating expenses                                   0
capital items renewed yearly2/                            2,000
interest on loans other than for working capital3/   14,400
fixed levies (municipal, state, etc.)                        50
Sub-Total Yearly rixed Variable Operating Costs                  74,050
variable (i.e., proportional with capac.util.)
day labor4/                                               6,600
raw materials (delivered cost; all inclusive)5/          40,000
consumables6/                                            60,000
utilities (not incl.in fixed budget oper. exp.)7/         2,400
power
water
fuel (liquid and gas as applicable)
maintenance & repairs8/                                   7,200
hired services9/                                            225
interest on working capital10/                           40,000
Sub-Total Yearly Variable Operating Costs                        156,425



- 37 -
Annex 1
Attachment 2
Page 3 of 3
Total Yearly Costs in Ra. at full capacity utilization                 244,875
Total Intimated Yearly Saleable Production;  numbers  of plantsll1  80,000
capacity utilization                                                      67%
Total Yearly Costa in Rs. at actual forecast or cap.util.              192,733
Unit Cost  in Rs/plant                                                   2. 41
1/ 1 supervisor at a nominal salary of Rs 1,500/month, plus one third of that
amount for vacations, holidays, social security, etc. 3 budders/watchmen
at Rs 700/month, plus one third, etc.
2/ spades, hoes, budding knives and other hand tools
3/ assumed construction and equipment loan of Rs 80,000 at 18%/yr., 3 years
grace, first year interest charges
4/ 300 days/year at Rs 22/day
5/ mostly seed and scion wood
6/ mostly polytene bags and sheets
7/ mostly to power a 7 HP irrigation pump, Rs 200/month
8/ 10% of building costs
9/ mostly for plowing, 1 ha/year at Rs 75/ha three times, the other fallow
10/working capital need estimated at 3 months of out-of-pocket expenditures,
interest 21%/year



- 38 -



- 39 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - RAJASTHAN
GROWTH. INCENTIVES AND PUBLIC EXPENDITTRE
1.    Among all the major states of India, Rajasthan's economy is the second
most dependent on its agriculture sector. The sector contributes a little
less than half to the state's domestic product as against the corresponding
all-India average of about a third.1 It also provides livelihood to 68% of
the state's work force and accounts for 5.2% of the total value added in
Indian agriculture.
2.    Growth Trends:  Growth in Rajasthan agriculture has been consistently
higher than the all-India average. From 1967 to 1990, the sector grew at a
rate of 3.8% p.a.; in the early 1980s it grew at an even better rate of 4.5%
p.a. Both these rates are superior to the 2.5% to 2.8% p.a. average for
Indian agriculture as a whole. The improved performance in recent years is
largely due to the spurt in oilseeds production in the state, especially those
grown during the xAki season (post monsoon, October to March), particularly
rapeseed and mustard. During the 1980s, oilseeds production grew at 15.7%
p.a., up from the 4.1% p.a. rate of the 1970s. To an extent this increase has
occurred at the expense of foodgrains. Figures 1 and 2 portray the trends in
area under the two crop groups. A significant decrease in area under
foodgrains during the 1980s was offset by an even larger increase in the area
under oilseeds.2
3.    Price and Technological Factors:  This substitution can be largely
ascribed to two factors -- the high protection, and thus relatively high
prices, afforded by the Government of India (GOI) to oilseeds production
compared to competing crops and the emergence and introduction of new seed
varieties along with improved resource management techniques -- both of which
have increased relative profitability levels for oilseeds production.
4.    It is now well known that GOI policies, which emphasize special oilseeds
programs by extensively subsidizing all major inputs, and assure high support
prices for oilseeds through state control of international trade in oilseeds
and edible oils, have contributed significantly to the spurt in production.
Oilseeds enjoy high protection levels in India while most foodgrains,
especially cereals, and cotton are disprotected (Pursell, Gulati work on
effective protection in Indian agriculture). During the 1980s, for instance,
1/    Over the period 1984t5-1986/7, the share of agriculture in Rajasthan's SDP averaged
46.7% as compared to the corresponding all-India average of 35%. Orissa heads the list with
a share of 55%.
2/    Implying that oilseeds substituted not only for foodgrains but also other crops,
notably cotton, since net sown area did not increase much.



- 40 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
domestic oilseeds prices increased 14% relative to cereals prices.3 Together
with the availability of improved seeds, especially rapeseed/mustard and
soyabean, and also given the fact that oilseeds are less water intensive than
competing crops, a factor that is especially relevant for Rajasthan, these
price trends fuelled area switches and the consequent growth trends.
5.    The direct budgetary cost of this strategy can be deduced by looking at
the money spent by the Center and the State on special oilseeds development
programs in Rajasthan. Between 1985-90 (the 7th Plan period) a sum of Rs. 128
million was spent on these programs -- essentially to subsidize major inputs
and to finance on-farm demonstrations. As against this, only Rs. 25 million
was spent on similar programs for the propagation of wheat and cotton.
6.    The economic costs of this strategy -- drawing resources away from the
production of crops where India has a comparative advantage (wheat, cotton)
and into oilseeds -- have been extremely high for the country as a whole (CEM
1991, vol ii, pp.47-49). Although the analysis has not been conducted
separately for Rajasthan, it is reasonable to believe that in that state there
would have been substantial economic benefits from more wheat and cotton and
less rape/mustard under a free trade scenario.4:5
7.    Trends in Public Expenditure:  A disturbing outcome of expenditures such
as those under the special crop schemes has been the overall crowding out of
capital investments by recurrent expenditures in Rajasthan agriculture.
Between 1983/84 and 1988/89, two years for which an economic reclassification
of the state's agricultural budget was done, recurrent expenditures grew at a
real rate of 12.4% p.a. as against a real decrease in fixed investments at
7.3% p.a.6 The proportion of grants-in-aid in the recurrent expenditures grew
especially fast -- at a real rate of 25.5% p.a.
3/    Using GOI wholesale price indices for 1981/82-1990/91.
4/    The calculation of effective protection coefficients for different crops in Rajasthan
has not been attempted here. Conclusions based on the analysis conducted for neighboring
states (Pursell, Gulati work) are assumed to roughly hold good for Rajasthan too.
5/    Under a freely competitive situation with water priced at its 'true value accounting
for its scarcity, and given that oilseeds use less water than wheat in particular, it is
likely that some farmers would have switched to oilseeds even in the absence of the GOR/GOI
interventions in the incentive structure, but probably not as many as actually have done so
following these interventions.
6/    Undertaking an economic reclassification of Indian budget accounts is a formidable
exercise. It involves reclassifying all items from the government system that uses a number
of distinctions such as plan/non-plan; revenue expenditure/capital expenditure; developmental
expenditure/non-developmental expenditure and all possible combinations across these three
broad distinctions, to a more easily understood (at least by economists) recurrent/capital
breakdown. The problem is compounded by the fact that there is no immediate correspondence
between the government categories and those understood within the Bank; consequently the task
has to be approached item by item using considerable judgement in the process.



- 41 -
Annex 2
Page 3 of 3
8.    At a more general level, plan expenditure by GOR on agriculture and
allied activities ranged from 3%-6% of the total state plan expenditure during
the first six of the five year plans; this proportion was maintained at 5.2%
in the seventh plan (1985-90) but is now targeted for a quantum leap to over
11% during the eighth plan (1992-97).7
9.    This increase, however, is not the result of a reallocation of state or
center resources. The entire increase is due virtually to externally aided
projects that are either ongoing or planned, including the ADP for which
provisions have already been made in the eighth plan. Allocations for the
first year of the plan show the share of agriculture and allied services in
the total state plan to be 11.1%; if however all the externally aided projects
are excluded (the Bank's Integrated Watershed Development Program, the
National Social Forestry Program, the Agricultural Development Project (ADP),
and an OECF assisted Afforestation of Aravalli Hills Program), this share
falls to only 4.6% which is only marginally better than the corresponding 4.2%
share during the seventh plan (also without the externally aided projects).
10.   This trend is in a way to be welcomed.  While during the earlier plans
(six and before) funds were used largely for capital formation, in recent
years, especially during the seventh plan period, sizeable amounts of plan
funds, particulary grants-in-aid, have been used to finance recurrent
activities, including subsidies -- and hence the crowding out mentioned above.
Now with the increase in project tied funds, which are basically for
investment purposes, there will be some reversal of the crowding out problem.
In this context it is important to reiterate the crucial role that the ADP is
playing. The funds available under the ADP account for over half the total
external aid to Rajasthan's agriculture and allied services sector in 1992/93.
The project should go a long way in helping GOR to restore earlier levels of
agricultural investment in the state.
7/    Agriculture and allied services as defined in government documents includes livestock,
forestry and fisheries, but excludes irrigation.



- 42 -
kman 2
Figure 1
ArGRrctTtTTTUl~. DEVEL0ONT PROQCT  - r AT ASTHAN
AREAS UNDER FO0DGPLATW NDOtOP
14,000,00                                                                     2,600,000
13,500,00C                        r2,400,000
/ I    I ~regreBssion_/
13,000,00            /2,200,000
12,500,000                          W-   M2,000,000
12,000,00-                                  /1,800,000
0
c4  11,500,000                                       /                            1,600,000       01
11,000,000 /1,400,000
10,500.,0                                                                     1,200,000
U   10,000,0*a                                               r                    \ l  1,000,000
9,500,00o -                                             o[lbeeds    V       ~800,000
9,000,000                                                                  -  600,000
1970 1972 1974  1976 1978  1980  1982 1984  1986  1988  1990
XU-- foodgrains --__-- oilseeds



- 43 -
Annex 2
Attanbmng
Figure 2
TNn TA
AGRICTILTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - RAJASTHAN
AREA UNDER MAJOR CROPS
2.5
1.5
14 0
0.5'
1981   1982   1983   1984  19'85   1986  1987   1988  1989   1990
8   groundnut          soybeans         mustard  __._ wheat



- 44 -



- 45 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 4
INDIA
AGRICULTURA   DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - RAJASTHAN
AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES AND COST RECOVERY
Introduction
1.    Subsidies in India.  Subsidies are a pervasive part of all sectors with
government involvement in the Indian economy.  A recent estimate is that all
(implicit and explicit) central and state government subsidies across all
sectors of the economy added up to as much as Rs. 423 billion (15% of GDP) in
1987/88. This implies that the average cost recovery rate (recoveries as a
percent of total cost of providing the goods and services) was 32% for all
publicly provided social (education, health, water supply, sanitation, housing
etc.) and economic services (agriculture, cooperation, irrigation, power and
energy, industry, transport, communication etc.).1  Roughly 37% of these
subsidies accrued directly or indirectly to agriculture -- 21% to agriculture
and allied activities2, 11% to irrigation and 5% to rural power.3 The
agricultural subsidy was equivalent to 17% of agricultural GDP.
2.    Subsidies in Raiasthan   Average cost recovery was only 7% in the
States's agriculture and allied activities sector in 1987/88. This is
worrisome for at least three reasons. First, it compares unfavorably with the
corresponding all-states' cost recovery average of 29% in the same year.4
Second, it represents a sharp deterioration from the situation in Rajasthan
itself in 1977/78 when the cost recovery rate was 21% in the state's
agriculture and allied services.5 Third, and perhaps most importantly, the
deterioration in cost recoveries, and consequent increase in subsidies, have
coincided with a decrease in public investment in agriculture. For example,
between 1983/84 and 1988/89, fixed public investment in Rajasthan's
agriculture sector decreased at a real rate of 7.5% p.a. -- suggesting a
crowding out of productive investments by unproductive subsidy expenditures.
I/    All cost recovery figures cited in paras 1 and 2 are from two recent studies
commissioned by the Planning Commission (Mundle and Rao, 1991) and by the World Bank
(Mundle and Rao, 1992).
2/    The conventional government definition of agriculture and allied includes crop
husbandry, horticulture, animal husbandry, fisheries, forestry, etc., but excludes major and
medium irrigation. The food and fertilizer subsidy is also included under agriculture and
allied activities.
3/    The rural power subsidy is from computations in the 1991 India CEM, Volume II.
4/    The all-states' average refers to the average for fourteen major states.
5/    The low recovery rate in agriculture & allied in 1987/88 (lowest in the country,
incidentally) can be ascribed partly to the drought in that year. However, that cannot be
the sole explanation considering (a) that the drought afflicted large parts of the country
and not only Rajasthan and (b) even in 1977/78 (not a drought year) recovery rates in
Rajasthan were well below the country average.



- 46 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 4
These are financially unsustainable trends, with serious implications for
future agricultural growth.
3.    An important objective of the project is to help GOR to reverse these
trends. Consequently, under the project two lines of action are proposed to
improve cost recoveries and bring down subsidies: (i) under the policy reforms
that have been agreed to with GOR, full cost recovery is to be progressively
phased in for a number of activities where explicit subsidies flow exclusively
from the state government budget (paras 9-11); and (ii) no subsidies will be
permitted in any of the investment components to be financed under the
project. The only exceptions to this rule would be where GOR can properly
target such expenditures to poorer farmers and where they are necessary to
improve the long-term growth prospects for the sector. Even then, the
expenditures would not be financed from the loan but would be met from GOR's
counterpart contribution.
Stat u              AgrinulturA
4.    Under the project it has been agreed to limit reductions under the
policy reform package to explicit, exclusively State-determined input
subsidies. Subsidies that flow from the Center, e.g., for fertilizer or food
or under Centrally sponsored schemes, should also be addressed, but only at
the Central level. The reductions are limited to explicit subsidies,
primarily because (a) it is difficult to arrive at a mutually agreeable
definition or measure of implicit subsidies since these do not show up in any
of the State's department accounts and (b) because a large part of the
implicit subsidies is for major and medium irrigation, which is a policy issue
that the project has chosen not to address.
5.    Estimating subsidies (whether of the explicit or implicit variety) from
budget documents is an extremely imperfect exercise; this is true of virtually
all studies that have attempted to do so in the past.6 Explicit subsidies are
often subsumed in the State budget accounts within grants-in-aid, special
assistance to small or marginal farmers or other disadvantaged groups (such as
scheduled castes and tribes), or within special area/crop/livestock
development programs. Without recourse to the accounts of each of the
hundreds of local bodies that run these programs, it is impossible to assert
with any degree of certainty the exact element of subsidy involved. A study
on explicit subsidies in agriculture in Rajasthan would be undertaken under
the project, and draft Terms of Reference are in Attachment 3.
6.    Information on explicit State subsidies, based on data provided by GOR
and from State budget documents, is the most complete for the crop husbandry
department. In 1990/91 explicit State subsidies of Rs. 36.2 million were
6/    Mundle and Rao (1991, 1992) use a very broad definition of subsidy: the difference
between the cost of providing a good or service and the receipts therefrom. While this
approach can be followed at a more aggregated level (using data from the Finance Accounts),
it cannot be adopted for more disaggregated analysis for which data from the budget documents
is necessary.



- 47 -
Annex 3
Page 3 of 4
provided for crop production, up from a relatively small amount of Rs. 2.1
million in 1987/88. This implies a nominal growth rate of 158% p.a. This
dramatic mushrooming occurred primarily due to the introduction of a number of
State subsidies for certified seeds, sprinkler sets, field channels, community
tubewells and fodder development (see Attachment 1).
7.    Besides these exclusively State-provided subsidies, in 1990/91 a sum of
R3. 16 million was also spent by GOR's crop husbandry department as
counterpart funding for a number of centrally sponsored schemes. These
schemes subsidize the distribution of seeds, pesticides and equipment,
agricultural implements and mini kits through numerous special crop production
programs. In addition, a considerable amount of subsidy also goes through
"grants-in-aid", and through various other area development (tribal areas or
drought prone areas, for instance) and small farmer assistance programs.7 The
magnitude of subsidy in these programs, however, is hard to quantify since
insufficient information is available on expenditure details.
8.    Explicit State subsidies in horticulture, livestock and fisheries (the
three other areas where the ADP is concentrating on improvements in cost
recovery) are relatively modest, perhaps due to the relatively smaller size of
these departments. However, in these areas GOR's ideas of what constitutes a
subsidy, i.e. what is, or is not, a legitimate government activity, are not
well defined.  Nor is there an accepted definition of what full cost means.  A
mutually acceptable definition of full cost would be agreed upon during
project negotiations, so that cost recovery can be monitored in a consistent
manner by GOR and the Bank.   From data available from GOR, in 1990/91 State
subsidies of Rs. 3 million were provided for horticulture, Rs. 14.5 million
for livestock, and Rs. 0.5 million for fisheries. In addition, an estimated
Rs. 4 million was provided through a number of centrally sponsored schemes in
these three sub-sectors. There is not enough information on the beneficiaries
of these subsidies to assess whether the large expenditures are justified,
even in the guise of an anti-poverty strategy. While many of the subsidies
are supposed to be directed at the small/marginal farmers or other
disadvantaged groups, there is no way of assessing the actual success achieved
in targeting, given the existing data (which relate only to the supply side).
Cost Recovery under the Project
9.     Under the policy reforms agreed with GOR, and laid out in its
Agricultural Strategy Paper, full cost recovery is to be phased in for the
sale of seven agricultural and livestock activities -- artificial
insemination, horticulture plants, day old chicks, fish fingerlings, cross
bred rams, vegetable minikits and fodder seed (see Annex 1). The phasing-in
will be monitored by Bank staff during supervision.
7/    A grant-in-aid is a transfer payment to autonomous organizations (like agricultural
universities) or to local bodies, including Panchayati Raj institutions. The money under the
transfer may be used for investment purposes, staffing costs, subsidies or whatever the
organizations decide and no details are given in the state budget accounts.



- 48 -
Annex 3
Page 4 of 4
10.   In 1991/92 the total State subsidy going to six of the seven activities
(omitting fodder seed) was Rs. 13 million (Attachment 2). There is however a
caveat here: these subsidy calculations are based on unit costs that do not,
in most instances, include establishment charges, managerial costs, or the
implicit rent on land. These subsidies, therefore, are likely to be
underestimates. A precise definition of full cost is to be agreed upon during
negotiations. Once this is established, GOR would prepare fresh estimates of
what it actually costs to provide these goods and services. An annual update
of full cost of each service would also be prepared by independent auditors to
enable monitoring by GOR and IDA of the reductions achieved.8
11.   Over the next three years, the agreed subsidy reductions will mean an
estimated 'saving' for the six activities of Rs. 22.5 million in 1991/92
prices (Attachment 2). This figure (or Rs.7.5 million per year) is around 50%
of GOR's expenditures on explicit subsidies from 1987/88 to 1989/90 for crop
production, horticulture, livestock and fisheries. It falls precipitously to
only 2% compared to 1990/91 expenditures, however, which was the year that GOR
introduced large capital subsidies for groundwater exploitation. In the
Policy Reform Program (Annex 1) discussions with GOR, no reductions were
agreed to for the subsidies for groundwater exploitation, excepting some
subsidies relating to the provision of electricity for groundwater pumping.
It is most unlikely, given the fiscal constraints being exercised by GOI, that
GOR will manage to sustain the high level of explicit subsidies during the
Eighth Five-Year Plan (1992/93 - 1996/97).
12.   More important than the numerical magnitude is the principle of
insistence on full cost recovery. For many GOR staff, especially at the
middle and lower levels of the bureaucracy, the concept is new. The "subsidy
culture" has increased rapidly in recent years (para 6), and some steps are
necessary to force public authorities to review the efficacy or otherwise of
the handout programs that have become firmly entrenched. For fiscal reasons,
on equity grounds, and for the meaningful encouragement of private sector
participation, publicly provided goods and services must be "priced right".
It is in this role of generating discussion on the issue through a package of
policy reforms, rather than focussing on the numbers themselves, that the
ADP's contribution to cost recovery should be evaluated.
8/    The subsidy reduction will be on a per unit basis and each year GOR will have to
recover the agreed percentage of full cost (in current prices) per unit.



- 49 -
NAW&                                    Annx 3
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMEK PROJECT - PAJAS                       Attachment 1
EXPLUTSTATE SIJBSIDIES:R   HUSANDRY DEPARTMENr
(1987-1988 to 1990-1991 and Provision 1991-1992)
(Rs. '00.000)
Scheme                       Expenditure       Provwsn               Pattem of Subsidy
87-88  88-89  89-90  90-91  91-92
1. Subsidy on certifled seed     -      -       - 62.83  50.00               SubsIdy per quintal:
other than SFPP districts                                          Seed         Hybrid     Compordt
(anaogous subsidy)                                                 Malze        500/-       400/-
Baera       500/-        400/-
Wheat certified:
200/-
2. Demonstration              2.02   1.41   1.00   4.00   7.50   Rs. 100/- per demonstration
(area 0.2 ha)
3. Subsidy on rodent control  0.50   0.30   0.50   1.00   2.00   50% subsidy on chemical upto Rs. 0.50
per ha
4. Biologkal control of pests    -      -       -   3.50  10.00   Rs. 500/- per ha for phdroman trap &
Rs. 750/-per ha for N.P.V.
5. Dryland compact            8.00   8.00   9.13  30.00  30.00   Rs. 250/- per ha per demonstration
demonstration (dry
farming demonstration)
8. Subsidy on sprinkler          -       -      - 137.44  60.00  50% for SCIST/SF/NF upto Rs. 7000/-
lrrigation (set)                                               per set & 33.3% for general cultivator
upto Rs. 5000/- per set
7. Subsidy on fleld channels             -         69.17  56.00  50% for SC/ST/SF/NF upto Rs. 1000/-
for 100 meters & 33.3% upto Rs. 1200/-
for 100 meter for general cuhivator
per cultivator
S. Subsidy on communiy           -      -       -       -  20.00   1. For community well:
tubewell & dug wells                                           25% subsidy upto Rs. 25000/- for
general cultivator & 33% subsidy
upto Rs. 30000/- for SC/ST/SF/NF
cultivators
2. For dug well:
25% subsidy upto Rs. 70001- per
dugwell for general cultivator
& 25% upto Rs. 9000/- for SC/ST/SFIMF
cultivators
9. Reclamation ol alkaline   10.50   5.00   2.64   9.52  17.50  50% subsidy for general cultivator;
& saine soils                                                   75% subsidy for SCIST/SF/NF culivators
10. Fodder development &         -      -       -  44.96  60.50   Free distributlon of mlnikls (fodder
forestry                                                      distribution of fodder seed on 50%
subsidy upto Rs. 100/- per farmer.
Chaff cutter 50% subsidy upto Rs. 500/-
per chaff cutter.
70 palsa per plant for 25000 plants per
nursery under *Kisan Nursery Program.
Rs. 1/- per plant for forestry development
100 plant per cultivator
Total            21.02  14.71  13.27 362.42 313.50



INDIA
AGRICI.LTURAL DEVELOPMEN9 PROJE-CT - RAJASTHA
PROPOSED SURBSIDY REDUCITONS
Cost       Sale Price   Subsidy        Unhs         Total                 Estimated 'Saving, under ADP
per Unit     per Unit     per Unit      Sold        Subsidy                    Proposed Reductions
(Rs.)        (Rs.)        (Rs.)      ('000)      (Rs. million)  by March 93  by March 94  by March 95    '92-'95
Activity         91/92        91/92        91/92        91/92         91/92     (Rs. million)  (Rs. milion)  (Rs. million)  (Rs. mlilion)
Horticulture Plants
Seeded Plants-             2.00    1.00-1.30         1.00       100.00         0.10         0.10                                     0.1
Grafted Plants'           5.00    5.00-5.50          0.00
Fish Rngerlings"           57.50   50-135.00           7.50        15.00         0.11         0.11                                   0.11
DayOldChicks                7.00         7.50          0.00
Artificial Insemination    20.00          1.00        19.00      500.00          9.50         2.83         6.16         9.49        18.48
Cross-BredRams            800.00       300.00       500.00          1.00         0.50         0.17         0.34         0.31         1.02
Vegetable Minikits        500.00         0.00       500.00          5.50         2.75         2.75                                   2.75
Total                                                                   12.96         5.96         6.50        10.00         22.46
'Where a range of sale prices are ind;cated (for different varieties) the subsidy is calculated using the lowest sale price; this also *pears to be
the typical sale price for maxinum ntkmber of sales actually conducted.
"per thousand units
land rental or managerial services. To this extent the costs shown do not reflet full cost, and consequently, the subsidies shown are under estimates
of the true values. The savings- in ihe last three columns are calculated under the restrictive assumption that the number of unks subsidized remain
unchanged from 1991/92 levels.
n!



- 51 -
Annex 3
Attachment 3
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
AGRTCULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - RAJASTHAN
REVIEW OF EXPLICIT SUBSIDIES IN RAJASTHAN AGRICULTURE
Draft Terms of Reference
Backgsnand
1.    For agricultural aptivities (excluding irrigation) in 1987/88,
Government of Rajasthan's (GOR) cost recovery was only 7% as compared to the
total cost of providing the goods and services. This figure compares with an
average of 29% for all-India in the same year, and with 21% in Rajasthan ten
years earlier. The deterioration in cost recoveries and increasing input
subsidies have occurred when fixed public investment in Rajasthan's
agriculture declined at a real rate of 7.5% p.a.(1984 to 1989). Since 1988,
GOR's expenditures on explicit subsidies have accelerated further for crop
production by over 150% per annum. This dramatic increase has occurred
primarily because of GOR's introduction of a number of state subsidies for
certified seeds, groundwater irrigation equipment and fodder development. The
increased subsidies have crowded out needed expenditures for increased public
capital formation --an ominous trend for future growth in the sector.
Overviaw of the Study
2.    This study will review all explicit subsidies in Rajasthan agriculture -
broadly defined to include crop production including horticulture, the entire
livestock sector, groundwater irrigation and fisheries -- over the last
decade. Although the primary focus of the review will be on those subsidies
that are exclusively state determined, the analysis will also touch on the
various centrally sponsored schemes and the state's counterpart share in
subsidy payments under these schemes. While subsidies on directly
identifiable inputs are expected to form the largest share of the
total subsidies bill, the review will also look at the subsidies implicit in
rendering government services at less than full cost in cases where the
private sector can effectively compete in the provision of such services (for
instance, veterinarian services or seed production and distribution).
3.    A close analytical look will be taken at the composition and trends over
the last decade, reviewing in particular the justification, the associated
financial and economic costs, and perceived benefits of these subsidies.
Based on the conclusions that emerge, recommendations for phasing out or
improving targeting will be suggested. In view of the nature of the study, it
is essential that it be carried out by a seasoned economist, a practical
professional, used to analyzing public expenditure issues and addressing
related policy questions.



- 52 -
Annzx 3
Attachment 3
Page 2 of 2
Contents of the Study
4.    The review should include the following components and analyses:
(a)   Analysis of the financial/fiscal costs of the subsidies, including
a comprehensive listing of all explicit subsidies to agriculture
and the GOR departmental budgets they emanate from.
(b)   Identification and separation of subsidies for a particular input
or service that flow from two or more (budget) sources.
(c)   Estimation of the financial magnitudes (in current prices) and
trends (in constant prices), by main item.
(d)   Comparison of these with other key fiscal and economic indicators
-- state domestic product, budget size, fixed public investment
etc.
(e)   Particular attention would be paid to the grants-in-aid component
in GOR's expenditures, including a decomposition of these
expenditures in recent years -- in terms of wage payments, other
recurrent expenditures, fixed investments, explicit subsidies etc.
-- and reasons for the underlying trends.
(f)   Analysis of trends in cost recovery by sub-sector.
(g)   Analysis of the economic costs of the subsidies, including
distortions in relative prices, inefficient input use, crowding
out of public capital formation, implications for sectoral growth,
and disincentives for private sector participation.
(h)   Analysis of justification and perceived financial and economic
benefits of the subsidies, including justifications based on
technology dissemination grounds and on targeting/income transfer
considerations. Quantitative assessment of targeting actually
achieved and specific measures for improvements in this area.
(i)   Conclusions and Recommendations.
5)    All assumptions or judgements used in classifying the subsidies, and in
the study in general, should be made explicit.



- 53 -
Annex4
Page 1 of 6
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - RAJASTHAN
PROJECT COORDINATION AND MANAGEMENT
1.    Guidance and coordination of the project would be carried out at two
levels, through the Project Guidance Committee (PGC) and the Project
Coordination Committee (PCC). The PGC, to be headed by the Chief Secretary,
would provide guidance and direction for the project and would take strategic
policy decisions. The PCC, to be headed by the Development Commissioner,
would review progress of the project and take decisions on project-related
matters. The PCC would be supported by a full-time Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) to be located in the office of the Development Commissioner.
Responsibility for day-to-day implementation of the project investment
components would rest with GOR's line departments and agencies. Further
details of these managerial arrangements are given below.
Proiect Guidance Committee
2.    The Project Guidance Committee would comprise the following members:
1)    Chief Secretary                             Chairman
2)    Development Commissioner                    Member-Secretary
3)    Secretary, Finance                          Member
4)    Secretary, Livestock                        Member
5)    Secretary, Irrigation                       Member
6)    Secretary, PWD                              Member
7)    Secretary, Public Health (Groundwater)    Member
8)    Secretary, Command-Area Development         Member
9)    Commissioner, Planning                      Member
10)   Chairman, RSEB                              Member
11)   Chairman, IGNP                              Member
12)   Vice Chancellor, RAU                        Member
13)   Representatives, Farmers' Organizations   Members (two)
14)   Representatives, Private Agri-Business    Members (two)
3.    Terms of reference for the Project Guidance Committee would include:
a)    Review and approval from time to time of policies for the State's
agricultural sector, including a revision by the PCU of the
Agricultural Strategy Paper as part of the midterm review (to be
completed prior to December 31, 1995);
b)    Approval by November 30 each year of detailed annual investment
plans under the project for GOR's forthcoming fiscal year,
prepared by the PCU and sanctioned by the PCC;



- 54 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 6
c)    Comment and approval of project progress reports to be received at
least every three months from the PCU; and
d)    Taking of decisions as necessary on project implementation matters
brought before it by the Development Commissioner or by members of
the PGC.
4.    The PGC shall have primary responsibility for ensuring that the project
is implemented in a timely manner and achieves its stated objectives. It
shall also ensure effective cooperation and a reasonable balance of
responsibilities between the public and private sectors in the execution of
agricultural policy in the State. The PGC shall meet at least once every
three months to consider the quarterly project progress reports and other
matters on the agenda. Consolidated progress reports would be forwarded by
the PGC to the World Bank every six months. Representatives of at least two
farmers' organizations and at least two private agribusinesses registered in
the State would be appointed by the Chief Secretary as members of the PGC.
nroiect Coordination Committee
5.    The Project Coordination Committee would comprise the following members:
1)    Development Commissioner                    Chairman
2)    Director, Agriculture                       Member-Secretary
3)    Director, Horticulture                      Member
4)    Director, Livestock                         Member
5)    Director, Sheep and Wool                    Member
6)    Director, Fisheries                         Member
7)    Director, Watershed Dev. & Soil Conserv.  Member
8)    Director, Agricultural Marketing            Member
9)    Chief, Engineer, PWD                        Member
10)   Chief Engineer, Irrigation                  Member
11)   Chief Engineer, RSEB                        Member
12)   Chief Engineer, Groundwater Department    Member
13)   Deputy Secretary, Finance                   Member
14)   Deputy Secretary, Planning                  Member
15)   Registrar, Cooperative Societies            Member
16)   Managing Director, RSSC                     Member
17)   Director, State Environment Department    Member
6.    Terms of Reference for the Project Coordination Committee would include:
a)    Sanctioning of updated Agricultural Strategy Paper to be prepared
by the PCU as part of the project midterm review and submitted to
the PGC for its approval;
b)    Sanctioning of annual investment plans prepared by the PCU for
submission to the PGC;



- 55 -
Annex4
Page 3 of 6
C)    Review of quarterly project progress reports prepared by the PCU
prior to their submission to the PGC; and
d)    Review of problems of project execution and recommendations of
corrective actions to be taken by participating departments and
agencies.
7.    The PCC shall provide oversight and guidance to the PCU in its planning
and coordination of project implementation. It shall meet at least once every
three months, prior to the quarterly meetings of the PGC.
Project Coordination Unit
8.    The Project Coordination Unit would comprise the following minimum
staff:
1 Senior Administrative Officer*
1 Agricultural Economist (Action Plans)*
1 Agricultural Economist (Monitoring & Evaluation)*
1 Agricultural Economist (Agr. Policy Analysis)
1 Statistician
2 Steno-typists
2 Office Assistants
* Key staff, who would be appointed prior to Board presentation. The
Agricultural Economist (Agr. Policy Analysis) would be appointed by
March 31, 1993.
9.    The main responsibilities of the Project Coordination Unit would be to:
a)    Review on a ongoingbasis agricultural policy in the State, update
the Agricultural Strategy Paper at the time of the midterm review;
b)    Evaluate and prioritize public investment proposals for
agriculture, as well as non-traditional investment opportunities
for farmers and agro-processors in the sector;
c)    Prepare detailed annual investment plans and budgets under the
project for GOR's following fiscal year;
d)    Monitor execution of all components of the project, prepare
quarterly progress reports on physical and financial performance,
and evaluate such performance;
e)    Prepare terms of reference for and commission studies on issues of
agricultural policy in Rajasthan and on matters concerning project
implementation;
f)    Maintain project accounts and records; and



- 56 -
Annex 4
Page 4 of 6
g)    Prepare disbursement requests of project expenditures for
reimbursement by the World Bank.
10.   The Senior Administrative Officer should be well acquainted with issues
of agricultural policies, both those of GOR and those of GOI. The
Agricultural Economist (Action Plans) should be experienced in farm production
economics, project evaluation and modern farming systems.
11.   The PCU would be responsible operationally to the PCC and
administratively to the Development Commissioner. To assist the PCU to carry
out its responsibilities, funding would be provided under the project for:
two four-wheel drive vehicles; four personal computers together with voltage
regulators, one printer and software; one fax machine; one photocopier; office
furniture; and operating expenses for these items. Provision would be
included for the professional level staff to be trained in modern software
applications pertaining to the project. Funding would also be included for
the PCU to commission the studies referred to above; most of the studies would
be carried out by external consultants and universities. Periodically the PCU
would arrange seminars with staff of participating entities and
representatives of the private sector to discuss GOR's agricultural strategy
and implementation of the Policy Reform Program.
12.   Establishment of the PGC, PCC and PCU, and appointment of the Senior
Administrator of the PCU would be a condition of Board presentation. Prior to
effectiveness, the Senior Administrator would concentrate on establishing the
PCU, training its staff, and establishing coordination, operating and
monitoring procedures with participating departments.
Annual Action Plans
13.   Annual action plans would assist project planning and implementation,
and supervision by the Bank. The PCU, in cooperation with the state
participating agencies, would prepare the plans, which wouold define for each
project component and agency the proposed pyhsical and expenditure targets for
the following year (April 1 to March 31). The targets would be presented by
quarter to facilitate management, implementation and monitoring. For the
crop, horticulture and animal husbandry components, the targets numbers and
hectares of demonstrations and field trials, by locations, would be specified.
Detailed technical and cost proposals would be presented for participatory
development activities, including new approaches to extension, training (with
specific training programs for women) and contributions by NGOs, as well as
for importation and propagation of planting materials and exotic sheep breeds,
rural roads construction and upgrading, technical assistance, and research and
studies. Similar details would be included for the other components and
activities, including the elimination or phasing out of explicit subsidies and
the introduction of improved cost recovery. For the rural roads, the precise
locations would be given, as would a summary of the engineering designs and
proposed methods of procurement. The action plans would include budgets for
each participating agency and would specify the proposed sources of funds for
the respective budgeted expenditures.



- 57 -
Annex 4
Page 5 of 6
14.   As one of its early responsibilities, the PCU, assisted by consultants,
would design standard formats for the participating entities to present their
action plan information, and would conduct training sessions of the entities'
staff in the preparation of the plans. The PCU would also establish dates and
procedures whereby the entities' action plan inputs would be submitted to the
PCU for preparation of the annual action plan. Each action plan would be
submitted to the PGC for its approval by November 30 of the preceding year.
Monitoring and Reporting
15.   Responsibility for monitoring the physical and financial aspects of
project progress would rest with the PCU. Data on key project indicators
would be provided quarterly by the participating entities to the PCU, which
would analyse the information to assess progress, exercise control and
identify possible problems. The PCU would prepare every quarter, throughout
the project implementation period, progress reports for submission to the PGC.
The reports would include up-to-date physical and expenditure data for each
project component, comparing the data with the quarterly and cumulative
targets in the annual action plan. They would also include a descriptive
section elaborating on the successes and problems encountered during the
reporting period, and specify possible remedial actions to be carried out
during the next reporting period. In addition, the reports would provide
details of progress in implementing the policy reforms (covenanted and non-
covenanted - see Annex 1), and would describe any changes introduced by GOR to
its agricultural strategy during the reporting period. Minutes of the PGC
meetings called to discuss and make recommendations on the reports would be
copied to IDA.
Mid-term Review
16.   A mid-term review of project implementation would be carried out jointly
by GOR and IDA no later than December 31, 1995. The review would entail a
thorough evaluation of the successes and problems affecting project
implementation, including a reassessment of GOR's agricultural strategy and an
update of the Agricultural Strategy Paper. It would provide an opportunity to
reorient, expand or reduce various components, activites or reform measures
within the overall purposes of the project. If necessary, it would propose
amendments to the project's legal documents, including reallocations of Credit
funds among categories, or cancellation of funds.



- 58 -
Annex 4
Page 6 of 6
PROJECT COORDTNATION COMPONENT
COST SUMMARY IRs-'0001
Unit                  Costs
Investments                Nurb2.r Cost  92/93  93/94  94/95  95/96  96/97  Total
Personal Computers             4      90 270       90                            360
Modems (for communications)  3         9  27                                      27
Printers
Laser                        1     90  90                                       90
Dot Matrix (wide carr.)      1     24   24                                      24
Software                                  75                                      75
Photocopier                    1      45  45                                      45
Fax Machine                    1      40   40                                      40
Vehicles (4 wheel drive)       2    360  360    360                              740
Office Furniture                           80                                     80
1. -Tatal11-6
Operating Costs
Office Consumables                          8     28      28      28      28     120
Vehicle Running Costs                     32    112    112    112    112         480
Travel Related Costs                        8     28      28      28      28     120
Meetings/Workshops                          4      14      14     14      14      60
S5ih-Total                                A&  412   182           u2    i 2  780
Tachnieal Assistanae
and Studies  Sub-Total                 3,00  41,100 41,200 41,200 20.500 148.000
Total                                                                        150.241



- 59 -
Annex 5
Page 1 of 2
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - RAJASTHAN
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.    Overyvoiew   Agricultural growth in Rajasthan has been impeded by an
extensive system of government interventions in almost all economic
activities. By reducing or improving such interventions, the project would
assist GOR and the private sector to allocate scarce resources to high
priority areas of agricultural development. While the proposed reforms would
impact agricultural growth both in the short and long-terms, the benefits
accruing from these cannot be easily quantified for a standard economic
analysis. The investment components which accompany the reforms are also of a
supportive nature, and, other than the rural roads component, do not allow
quantification of financial or economic benefits. They are designed to
improve the enabling environment for agricultural growth, to strengthen GOR's
capability to provide high quality services to agriculture, and to plan
exploitation of the natural resource base in a sustainable manner.
Specifically, these components involve improved extension, demonstrations,
training, research, and other measures to enhance the capacity for overall
growth in agriculture. Experience has shown that it is difficult to relate
incremental benefits to these activities. Therefore, an economic rate of
return (ERR) has not been attempted for these enabling investments.
2.    Policy Rrform-   Over the past decade, recurrent public expenditures
have increasingly crowded out productive investment expenditure for
agriculture in the State. Such perverse patterns of spending have led to
stagnation in the sector, rendering it incapable of regeneration and growth.
Expenditures have been channelled increasingly towards direct and indirect
subsidies, mainly through reducing the prices of agricultural inputs (capital
and recurrent) provided by the public sector. The proposed policy reforms
would reduce or eliminate price distortions and subsidies, creating incentives
for increased participation of the private sector in activities previously
dominated by the public sector. Facilitating this transition to an
increasingly market-oriented economy would be one of the major benefits of
this project. The reallocation of financial resources from explicit and
implicit subsidies to capital investments would also provide an impetus for
accelerated productivity and growth. In terms of the use of physical
resources, project benefits would accrue from the long-term sustainable
development of Rajasthan's most scarce resource, water. Rajasthan is
critically short of this vital commodity, and the reforms under the project
would enhance the state's ability to plan and project water use, both inter-
spatially and inter-temporally.
3.    EconomTh Analysis of Rural Roada.  About 1600 km of rural roads would be
constructed or upgraded under the project. The roads are expected to increase
agricultural activities in the project area by improving access to
agricultural inputs and markets for produce. Economic analyses of roads have



- 60 -
Annex 5
Page 2 of 2
generally assumed a number of indicators to assess the value of benefits.
These include savings in unit costs of vehicle operation and maintenance,
savings in perishable commodities such as milk and vegetables, increased
portage of vehicles as a result of saved travel time, increased human resource
productivity due to saved passenger time, and increased agricultural
production due to improved access to markets and shifts in cropping patterns
to higher-value crops. For the analysis of the component, two sources of
benefits have been assumed: (a) savings on vehicle operating and maintenance
costs; and (b) savings from reduced travel time for freight and portage.
Detailed case studies were developed for five representative roads in three
representative districts. The following assumptions were made:
(i)   all benefits and costs were estimated at constant prices;
(ii) as compared to earthen roads, on paved roads:
(a)   carrying capacity of motor vehicles is 40 to 45% higher.
(b)   portage costs are 20% lower.
(c)   average savings in vehicle operating and maintenance costs
are Rs.1.65/km.
(iii) only vehicles transporting agricultural produce are considered for the
analysis.
4.    The benefits were estimated in annual Rs per km for each of the sample
roads by summing the savings from operating costs and reduction in number of
trips. The total benefit from the component was estimated by using the
average benefit for all five roads, and applying these to the implementation
schedule of the component. Project life has been assumed to be fifteen years.
Economic costs were estimated from the financial costs by applying a Standard
Conversion Factor (SFC) of 0.8 to all local costs. Since project roads would
benefit sectors other than agriculture (e.g. health, education, public
administration, etc.), only 50% of economic capital and recurrent road costs
were included in the economic analysis. Net incremental benefits were
estimated on the basis of the benefits and economic costs (50%) according to
the implementation schedule of the component. The benefits and costs are
summarized in the attached table. Based on these calculations, the rural road
component's ERR was estimated at 17%. The net present value (NPV) (discounted
at the opportunity cost of capital assumed to be 12%) of the component is
estimated to be Rs.68 million.  Switching value tests show that the component
costs would have to increase by 18% or benefits decrease by 23% for the NPV to
fall to zero or the ERR to fall to the opportunity cost of capital (12%).
5.    In addition to the quantified benefits discussed above, rural roads
under the project would provide substantial tertiary benefits. Unquantifiable
benefits from rural roads would include increased literacy, improved health
and family planning, access to banks, post-office and other administrative
offices, and employment opprtunities in road construction and maintenance.



INDIA
Agricultural Development Project - Rajasthan
Year         0     1     2     3      4     5     6      7     8     9    10    11    12    13    14    15
Benefits/km
Rs 000               0 49.12 49.12 49.12 50.69 51.39 51.39 53.24 54.16 54.16 55.87 56.88 56.88
Total Benefts
for 92/93 Roads
(Rs M) (80 km)       0   3.9   3.9   3.9   4.1   4.1   4.1   4.3   4.3   4.3   4.5   4.6   4.6   4.6   4.6   4.6
Total Benefts
for 93/94 Roads
(Rs M) (265 km)       0     0  13.0  13.0  13.0  13.4  13.6  13.6  14.1  14.4  14.4  14.8  15.1  15.1  15.1  15.1
Total Benefits
for 94/95 Roads
(Rs M) (430 km)      0      0     0  21.1  21.1  21.1  21.8  22.1  22.1  22.9  23.3  23.3  24.0  24.5  24.5  24.5
Total Benefits
for 95/96 Roads
(Rs M) (439 km)       0     0     0     0  21.6  21.6  21.6  22.3  22.6  22.6  23.4  23.8  23.8  24.5  25.0  25.0
Total Benefits
for 96197 Roads
(Rs M) (454 km)       0     0     0     0      0  22.3  22.3  22.3  23.0  23.3  23.3  24.2  24.6  24.6  25.4  25.8
Total Project
Benefit (Rs M)        0   3.9  16.9   38  59.8  82.5  83.4  84.6  86.1  87.5  88.9  90.7  92.1  93.3  94.6   95
50% of Project
Cost (R M)         26.7  73.8 107.2 109.7 113.9   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7
Net Projec
Benefit
(Rs h             -26.7  -69.9 -90.3  -71.7  -54.1  80.0  81.7  82.9  84.4  85.8  87.2   89  90.4  91.6  92.9  93.3



- 62 -



- 63 -
Annzx 6
Page 1 of 4
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - RAJASTHAN
CROP HUSBANDRY
Introduction
1.    Crop husbandry is the most important land based activity in Rajasthan.
Out of a geographical area of 324.41 lakh ha (11% of the land mass of India),
the net sown area is 148.47 lakh ha (VII Plan). The cropping intensity is
115.61% and the gross cropped area 171.65 lakh ha. The overall productivity,
however, is low and even in irrigated areas crop yields are lower than in the
neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana. GOR has taken several steps to
stablize agriculture and improve productivity in the state and has proposed
investments in important weak areas under the ADP.
Land Rehabilitation
2.    Rajasthan has over a million ha (5.5% of cultivated area) of problem
lands which are progresively going out of production. Most of these are salt
affected and in the absence of effective treatment, the area is expanding.
The pressure of increasing population is inducing people to cultivate formerly
unproductive and barren lands even though these continue to be non-viable
holdings. The technology for the reclamation of the alkaline lands has been
developed at several institutes in India. The technology mainly consists of
provision of appropriate drainage facilities, application of gypsum for
neutralization of salts in accordance with the concentration of salts and
addition of biomass through green manuring (mostly seAbenia, a legume). This
is mainly done in irrigated areas.
3.    GOR had proposed reclamation of 4,800 ha of alkaline land through the
application of gypsum and green manuring with sesbenia at a cost of Rs. 4,800
per ha to be shared equally by GOR and participants. It was found that much
of these areas are irrigated by wells, where the ground water is brackish.
Moreover, there was no provision for drainage which is a necessary pre-
requisite for reclamation. Continous brackish water irrigation without
drainage is likely to cause further degradation of land in spite of gypsum
application. Under the project, therefore, only 2,000 ha in appropriate areas
will be used initially for gypsum applications, by way of demonstrations. A
provision of Rs. 500 lakh has been made to finance detailed studies on
reclamation through gypsum application and drainage, including on rainfed
lands. The situation can be reassessed after the initial experience and
studies.
Efficient Water Use
4.    Water is a critically scarce resource in Rajasthan, a state which
frequently faces droughts. The rainfall is by and large erratic,
unpredictable and inadequate for normal crop yields in most of the areas. The
state has only 1% of India's total water resources and only 24% of the
cultivated area is irrigated. Out of the 42.5 lakh ha irrigated area, ground
water covers 25.3 lakh ha and surface water covers 17.2 lakh ha.



- 64 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of 4
5.    GOR has been seriously concerned with the water resource situation and
has been considering measures for efficient and optimum use of water for crop
production. Topography (undulating) of the land and sandy nature of the soil
in most of the areas are serious bottlenecks in case of surface water
irrigation systems. The land needs large investments for levelling and there
is considerable wastage through seepage. Efficiency in water use has been
proposed through the use of sprinklers and drip irrigation mechanisms.
However, these mechanisms may not necessarily lead to conservation of scarce
water resources, although they can increase the area that can be irrigated by
a certain quantity of water.1 Also, coverage of additional area with
sprinklers may not be as impressive under Rajasthan conditions as in other
states. Drip irrigation is likely to conserve more water. Under the project,
about 240 sprinkler/drip sets will be installed, mainly in rainfed areas, as
demonstrations and their performance in respect of financed returns and water
conservation will be reviewed.
Fodder Development
6.    Livestock development is an important activity in Rajasthan.  The
livestock population is 49.6 million (1983 census). About 4.7 million animals
graze on government lands, about 20 times greater than the land's carrying
capacity. This overexploitation has serious implications for animal and
agriculture productivity, land degradation, environment and ecology. With
about 2.8 million ha under fodder, the state is deficient in fodder resources,
particularly during drought years, resulting in massive migrations of people
and animals.
7.    Nutritional requirements of livestock have traditionally been met by the
surplus agricultural by-products of crops such as wheat, sorghum, pearl
millet, etc. after the harvest of the grains.  Under the project, latest
appropriate technologies for fodder cultivation will be demonstrated with
improved varieties of seeds. The demonstrations are proposed on a large scale
in view of the urgency and importance of improving fodder production. Nine
fodder crops have been identified for extensive popularisation under the
project. These are both rabi and kharif, and with a judicious selection and
crop rotation they should make green and dry fodder available throughout the
year. Productivity ranges from 200 to 400 quintals per ha; 75,000
demonstrations (0.1 to 0.2 ha each) will be conducted for fodder crops, 24,500
for forage crops and 2,800 on alley cropping. Another 400 demonstrations are
proposed to improve the nutritive value of dry fodders with molasses and urea
treatments.  These demonstrations will be supported by full technology
packages.
Promotion of New Crops
8.    Diversification of agriculture to high value crops is essential for
improved growth. Seven crops that have a good potential in Rajasthan will be
popularized under the project by providing demonstrations of technology on
1/    The Punjab Agriculture University, Ludhiana, has found that in the case of fruit
crops, the amount of water irrigating 5 ha of orchards under surface irrigation can irrigate
9 ha by sprinkler and 20 ha by drip system.



- 65 -
Page 3 of 4
farmers' fields. It is proposed under the ADP to conduct 24,500
demonstrations of 0.2 ha or so with full technology packages. The crops are
discussed below.
Sunflower has about 40% oil content, is photo-intensive, and can be
easily fitted into different cropping patterns. A good range of high
yielding varieties and hybrids are available and yields can be up to two
tonnes per ha. It is generally sold over and above the procurement
price of Rs.670 per quintal fixed by GOI.
Safflnwre can be cultivated under comparatively drought-prone
conditions. It has 24 to 36% oil content and is used for culinary
purposes, soap making, greasing of ropes and leather goods, manufacture
of paints, varnishes, linoleum, etc. Yields can be up to 10 quintals
per ha, with a price of Rs.700 per quintal.
Cantor can be grown both under irrigated and rainfed conditions and is
fairly drought resistant. Oil content ranges from 35 to 58% (average
47%). It is used for the manufacture of nilofibres, jet engine
lubricant, printing inks, transparent paper, greases, hydraulic fluids,
soaps, paints, varnishes, medicines, etc. Its leaves are also fed to
silk worms in serisilk producing areas. Average production with good
technology is over 10 quintals per ha and the market price is Rs.700 per
quintal.
Ratanjot is not currently grown on any appreciable scale. It is used for
medicine, pesticides, cosmetics, oil and hedges.   Mostly it is a tribal
crop, and grows well in rainfed areas and waste lands. Tribals collect
the seeds and sell them to the Tribal Development Federation at about
Rs.6 per kg (yields may be about 200 kg per ha). However, its large
scale cultivation as a sole crop is not envisaged.
TumhA grows wild in waste lands and as a mixed crop with bajra, sorghum
and other seed crops. It is a perennial, growing naturally under
zerophytic conditions and requiring very little water. Tumba vines
provide excellent ground cover, preventing soil and soil moisture loss
and regulating soil temperature. Oil content is 20 to 30%. Seeds have
medicinal value, the oil is edible and the cake is used as animal feed.
Average yield is 2 quintals per ha in mixed growing areas and it is sold
at Rs.300 per quintal. Tumba will be encouraged as a minor mixed crop
with bajra, moth (pulse), etc.
Jo.oba  grows under adverse climatic and soil conditions and can be
grown successfully with irrigation in arid zones. It provides good soil
cover and canopy to help preserve the environment. Jojaba oil and its
derivatives are used in cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, lubricants, food,
electrical insulators, foam control agents, planticizers, fire
retardants, transformer oil, etc. Jojoba beans contain 45 to 55% liquid
wax, with chemical properties similar to those of sperm whale oil.
There are about 1800 female bearing bushes per ha. In Israel yields are
about 500 to 750 kg per ha and the sale price $ 5 per kg. A large
investment is required for Jojoba plantation: cost of establishment is
about Rs.60,000 per ha and maintenance varies from Rs.10,000 to
Rs.20,000 yearly, depending upon the age of the plantation. There is



- 66 -
Annex 6
Page 4 of 4
some question about its commercial viability; it should be promoted with
caution and only a limited number of demonstrations laid.
Production and Marketing
9.   Prcduntinl.   The crop production program is based on demonstrations of
appropriate technology. It is envisaged that demonstrations, if properly
planned and well spread, will have a very large repetitive impact over other
farmers. One of the basic objectives will be the reduction of the gap between
technology developed and that actually applied on farmers' fields. On
average, the demonstrations are about 1 ha in case of soil rehabilitation and
about 0.2 ha in the case of fodder and crop production. It is estimated that
the total area coverage may be about 28,000 ha during the project with further
indirect impact on at least 84,000 ha. GOR has been given flexibility to
select and apportion the number of demonstrations under each crop. These can
be changed depending upon the progress and impact during implementation. At
full development the direct impact of demonstrations should lead to an
additional production of 59,000 tonnes of grains (foodgrains and oil seeds)
and 113,000 tonnes of fodder valued at Rs. 650 million annually.
10.  MarkAting.  The marketing of sunflower will be through procurement
operations of GOI at a (current) price of Rs. 670 per quintal. Tilam Sangh,
the Rajasthan oilseeds cooperative, procures the seeds of sunflower,
safflower, castor and ratanjot. Oilseeds will also be sold to the eight mills
in the private sector, which have a crushing capacity of 0.05 million tonnes
annually; the current sale price for the four crops is Rs.100 per kg. There
are no fixed prices for tumba. At present, there is no established marketing
system for jojoba. GOR has decided to procure seed at Rs.200 per kg for the
next 10 years or until private procurement well established. The purchases
will be made by Tilam Sangh through the marketing societies. Most of the
other crops under the project have established markets. These include fodder
crops, food grains and oil seeds. Almost the entire fodder consumption will
be used by the farmers for their animals, or sold. Most other crops (food
grains and oil seeds) come under the purview of the GOI procurement policy and
have fixed rates for their procurement.  Procurement prices of important crops
are given in the Attachment.2
2/    These procurement prices are fixed by the Agricultural Costs and Prices Commission,
GOI, and commodities are procured by GOI and state agencies.



- 67 -
Annex 6
Attachment 1
PROCUREMENT PRICE - 1991/92
.                     ~UCROP            Rs./Otl.
1.           Paddy                      230.00
2.            Jowar/Bajra               205.00
3.           Maize                      210.00
4.           Wheat                      250.00
5.            Barley                    210.00
6.           Arhar (Pigeon Pea)         545.00
7.           Moong                      545.00
8.           Urad                       545.00
9.           Gram                       500.00
10.          Groundnut (in shell)       645.00
11.          Groundnut                  880.00
12.           Soyabean                  395.00
13.          Sunflower                  670.00
14.          Rape seed/Mustard



- 68 -
a



- 69 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 4
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - RAJASTHAN
HORTICULTURE
1.    Of the total cultivated area of 16.1 million ha in Rajasthan, only 0.12%
was under fruit crops (19,581 ha) and 0.32% under vegetables (51,429 ha) in
1989-90. Horticulture development in the state has been insignificant and
agriculture has been based mostly on grain production (recently oil seeds have
expanded considerably). Crop diversification needs special attention,
particularly expansion and promotion of horticulture crops for improving the
economic and nutritional status of the population. Horticulture tree crops
play an important role in improving the environment, ecology, and soil and in
preventing soil erosion. Horticulture crops provide greater returns not only
per unit area but also per unit of water. Therefore, they are specially
suited for water scarce areas like Rajasthan.
2.    Major objectives of horticulture development under the project are: (a)
expansion of area under high quality trees; (b) production of higher quality
crops; and (c) improvements in productivity and income. The project would
support GOR's horticulture development strategy by:
a.    increasing in the production of high quality planting material by
improving the condition of the existing nurseries (or plant
production units);
b.    training farmers and extension workers;
C.    demonstrating the impact of modern technology on farmers' fields
through intensive demonstration of important crops; and
d.    establishing centers for the demonstration and training of
horticulture technology (progeny-cum-demonstration centers).
The main elements of this strategy are embodied in the following components of
the project.
Nursery/Progeny/Demonstrat'on
3.    Nursery Development.  The Department of Horticulture (DOH), Rajasthan
has identified horticulture crops suitable for the three agro-climatic (arid,
semi-arid and sub-humid) of Rajasthan. Twenty eight nurseries of the DOH will
be provided with necessary infrastructure and facilities to make them model
plant propagation units, producing plants suitable for the different agro-
climatic zones. Modern facilities like poly houses, propagation chambers,
etc. will be supported. Each nursery will have a collection of elite mother
trees to meet the demand of scion wood for vegetative propagation. These
mother trees will be supplied from trees of outstanding merit and maintained
at the progeny-cum-demonstration centers. The twenty-eight nurseries will be



- 70 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 4
developed as model demonstration and practical training units for nursery men
and concerned staff of DOH.
4.    Progeny-cum-demonstration Centers.  Seven of the 28 nursery units with
sufficient area will be converted into progeny-cum-demonstration centers
(PCDC). These centers, in addition to a modern nursery unit (para. 3), will
have:
a.    collection of trees of outstanding merit of commercial cultivars;
b.    demonstration of technologies such as tree canopy management,
training and pruning, plant nutrition, pest control, etc.;
c.    facilities for practical training in orchard tree management,
nursery production, maturity standards, grading, packing and
storage of horticulture produce, etc.; and
d.    nucleus or focal point for the demonstration and transfer of
technology in the surrounding areas.
Raising of Fruit Plants
5.    Production of High Ouality Planting Material.  Under existing
conditions, the horticulture industry is characterized by low productivity,
poor quality production and excessive wastage and spoilage during post harvest
handling and marketing. One of the basic factors for the low profile of the
existing plantation (low productivity and poor quality) is the sub-standard
and poor quality planting material. Modern horticulture development is based
on the planting of trees of outstanding merit within a variety. Scientific
management of the horticulture crops with optimum tree canopy, proper training
and pruning, nutrition according to crop load requirements, appropriate
density (spacing) tree health, etc. also contribute substantially to the
achievement of production potential.
6.    Selection of trees of outstanding merit will be conducted at the block,
sub-division and district levels through competitions. Besides prizes, the
best trees that will satisfy the norms of high quality and productivity will
be supported by maintenance allowances for the exclusive purpose of supply of
the bud wood at commercial prices to the government. In addition to the trees
thus selected, the DOH will procure elite planting material from other states
and countries and stock it. These can also be procured in bulk in micro-
propagule form (stage) and further developed in the tissue culture lab, which
is to be provided under the project. The major advantage of this technology
will be bulk procurement, including import, of the desired material in aseptic
form. There is no risk of transmission of diseases. The DOH will thus have a
collection of the best possible planting material, to be maintained at the
progeny-cum-demonstration centers for the supply of parent material (bud wood
and plants) to private nurseries and the government.
7.    Ouality Control of Planting Material.  At present the production and
sale of planting materials is not governed or regulated by law to ensure
quality control. GOR has proposed to enact a nursery registration act by
December 1992. This will ensure the quality of planting material in both



- 71 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 4
private and government nurseries.
8.    Propagation of the Planting Material.  The project provides for the
multiplication of high quality planting material at 28 nursery units. It is
proposed that 50% of the 7.4 million plants to be produced will be in the
government sector and the other 50% in the private sector. GOR will promote
private sector involvement by making available credit, technical support and
supply of elite parent material.
Trainina
9.    The training component for horticulture is broad, and recognizes the
dearth of knowledge and practical skills at all levels. Training will cover
farmers, including women farmers, nurserymen, and horticultural workers.
Young farmers will attend training courses lasting 7 days; nursery owners and
other professionals can attend courses lasting 14 days. A part of the
training will be through actual permanent demonstrations in the field, and
nurseries and progeny-cum-demonstration centers will provide facilities and
live models. Training will include plant propagation, budding and grafting,
orchard management, tree canopy management (including all stages of
production), post harvest handling (grading packaging and storage), transport,
market intelligence, and information systems and marketing. There is Rs. 1
million budgeted for the training of the department's own staff in recognition
of the need to upgrade "in-house" skills.
Horticulture Promotion/Demonstration
10.   Demonstrations.  Large scale demonstrations of the transfer of
technology in farmers' fields will be supported. These will include 35,000
field demonstrations of fruit trees (perennial crops) and 28,000 demonstration
of vegetables, spices, flowers and other horticulture crops.
11.   Intensive Development in Clusters.  This program will promote the
planting of orchards in geographically compact areas, so as to obtain
economies of scale in establishment, technical guidance, management, plant
protection, input supplies, and product marketing, including post harvest
handling, transport, and storage. Individual orchards are expected to be
around 1 acre (0.4 ha). It is proposed that 35,000 demonstrations of fruit
crops will be in compact blocks in suitable areas. The demonstrations will
serve as incentives for the development of fruit cultivation on some 14,000
ha, including demonstrations of budding of ber (6,000) and mango (6,000).
12.   Demonstratinna of Vegetahles. Spices. etc.  Demonstrations of
vegetables, spices and flowers will cover about 6,000 ha over four years.
Unlike perennial crops, these demonstrations will be for only one crop season.
The demonstrations will include, in addition to vegetables and flowers,
turmeric, ginger, garlic, onion, cumin, henna, and isabgol. Each
demonstration would encompass an area of 0.1 to 0.4 ha depending upon the crop
and situation.



- 72 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 4
General Advertising/Marketing and Publicity
13.   Rs. 20 million is proposed under this heading for the provision of
computers, audio-visual and publicity aids, production of technical films,
publication of illustrated easy to understand technical bulletins and
pamphlets, putting up of sign boards at important places of demonstrations,
studies on various aspects of horticulture production and marketing, and
allied matters.



- 73 -
Annex 
Page 1 of 4
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMRNT PROJECT - RAJASTHAN
ANIMAL HUSBANDRY
1. LITVESTOCK
Introduction
1.    In Rajasthan, animal husbandry contributes about 20% of the agricultural
domestic product (Statistical Abstract of Rajasthan, 1980). The state
possesses only 7% of the total cattle population and 30% of sheep population
of the country; however, it produces 11% of the total milk and 41% of the wool
in India. Animal husbandry plays an important role in providing subsidiary
income to landless laborers and to scheduled castes and tribes in the form of
well-established backyard dairy, mutton and wool, and as a bio-energy source
of agricultural operations. Livestock farming is superior to crop farming in
terms of growth and stability, and of resource conservation in the drought-
prone areas of Rajasthan.
2.    Cross-breeding of cattle improves milk production capacity and milk
quality. Cross-breeding programs have been initiated in the state, mainly
near urban areas through artificial insemination (Al). To achieve the basic
objective of improving a larger animal population for enhancing milk
production, GOR's Department of Animal Husbandry requires more technical
staff, particularly at the field level. Further, with implementation of the
cross-breeding program, animal disease problems are expected to be more
complicated for which strong disease diagnosis, monitoring and forecasting
facilities need be strengthened. Animal marketing activities in the state
need improvement to facilitate the sale of livestock. Participation of rural
youth and farm women in animal husbandry activities is necessary for the
successful implementation of livestock improvement programs.
Ojbective. The main objectives of the livestock component are to:
i)    Strengthen private animal breeding services.
ii)   Promote privatization of veterinary services.
iii) Improve para-veterinary services.
iv)   Enhance the capabilities and competence of field veterinarians.
v)    Establish a network of animal exchange markets.
vi)   Develop facilities for efficient and effective disease diagnosis,
surveillance, monitoring and forecasting of animal diseases.



- 74 -
Annex 8
Page 2 of 4
vii) Strengthen Departmental capacity for efficient transfer of
technology.
3.    Under the project, 940 rural youths will be trained in the program of
expanded coverage of Gopals (community based volunteers) and 150 in the breed
improvement program. Trainers will be selected from the area where the
program will be initiated. The selected village youths will be trained for
four months during which they will be paid a stipend of Rs. 600 per month.
The stipend will taper out over three years after their initiation at the rate
of Rs. 600/month in the first year, Rs. 500 in the second year and Rs. 400 in
the third year. Each Gopal will also be provided with basic equipment to
carry out their functions of providing breeding services, castrating the scrub
animals and providing veterinary first-aid services, and with technical inputs
viz; semen straws, liquid nitrogen, etc. at full cost.
4.    To promote privatization of veterinary services, veterinarians will be
advanced by the Department a recoverable loan of Rs. 50,000 for purchasing
eq2ipment, etc. to start private clinics (the Project will not finance this
item). Strengthening of the existing para-veterinary schools (4) is proposed
under the project. The availability of para-veterinary staff will be
increased and their capabilities enhanced by strengthening the schools and
increasing their intake capacity. Under the project, provision has been made
to strengthen the Rajasthan Institute of Livestock Management as well as the
Training Centers for Poultry and Key Village Program located at Ajmer and
Jaipur, respectively. Provision has also been made for training officers of
the department in recent advances in veterinary and animal sciences, as well
as for village women who are directly involved in livestock operations at the
grass-roots level.
5.    A total of 300 cattle markets at the Panchayat level (meeting
quarterly), 50 at the Panchayat Samiti level (meeting annually) and 30 at the
Municipal level (meeting weekly) will be developed to create physical
facilities for organized livestock marketing. The facilities will be
developed through the agencies of the State Agriculture Marketing Board and
costs recovered through levying cesses on the sale of animals. Basic
facilities such as animal sheds, water troughs, shelters for the animal
owners, etc. will be included.
6.    Improvement of disease diagnosis, surveillance, monitoring and
forecasting of animal diseases to take prompt preventive and curative measures
is proposed under the project. Under this program, provision has been made to
strengthen the capabilities of the department through establishing a Central
Disease Diagnosis Laboratory at the state level, with a network of regional
laboratories.
7.    Effective communication with the target groups through direct contact,
use of audio visuals, mass media and electronic media will be pursued through
a technology dissemination and media support unit. The project will provide
mobile vans, audio visual equipment and operating costs for contracts of
advertizing agencies to develop audio visual materials. This unit is to work



- 75 -
Annex 8
Page 3 of 4
jointly for the Departments of Animal Husbandry, and Sheep and Wool.
8.    A management information system will be set up at divisional
headquarters to strengthen the capabilities of the department, to monitor the
progress of the project and tzo advise on mid-course remedial actions wherever
needed.
2. SHEREP BREEDING AND WOOL PRODUCTION
Tntroduction
9.    The productivity per animal of local sheep is relatively low because of
inferior genetic quality, poor nutritional level and frequent occurrence of
diseases and epidemics. The annual average wool production of local sheep
ranges between 0.5 kg to 1.15 kg. The wool produced also ranges between
coarse-hairy to medium and superior carpet quality, and the body growth rate
is low. Large scale experimental results indicate that proper genetic
manipulation through cross-breeding with exotic breeds and improved management
practices can enhance wool production as well as improve wool quality and
increase body weight. The sheep improvement program in the state has been
taken up by the State Sheep & Wool Department following two approaches viz;
cross-breeding with exotic fine wool sheep breeds and selective breeding of
the established quality carpet wool breeds.
10.   Major constraints in achieving faster sheep improvement in the state are
non-availability of superior quality breeding stock in required numbers,
improper husbandry and management practices, including scarcity of feed and
fodder and appropriate disease diagnosis, surveillance, monitoring and disease
forecasting facilities to check/prevent sheep diseases and epidemics.
Obiectives. The main objectives of the component are to:
i)    Improve three breeds of sheep viz; Malpura, Sonadi and Nali.
ii)   Strengthen the physical facilities of the state sheep farms to
maintain large sheep populations for a continuous supply of
improved rams.
iii) Involve private sheep breeders to produce quality cross-bred rams.
iv)   Train rural youths in modern sheep breeding/rearing technology.
11.   To implement a cross-breeding program in clusters, 3,000 improved
Rambouillet ewes will be imported to be maintained on the Government farms.
In addition 4,000 breedable rams will purchased from local sources viz;
Central Sheep & Wool Research Institute, Avikanagar, Central Sheep Breeding
Farm, Hisar, etc. Half-bred sheep will be produced through direct crossing
with exotic sheep as well as through use of half-breds in two stages. About
10% breedable population of the sheep will be crossbred annually so as to



- 76 -
Annex 8
Page 4 of 4
reach a target of crossing 40-50% population by the end of the project. The
carrying capacity of the state sheep breeding farms will be increased through
land development, pasture improvement, fencing, etc. on a total of 2,700 ha to
maintain the additional sheep population. In order to produce half-bred rams
for distribution to sheep farmers, participation of private sheep breeders
will be encouraged under the project. A total of 4,500 rural youth will be
trained in sheep breeding and management practices for providing the required
technical support. A detailed study on marketing of improved wool will be
undertaken to identify constraints in the marketing of cross-bred wool.
12.   Since disease diagnosis, surveillance, monitoring and forecasting of
livestock diseases has been proposed as a joint program for the Departments of
Animal Husbandry, and Sheep & Wool, it has not been indicated under this
subcomponent. Similarly, strengthening of extension activities, particularly
dissemination of information through use of audio visual aids, use of mass
media and involvement of private advertizing agencies have not been included
under this subcomponent as it has been provided under the Animal Husbandry
Subcomponent of the project.



- 77 -
Annex 9
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - RAJASTHAN
WATER RESOURCES PLANNING
Introduction
1.    Rajasthan is a water scarce state.  Increasing water demand for the
different uses in the State requires the use of all water resources
judiciously and efficiently. Proper water resources planning is a
prerequisite to judicious and efficient use of water. Therefore, it is a
necessity to carry out long-term planning (at least 50 years) in Rajasthan
including water demand, supply, allocation and quality. To achieve the
overall objective of developing a State-wide plan for long-term water
availability and use, including water rights for all users (urban, industrial
and rural), this component would support programs for data collection of
groundwater and surface water in order to generate substantially improved and
pertinent information needed to carry out a 'Water Resources Planning Study'
in Rajasthan. Due to the importance of carrying out such study, concerned
departments will be actively involved and will coordinate accordingly. Also,
a contribution by specialized consultant for carrying out the study would be
required. TOR for the consultancy services would be prepared by IDA in
coordination with GOR. A study on the cost of water delivery from selected
surface irrigation schemes is also proposed, for which draft Terms of
Reference are in Attachment 2.
Water Resources in Rajasthan
2.    Water resources in Rajasthan include groundwater, internal surface water
and inter-state diversions. Following are brief descriptions of each of these
resources:
Groundwater: estimated groundwater potential in Rajasthan is 12,572 mcm/year.
There is extensive use of this resource with an overall exploitation of more
than 50% (1989) and in some districts (Alwar, Pali, Dholpur and Ajmer) it is
as high as 80%. The degree of groundwater exploitation in different aquifers
has been designated as white (moderate exploitation), grey (high exploitation)
and dark (over exploitation). Groundwater basins in Rajasthan have been
divided into 237 blocks, out of which 31 blocks were identified as grey areas
and 81 as dark areas. In 1989, there were 5,010 drinking wells, 324,445
agricultural wells and 109,267 hand pumps. The area irrigated from
groundwater is about 1.7 million ha.
Internal Surface Water: total internal surface water is estimated at 19.59
bcm/year. Present use is 10.11 bcm, planned use is 5.73 bcm and the rest
(3.74 bcm) may be developed in future if needed investment is available.
Inter-State Diversions: total inter-state diversions are 16.573 bcm/year of
which 5.225 bcm have been used in the State in addition to 4.43 bcm being used
for IGNP Stage-I and for municipal and industrial (M & I) uses. The



- 78 -
Annex a
Page 2 of 3
allocations for IGNP Stage-II and for future M & I would be 4.94 bcm. Also
1.24 bcm are allocated for Gany and Bhakra canal systems. The total irrigated
area from the above two systems is estimated at 1.624 million ha.
3.    Based on information provided to the appraisal mission, a water balance
for Rajasthan, including supply, present and future demand, surplus and
deficit has been worked out and is shown in Tables 1 & 2. It is to be noted
that the estimates do not include provisions for artificial recharge and
conjunctive use as these requirements would be determined during the proposed
study under the project. Also these estimates reflect over exploitation of
groundwater in some areas at this time which might be rectified if artificial
recharge and conjunctive use prove to be feasible.
Component Description
4.    Long-term planning is crucial for efficient and judicious use of water
resources in Rajasthan. Future agriculture development in the State would
depend on the outcome of such planning. Increasing and competing demands for
other sectors would definitely affect agriculture sector allocations.
Therefore, a component for water resources planning in Rajasthan has been
included under Rajasthan ADP. The main objectives of this component would be
to improve data collection and processing for groundwater and surface water
and carry out a water resources planning study in the State. The component
would consist of the following works: (a) Groundwater sasin Investigations:
this would include completing the on-going program of groundwater
investigations in the different basins, procurement of machinery, equipment
and vehicles, software and hardware for groundwater assessment and modeling;
training and TA; (b) Study of Water Conjunctive use: for groundwater and
surface water in selected areas in order to advise officials of the respective
areas on the feasibility of conjunctive water use; (c) Experiments/Study of
Artificial Recharoe: this would include studying the feasibility of different
methods and techniques of groundwater artificial recharge to establish
criteria and guidelines for artificial recharge in over exploited aquifers;
(d) Strengthening of Remote Sensing Application Centre in Jodhpur: this would
include procurement of equipment and vehicles, training and TA to assist in
carrying out the groundwater investigations program by using satellite
imageries; (e) SurfAne Trrigation Equipme=t: this would include procurement of
equipment, flow measurement devices, computer hardware and software, vehicles,
training and TA; (f) Water Resources Planning Study; the study would include
assessment of all water resources in Rajasthan, long-term demands,
allocations, water balance and future planning. The study would be useful for
working out strategies and formulating policies for water resources use and
development in Rajasthan.
5.    The main objective of strengthening the Remote Sensing Application
Centre in Jodhpur, is to enhance the investigations and analysis of
groundwater potential in the State by using satellite data and aerial
photography which would be acquired by the Centre under the project. Although
the Centre is carrying out many types of studies and data interpretation for
different sectors in Rajasthan, groundwater investigation works require a
special set of data and its interpretation. The Centre should be strengthened
and equipped to carry out the proposed works under this component. Also the
Center would carry out studies to identify and delineate irrigated and non-



- 79 -
Annx 9
Page 3 of 3
irrigated cropped areas in the State along with areas affected by
accumulations of salts on the soil surface. All this information, not readily
available in the desired format and scale at present, will prove to be of
great assistance in the planning of groundwater investigations and in
management and exploitation of this resource in the State.
Cost
6.    Total base cost of this component has been estimated at about Rs. 357
million. A summary of the cost is shown in Table 3. Detailed costs for
groundwater investigation, strengthening of remote sensing, research and
experiments on artificial recharge and on conjunctive use are shown in Tables
4,5,6 and 7, while summary costs for hydrological equipment and surface water
flow measurement equipment are shown in Table 8. The list and unit cost of
equipment for groundwater investigations are shown in Table 9. The estimated
cost for the water resources planning study would be Rs. 90 million covering
240 man-months of consultants' input.
Tmnl Amntat ion Program
7.    Chart 1 shows the implementation program for this component.  Activities
would be carried out through the 5-year project period. However, the study of
water resources planning would only start in the 3rd year after enough data on
groundwater and surface water has been collected and equipment and flow
measurement devices have been procured and placed in operation.



- 80 -
Annax 
Table 1
INTA
AfRCUTIJRAT, DEVELPEN   ROJECT - RAJSTA
GROUNDWATER
WATER  AANE (SUPPLY ADDEMA14D)l
Billion Cubic Meters (bcm)
1990         1 9-95       2000
Groundwater                     12.572       12.752        12.572
Returnflow                       5.310         6.143        7.067
Sllb-t ota                17-882       18A.8951     19-639
damand
M & I                             1.886        2.35         2.95
Irrigation                      10.686       12.36        14.22
(irrigated area, m ha)           (1.7)       (1.9)        (2.29)
Suab-toa1                 12-572       14.71        17.17
Sur1uR/dmfic1t                   5.31          4 19         2-47
1. Source: Report of Pannel on Water Resources of Rajasthan,
Government of Rajathan, August 1989, and mission's estimates.



- 81 -                       Annex 9
Table 2
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELMT PROJECT - RAJASTH
SURFACE WATER
WATER BALANCE {SUPPLY AND DEMANnDl
Billion Cubic Meters (bcm)
1990         199c5        2000n
Internal Surface Water          19.587       19.587       19.587
Inter-state Diversions          16.573       16.573       16.573
SiJ-tbtal                 36.160       36.160       36.160
nemand
M & I                             1.331        1.558        1.814
Irrigation                      16.240       25.210       30.190
(irrigated area, m ha)          (2.22)       (3.18)       (3.98)
losses and Evaporation           5.684         8.823      10.566
Siab-ttal                   .225       35.591       42.570
Surplus/deficit                512.935         0.569      (-6.410
1* Source is : Report of Pannel on Water Resources of Rajasthan,
Government of Rajsthan, August 1989, and mission's estimates.



- 82 -
Table 3
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMEET PROJECT - RAJAS THAN
BASE COST ESTTMATE
T71MARY
(RS Ml
YE^_               92/93 93/94   94/95  95/96    96/97   TOTAL
1. Groundwater Basin
Investigation               15.00   100.71 34.40  19.20    15.00   184.30
2. Study of Water
Conjunctive Use               1.40     1.40  2.10   0.20       -         5.10
3. Experiments/Study of
Artificial Recharge           2.60      8.70 7.50    1.70      -        20.50
4. Strengthening of Remote
Sensing Application Center  3.10       7.50  1.70    0.20      -        12.50
5. Surface Irrigation
Equipment                     6.50    41.75 15.75   6.75       5.75    76.50
6. Water Resources Planning
Study                         5.00    15.00  30.00  20.00    20.00    90.00
Q2ZAL               33.60  175.0S  01.45 48.05    40.75   3.-I90



GROUNWATERBASIN IVSlATIONS
,"'0.000M)
Unit
llnit  9219    2S24  240   5 9/9    261  :1321    CM   2219    9319    94/9   25      26/9    liad
A. lnvestiratio in New Basins
Exploraty drilling Test
Observation wdls &
logging of bomholes   No.      10   40       50    30      20    150  1.00  10.00    40.00  50.00  30.00  20.00    150.00
Piezo wesers              No.     20   20        40    40     20    140  0.50  10.00     10.00  20.00 20.00  10.00    70.00
Punping Tests             No.       5   15       15   10        5     50  0.10  0.50      1.50   1.50   1.00   0.50     5.00              1
Operational Expenses      LS       -      -       -     -      -      -   LS  0.375      1.00   1.00   0.75   0.375    4.00
Sub Tot (A)                                                         20.875   52.    13 5 57   30.875  229.00
Binvestigaton in Ongoing
Basins rS P)tm
Explortawy drilling Tests
& Obscrvation wells.
logging of bore holes  No.      20    55    65    40       20    200 1.50  30.00    70.50  97.50  60.00  42.00   300.00
Piezomrnas                No.       14   24    40    10    32    120 1.25   17.50    30.00  50.00  12.50  40.00    150.00
Pumping Tests             No.       10   25    25    10       10      80 0.10   1.00     2.50   2.50   1.00   1.00      8.00
Opeiona Expnes            LS               -      -     -       -      -  LS   0.25      0.75    1.00  0.25   0.25      2.50
SunbIToalfI                                                          48L750  103A75  l15200     l 8325    460.50
0
1-h



Uni
Unit  22    9       942  M   2     9 62J   I"   CMs  92/     239   24    29S/96  96I/9
C.  vestnmi
Exploacy drilling Test
Observation wels &
logging of b&rtholes  No.     5    15        15    10    5    50  2.00  10.00    30.00  30.00 20.00  10.00   100.00
Piezoml irs              No.    15    37        50    30   18   150   1.40  21.00    52.00  70.00 42.00  25.00   210.00
Pumping Tests            No.      5     15       15   10      5    50   0.10   0.50      1.50   1.50   1.00  0.50     5.00
Operational Expenses     LS        -     -       -      -     -    -    LS   0.375    1.00   1.00   0.75   0.375    3.50
Sub Total (C)                                                      348.75    84.5  102.50  63.5  30.875  310.50        1
D. Equipments & Field
Vehicles              LS       -      -       -     -     -    -    LS  36.25   158.15    -              -       194.40
E. Machinery
Heavy Duty DTH Rig    No.      -      1                         1  350.00   -      350.00    -     -     -      350.00
Combination Rig       No.      -      1             -     -    1  200.00   -       200.00    -     -     -      200.00
F. Training of Personl       LS       -      -       -     -     -    -    LS    5.00    10.00  10.00   -       -       25.00
G. Computer Hardwares
& Softwares           LS       -      -       -     -     -    -    LS    5.00    35.00    -       -     -       40.00
He Publications              LS       -      -       -     -     -    -    LS    0.25      0.25   0.50   2.60   -        3.60   '"1
OQ Ow
I. Technical Assistance      LS        -    -        -      -    -          LS    2.00    13.00   7.00   -      -       22.00   a  |
TOTALBASE COST                                                     150.00   10715 34    191.85 15000  1291.00 



INDIA
AGRICULTULRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - RAJASTHAN
EXPERIMENTS/STUY OF ARTIFICIA  RECHARGE
(Rs. '00000M
Unit
Unit 92/93 93/94 94/95 95/96 96/97 Total Cost  92/93 93/94 94/95 95/96 96/97 Total
A. Sub-surface Barriers  No.   -         4     4      -     -     8    9.00  5.00 30.00  30.00  7.00   -    72.00
B. Percolation Tanks        No.   -     2      1      -     -     3   15.00  2.00 25.00  15.00  3.00   -    45.00
C. Injection wells &
associated structures LS    -       -      -      -     -     1     LS   5.00 20.00 20.00  5.00   -    50.00
D. Hydrofacturing           No.   2      4     4      -     -    10   0.10  0.20  0.40   0.40   -          -     1.00
E. Rainwater harvesting  LS    -        -      -      -     -     1     LS   3.00  4.00   7.00  1.00   -    15.00            1
F. Field Vehicles          No.   2      -      -      -     -     2    2.25  4.50   -         -     -     -      4.50
G. Operational Exp.         LS    -     -      -      -     -     -     LS   1.00  2.50   2.50  1.00   -         7.00
H. Technical Assistance &
Training of Personnel LS    -       -     -      -      -     -     LS   5.00  5.00      -      -     -    10.00
rOYAL BASE COST                                                          2-70 869074 20.9 17500           2DA
1. ho
* -_ X
n qM



TNDIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - RAJASTHAN
STUDY OF CONJUNCTIVE USE
(Rs. '00.0Q0)
Unit
1nL ~92/93  9L39   94/95 95196  96/97 Total Cost  92/93 93/94 945 95/96 96/97 Total
A. Exploratory Testwells  No.   5       10       15     -       -     30  0.90  4.50   9.00 13.00   -   -  26.50
B. Piezometers             No.   75    75    100        -       -    250  0.06  4.50   4.00   6.00   -   -  14.50            X
C. Field Vehicles          No.   -      -      -        -       -       2 2.25  4.50       -      -    -   -   4.50
D. Operational Exp.        LS    -      -      -        -       -       -   LS   0.50   1.00  2.00  2.00  -   5.50
TOTAL BASE COST                                                          14.00  14.00 21.00 2.51.00
IDM
o IM



- 87 -                    Annex 9
Tablje 7
TNT
AaRTCULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - RAJASTRAN
STRENGTHENING OF REMOTE SENSING APPLICATION CENTER
(Rs.'00.000)
YEAR                    92/93  93/94    94/95  95/96 96/97          TOTAL
A. EQUIPMENT PROCUREMENT
1. Procurement of Image
Processing Unit.
(a) Satellite data
Processing Unit
(b) Digitizer
(b) Monitor               ) 15.50    30.00      -       -       -          45.00
(c) Plotter
(d) Printer
(e) Camera
2. Data acquisition from
NRSA, Hyderabad
(a) Satellite data-CCT's,)
Hard copies,
Diapositives          )  4.00    25.00      5.00     -      -          34.00
(b) Aerial photographs
3. Data storage                  2.00     -         -       -       -           2.00
4. Cartographic equipments
(a) Procom
(b) NC Scriber            )  4.50      4.50     -        -      -           0.90
(c) Digital plannimeter
(d) Hope lettering
sets, etc.
5. Computer room & its
furnishing                )  4.00      4.00      -       -       -          8.00
B. Field vehicles ($2)               -       5.00      -       -       -           5.00
C. Stationery supplies & Report
preparation                  0.50     0.50    0.50      0.50    -           2.00
D. Operational expenditure,
running & Maintenance         0.75     0.75     0.75     0.75    -          3.00
E. Training (User agency -
Field staff)                  0.25     0.25    0.75      0.75    -           2.00
F. Technical Assistance (From -
Foreign experts 2 months)         -       5.00   10.00        -      -         15.00
Total                          311_QQ    75-on   17-00              - n25.n0



-88-                      Annex 9
Table 8
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - RASTHAN
SURFACE IRRIGATTON PEnUTPMENT
RASE OST
(Rs. '00.000I
YE-AR              92/93   93/94   94/95    95/96   96/97  TOTAL
A. Data Collection                  10     15        20       20       10       75
B. River Gauging                    35    185        40       20       20      300
C. VHF Systems                     10    100         60        5        5       180
D. Computers & Software             -      30         -        -        -        30
E. Training & TA                    -      15        15        -        -        30
F. Vehicles                         -      50         -        -        -        50
G. Consultants                     10   22.5       22.5    22.5      22.5       100
TOTAT,          L~~5  417-5    157.5    67-5    575 5        s



- 89 -
AnneZ 9
Table 9
Page 1 of 2
flA
AGRiCULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - RAJASTHAN
TIST OF SURVEY, CHEMICAL AND GEOPHYSICAL INSTRUMENT/EOUIPMENT
AND FIELD VEHICLES REOUIRED FOR GROUNDWATER BASIN INVESTIGATIONS
ESTIMATED COST
(Rs.'00.000)
Items                                Qty   Unit  Price    Amount
A. DRAWING & SURVEY MATERIAL:
1. Optional Pentograph                           2    No    1.50      3.00
2. Optional Reflecting Projector                 2    No.   0.75      1.50
3. Armnonia Printing Machine                     2    No.   0.75      1.50
4. Camp & Tentage                                4    No.   1.00      4.00
5. Drafting machine                              4    No.   0.10      0.40
Subh Tntal                                                 10.40
B. CHEMICAL EOUIPMENTS:
1.. Atomic Absorption Spectrophotometer
with 1.5 tonne Cap. Air Conditioner       4    No.  12.00   48.00
2. Deionizer                                     3    No.    0.18    0.54
3. Ph Meter                                      3    No.    0.05    0.15
4. Conductivity Meter                            3    No.    0.04    0.12
5. Field Kit for pH & conductivity               4    No.    0.10    0.40
6. Electric Monopan balance Capacity
200 g (Digital)                            4    No.    0.50    2.00
7. Specific Ion Meter with electrodes-B
NO 3. F, Ca, Na, K, NH4, Si                   3    No.   3.00    9.00
Suh Total                               ~~~~~~~~~60.21
C. GEOPHYSICAL INSTRUMENTS
1. Geophysical Logger Vehicle Mounted            1    No.   25.00   25.00
2. Gamma-Neutron Combination Probe
(for Jodhpur unit)                          1    No.   7.00      7.00
3. Field pocket computers (Micro-processors)  6    No.   0.08         0.48
4. E-Log module (ELM-250)                        1    No.   0.50      0.50
5. Cable header                                  1    No.   0.15      0.15
6. Variable speed drive module                  1    No.   0.50       0.50
7. Power supply PCB                              1    No.   0.20      0.20
8. Servo Amplifier PCB                           1    No.   0.15      0.15
9. Chart Roller                                  1    No.   0.05      0.05
10. Universal multimeter model8X                  1    No.   0.05      0.05
11. Multi-output power supply with digital
voltage with current and three
independent adjustable isolated
power source                                1    No.   0.12      0.12
Items                                 Qty  Unit  Price   Amount



- 90 -
AnnmxLi
Tahle 9
Page 2 of 2
12. 4-1/2 Digital true RMS Cum-counter meter   1    No.   0.10           0.10
13. Logic pattern generator flexible stimulus
for digital test                             1    No.   0.31       0.31
14. Serve stabiliser with high low cut out
and time on delay system (Single 5 Amp.)
5 Amp.)                                      1     No.   0.15      0.15
15. SAS 300 Abem Terrameters                       2     No.  8.00    16.00
16. VLF Wadi                                       2     No.   1.50      3.00
Suh Tntal                                                    53.76
D. COMPUTER HARD & SOFTWARES FOR GROUND WATER
MQDnELLkING                                  4      No.   10.00   40.00
E. FIELD VEHICiLE                                   12     No.    2.25   30-00
Sub-Total Equi{ment:                                             164.37
Sib-Total Fl  ehils                          ,30.00
SubToalcost for equioment &
Field vehinles:                                             194.7
Total                                                       194 40
F. MACHTNKRY
(a)  Heavy Duty DTH Rig                         1    No.   350.00 350.00
(b)  Combination Rig                            1    No.   200.00 200.00
TohTa   A   Co50t00
Total RS   et744-40



- 91 -
£Anex 9
Attachment 1
Agreements
1. Rajasthan would follow and implement any regulations or guidelines for
groundwater regulation issued by the Central Government. In any case,
andintil such regulations and guidelines are in place, Rajasthan will prepare
and submit to IDA for review within one year of the loan effectiveness a
proposal for control and regulation of groundwater in all basins in Rajasthan.
The proposal should include means and measures for the rational exploitation
of groundwater. Rajasthan would finalize these regulations within 3 years of
the loan effectiveness.
2. Groundwater Department will carry out a detailed study for the proposed
experimental recharge schemes including water balance study to confirm water
availability for such schemes and appropriate techniques for aquifer recharge.
This study has to be reviewed and approved by the IDA before the construction
of any works.
3. Some of the groundwater investigation works may be carried out by
contractors after consultation with IDA.
4. Several studies for lift irrigation schemes would be included in the
project. These studies would indicate the criteria for selection as well as
the availability of water to those schemes. Irrigation Department would advise
the farmers on the availability of water for lift schemes but construction of
these scheme should be carried out by a farmers' associations which would be
established for this purpose.
5. It was agreed that the Irrigation Department would carry out studies on
financial costs of delivering surface water in representative schemes (about
10 schemes). These studies would be submitted to IDA for review by the end of
1993 and would guide Rajasthan in finalizing cost recovery policy of
irrigation schemes.



- 92 -
Annex 9
Attachment 2
Page 1 of 2
TNDIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - RAJASTHAN
S21JPY OF COST OF WATER SUPPLY FROM SURFACE IRRIGATION SCHEMES
Draft Terms of Reference
Backaround
1.    Information on the cost of supplying water, and its allocation to
principal uses, from major and medium surface irrigation schemes in Rajasthan
is totally inadequate. Further development of irrigation, and planning for
the sustainable use of water, an extremely critical resource in Rajasthan,
requires detailed information on the full financial cost of delivering water
from surface irrigation schemes. This cost should be estimated for capital,
administraative, and operating and maintenance (O&M) costs.  There are three
aspects to the proposed study: (i) estimation of full financial costs of water
supplied from selected surface irrigation schemes; (ii) identification of
water deliveries among primary uses from such schemes; and (iii) the
allocation of each category of cost (storage, distribution, etc.) among each
class of use.  The study would focus on the Bakhra, Chambal and Gang surface
irrigation schemes, and at least ten other major and medium schemes to be
agreed upon with the Bank.
Just ifiration
2.    The purpose of the study would be to assist GOR in deriving a new policy
towards full cost recovery from public investment in irrigation and bulk
supply of water to other users within system boundaries. It would also help
to ensure the viability of existing and future irrigation schemes, and to
ensure the sustainability of scarce water resources in the state. On the
basis of the estimated financial costs of schemes and the current cost
recoveries, both direct and indirect, implicit direct subsidies involved in
the selected surface irrigation schemes would be estimated. A water
allocation study, separately detailed under the Water Master Plan, would
facilitate the planning of water use from existing sources, and allow early
identification of potential bottlenecks in the system.
Estimation of Water Cost
3.    Estimation of the cost of water supply would include the following
elements:
(a)   Capital cost
(b)   Annual interest cost on capital
{c)   Annual depreciation cost
(d)   Annual O&M cost
(e)   Administrative and other costs



- 93 -
Annex 
Attachment 2
Page 2 of 2
4.    Capital costs would include cost of land, civil works and construction,
fixed equipment and machinery, fixed facilities (office and field), mobile
facilities (vehicles, etc) and all other investments on the scheme. Operation
and maintenace costs would include O&M costs of vehicles, of storage, canals
and distributaries and all other facilities. The water cost would be
estimated on a per hectare basis by estimating the total area irrigated
(actual and projected) in the command.
Water Dezliveri          rfaca Schemes
5.    The second aspect of the study would focus on the allocation of water
from surface irrigation schemes, by identifying the principal users of water.
The volume of water utilized by each type of user would be estimated. The
projected demand for water from the current users and potential future users,
as well as the projected supply of water from the scheme would be estimated.
Finally, the unit cost of water, by principal use, would be estimated,
consistent with the principle of full cost recovery.
Allocation o Cost Category
6.    The total costs, capital, O&M and administrative, of each section of a
surface irrigation scheme results in a separate category of costs. These
relate to the storage, canals, distributary systems, etc. The pricing of
water from a scheme must take into account these, differential costs. The
study would identify the allocation of each of these categories among the
different classes of users, which would be used in assessing optimal water
rates according to source category and user class.



- 94 -



- 95 -
AnnexI 0
Page 1 of 7
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVEOPMENT PROJECT - RAJASTHAN
AGRTCULTURAL RESEARCH AND TRAINING
RAJASTHAN AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY
sackgtouad
1.    The agricultural colleges under the University of Rajastan at Udaipur
served as Rajastan's agricultural university system until 1987. In 1987, The
Government of Rajastan (GOR) established the Rajastan Agricultural University
(RAU) at Bikaner under the auspices of the Secretariat of Agriculture. The RAU
system comprises eight colleges; three colleges of agriculture at Bikaner,
Udaipur, and Jobner, two colleges of home science at Bikaner and Udaipur and
the colleges of Dairy Science, Technology and Agricultural Engineering and of
Veterinary and Animal Sciences at Udaipur and Bikaner, respectively.
2.    RAU has three major responsibilities. First, it is responsible for
graduate and post graduate agricultural education. There are about 2000
graduate and postgraduate students in the system. In early 1992, there were
919 assistant, associate and full professors, in some 46 departments. About
45 percent of the faculty have a Ph.D. degree and 52 percent a Master's
degree. The vast majority of faculty have their postgraduate degrees from the
University of Rajastan system.
3.   The second major responsibility of the RAU system is in carrying out
agricultural research for the state. This covers a broad spectrum of
activities from identifying (internally or internationally), developing and/or
adapting new technology. The Director of Research is responsible for
overseeing the system's research program. This involves hundreds of individual
research trials throughout the system. Some of the research activities are
linked to national programs, e.g., the national oilseeds program, under the
leadership of the Indian Council for Agricultural Research (ICAR). In that
context, ICAR financially supports part of RAU's research program. Currently
it is estimated that about 35 percent of the annual research budget comes from
ICAR. That, however, varies from year to year and as the RAU system matures,
ICAR's support is expected to decline in importance. The backbone of the
research system is the nine zonal (Bank- supported) research stations. In
addition there are 11 substations, three livestock stations and 10 field
testing/demonstrations sites of one kind or another, for example, operational
research project sites, experiments on cultivators' fields sites, etc. Field
crops (foodgrains, oilseeds, etc.) dominate the research program with about 75
percent of the faculty involved on work directly related to these crops.
(This compares to about 10 percent involved with livestock and 4 percent with
horticulture.)
4.    The third area of RAU responsibility is extension education. As it is



- 96 -
Annex 10
Page 2 of 7
for all Indian state agricultural universities (SAUs), the mandate for
extension education   is with the university, but not extension per se.
Because of pre-1987 arrangements the Director of Extension is still located in
Udaipur. He is, however, expected to transfer to Bikaner within the year. RAU
has 54 assistant, associate and full professors in extension education, about
half of whom have remained at Udaipur. The system has an extensive network of
17 training centers to provide training to farmers and Department of
Agriculture extension staff. This part of RAU's responsibilities is expected
to increase under the project as RAU assumes a greater role in training
Department of Agriculture staff.
Problem Areas
5.    In the context of the 1990s and the needs of the 21st century, RAU faces
a number of major challenges that are external to it, yet need to be
considered because they condition how RAU needs to change. Of particular
importance are: 1) the increasing integration of the state with the rest of
India, as well as the rest of the world because of modern communication and
transport systems, 2) the increasingly market led, changing structure of
demand for agricultural products, 3) the fragility and limits of the natural
resource base, particularly with respect to water, 4) the fact that future
agricultural growth will have to be more science based and knowledge
intensive, and 5) the increasing scarcity of public sector resources. These
externalities imply the need for major restructuring of RAU's research and
education programs, but they also suggest some ways by which the university
can carry out its mandate more cost effectively.
6.    Internal to RAU are a rather large set of complex, inter-related
problems, not the least of which is the need to develop physically the Bikaner
college campus into that of a university. Summarizing these problems runs the
risk of oversimplification, nevertheless they can be grouped into five main
areas:
1)    The relevance of the existing educational program given
contemporary and expected job opportunities for graduates.
2)    The relevancy and responsiveness of RAU's research program in the
context of current market demand for agricultural products,
contemporary science, domestic and international market
integration and recent innovations in information systems.
3)    Institutional policy issues concerning the performance and
modernization of RAU, including faculty inbreeding, standards for
new faculty, promotion standards, isolation, graduation standards,
selection of deans, board of management, cooperative research and
education opportunities, and financial sustainability.
4)    Investment requirements for maintaining and upgrading RAU's human
resources.



- 97 -
Annex 10
Page 3 of 7
5)    Physical development and modernization of RAU's plant.
7.    RAU is fortunate in that the establishment of a separate agricultural
university system in 1987, and the relocation of the main campus to Bikaner,
provide an opportunity to deal with the issues confronting RAU that might not
otherwise be possible. These circumstances, and the impetus provided by the
Bank's willingness to support a modernization program, conditioned on a
rigorous and comprehensive planning process to underpin the program of change,
suggests that this project will initiate the most comprehensive modernization
program of any of the SAUs in India. On the other hand, without a thorough
review and promulgation of an agreed reform process, Bank investment in RAU
would not be warranted. The particulars of the planning process are set out
in Annex --.
8.    While supporting the physical development of the university system, this
project will most importantly provide the raison d'etre for a comprehensive
planning process that will take stock of current and expected education and
research requirements for the state and in turn will provide the basis for
organizational and policy reform within the university system. The objective
would be to lay the ground work for a modern agricultural university system
that will be relevant and capable of being responsive to contemporary and
future needs of farmers and agribusiness. While project financing would be
directed to investments in human capital, equipment and laboratories, the
rationalization of the organizational structures, the allocation of resources
within and university and operational policies, particularly those that
concern performance and accountability of the university system, are far more
important.
9.    Prior to disbursement of Bank resources, Bank approval must be obtained
for the underlying analysis and plans for organizational and policy reforms,
and for investment plans in human capital and physical plant. The cost of the
conceptual and substantive planning and policy aspects of the process is
estimated at Rs.4.3 million. The cost of the planning for physical plant is
estimated at Rs.9.5 million. The planning process should result in:
1)    Education Reforms
-     An estimate of the future demand for RAU graduates by discipline
and by college. As part of this inquiry, particular attention
needs to be directed at the need for two Home Science Colleges and
the College of Dairy Science;
An assessment of the qualitative dimensions of an RAU degree, i.e.
what a student is expected to master in order to earn a degree
from RAU; and
Proposals for new course offerings and their content that will be
required over the next decade as well as for current course
offerings to be dropped.



- 98 -
Annex 1 
Page 4 of 7
2)    Research Reforms
A rank ordering of research program and project areas. The ranking
would be based on economic importance of the crop/problem area,
current research assets, the likelihood of applied science leading
to practical solutions, and the opportunities to take advantage of
research being done by other research institutions of sufficient
relevance to Rajastan so that Rajastan need not duplicate the same
work;
An action program to increase research resources allocated to
areas of problems/opportunities that have higher priority than
they currently have, e.g. in soil and water conservation, animal
husbandry, biotechnology, forages, horticulture and agricultural
economics;
A performance incentive program for deans and individual
researchers that gives special recognition career-wise
(financially, status and/or in other ways as appropriate) for
multi-disciplinary research of merit; and
An action plan to phase out current research program and project
areas of insufficient priority, or for which there are reliable
opportunities to rely on other states/institutions.
3)    Institutional Reforms
A program to end faculty inbreeding;
New standards of faculty recruitment that at a minimum require a
solid, well recognized Ph.D., a minimum of recognized, peer
reviewed publications and practical field and/or lab experience
depending on the particular discipline/area of expertise;
Promotion standards that give prominence to teaching and/or
research performance, weighted by the percentage of time allocated
by the individual to either teaching or research, that is
dependent both on the evaluation of students and professional
educators with respect to the teaching function, and on refereed
publications and actual adoption by farmers and/or agribusiness of
research results. Recognition should be given also to length of
service, but it should have a weight of not more than 25 percent
of the factors going in to determining a faculty member's
promotion. Active and successful engagement in multi-disciplinary
research projects should be recognized and be positively related
to a scientist's promotion;
Promotion should not be contingent on an unfilled position at the
next higher level, but on the basis of an individual's merit and
performance as determined by an open and transparent process;



- 99 -
Annex 10O
Page 5 of 7
An action program to end RAU isolation that includes a program of
investment in modernizing library facilities, developing a
sabbatical program, investment in information systems and a
comprehensive, merit- based program of faculty attendance at
national and international professional conferences;
An action program to increase standards of graduation from 45% to
75% by the year 2000;
A system of selection of deans that eliminates the rotational
system of selecting deans, but rather is on merit, of sufficient
authority and duration to permit fixing responsibility and holding
accountable departmental leadership for the performance of a
department;
Changing the Board of Management of RAU to reflect the decline in
importance of government service for graduates and the
proportional increase in private sector employment by graduates,
as well as to increase the proportional representation of farmers
and agribusiness to give greater importance to their view with
respect to RAU's research agenda;
An action program that will increase the mutual interdependence of
RAU and other state agricultural universities and research
institutes in India to economize on resources available for
teaching and research by the cooperating parties;
Development of a program to institute a new fee structure for
students reflecting not less than 50% of the real cost of the
education services being provided to the student;
Development of a student scholarship program for students of merit
from families in the lower 30% income brackets;
Development of a loan program for students from families in the 30
to 80% income bracket; and
Development of a program whereby research faculty are expected to
generate 35% of all their research budget by the year 2000 and 50%
by 2005 from farmer groups/communities or agribusiness.
4)    Human Capital Reforms (While the planning process will dictate the
exact amounts of project resources to be allocated to these areas, the
following estimates are provided.)
A Sabbatical leave program that is merit based. Estimated cost
Rs.3 million;
A post-doc program for fresh Ph.Ds from Indian and international



- 100 -
Annex 10
Page 6 of 7
universities. Estimated cost Rs.3 million;
-     A merit-based program to support leave from teaching and research
duties for faculty members to develop and publish textbooks.
Estimated cost Rs.3 million;
-     Workshops and Seminars.  Estimated cost Rs.800,000; and
-     Collaborative research programs (domestic and international).
Estimated cost Rs.13 million;
5)    Building and Equipment Requirements. (While the planning process
will dictate the exact amounts of project resources to be allocated for
construction and equipping of RAU facilities, the following estimates
were prepared at appraisal.)
Main Campus facilities
Central library                 Rs. 30 million
Auditorium                           4
Continuing Ed. Center               10
Central Labs                        43
Student/Faculty complex             10
Faculty/Visitor complex              3.8
Staff Housing                       68.8
Independent Power                   10
Phytotron                            9
Lab Equipment                        6
Books and Journals                   4
Information systems                  8.1
Unforeseen                           8
College of Agriculture
Instructional Facilities            19.5
Hostel                              15
Central Farm                         3.5
Field and Lab Equipment             20
Supplies and Materials               8
College of Home Science
Lab Equipment                       15
Materials                            4



- 101 -
Annax 10
Page 7 of 7
Veterinary and Animal Science
Classrooms and Labs                10
Hostel                             10
Diagnostic/forecasting center       1
Res. Station facilities             2
Lab and field Equipment            10
Supplies                            1.1
Animals                             1
Horticulture
Buildings                          20
Post-Harvest Lab                   10
Cold Storage/Controlled Envir.      8
Supplies                            4
Lab Equipment                      10
Jobner
Library                             3
Hostel                              3
Staff Quarters                      3.7
Books and Journals                   .4



- 102 -



- 103 -
Annex 11
Page 1 of 11
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPME!IT PROJECT - RAJASTHAN
RAU - TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR MODERNIZATION OF INSTITUTIONAL POLICIES.
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS. RESEARCH AGENDA AND CAMPUS FACILITIES
Obiective
1.    These Terms of Reference (TOR) outline a comprehensive process to
prepare: (a) a strategic development plan for Rajasthan Agriculture
University (RAU) that reflects a systematic effort at projecting future
demands on the system, and (b) a time-bound plan to implement necessary
institutional changes and investments. This process and the implementation
plan must be broadly supported by the principal authorities in RAU and be
sufficiently innovative to ensure the development of RAU as a center of
excellence. Development of the plan would take twelve months, followed by the
process of implementing the programs of change and investments. The planning
process can be broken down into five areas of inquiry:
a.    future needs for higher education in agriculture;l
b.    future agricultural research program thrust areas;
c.    necessary institutional and policy changes to enhance standards of
performance in teaching and research;
d.    investments in human capital; and
e.    RAU physical plant investment needs and campus planning.
Bckgrniind
2.    Most of Rajasthan's future leadership in agricultural administration,
agricultural extension, agricultural research and agribusiness will receive
their first degree in agriculture from RAU. RAU is also the principal
institution in the state responsible for identifying, developing and/or
adapting new technological innovations in agriculture - the innovations
necessary to increase factor productivity in agriculture and provide the basis
for cost-reducing, broad-based agricultural development. Thus, RAU and its
performance in carrying out its education and research mandate is of central,
strategic importance.
3.    Growth, poverty and sustainability of the natural resource base are all
strategic concerns for agriculture in Rajasthan. In that context, and RAU's
role in meeting those concerns, a substantial and sizeable investment in
institutional change and campus development for the university is proposed
under the project. As basic groundwork for such investment, it is necessary
to be clear as to (a) where the system is in terms of existing capability,
capacity, and performance, and (b) how the system needs to evolve to
adequately meet future demands. The purpose of this TOR is to develop a
framework for the necessary analysis, which in turn will provide the basis to
1/    For purposes of this project "agriculture" is defined in a broad sense to cover
crops, horticulture, livestock, and other allied activities, but excluding major and medium
irrigation.



- 104 -
Annex 11
Page 2 of 11
formulate appropriate institutional changes and rationalize complementary
investments in human and physical capital for RAU. For Bank support the
development plan must be satisfactory to the Bank, and continued support is
subject to satisfactory progress in implementation of the reforms identified
in the agreed plan.
4.    There are five general factors that should condition the development of
teaching and research responsibilities of the RAU, and its ability to meet new
challenges. These are:
a.    The increasing interdependence of the state with India as a whole,
as well as with the world because of better transportation
infrastructure, increased levels of trade, modern
information/communication systems and financial intermediation.
b.    The phenomena of economic growth and the resulting increases in
new, effective sources of demand for a complex of non-traditional,
higher value agricultural crops/products.
c.    The limits and fragility of the natural resource base,
particularly with respect to water and the increasing claims made
on water for human and industrial use.
d.    The relatively straight forward agricultural gains of the past
from irrigation, high yielding varieties and fertilizer, or the
shift of land use in response to changes in price policy, e.g.
oilseeds, will not provide the impetus to growth as in the past.
Rather, future growth in agriculture will come from more
incremental changes in the traditional food grains and be
increasingly science-based, knowledge-intensive, market-driven and
dynamic. Growth will increasingly be concentrated in the areas of
livestock, horticulture and other high value crops, particularly
those that are highly productive per unit of water.
e.    In the short term, RAU will find it increasingly difficult to
obtain budgetary support, generate public confidence and
consequently maintain it's already considerable large
institutional base without identifying more cost-effective means
of carrying out its mandate, looking to the private sector for
support (particularly for research), providing a quality education
to its students and producing the practical technological
innovations needed in agriculture.
The Development Plan
5.    Producing a strategic development plan for RAU will require five
individual reviews or working papers as identified by the factors above. Given
that the major stakeholder in RAU is the government and people of the state,
an overall, senior steering committee would be set up to shepherd the
direction and progress of this effort. The effort is too important to burden
RAU alone with the responsibility, nor should the reviews be turned over to
consultants. On the other hand consultants, working for the committee can be



- 105 -
Annex 1 1
Page 3 of 11
profitably utilized to ensure timely and adequate attention to the issues as
well as to introduce a broad and catalytic perspective to the effort.
The Steering Committee would be made up of:
Development Commissioner (Chairman)
Vice Chancellor, RAU
Two Agribusiness Representatives (2)*
Two Farmer Organization Representatives(2)*
Cooperative Representative
Two NGO representatives
Development Studies Institute Director, and
Consultants commissioned for working papers
*     These should not be from the "cooperative" sector in that
this sector is equivalent or very close to parastatal
organizations.
6.    Inclusion of all the Directors of line departments would generate too
large a committee to be workable.  The concerns of these departmentu can be
adequately represented by the APC, and they may be closely involved in the
process of developing the working papers. The six non-government
representatives are particularly important to ensure a broad-based, society-
wide input and ownership in the process.
7.    The responsibilities of the Steering Committee would be to:
i.    Ensure overall comprehensiveness of the planning effort;
ii.   Appoint appropriate membership and chairmen of the working
groups;
iii.  Review progress from time to time in developing the working
papers;
iv.   Ensure adequate synthesis of the five working papers;
v.    Resolve conflict and finalize the RAU development plan; and
vi.   Review, approve and ensure support for the agenda for action
that would implement the reforms and investment programs of
the development plan.
8.    Under the overall guidance of the Chairman of the Steering Committee,
consultants will be employed to provide assistance and advice to RAU and GOR
in planning, policy reform and plan implementation. The requirements for
technical assistance are described in Attachments 1 and 2.



- 106 -                AnnAx
Page 4 of 11
Working Paper No. 1
Future Need for Graduatas in Higher Education in Agriculture
1.    This study is to take stock of current capacity and capability, public
and private, to produce agricultural graduates in Rajasthan and to estimate
the kind and numbers of graduates needed by the year 2010. The working paper
is to:
a.    Inventory public and private capacity to produce agricultural
graduates;
b.    Assess the qualitative nature of the education received by
agricultural graduates (from public and private institutions) over
the last five years by interviewing a meaningful sample of:
- directors of the employing departments in GOR;
- leaders of a comprehensive set of agribusiness employers of
graduates;
- graduates and post graduates of the last five years;
- research and teaching faculty of the various colleges;
- others as appropriate;
Estimate future demand for graduates by discipline and by college.
Particular attention should be given to the need for three
colleges of Agriculture and two colleges of Home Science, and the
underlying demand for their graduates;
d.    Estimate the future qualitative dimensions of education by
disciplines that will be particularly important. Of specific
concern is the capacity of the Udaipur College of Agriculture to
produce graduates in line with future employment opportunities.
The same applies to Dairy Science and the College of Technology
and Agricultural Engineering; and
e.    Identify and estimate the future demand for new course offerings
that should be added, as well as old course offerings to be
dropped.
&Asumpt ions
2.    There are a number of underlying assumptions that are particularly
important to layout and make explicit in carrying out the above, including:
a.    that private agricultural colleges will continue to operate;
b.    public sector employment opportunities will be increasingly
limited for graduates, thus the private sector or self employment
with be increasingly important for a higher proportion of RAU
graduates;
c.    current importance given to grains and veterinary science will
shift in a relative sense to higher value horticultural crops,
forages, animal husbandry and post harvest technology; and
d.    in some discipline areas, it may be preferrable that Rajasthan not
compete with other institutions providing the same degree.



- 107 -                Annex 11
Page 5 of 11
Working Group:
1.    Development Commissioner, Chairman
2.    Vice Chancellor
3.    Heads of Departments
4.    Deans
5.    Others as appropriate



- 108 -
Annex 11
Page 6 of 11
Working Paper No. 2
Future Agrinu1tural Research Program Areas
1.    The purpose of this Working paper is to review the current research
agenda and identify future demands on RAU's research program responsibilities.
This process would build on the Zonal assessment done in connection with the
National Agricultural Research Program (NARP). In particular, the review
would address:
a. The current status of RAU's research agenda and program. This would
be done by program area and then broken down by research project.
Included in this inventory would be the level of effort allocated in
scientist man years as well as with respect to operational fund
availability per program and project area. A qualitative assessment
of the research relevance and practicality would also be made,
noting strengths, weak areas and opportunities for improvements.
b. An assessment of agricultural research programs and projects would
be made of surrounding State Agricultural Universities and centrally
sponsored research institutions, to identify the level of congruence
between their programs and the research program needs of Rajasthan.
c. An assessment of future program and project areas for agricultural
research would be made and rank ordered by priority. The ranking
would be done program area by program area, and again within each
program area, each project would be rank ordered. Rank ordering
entails ranking 1 (the highest priority area) through "n" (the
lowest priority area), not in groups such as high, medium or low.
Of particular importance in rank ordering will be:
- Relative economic importance of program area for the state;
- Current research assets (scientists and facilities);
- The likelihood of applied science leading to practical solutions
to the problems or opportunities to be addressed;
- The identification of areas that have higher priorities than in
the past, e. g., water management, forages, horticulture;
- The identification of programs and projects that have relatively
lower priority.2
d.    Develop a plan of action that would phase out current research
programs and projects judged to be too low in priority given
available resources, or for which the opportunity to rely on other
states/ institutions for comparable research exists.
Correspondingly, develop an action plan that would shift research
resources into the areas identified as requiring new or increased
efforts.
2/     These could be areas where the private sector has a comparative advantage, as
in hybrid cereals, vaccines and poultry, or where agricultural research that is hba1v done
outside the state, or within the state by centrally sponsored institutions, that can be
relied on and therefore areas in which RAU does not have to duplicate efforts.



- 109 -
Annx 11
Page 7 of 11
Assumptions
2.    Important assumptions to consider in developing this working paper:
a.    There are many areas of research interest, but only some of them
are important.
b.    RAU can maximize its impact by concentrating on research areas of
particular importance to the state and areas in which other
research institVutes would not have a comparative interest or
advantage.
c.    Agricultural growth in Rajasthan will be increasingly driven, by
new, effective sources of demand which will translate into new
opportunities for Rajasthan's agriculture to diversify into higher
value products and crops.
d.    Animal husbandry, forages for livestock, water use
efficiency(output per unit of water), and horticultural crops will
be of particular importance in leading the growth and
diversification of Rajasthan's agriculture.
e.    The current numbers of scientists overall will not change, but the
composition of disciplines will change as well as the location of
scientists.
f.    Resources for research will increasingly have to be mobilized
directly form the beneficiaries themselves, e.g., private firms,
farmer groups, etc., and that by 2000, 35 percent of the research
budget will come from clients.
Working Group:
1.    Director of Research (Chairman)
2.    Agribusiness representatives (2)
3.    Farmer representatives (2)
4.    Others as appropriate



- 110 -                Annex 11
Page 8 of 11
Working Paper No. 3
Institutional and Policy Changes for RAU
1.    The objective of this working paper is to identify and address a number
of institutional and policy issues to meet adequately future demands on the
university system. This working paper is partially dependent on the
completion of the previous two. The following issues would to be addressed
and a time-bound program of reform identified to redress the issues
identified. This would include the nature of the reform, the phasing in of
the reform and the locus of responsibility for implementing the reform.
Issues to be addressed are:
a.    Inbreeding of Faculty:  The university requires a wide diversity
of faculty who have earned their Ph.D. degree from outside its own
institution for professional and intellectual improvement.
b.    Standards for New Faculty:  Master's level education is
insufficient to meet the teaching and research requirements placed on
the university, and will be increasingly inadequate in the future.
Consequently, new staff should not be recruited without a Ph.D degree.
c.    Promotion Standards:  For teachers the adequacy of teaching needs
to be evaluated by both students and professional educators. For those
involved in research the quality of their work needs to be judged not
only in terms of general publications, but in terms of publications in
"recognized, referred" journals and by actual adoption and use of their
work by farmers and agribusiness. Promotions should be contingent on
the above.
d.      olatioQn   One function of the university is to identify, bring
in and/or adapt new technologies in agriculture from outside the state
and country, which cannot be done in isolation. Libraries need
improvement, journals updated, a sabbatical leave program established,
modern electronic, real time information systems made available and
attendance at workshops and seminars (within India and internationally)
increased.
e.    Standards for Graduating:  Currently the percentage of marks for
graduating is 45% which is too low to encourage students to obtain a
serious education, or to encourage top performance in instruction.
Increasing the requirement for graduating to 75% over 10 years is
necessary.
f.    Selection of Deans:  Selection of deans on a rotating basis to
serve for 3 years provides insufficient time to ensure continuity of
leadership to develop a program of excellence. The 3-year rotation also
minimizes accountability for the general management and performance of a
department.
g.    Board of Management:    Given the increasing importance of
employment for future graduates outside the government sector, the
relative importance of the farming community and agribusiness needs to
be increased on the Board of Management to insure relevancy and



- 111 -
Page 9 of 11
responsiveness of RAU to the needs of its constituency.
h.    Interdependence Between RAU and Other SAUs:  Possibilities of
partnership arrangements need to be examined, which would allow
cooperating universities to divide up research program responsibilities
between themselves in order to economize on respective resources and
build on respective strengths.
i.    Financial Sustainability:  Up to now RAU has almost totally
depended on GOR and Indian Council for Agricultural Research (ICAR)
funding. While the importance of state funding will remain, ICAR's
funding can not be expected to increase, and means must be devised so
that the financial burden on the state and dependency on ICAR is
reduced. There are two principal ways:
i. Increase fees and tuition for students. For students in the
lower 30 percent of the income class, directed scholarship
programs could be instituted. Raising fees could also be expected
to increase pressure on RAU to provide a relevant and meaningful
education.
ii. Institute cooperative programs with farmer groups, communities
and agribusiness ventures to solve problems and/or meet new
opportunities by directly supporting research projects which RAU
scientists could carry out. This working paper would consider
policies and means to encourage more direct client support of
research scientists.
Assumntions
2.    The basic assumption is that current levels of performance and ways of
doing business, while perhaps sufficient today, with respect to future needs
is insufficient. Secondly, increases in standards of performance or more
appropriate ways of doing business are desirable, possible and the supporting
institutional and policy changes necessary are feasible, albeit not easy in a
political, social or cultural sense.
Working Groups
1.    Chairman, (Someone outside the RAU system and with considerable stature)
2.    Vice Chancellor
3.    Others as appropriate



- 112 -
Annex 11
Page 10 of 11
Working Paper No. 4
Investment Reauirements for Faculty and Staff of RAU
1.    The purpose of this paper is to build on the previous three and develop
a comprehensive investment program aimed at upgrading the human capital of
RAU. Specific attention will be given to the areas listed below. Attention
would also be given, as appropriate, to the systems by which these investments
can be availed of by faculty and be related to faculty performance. The
process and basis of awards and support should be transparent. The support
should not be related to tenure or length of service in a significant or
overriding way.
a.    Sabbatical leave requirements;
b.    A post-doctoral program;
c.    Seminars and Workshops domestically and internationally;
d.    Support for developing text books for graduate-level instruction;
and
e.    Access (via modern communication technologies) to internal and
international data bases.
2.    For each area a specific action plan to implement the findings and
recommendations by the working group is required.
Working Group:
1.    Vice Chancellor, Chairman
2.    Deans and Directors of RAU
3.    Information Technologies expert
4.    Others as appropriate



- 113 -
Annax 11
Page 11 of 11
Working Paper No. 5
Building and Equipment Requirements
1.    On the basis of the previous four papers, a process of developing a
realistically phased schedule of campus and facility building and/or
upgrading, plus equipment procurement, would be undertaken. The purpose of
this working paper is to develop systematically a program of construction and
procurement that is consistent with the educational, research, institutional
and manpower requirements of RAU.
2.    The master planning for the campus would be done with the assistance of
professional architects with recognized experience in campus planning.
International technical assistance, with campus planning experience,
particularly in South Asia is available and would be used in conjunction with
a qualified and experienced Indian architectural firm.
3.    This working paper would be responsible for developing:
a.    An overall master plan for the Bikaner campus;
b.    A rank ordering of new construction priorities for the RAU syatem
as a whole, not just the Bikaner campus;
c.    A time-bound construction plan consistent with priorities,
resources available and construction capacity; and
d.    An equipment procurement schedule complete with necessary
tendering documents.
4.    Complementing the new investment requirements also requires reviewing
the current numbers of secondary and tertiary sub-stations and farms,
including the two large mechanization farms with respect to their utility and
relative importance. This in turn would be used to develop a disinvestment by
RAU of these facilities in order to strengthen the focus of scientific staff,
management resources and attention to the university mandate. Facilities that
have little to contribute to the RAU system should be reduced or eliminated.
Working Groupo
1.    Vice Chancellor, Chairman
2.    Deans and Directors of the RAU system
3.    Others as appropriate
4.    Consultants



- 114 -               Annex 11
Attanhment- I
Technical Assistance (TA) for Rajasthan Agricultural University
Development Plans Planning., Poli6y Reform and Plan Imnlementation
1.    The work necessary to develop a comprehensive development plan is
considerable. The results of such an effort can be improved by having a number
of outsiders involved to provide a wider vision and perspective. While
responsibility for the development plan can not be shifted to consultants,
consultants in this case are to provide assistance and professional advice to
RAU and the GOR. Overall they are to work under the guidance of the Chairman
of the Steering Committee, but on a day-to-day basis work with faculty and
officials as appropriate. Plan implementation also requires attention to the
details of carrying out the reforms and for that purpose a long-term, senior
consultant is provided for. Detailed terms of reference would be the
responsibility of the steering committee but procurement of services would be
the responsibility of the APC.
TA                              person months         Rs.
(000.000},
1.    International Consultant
(Expert in University
system planning and
reform) with three
visits in FY 92/93                   4               1.96
2.    Local Consultants(FY 92/93)*
Research Management/            8                .72
Planning
Livestock                       6                .54
Forages                         2                .18
Production
Horticulturalist                6                .54
Post Harvest
Horticulturalist                4                .36
3.    Plan Implementation                   24               3.0
*     No local consultants should be selected from within Rajasthan or who has
strong ties to Rajasthan to insure the wider perspective and independence
necessary.



- 115 -
Attachment 2
Technical Assistance (TA) for Campus Planning
1.    The proposed investment for RAU's Bikaner campus is substantial.  Given
the long term impacts of any building program, as well as its size, it is
important to develop a comprehensive building program, master plan and
schedule of construction, particularly to ensure cost-effectiveness. This
would also ensure that further expansion requirements that could result from
construction decisions taken on an individual basis are not precluded.
2.    The purpose of this Technical Assistance is access for RAU professional
campus planning and architectural firms with experience in campus planning.
Limited international TA is required to access international experience to
complement the Indian architectural firm with campus planning experience in
India and or the region.
3.    On the basis of the RAU Development Plan and associated working papers,
under the leadership of the Vice Chancellor of RAU, the TA would develop a
campus master plan and subsequent individual building/unit plans that are
ready for tendering, and also oversee the process of construction to ascertain
that it is in accordance to plans and standards tendered for.
Estimated Budget:
(Rs million)
Indian Architectural
Firm                      2     2    2      1     7
International
Consultant                    .7    .8    0      0     1.5



- 116 -



- 117 -
Annex 12
Page 1 of 12
TNDTA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT-RAJASTHAN
RURAL ROADS
Background: The Road Network
1.    The roads network in Rajasthan is less extensive than the all-India
average. The total length of roads in the State is 58,350 kms. This is about
half the national average kms of road per inhabitant, and one third the
average national density of road per sq.km. of surface. Of this network, 75%
is blacktopped, 7% paved and 18% with only gravel/earthen surface. Despite
Rajasthan's comparatively better efforts at maintaining its roads, the
condition of the network has deteriorated to the extent that the great
majority of roads is now just in fair condition. Rajasthan has a low density
of rail lines (5,615 km.), and most of them are meter gauge. The State,
therefore, relies mostly on roads for its transportation. As in the rest of
India, there are five main road classifications:
(a)   National Highways (NH) - 2,840 km, funded by Central Govt;
(b)   State Highways (SH) - 7,747 kms, linking the main centres;
(c)   Major District Roads (MDR) - 3,604 kms;
(d)   Other District Roads (ODR) - 14,987 kms;  and
(e)   Village Roads (VR) - 29,672 kms.
Rural Development and the Rural Roads
2.    Rural roads, which comprise lower category roads like ODRs and VRs,
provide one of the essential infrastructures for achieving the objectives of
integrated rural development and enabling the rural community to overcome
their sense of isolation. The planned development of rural areas can be
achieved effectively by giving top priority to the development of rural roads,
leading to fulfillment of many objectives like provision of food/labor to
cities, balanced regional development, agricultural productivity; and removal
of socio-economic inequalities.
3.    Lack of rural transportation infrastructure often constrains
agricultural development by making it impossible for farmers to market high
value perishable crops, by limiting the adoption of new technologies and by
making farm outputs unremunerative and modern inputs expensive. The
availability of rural roads stimulates agricultural change, weaving
agriculture areas into the national and international economy. Roads create
new markets for farm outputs, giving farmers access to the information and
support services necessary for technological change and improved farm prices.
Rural roads construction thus promotes growth and structural change in
agriculture by stimulating technological change, promoting increases in the
cropped area and shifts to higher-value crops, and by encouraging rural
location of agro-industries and increased commercialization.
Roads and Minimum Needs Program (MNP)
4.    Realizing the importance of Rural Development, GOI launched the Minimum



- 118 -
Annax\ 1 2
Page 2 of 12
Needs Program (MNP) in the Fifth Five-Year Plan (1974-79). Rural roads is an
important aspect of this program. By the end of the Seventh Five-Year Plan in
1990, the target for rural roads was to connect by all weather-roads:
(a)   all villages with a population of above 1,500; and
(b)   50% of villages with a population between 1,000-1,500 (on 1971
census basis).
5.    The 20-year plan for road development (1981-2001) recommends that all
villages above a population of 500 should be connected by all-weather roads by
the turn of the century. This would need construction of about 100,000 km of
roads costing Rs.40 billion (US$1.5 billion) at 1992 prices. In spite of
efforts for nearly four decades, no more than 35-40% of the villages have been
connected so far.
Rural Road Develonment in Raiasthan
6.    Rajasthan's 34 million rural population lives in 33,305 villages, out of
which only 14,436 or 43% were connected by March 31, 1992. Even 1,500 or 20%
of the Panchayat Headquarters have not been connected so far. A statement
showing the district-wise present status of connectivity of the following
category villages, namely, (i) population greater than 1,500, and (ii)
population between 1000 and 1500 is provided in Attachment 1. About 260 out
of 3,300 villages of the first category, and 772 of 2,815 villages of the
second category remained to be connected at the end of April 1992.
Funding of Rural Roads
7.    In addition to GOI's MNP, rural roads are being constructed under the
tribal sub-plan, program for connecting Panchayat Headquarters, anti-dacoity
program, conmnand area development program under the Indira Gandhi Nahar
Project (IGNP) and Bhakra/Ganga Canal, mining industry roads, marketing
development roads, through the employment generating Jawahar Rozgar Yojana
(JRY) and Famine Relief Schemes. On an average, about Rs.200 M is provided
annually through MNP to construct 450/500 kilometers of rural roads. The
State Marketing Board is spending Rs.240 M to construct 600/700 kms of short
stretches of rural roads. In FY 91-92, Rs.87 M was spent through various
other schemes mentioned above. The State Government has plans to connect all
6,115 villages above 1,000 population as per the 1971 census (or above 1,500
as per 1981 census) by 1997 at a cost of Rs.3,000/3,500 M: Rs.850 M from
market communities known as Krishi Upaj Mandi Samitis (KUMS), Rs.1,100 M from
the State Public Works Department (PWD) plan, Rs.950 M under the proposed ADP
and the balance from the Famine Relief, Untied Funds and Districts Works
Schemes.
Role of the Marketing Board
8.    The State Marketing Board was established in 1974 with a view to develop
market yards, rural godowns, primary markets and rural roads, thereby helping
farmers to obtain better prices and consumers to obtain quality products. The
Board has regulatory as well as development functions and plans to develop 138
principal markets and 244 sub-markets. At present, there are about 138 KUMS,



- 119 -
Annex 12
Page 3 of 12
operating in 30 districts of the State. Their areas of jurisdiction are well
defined and cover one or more Panchayat Samitis. Their main source of income
is from the fees collected at the rate of 1.6% on the value of the produce
brought and sold in the markets. The KUMS have spent about 40% of their
income on rural roads since their establishment; they have spent about Rs.943
M and built about 4,072 Km roads. A list of KUMS whose income for the year
1991-92 exceeds Rs.5 M is given in Attachment 2.
9.    So far as the execution of road works financed by the KUMS is concerned,
the following points are observed:
(i)   road works are selected mainly with a view to spread the
activities all over the area (sometimes in response to political
interests) and the roads and cross drainage works are sanctioned
in a piecemeal manner. As a result, the works are not completed
quickly;
(ii)  execution of some road works are delayed because the land is not
given willingly by the farmers and because of the policy of not
paying compensation to farmers for the land so acquired.
Occasionally, there are court cases involving land disputes,
delaying completion of works;
(iii) roads are built with a 3.05 meter carriage way width, against 3.75
meters specified by the Indian Roads Congress (IRC);
(iv)  roads are constructed without compaction of the earthwork in the
road embankment;
(v)   enforcement of quality control is slack; and
(vi)  low priority is given to proper road maintenance.
10.   There is an overlapping of jurisdictions, and often, both the PWD and
the Marketing Board undertake works on the same road. With respect to road
works executed through the PWD, because of the paucity of funds, the works are
sanctioned in stages and take a long time to complete. Land is not acquired
and geometric standards are not strictly followed. The quality of
construction is not much different from the works executed by the Marketing
Board and road maintenance is generally neglected. Often, the renewal is done
with impracticable 13 mm premix carpet. The road works constructed through
famine relief are so inferior and inaccessible that often the traffic has to
follow a totally different route along its side. By the time these roads are
taken up for upgrading, much of the original earth work is lost.
Organization for Rural Roads Construction
11.   The PWD is primarily responsible for the development and maintenance of
rural roads. PWD has prepared a master plan and is monitoring its progress.
However, the plan becomes unmanageable as roads are executed by other
agencies/departments not exactly following the master plan routes. With the
establishment of the Marketing Board, and to cater to local needs, each KUM
has undertaken rural road construction in its respective area. Execution of



- 120 -
Annax 12
Page 4 of 12
these works is done through the Engineering Wing of the Board. The existing
organizational charts of both the PWD and the Marketing Board are provided in
Attachments 3 and 4.
12.   Both the PWD and the Marketing Board's Engineering Wing are well
structured and competent professional organizations. They carry out detailed
survey, investigation, design and execution of all types of roads, bridges,
buildings and civil engineering works. PWD has a well managed computer cell
which helps in maintaining an up-to-date inventory of the State's Road
Network. The Marketing Board also has a professionally managed computer set
up, which is good for management of numerous scattered works. The Department
has also a chain of district and regional laboratories to help with
investigation and quality control. However, there is an urgent need for
establishing field laboratories on the site of works and providing a few
mobile laboratories for more detailed investigations. Projects prepared by
the departments are not up to the mark. This situation would be greatly
improved through better training.
13.   The powers of acceptance for tenders delegated to the PWD and Marketing
Board officials are as follows :
i)    Executive Engineer (PWD and MB)                    Rs.500,000
ii)   Superintending Engineer (PWD and MB)               Rs.l million
iii)  Additional Chief Engineer, PWD                     Rs.4 million
iv)   Chief Engineer, PWD                                Rs.10 million
v)    Secretary, PWD                                     Rs.20 million
vi)   Government (Finance Department)
and Administrator(MB)                              full powers
14.   The officers are empowered to accept tenders up to 20% in excess of
these limits. The size of the packages proposed for this project are such that
very few tenders would require the Finance Department's approval.
The Construction Industry
15.   Except when works are carried out through the employment guarantee
schemes, road and cross drainage works are normally executed by contract. As
a matter of policy and employment generation, GOR has encouraged the growth of
labor-intensive construction through small contracts. Equipment, however, is
not always being used for compaction of earthwork in embankments. Inattention
to this aspect is responsible for deformation of roads under light traffic and
has added to the maintenance burden tremendously. Both the PWD and the
Marketing Board have maintained a system of registering contractors according
to their capability, employment of technical personnel and possession of
minimum plant and equipment, and have categorized them as follows:
i)    A class - eligible for contracts of unlimited amount;
ii)   B class -        -do-        up to Rs.  5 million;
iii)  C class -        -do-        up to Rs.  2 million;
iv)   D Class -        -do-        up to Rs.  500,000;
16.   Since the registrations are not scrutinized or updated regularly, the
data are not dependable. Hence, under the project, contractors would be



- 121 -
Annex 12
Page 5 of 12
subjected to pre/post qualification procedures, before their bids are
accepted.
THE PROJECT
Objectives
17.   The main objectives of the rural roads component of the project are to:
(a)   achieve sustained agricultural development through improvement to,
and expansion of, the rural road infrastructure in the State;
(b)   encourage beneficiary participation in rural road construction;
(c)   strengthen the capability of implementing agencies by training
technical staff and using consultants for detailed engineering and
quality assurance; and
(d)   establish field testing labs and procure mobile laboratories.
Road Selection criteria:
18.   The project will exclude the command area of Indira Gandhi Nahar Project
and would adopt road selection criteria as follows:
(i)   only roads that connect villages of  population (a) 1,500 and
above and (b) between 1,000 to 1,500 (as per 1971 census) as per
the MNP criteria and that are mcre than 2 kms in length will
qualify;
(ii) preference will be given to villages in the jurisdiction areas
covered by the KUMS which have low incomes (less than Rs.5 million
per year as per the latest figures);
(iii) first priority will be given to the MNP target villages, which
have no road connection at present in the following 14 districts
(these districts have good agricultural potential and are not
drought-prone): Alwar, Baran, Bharatpur, Bundi, Chittorgarh,
Dausa, Dholpur, Jaipur, Jhalawar, Jodhpur, Kota, Sawaimadhopur,
Sri Ganganagar and Tonk.
(iv) second priority will be given to upgrading gravel roads connecting
MNP target villages in those districts;
(v)   roads within 1 km of mining areas and those passing through forest
areas on account of their potential danger to ecology would be
excluded; and
(vi) involuntary displacement of people would be avoided or minimized.
Road Construction Standards
19.   As far as practicable, the roads would be built to the IRC standards for



- 122 -
Page 6 of 12
rural roads, salient features of which are:
(i)   the desired carriage-way width would be 3.75 meters and formation
width would be 7.5 meters. Depending upon the availability of
land, a formation width up to 5.5 meters would be acceptable;
(ii)  the desired land reserve would be 20 meters.  However, under
exceptional circumstances, the minimum land width could be 10
meters;
(iii) the minimum radius of horizontal curve would be 45 meters;
(iv)  the pavement thickness would be designed on the basis of sub-grade
California Bearing Ratio (CBR) Value, following IRC 37-1984
guidelines for the design of flexible pavement;
(v)   the roads will be given a dust proofing treatment of 20 mm premix
carpet with seal coat;
(vi)  special precautions would be taken to protect road embankments in
black cotton soils and in desert regions; and
(vii) the roads would be built to all-weather standards along with the
necessary cross drainage structures of appropriate design to cater
to the site conditions and projected traffic.
Tyjpcal Road Cross section
20.   Typical cross sections for two types of road works involving: a) new
construction; and b) upgrading are at Attachment 5.
Unit Con n stmates
21.   Based on the Schedule of Rates in May 1992, the new construction would
cost Rs.600,000 per km, while upgrading gravel surface roads would cost
Rs.450,000 per km. However, these costs do not include possible land
acquisition for improvement to road geometrics as this would not be
reimbursable under the project. These estimates are given in Attachment 6.
Soope of tha Project
22.   A detailed map showing:  (a) the 14 Districts covered by the project;
(b) the Indira Gandhi Nahar Project area; and (c) KUMS having FY91 Income of
more than Rs. 5 million, is provided in Attachment 7. A statement showing a
market-wise/district-wise abstract of about 1670 kms of priority I&II road
works in the 14 agriculturally predominant districts is given in Attachment 8.
Project Management and TMplementation
23.   The project sub-component would be regularly reviewed and monitored by
the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in the office of the Development
Commissioner. However, for closer control of this sub-component, a technical
committee, headed by the Secretary PWD, and Administrator, Marketing Board as



- 123 -                         Annex 12
Page 7 of 12
member and the Chief Engineer, PWD as Member-Secretary, would be constituted.
The committee would: give advance approval to the annual investment plans;
ensure adequate funding for execution according to the implementation
schedule; resolve any staffing and other day-to-day problems in
implementation; expedite approval of all contracts sent to the Finance
Department; and monitor and review progress of the component.
24.   The Chief Engineer, PWD Roads would be fully responsible for the
implementation of this component of the project. In the field, the existing
PWD/Marketing Board Engineering staff would be organized to place exclusive
divisions in charge of the execution. The road works located in six districts
(Alwar, Jaipur, Dausa, Tonk, Chittor and Jodhpur) would be the responsibility
of the Marketing Board, while works in the remaining districts would be the
responsibility of PWD. For execution, the works would be grouped into
packages of 25 to 40 kms (Rs.10 M to 20 M) in the different KUMS areas. The
packages would then be distributed amongst the different field divisions. The
Chief Engineer, PWD would also exercise technical quality control over the
works executed through the Marketing Board. He would monitor progress and
coordinate processing of reimbursement claims, prior to submitting them to the
PCU. In respect of works executed by the Marketing Board, audit reports
through independent auditors would be acceptable. However, they would be in a
format acceptable to the Bank. The organization chart for the proposed
arrangement is attached as Attachment 9.
25.   Because of its small organization, the Marketing Board would contract
consultants for Survey and Detail Engineering. The contracting of the
consultants, under terms of reference acceptable to IDA, would be a condition
of disbursement of the rural roads component.
26.  Contract supervision through consultants is not envisaged on this
project mainly because it has not been tried even on National Highway works
involving advanced technology and sophisticated equipment. Rural roads under
the project are mainly labor-intensive works combined with simple but
appropriate compaction/bitumen or concrete mixing equipment. In order to
ensure that works financed under the project are carried out according to
specifications and to the desired quality standards, independent consultants
would be appointed as Technical Examiners to inspect and verify the quality of
works. Their verification would be attached to claims for reimbursement. The
Technical Examiners would visit works in progress at least once a month and
submit their reports directly to the Secretary, PWD and the Administrator,
Marketing Board. In order to ensure fairness and accuracy, the consultants
would be rotated frequently from district to district.
27. Procurement of all works, goods and services would be done according to
IDA guidelines. All civil works would be procured through Local Competitive
Bidding (LCB) since it is unlikely that contracts would be large enough to
attract international bidders and given the locally dispersed nature of the
works. For the purpose of bidding, the works can be grouped as follows:



- 124 -
AnnBx 12
Page 8 of 12
(a)   LCB Contracts tUSS35 Million): To the extent possible, roads
within an individual KUM area would be grouped into packages of
not less than US$0.5 M equivalent. LCB contracts would be based
on detailed engineering designs and a standard bidding document
approved by the Bank. The contracts would be item rate contracts
and no materials would be supplied by GOR. No negotiations would
be carried out with the contractors. Land whenever necessary
would be acquired prior to issuing tenders. Foreign contractors
would not be precluded from participating in LCB.
(b)   Force Account (USS5 M):  GOR wants about 10% of the works to be
done through community participation. Some works, started after
April 1, 1992 through local contracting procedures, would be
eligible for retroactive financing.
28.   Packages of vehicles, equipment, machinery, furniture, etc. costing more
than US$200,000 equivalent would be procured according to International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. Bid packages of less than US$200,000
equivalent but more than US$20,000 equivalent would be procured following LCB
procedures. For small items that cannot be packaged under LCB and costing
US$20,000 or less, local shopping procedures satisfactory to the Bank shall be
applied.
29.   All bidding packages and bid evaluation reports for civil works
estimated to cost over US$200,000 equivalent, equipment and vehicles estimated
to cost US$100,000 equivalent and contracts for consultancy services are
subject to Bank's prior review. The remaining contracts would be subject to
the Bank's post review.
Proiect Implementation
30.   Project implementation is planned for five years, and the roads
component has been planned in such a way that bids for the first year's
program would be ready for acceptance by the time the project becomes
effective. Annual programs for subsequent years would be approved in advance
so that their execution would not be delayed. All civil works contracts would
be awarded in the first two years. Some of the identified roads would be
started immediately after appraisal and would be eligible for retroactive
financing. According to the detailed implementation and procurement schedule,
program targets would be as follows:



- 125 -
Annex 12
Page 9 of 12
S*j1     Ujfnit.    Program for the year                                            Total
HQ_                                           9293  93-94  94-95  95-96   96-97
Physical
1.    First Priority
a)    New Roads                   Kms          80    200        280   280       295   1135
b)    Participatory
construction                Kms          --       5         5      9        9     28
2.    Second priority
Upgrading                   Kms          --      60       145   150      150    505
3.    Mobile Labs                 No            1       1        --    --        --       2
4.    Field Labs                  No            4      14        --    --        --      18
5.    Consultancy                 mm
a)  Detail Eng.                         130    130         --    --       --    260
b)  Tech. Examiner                        3       5         6      6        6     26
6.    Staff Training              SW           10      20        20    25        --      75
Financial  (Rs. Ml                Unit
cost
1.    First Priority
New Construction            0.6          48    120        168   168       177    681
Participatory
construction             0.4          --       2         2      4        4      12
2.    Second Priority
Upgrading                   0.45         --      27        65  67.5    67.5    227
3.    Mobile Labs                 1.5         1.5    1.5         --    --        --       3
4.    Field Labs                  0.017       0.7    2.3         --    --        --       3
5.    Consultancy
a) Detailed Engineering  0.055          7.5    7.5         --    --        --      15
b) Technical Examiner    0.055          0.2    0.2        0.3   0.4       0.4    1.5
6.    Staff Training              0.02        0.2    0.3        0.5   0.5        --    1.5
Total                                  58.1  160.8    236.8 237.4   248-994



- 126 -
Annex 12
Page 10 of 12
Land AcqUisition
31.    Generally, a 20 meter right of way is required. Of this, 10 m is
supposed to be available for every road. However, wherever the roadway is
less and geometric improvements are necessary, additional land may have to be
acquired. If land acquisition is found to be necessary, to expedite the
process, immediately after finalization of road alignment, land plans and
schedules shall be prepared and Section 4A notification issued without waiting
for the completion of detailed engineering. Special Land Acquisition Officers
(SLAOs) should be posted in the Marketing Board or alternatively, the SLAOa
with the PWD should also handle the Marketing Board cases. To expedite the
process, the urgency clause under Section 17 of the Land Acquisition Act
should be applied and in addition, committees at the District Collector's
level should be constituted to finalize land purchases through Negotiated
Awards. In any case, PWD/MB Officials would not award contracts unless the
required land is in their possession.
Environmental Impact
32.   The direct environmental impact of the roads component would be
minimal, since the proposed roads will (a) not pass through classified forests
or ecologically sensitive areas, (b) be located in geologically stable zones,
(c) be built at a distance of at least 1 km from existing or potential mining
areas, and (d) be built mainly on existing alignments. Other adverse impacts
would be further minimized by adherence to the prescribed selection criteria
for tracks, design and construction standards.
Road Maintenance
33.   Because of limited funds, road maintenance in Rajasthan is neglected.
Further, there is more emphasis on diverting funds for building more and more
roads. The Marketing Board has now issued directives that at least 25% of
their Road funds should be spent on maintenance. On PWD roads, maintenance
grants have increased from Rs.608 Million to Rs.950 Million during the last
three years compared to only 4% increase in the road length. This, however,
is only about 60% of the requirement as per the norms fixed by the Ninth
Finance Commission. At present, maintenance funds are allocated as per the
following guidelines:
(i)   Ordinary repairs                   ---25%
(ii)   Renewals                           ---30%
(iii)   Special Repairs                    ---35%
(a)  Road widening                ---10%
Strengthening                ---15%
Improvements %               --- 5%
(b)  Bridges                      --- 5%
(iv)   Traffic Safety                     --- 5%
(v)   Flood Damages                      --- 5%



- 127 -                          Annrx 12
Page 11 of 12
34.   Under the ongoing State Roads Project (Cr. 1959 IN/Ln. 2994-IN), the
State would be participating in a Pavement Management Study. The GOR would
consider the outcome of the study, and revise its maintenance policies. The
GOR has given an assurance that all roads built under the project would be
maintained by the PWD, which would systemize rural road maintenance on the
basis of the recommendations of the above study. In principle, GOR has no
difficulty in transferring the responsibility of roads built by the Marketing
Board to PWD. However, the PWD wants a corresponding increase in their
maintenance budget. The issue needs to be resolved expeditiously.
Economic Analysis
35.   An economic analysis for five representative rural roads has been
prepared. The results and the methodology of economic evaluation for the road
sub-component is described in Annex 5.
Road Network Planning
36.   Since the road development master plans are old and the development
through various agencies has not been done strictly according to those plans,
there is an urgent need for revising these plans according to the ground
reality. If possible, fresh plans should be prepared following an optimum
network approach.
Follow up Actions
37.   In order to develop and implement the road component expeditiously, the
appraisal mission agreed with the GOR authorities that the following actions
should be taken immediately:
-     identify first priority roads as per the agreed criteria by May
31, 1992;
-     carry out a reconnaissance of identified roads by June 15, 1992;
-     review program and cost estimates, finalize packages, decide upon
implementation schedule and identify field units responsible for
realization of each package by June 30, 1992;
-     Marketing Board should prepare TOR and documents to procure
consultants for detailed engineering and get the Bank's approval
for the short list of consultants and appoint them by July
15,1992
-     start surveys and detailed engineering of the first year's
program of about 200 Kms of roads, to be completed by September
15, 1992;
-     if land acquisition is necessary, initiate the process
immediately after alignments are finalized;
-     prepare draft bidding documents for the procurement of civil
works and lab equipment, with the help of models provided by the
Bank to the Chief Engineer (Roads), PWD and have them cleared by
the Bank in New Delhi by July 31,1992;
-     give administrative approval to the roads program by September
30, 1992;
-     invite bids and keep evaluation reports ready for acceptance of
bids by December 31, 1992; and



- 128 -                          AD--= 12
Page 12 of 12
-     prepare a training program tailored to the needs of officials of
PWD and the Marketing Board.
Prograss Reporting
38.   Detailed formats for the computerized system developed on the Gujarat
Rural Roads Project (Cr. 1757-IN) for progress reporting and project
monitoring were provided to PWD/MB Engineers for their use on this project.



AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROIECT RAIASTHAN
ROADSCOMPONENT
Road connectivity in Rapsthan as on April 1.1992;
Villages with population of 1500 and above           Villages with population of 1000 to 1500 I/
Sl       ~    IDidritk            B/T      Metl    Gravel        No       Total no.       B/T        Metal    Gravel        No      Total no.
road     road       road     of villages                 road       road       road    of villages
1. Ajmer                        105         3        13       -             121           54           9        39          4         166
2. Alwar                        138         3        18         20          179            80         13        11         80         184
3. Banswara                      52         1         4       -              57            47          3         2         16          68
4. Barmer                       103         8        43          1          155            35          5        86          7         133
5. Bharatpur                     87         2        13         20          122            59          9      --           74         142
6. Bhilwara                     114         6        18          1          139            56         14        64         13         147
7. Bikaner                       44      -            9          5           58            23      -         ,5             5         33
8. Bundi                         35         3         6          2           46           '18          1                   24         43
9. Chittorgarh                   67         7        12          3           89            39         14        18          8          79
10. Churu                         41         1        19         20           81           41          5         17        48         111
li. Dholpur                       20         7         4         16           47           16          2          1        23          42
12. Dungarpur                     66         3        13          1           83           37          5         18         2          62
13. Jaipur                       205        10        18         29          262           64         17         11        91         183
14. Jaisalmer                     11      -            I       -              12            7       -             1      -              8
15. jalore                        77         8        47          5          137           40          6         65         4         115
16. Jhalawar                      27         2         1          2           32           26          3         19        22          70
17. Jhunihunu                    116        19         9         22          166           47         11       --          50         108
18. Jodhpur                      130         9        50       -             189           70          9         39         1         119
19. Kota                          64         1         2         t2           79           32          2          1        38          73
20. Nagaur                       124         9        59          7          199           42          8         67        30         147
21. Pali                         113        17        36       -             166           52          9         49         6         116
22. S. Madhopur                  106         5        25         28          164           64          4         14        70         152
23. Sikar                        114         4        13         24          155           41          3         28        68         140
24. Sirohi                        67         3         4       -              74           34                    13      -             47     
25. S. Canganagar                180                --           24          204           88       -          --          49         137              :S
26. Tonk                          45         3         7         12           67           19          4         12        22          57
27. Udaipur                      156         7        49          5          217          115         13         48        17         193
TOTAL                      2407        141      493        259         3300          1246        169       628        772        2815
1 / Population figures are on 1971 census data



130                             Annex  12
Attachment 2
-         ~~INDIA
ACRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROIECr RAIASTHA
ROADS COMPONT
List of Krishi Upaj Mandi Samitis
Income more than Rs.50 lakhs
1991-92
Sl.No.      ~~DISTRIC                    K.U.M.S.            Income for
1991-92
(Rs. lakhs)
1.      JAIPUR                      Jaipur (Grain)                   276.29
Jaipur (F&V)                    138.18
2.      AJMER                       Ajmer                             57.83
Beawar                           86.16
3.      ALWAR                       Alwar                            175.67
Kherli                 -         88.35
Khairthal                        82.69
4.      BHARATPUR                   Bharatpur                        139.48
S.      NAGAUR                      Nagaur                            72.20
Mertacity                        64.61
6.      SRIGANGANAGAR               Sriganganagar                    284.90
Raisinghnagar                    69.43
Padampur                         50.67
Anoopgarh                        69.98
Charsana                        121.27
Hanumangarh                     202.98
Sangaria                         88.05
Sadulshahr                       88.05
I'ilibanga                       75.80
7.      BIKANER                     Bikaner                          141.09
8.      KOTA                        Kota                             219.70
R/ Mandi                         57.67
9.      BARAN                       Baran                             90 2
10.      SWAIMADHOPUR                Gangapurdty                      85.70
11.      BUNDI                       Bundi                            56.77
12.     UDAIPUR                      Udaipur                          60.87
13.     JODHPUR                     Jodhpur                          223.00
14.      PALI                        Sumerpur                        192.28



INDIA
C.A.D.P. - RAJASTHAN
EXISTING ORGANISATIONAL CHART (PWD)* ROADS.
SE/TARTARY
C E & ADDE SECY                               I C E ROD  I                                             CE ROADS 11
NH., BLDG. IAdmn.                             | STATE ROADS                                      W BANK If IDA  C.R.F. etc.
SE/TA
ACE                 ACE                                   ACE             ACE             ACE              ACE(li)
Jaiptr              Aler              Jodhpur             Bkaner           Kota           Udaipur          Jaipur
EEOC                 E                                                [+    k]            EEOC    |     EEO
1-                             ~~~~~~~~2 SE
5 SE                                     ~~~~        ~       ~~~~~4 SE  3SE    1S              Bharatpur
3E        3SE                    3 Bikaner2 Kota                          I5              Jaiptur
Jaipur         2 AJmer.' i'Iwa"a       JodI3,ui      1 Ganganagar        1 S.Madhopur     1 Banswari
I     I                         ~~~~~~~~~~Bharatpur  2 EE
Jaipur    10EE         A#mer    5 EE      Jodhpur   5 EE    Bikaner   9EE    Kota        4 EE     Udalptur    6 EE-   Dholpur    2 EE
Ahwar     3EE          E lwara  3EE       Pal       3EE    Churu       2 EE    Baran     1 EE     Dungarpur 1 EE    Torik      I EE
Sika      2EE          TorNk     1 EE     Jalsalmer  2EE    Garnganagar 5EE    Jhalawar   1 EE    Banswara  2EE    Jiu          E
Jhurhunu 2 EE          Nagaur   2 EE      Jalore    1 EE                      Bund       1 EE    CIitorgarh 2 EE              2
Dausa    IE hE                            Banner    2 EE                      S.Madhopur 3EE    siroes      1 EE 
slmNt    IlEE                                                                                   f
Note In adcltion to roads, the zonal ACE & statl works unider other CE for their restrictive spheres.n 



INDIA
C.A.D.P - RAJASTHAN
RURAL ROAD COMPONENT
EXISTING ORGANISATIONAL CHART OF R.S.A.M. BOARD
CHAIRMAN/ADMINISTRATOR
TECH. ASSISTANT TO
CHAIRMANIADM (S.E.)
EX. ENGINEER OLTY.
CONTROL
0 SECRETARY  |   | CHIEF ACT. OFFICER   L | SR- TOWN PLANNER   }  j SUPT. ENGINEER  SUPT. ENGINEER
.~~~FHE ACT OFIE                                            CICE-ICICE-
SR. ACT. OFFICER |)
DY.DIRECTOR   DY.DIRECTOR     AM 0        AM 0       AM 0        A MO
STAISTICS     PU8LICIT     PROJECTS | E           ENQUIRY |LEGAWELFARE       . .        .
EX.ENGINEER EX.ENGINEER    EX.ENGINEER    EX.ENGINEER    EX.ENGINEER
JAIPUR - I    HANUMANGARH     BIKANER      GANGANAGAR       JODHPUR         UDAIPUR
EX.ENGINEER        IEXNGINEERI    EXENGINEER      EX.ENGINEERI   E;EGINEER
|JIAIPUR 11,|                      AJMER            KOTA          B
nrX



INDIA
AGRICULTURAL  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT
RAJASTHAN
(oads Component)                                    SCM EXISTING GRAVEL
ISCM GRAVEL BASE COARSE
7-5 CM  STONE METAL GRADE 11
7-5 CM  STONE METAL GRADE 1I
2CM TOP COURSE B.T.
k                 ~~~6-00 M   -_  _ _ _ 
~~- 1.~-OS M
*0i  v_          . 3_75 M -_                              20 CM OUARRPY  RUBISH ON
I 214 CAMBER                   
/  E|W WTH    EXI TING. GRAVEL ROAD                             
/  95; RO.   /        WITH4 EARTH WORK  X
UP GRADED ROAD
.4-2-5 M   l-  15 0 M                                             .-, 2-5 M
______________0_____   ______    2CM    TOP   COURSE    B.T.
7-5CM  STONE METAL GRADEII
,t ~~~4 05 m                                  _7 5 CM STONE METAL GRADE 11
NEW-RURL RAD   3I7H Pm                 ETAL        R     0 CM STONE M ETAL GRADE I
2i CAMBER                                    20 CM  URR\RUBISH ON 
RECOMMENDED  X C NS                     HULDER-
/,  EMBANKMENT  195gp d. }                         \
~~~~~NEW- RURAL'ROADS WITH  POTENTIAL FOR TRAFFIC GROWTH '>
:      -2-5 M   '                                          . 1510  M                                                      2          2-5,Mv,
NOTEt- t 20 cm sand bedding should b e Provided below  the granular sub base 
or road lenglhs in  black  cotton  soil areas.                                         -,rt 
| RECOMMENDED X- SECTIONS |          -ol
. .  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
!   *   -                        ,                                                                        |       tn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:



- 134 -                           Annex 12
Attachment 6
Page 1 of 2
--      '        [~~NDIA 
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROTECT RAJASTHAN
ROADS COMPONENT
Rural Road Construction Unit Costs
Items             Unit Price         New normal road    Upgrading from Gravel to B/T
Quantity/Km    Cost/Km   Quantity/Km    Cost/Km
I            Earthwork
1.   Jungle clearance with       1/Sqm         11500 Sqm         11500.00       -             -
removal of top organic
material, dressing of ground,
etc.
2.    Formation of embankment   15.40/Curn    9500/Cum          146300.00    3000.00         46200.00
including compaction
Sub-total     157800.00                    46200.00
ll           Road Crust
1.    Base coarse by gravel or   78.20/Cum     408 Cum           31906.00 1027.65 Cum        80362.00
quarry rubbish with
strengthening of shoulders
2.-   Stone metal grade I Max. 90   112.20/Cum    538 Cum        60364.00       --            -
mm (av. lead 20 KM)
3.    Stone metal grade l1 Max. 63  119.20/Cum    765 Cum        91188.00   765 Cum          91188.00
mm (av. lead 200 KM)
4.    Binding material (Morrum)   62.20/Cum    261 Cum           16234.00   153 Cum           9517.00
(av. lead 40 KM)
5.    Stone grit top course (av.  232.00/Cum    105 Cum          24360.00   105 Cum          24360.00
lead 40 KM)
6.    Crusher sand (av. lead 40    90.20/Cum   24 Cum             2165.00    24 Cum           2165.00
KM)



- 135 -                           Annex 12
AttacVleent 6
4ge 2' f'2`
INDIA- 
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROTECT RATASTHAN
ROADSQCOMPENT
Rural Road Construction Unit Costs
S.No.            Items              Unit Price        New normal road    Upgrading from Gravel to B/T
Quantity/Km    Cost/Km   Quantity/Km    Cost/Km
7.    Maxphalt 80/100            5500/MT       12 MT            66000.00    12 MT          66000.00
8.    Labour charges Top course   50.50/10/Sqm  3825 Sqm        19317.00  3825 Cum          19317.00
Sub-total     311534.00                  292909.00
m1            Stucture
Culvert (RCC NP-3) One     64000/LS      I No.            64000.00    1 No.          64000.00
Sub-total      64000.00                   64000.00
TV          K.M. Stones, etc           2000.00  L.S.             2000.00     LS.             2000.00
Sub-total       2000.00                    2000.00
TOTAL        535334.00                  405109.00
Basis of rates: Current schedule on 1991 B.S.R.,
Jaipur PWD Circle-I                                       10000.00                     8000.00
Add Improvement of Road                    Sub-total     545334.00                  413109.00
geometrics
54532.00                   41311.00
Add 1 0% to bring the rates at           Base cost       599866.00                   454420.00
par on current schedule rate
Say           Rs.6 lakh                RsA.50 lakh
/KM                     /KM



C.A.DP. RAJASTHAN
RURAL ROAD COlEN
_ ''K|
LEGEND: * 
* KUmS or IWCOME  WOE ITHAN  .O0 LAC/YS EA
O     K UN S Of "COME LESS tHHA  Wo LACSIYEAR
I GNP COMNANO AR/EA
-    UISII.UHOER C. A.O.P.IXURAL ROMOS.



- 137 -                       Annex 12
Tt achment 8
Page 1 of 4
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROTECr RATASTHAN
-           ~~~Rural Road Compoent
District-wise abstract of priority roads
Si.         District       Total lngh  Unconnected   Gad           Metal
No.                           in Km.
Rajasthan State Agriculture Marketing Board
1  Jaipur                       175.5       128.0        47.5          -
2  Jodhpur                      33.0            -        27.0         6.0
3  Tonk                         194.0        87.0       104.5         2.5
4  Alwar                        145.5       121.5        24.0          -
5  Dausa                        74.5         47.0        27.5          -
6  Chittorgarh                  129.5        45.5        76.0         8.0
Total                       752.0        429.0       306.5        16.5
Public Works Departnent
7  Dholpur                      120.5        95.0        25.5          -
8  Bharatpur                    202.9        136.5 -     64.4         2.0
9  Jhalawar                     93.7         60.6         7.0        26.1
10  Kota                         28.5         28.5          -           -
11  Baran                        58.5         58.5
12  Bundi                        21.0         21.0          -
13  Sawai Madhopur               105.5       163.5        32.0
14  Sriganganagar                195.7       139.3        58.4          -
Total                       826.3        702.9       187.3        28.1
GRAND TOTAL                1670.3       1131.9       493.8        44.6
Priority for construction                    I       -II        Mixed



INDIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMFNW PROTELT RAIASTHAN
RURAL RQADSCOMPONENT
Abstract showing proposed connectivity of villages with more than 1000 populatjon as per Census 1971
Income       Villages to be connected    Popumation      Rcmaining villages 2 Km      Population
durg         by roads of 2 to 125 Km     O1971) to be   No.    Length    Cost (in   (1971) to be
SL          District            K.U.MS.         1-2          No.    Length    Cost (in   connected                         lakhs)    connected
(in lakh))                      lakhs)
I1.    ALWAR               Behror                   1.87       17      67.50     390.00       22,162         6      8.00      32.00         8,431
Govindgarh              5.50        9      35.00     207.00       10,691         1       1.00      4.00         1,374
Rajgarh                 3.78       11      43.00     240.00       13,805         1      1.00       4.00         1,032
Sub-total          11.15       37     145.50     837.00       46,658         8      10.00     40.00        10,837
2.    BARAN                Anta                     5.19        3      13.50      81.00        3,378        -         -- 
Atru                    9.42        8      36.00     216.00        9,628         1      1.50       6.00         1,868
Chhabra                 14.63       2       9.00      54.W         2,108                   -                -
Sub-total          29.24       13      58.50     351.00       15,114         1       1.50,     6.00         1,868
on
3.    BHARATPUR            Bayana                  31.34       13      55.00     323.00       15,148        -         -          -
Deeg                   42.67        5      23.00     138.00        6,303         -         --        -
Kaman                  21.08        8      32.00     175.50       10,897         -         -         -
Nagar                  21.64       10      40.00     228.75       10,593         3      4.00      14.00         4,618
Nadbai                 43.92       11      52.85     248.33       18,741         -         -         -             --
Sub-total          160.65      47     202.85    111358        61,682         3      4.00      14.00         4,618
4.    BUNDI                K. Patan                 7.09        3      15.00      90.00        3,590
Sumerganj Mandi         6.64        2       6.00      36.00        3,628         -              -           -
Sub-total           13.73       5      21.00     126.00        7,218         0      0.00       0.00            0
* 01
rna
o03
42w1
0t



Incone       Vilbges to be connected     Population     Remaining villages 2 Km      Population
during       by roads of 2 to 125 Km     (I971) to be   No.    Length    Cost (in   (1971) to be
5Sl         Distict            K.U.MS.         199192      No.    Length    Cost (in   connected                          lakhs)    c1mnected
Q      (ian bakhs)                     lakhs)
5.    CHIrTORGARH          BariSadri               9.85        5      16.00      74.00        6,368        1       1.00      4.00         1,915
chittorgarh            12.02        6     37.00     183.50        8,445         -         -         -
Kapasen                12.59        3     19.00      88.50        3,865         -        -          -             -
Nlnmbhahera            37.26        5     39.50     178.25        7,013         -         -
Pratapgarh             29.62        2     18.00      88.00        2,352         -         -
Sub-total         101.34       21    129.50     612.25        28,043        1      1.00       4.00       '1,915
6.    DAUSA                Bandikui               24.42       14      54.50     285.75       22,927        -         -          _
Dausa                  22.69        2      7.00      42.00        2,569         -         --        -
Lalsot                 46.63        3     13.00      78.00        3,760         -        -          -
Sub-total          93.74       19      74.50    405.75        29,256        0      0.00       0.00            0
.7.    DHOLPUR                Bari                    430        19      63.00    359.25        25,20         2       2.00      8.00'        3,770
Dholpur                19.69       18     57.50     325.50       23,771         5      5.00      18.50        5,981, 
Sub-total          23.99       37    120.50     684.75        48,791        7      7.00      26.50         9,751
8.    JAIPUR               Chaksu                 16.49        7      37.00     199.50        8,657        -         -         -             -
Chomnu                 48.81       11     43.00     246.00        15p027        -         -         -         ;
Kishangarh Rcnwal      21.06       11     42.00     252.00       13,537         -        _          _         ;
Kotputli               18.08       11     34.00     181.50       18,8W          1      1.(10      4.00        .A,079
Naraina                 2.12        4     19.50     102.75        6,319         1      1.50       6.75        1L434
Sub-total         106.56       44    175.50     981.75       62,4(X)        2      250       10.75        '3,513
9.    JHALAWAR             Bhawani Mandi          17.61        7      53.50    248.25         9,316        -                  - -         ;  -             ,
Eklera           ,      3.60        3     11.00      60.00        4,132         2      3.10      13.95        2,269             P t P
Jhalarapatan           13.62        4     19.20      92.1()       4,702        -         --                      - _            ID  n
Khanpur                 4.60        1     10.(10     60.00        J,171                             _            _ -                  X
Sub-total          39.43       15     93.70     460.35       19,321         2      3.10      13.95        2,269             o 0
rt



-   Inmme    Vflages to be connected      lbiation       Remaining villages 2 Kmn     Pgubbtk
dundg        by roads of 2 to 12.5 Km     271) e        No.    Length   Cost (in   (1971 o be
a Db K U.M.S.                                   1991-92     No.    Laigti    Cost on    connected              hkhs)                     xmOd
124                                            flakks                           lakhs)
10.   JODHUR                Plpar qy                738         4      24.00      96.00        5,606         _         _          _
Jodhpur(W&V)           40.02        1       9m        40.50         1,075        -         -          -    -
Sub-011l1          47.40        S      33.00     136.50        6,681         0       om        o.0o           (a
11.   KOTA                  Ibmws                   19.69       4      23.50     141.          4,612         -         -          -             -
Sangod                  3.30        1       sm        30.0          1,006        -         -    '    - 
Sub-totl           22.99        5      2850      171.          5,618         0       0.00      om      .
1Z    SAWAI                Hlndatm                 42.61       15      61.m      345.5         20,541        -         -          -            -
MODHOPtUR            Mahuwa Mandawar         27.98        5      18.50      98.25        7,042
SMadhopur              34.45       25    116.        681M          30,299        -         --         -            -
Sub-total         105.04       45    195.50    1125.           57,882        0       00       om 0             0
13.   TONK                  DeOi                    14.29       7      33.00     160.50        10,575        -         -          -             -
Malpura                22.39        6      38.       178.50        7,174         -         -          -            -
Newai                  34.84        5      22.50     115.50        6,311         -
Toda                    5.35       10      49.00     26100         13,874        -
Tonk                   25.61        8      42.50     237.75        10,803        -         -          -
Unir                    3.43        2       9.        46.50        2,229         -         -          -            -
Sub-total         105.91       38    194.00      999.75       50,966         0       0.00      0.00             0
14.   SRIGANGANAGAR   Bhadra                                   16      79.70     422.10        2331737- 
Nohar                              15    118.00      676.50       22,256         -         -         -             -
Sub-total           0.00       31    197.70    1098.60        45,573                                                            P a
OQ rt~
GRANDTOTAL            861.17        2    1670.25    210328       48520         24      29.10     115.20        34.771
0 n
Ftc



INUIA
CADP - RAJASTHAN
RURAL ROADS rOMPONENT
PROPOSED ORBANISATION SET UP
TECHNICAL COMMITTEE
TECH. EXAMINER                        SCEuCYAoN. APWl
AD M[NISTRATOR
CHIEF ENGINEER PWD                                        ASGMB
MONITORING    l          |RULITY C3K7TR70L7l.                                         
';   E;  ffi    [@] etailEn g
'-E
ft. 



I



- 143 -
Annex13
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
ArRICULTUlAL DRVELOPMRNT PROJECT - RAJASTHAN
RURAL ROADS COMPONRNT:
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CONSULTANCY SERVICES
TECHNICAL EXAMINER
Background
1.    The works under the project are small and so widely scattered, that it
becomes impossible to have these supervised by independent national or
international consultants. On the other hand, the departments have already
established divisions and subdivisions in the field, which can be economically
used for proper supervision. Unfortunately, due to frequent transfers of
officers and inadequate control, the quality of works is far from
satisfactory. In view of this, on this IDA-assisted project, independent
expert consultants would be appointed to work as TAchnical Examiners, who
would guide the departmental officers and advise GOR on quality assurance and
monitoring. At least two or three consultants would be empaneled and they
would inspect new works on every visit, to avoid collusion between the parties
involved.
2.    The objectives of introducing the Technical Examination of the road and
bridge works carried out by the Agricultural Marketing Board (MB) and the
Public Works Department (PWD) under the project are mainly to:
(a)   assist during the construction and planning stage and setting up
work methods with special emphasis on high quality;
(b)   prepare a quality assurance program to ensure that the
construction is carried out to the expected standards and
prescribed specifications;
(c)   fulfill partially the need for appointing full time consultants
for contract supervision to identify faults, omissions,
inconsistencies, ambiguities in design and construction, and
adherence to schedules;
(d)   advise GOR on contract administration and on problems arising
during construction, including recommendations if required;
(e)   provide an independent check on the works financed under the
project for quality assurance; and



- 144 -
Annex 13
Page 2 of 3
(f)   ensure that the expenditures are commensurate with progress and
that substandard works are excluded from reimbursement claims.
The Superintending Engineers of PWD/MB will be in overall charge of the
execution of works under the project. They will work as "Engineers" on behalf
of the GOR and administer the contract agreements with the different
contractors. The tenders for works would be invited by the Superintending
Engineers PWD/MB and awarded by PWD/MB.
3.    The Consultancy will be effective as soon as GOR finalizes the proposal.
The period of consultancy will be 12 months initially, and may be extended
from time to time with mutual consent.
Scope of Work
4.    The assignment will cover all 14 districts where road construction will
be undertaken under the project either through the Marketing Board or the
Public Works Department. The consultant will:
(a) help PWD/MB in preparing the quality assurance program and
rendering advice on suitability of construction methods, equipment
and machinery, proposed to be used and the sequence of operations;
(b)  advise GOR on the site organization required for ensuring
effective supervision and prescribing procedures for achieving
this, including detailed inspection schedules and check lists;
(c)  prescribe a quality control monitoring system to ensure that the
work is carried out in the prescribed manner and is acceptable;
(d)  prepare a program of work for the coming quarter before the 25th
of the month prior to the beginning of each quarter, proposing
visits to different works completed and in progress;
(e)  have access to the field and regional laboratories and to all
records maintained at the work sites, especially the results of
quality control tests and of previous inspections by other
supervisory officers;
(f)  study the construction operations, workmanship and quality of
construction while the work is in progress and advise if it is not
being done properly;
(g)   record observations about the quality and standard of work
completed, accepted and paid for, and submit a report within 8
days to the Chief Engineer, PWD/Administrator Marketing Board,
with a copy to the Secretary, PWD; and
(h)  verify the quality of completed works (such verifications would be



- 145 -
Annex 13
Page 3 of 3
attached to claims for reimbursement by IDA).
Services to be Rendered by the Dept.
5.   PWD will fully explain to the consultant the working of the department
including the powers and responsibilities of all supervisory staff in respect
of administering the contract, quality control, etc. Copies of any
rules/regulations or manuals, which are being used by the departmental
officers in this connection, shall be supplied to the consultant. An officer
of the rank of Executive Engineer, preferably in charge of the concerned
contracts, will accompany the consultant during his field visits. PWD/MB will
provide transport for the field visits to the works in their charge, or will
reimburse the taxifare if the consultant hires transport.
Payment Schedule
6.   The consultant will be paid fees on daily rate basis.  All other
expenses, including travel, hotel accommodation, meals, valet, telephone and
other secretarial assistance, stationery etc., would be paid on an actual
basis. The consultant would be paid within ten days from the date of
submission of his reports.
Review of Consultant's work
7.    A high level Technical Committee set up by GOR for closer control for
this component and comprising of the Secretary, PWD Administrator, Marketing
Board; and the Chief Engineer, PWD, will review the consultant's reports
regularly.



- 146 -



- 147 -
Annex 14
Page 1 of 2
AGRICULTURAL DEVETOPMENT PROJECT - RAJASTHAN
EXTENSION. DEMONSTRATION AND TRAINING
1.    The investment support of this component is spread out over three
areas. Eirsz, support for technological innovation in the areas of crop
husbandry, horticulture and animal husbandry. This aspect of the project
builds on the considerable agricultural extension infrastructure that is in
place, in particular the some 700 Assistant Agricultural Officers (AAOs).
S£annd, the component supports enhancement of the Department of
Agriculture's (DOA's) Agricultural Information Unit (AIU). La9tly, a modest
amount of resources are to be used to provide support for trying new,
innovative, institutional arrangements that will result in more direct
linkage, and hence accountability, by extension to farmers.
2.    The fiast aspect of this component is primarily to provide increased
operational funds at the AAO level. This will enhance the AAO's ability to
respond to the interests and needs of local farmers and the economic and
agroecological circumstances of the area. Historically, the DOA has
concentrated on distribution of mini-kits and on large block demonstrations.
These were not so much demonstrations per se, but represented a mechanism
for the distribution of subsidized inputs, as determined by GOI and GOR.
This component will shift the burden of responsibility to the AAO level and
provide resources to the AAOs to facilitate a locally determined extension
program. These resources would be used, for example, for special
demonstrations with high-value crops such as roses or vegetables, the
standard foodgrain varietal introduction trials, and/or for new exotic crops
such as Jojoba. Resources would also be used to help market technical
innovations through farmer field days, fairs, competitions and/or the busing
of farmers to see innovations done by other farmers on their farms, etc.
3.    The menond aspect is to support expanding the capacity for the AIU to
deal with media requirements at the regional and district level. Two
innovations are also part of the package. First is that the AIU will sign
memorandums of understandings (MOUs) with the other land based departments,
e.g., horticulture, livestock, etc., to service their needs for
publications, videos, etc. The second aspect is that the AIU will use
project resources to contract with professional advertising firms to handle
mass advertising campaigns when widespread informational coverage is needed
and the unit cost per recipient can be greatly reduced through the economies
of scale offered by radio, TV, billboards, and other similar media.
4.    Laatl., this component will provide resources to experiment with new
institutional innovations in the provision of extension. One way will be to
contract with NGOs to provide extension services to a particular area or
community. A second way will be to contract with private firms to provide
extension services. The third way will be for the DOA to enter



- 148 -
Annex 14
Page 2 of 2
into partnerships with several farmer group/associations and communities in
which the association/community would determine what level of extension
services they want. These partnerships would have the client group hire the
kind of extension staff they deem appropriate as well as support these
staff. In turn the DOA would reimburse for a proportion of the costs, e.g.,
75 percent, provide training to the selected extension personnel and provide
other services such as publications that are more appropriately provided by
a centralized source.
5.    The intent is to begin experimenting with organizational arrangements
that will: (i) shift some of the burden of support for extension to the
beneficiaries of extension; (ii) create strong accountability linkages
between extension workers, their performance and clients' view/value of that
performance. This will enable a shift from a top-down, supply side
provision of extension services to a more demand-driven form of extension;
and (iii) initiate a movement away from total dependency on the uni-modal
DOA provision of extension to the DOA overseeing and ensuring a number of
alternative options are in place in the provision of extension services.
This to ensure synergism as well as to induce competition between the
different models of extension services and thus in the end ensure the
provision of extension services that are relevant, responsive and cost
effective. Cost sharing of extension is described in further detail in the
attachment to this annex.



- 149 -
Annex14
Attachment
Page 1 of 2
COST-SHARING EXTENSION
1.    A major problem with the current systems of extension in India is the
lack of a meaningful linkage between the AADO or VEW, their performance and
how the clients view and value that performance. Currently, pay increases,
promotions and transfers are linked primarily to length of service. The
most successful extension services in the world, however, have established a
firm, meaningful and direct link between an extension professional's
performance, his/her well being and the evaluation of that performance by
the clients.
2.    One of the ways to more closely link extension agents and the client
group/community is for the client group to employ their own agricultural
advisor. The principle of linking advisory services directly to the
clients, instead of them being provided "to" the clients, has several
important features to be captured, namely:
-     the client group has direct ownership in the provision of
services because he/she has to support the service,
-     the client group feels it has "drawing rights" on the advisory
service, again because of support responsibilities,
-     the client group selects the person they want to provide them
service, and is not given a person arbitrarily as a result of
regular government posting,
-     the burden on government budgetary support is lessened.
3.    Under the project, the DOA will identify two different kinds of
groups, one area based, e.g. a village, or block, etc., the second would be
based on producers sharing a common interest, e.g. dairy, ber, etc. With
each kind of group, the DOA would enter into a partnership agreement whereby
half to the advisory service costs would be born by the DOA, half by the
beneficiary group.  Two groups based on area, and two groups based on common
enterprize interests would be selected. The beneficiary group would be
expected to hire the person they want, pay what they can negotiate,
establish work norms for the advisor, provide facilities (buildings,
transport, materials, etc.) and of course reward or discipline on the basis
of performance. The government on the other hand, beside providing half the
costs, would provide training to the advisor, publications, video tapes and
the usual kind of support that can be better handled centrally because of
economies of scale, e.g. printing. This initiative would be expected to run
four years, if going well perhaps expanded to a few more groups, in the
third year, and at the end of the project evaluated on the basis of client
satisfaction and compared with client satisfaction in "regular" DOA covered
areas.
4.    Day to day implementation and supervision of this should be carried



- 150 -
AnnaxA 1
Attanhmant
Page 2 of 2
out by someone outside of government employment. More importantly, a "group
facilitator," particularly sensitive to group dynamics and group
organization in rural India, would be involved in implementation. Under the
project, Rs.2.3 M would be allocated for participatory extension.



- 151 -
Annex 15
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
AGRTCCULTURA  DELPNT PROJECT -RAJASTHAN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE ON WATER ISSUES IN TNDIRA GANDHI NAHAR PROJECT
1.    To assist the GOR in assessing the technical, economic and financial
feasibility of irrigating land in the Stage II area of the Indira Gandhi Nahar
Project (IGNP) command, several studies, pilot projects and overseas visits
are proposed under the ADP. These will address the outstanding issues of
drainage and water-logging, salinity, irrigability, siltation, etc. The Terms
of Reference/design of the studies/pilot programs would be prepared by the
Bank in coordination with GOR, and concerned departments will be actively
involved and their activities coordinated. The following would be financed
under the project:
i)    Studv on Soil Irrigability.  Under this study, engineering and
soils specialists with hands-on operational experience of desert
irrigation would assess the irrigability of Stage II by surface
methods. (Estimated Cost - US$40,000)
ii)   Study on Irrigation Performance..  This study would review the
irrigation performance of Stage I of the IGNP Canal, particularly
in the south where the soils begin to approximate the bulk of the
Stage II area.  Satellite imagery would be used to monitor the
cropping in August and January, and the water supply would be
measured accurately using stage recorders. (Estimated Cost -
US$50, 000)
iii)  Pilot Programs on Drainage.  These would be established in Stage I
for assessing the potential for, and problems of, vertical and
horizontal extraction (drainage) and re-use. (Estimated Cost -
US$2,500,000 for 1000 ha)
iv)   Pilot Programs on Evaporation Ponds   If earlier studies shows any
possibility of evaporation ponds being feasible, these would be
established in Stage I on a pilot basis. (Estimated Cost -
US$100,000)
v)    Study on Operations and Maintenance.   Under this study, the
condition of the main canal, distribution, minor and water courses
would be surveyed in Stage I, the deferred maintenance
requirements would be determined, particularly the loss of bank
material from wind erosion, and realistic O&M needs would be
determined. (Estimated Cost - US$15,000)
vi)   Study on Onerational Technology   The possibility of improvements
in operational technology would be reviewed under this study, in
consultation with the Bhakra-Beas Management Board. (Estimated



- 152 -
Annax 15
Page 2 of 2
Cost - US$2,500)
vii)                            hvmRt nrainag  Projaet.  The drainage
masures proposed under the Northwest drainage project would be
reviewed, and their utility in solving the IGNP drainage problems
evaluated. (stimatod Cost - US$1,300)
viii) C-i=h-a&  VI*Ot. Pmgram   A mission of GOI/GOR technical staff
(irrigation, groundwater, soils and agricultural apecialists)
would be facilitated to visit the SCARP VI ponds in Pakistan and
the Murray Basin ponds in Australia. (Estimated Cost - US$50,000)



- 153 -
Annex 16
Page 1 of 4
INDIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
1.    The Secretariat of Agriculture and other GOR agencies participating in
the project do not have the institutional or staff capability to carry out
adequate environmental assessments or oversight for the agricultural sector.
It is proposed that under the project GOR would establish within the Office of
the Development Commissioner a permanent environmental capability. It would
take the form of an Environment Cell, staffed initially by two qualified
professionals. The more senior of the two professionals -- the one in charge
of the Cell's activities -- would be an environmentalist with a background in
natural resources planning and management. The other would be a
Sociologist/Anthropologist. The Cell would report directly to the Development
Commissioner.
2.    For the first 12 - 18 months of the project, the Environment Cell would
be responsible for reviewing and providing clearance for the environmental and
sociological aspects of all public investments under the project. Where
environment impact assessments are necessary, the Cell would ensure that they
are carried out. The Cell would review and clear the annual action plans
before their submission to the Project Guidance Committee for approval. After
this establishment period, the Cell's responsibility would be expanded to
cover by March 31, 1996 all public investments in the agriculture sector
(including irrigation). Similarly the Cell would be responsible for
monitoring the environmental and sociological aspects of public investments,
initially for the project and then expanding to cover the entire agricultural
sector in the State. The staff of the Environmental Cell would not be
expected to carry out environmental assessments, studies or monitoring
themselves. Rather, they would identify the need for these activities,
prepare terms of reference, and contract consultants, universities and NGOs to
carry out the work, and monitor the results. Funding for the activities would
be included under the project. As the work of the Cell expands, additional
qualified staff would be appointed.
3.    Establishment of the Environmental Cell and appointment of its two key
staff (para. 1) would be a condition of Board presentation. The proposed
qualifications and experience of these staff are given on page 3. Computer
hardware and software would be provided, and a standard management information
system for data collection and analysis would be developed. An early
responsibility for the staff would be to prepare operating guidelines and
criteria for the Cell's operation. This work would include:
(a)   establishment of criteria for screening the environmental and
sociological aspects of proposed investments under the project;



- 154 -
Annox 16
Page 2 of 4
(b)   establishment of detailed environmental and sociological
guidelines that participating entities must meet in preparing
component and subcomponent investments;
(c)   development of guidelines for monitoring investments during
implementation;
(d)   development of operating procedures for planning and coordinating
implementation of the above guidelines and criteria with the
participating entities; and
(d)   development of a training program to equip the participating
entities with the skills to carry out the above tasks.
4.    Examples of studies that would be carried out or supervised by the
Environment Cell are:
(a)   a review of the status and management of common property land
resources in the different agro-climatic zones of the state, with
a focus on the use of these resources for agricultural activities;
(b)   a review of the status of experiments in and promotion of
natural/organic farming practices;
(c)   a review of soil erosion in catchment and command areas, siltation
of reservoirs, sedimentation and weed growth in canals and water
courses;
(d)   a review of the changes in fertilizer and pesticide consumption
patterns, and their effect on groundwater and surface water
quality;
(e)   a review of water availability and use, and possible social
conflicts, in downstream areas of major and medium irrigation
commands;
(f)   identification of sustainable agricultural production systems in
arid rainfed areas of western Rajasthan; and
(g)   a review of agricultural development activities in relation to the
conservation of biological resources.
5.    Examples of activities to be monitored and evaluated are:
(a)   the impact of mining and industrial pollutants on agriculture and
animal huabandry:
(b)   the residual impact of gypsum applications on major, medium and
minor irrigation fields;



Page 3 of 4
(c)   the use and impact of fertilizers and pesticides on soil and water
quality, and on yields, in crop and horticultural activities;
(d)   the construction and maintenance of cross and side drainage of
rural roads;
(e)   the participation of women in resource management committees, e.g.
water users associations, and in training programs; and
(f)   the loss of habitat and threats to rare-endangered flora and
fauna.
6.    Initially, the Environmental Cell would comprise the following minimum
staff:
1 Environmentalist *
1 Sociologist/Anthropologist *
1 Stereo-typist
1 Office Assistant
* Key staff, who wold be appointed prior to Board presentation.
Proposed Oualificatlons of Environmantalist
-     A degree in environmental engineering or natural sciences with
seven-to-ten years of management and administrative experience of
environmental issues related to natural resources development.
-     Some experience working at the grassroots level.
Proposad Oualifications of Sociologist/Anthrnpologist
-     A degree in anthropology or sociology with five-to- seven years
experience in community development in rural areas.
-     Some hands-on experience in dealing with resettlement and
rehabilitation (R&R) issues.
7.    From January 1, 1995 the responsibilities of the Cell would be expanded
to include the entire agricultural sector in the State. By that time it would
be expected that the following additional staff would be added to the Cell:
1 Hydrologist/Chemical Engineer
1 Steno-typist
1 Office Assistant



Annex 16
Page 4 of 4
ENVIRONME-NT CELL.T
COST SUMMARY (Rs-'000)
Unit                  Costs
Investments                Number Cost  92t93  93/94  9495 95/96  96/97  Total
Personal Computers             3     90  90       90      90                    270
Modems (for communications)  1        9   9                                        9
Printers
La,!te32r                    1     90           90                              90
Dot Matrix (wide carr.)    1       24  24                                      24
Software                                  40      35                              75
Photocopier                    1     45  45                                       45
Fax Machine                    1     40  40                                       40
Vehicle (4 wheel drive)        2    360  360             360                     720
Office Furniture                          50                                      50
Siuh-Ttal                                                                     1,323
Operating Costs
Office Consumables                         5      15      20      25     25       90
Vehicle Running Costs                      8      28      40      56     56      188
Travel Related Costs                       4      15      25     25      25       94
Meeting/Workshops                          2       8      10      12     12       44
Suih-Total                                                                      416AIf
Technical Assistance
and Studies Suh-Total                    5.0   7,000  7,000  8,500  7,00Q  30,000
total                                                                        31,739



INDIA
Agriculture Development Project
Rajasthan
Projects Components by Year
Totals Including Contingencies                                      Totals Including Contingencis
RsOOO                                                               US$000
1992/93   1993/94   1994/95   1995/96   1996/97       Total       1992/93   1993/94   1994/95   1995/96   1996/97        Total
A. Crop Husbandry                       96472    170388    173372    137305        45523    623061          3421       5718      5557       4251       1363     20309
b. Horticulture                         28530      53807     55928      54449     52111    244825           1012       1806      1793       1686      1560       7856
C. Animal Husbandry
1. Livestock                         38792      73966     81863      87523     49685    331829           1376      2482       2624      2710       1488      10679
2. Shoep/ Wool                        5270     24750      34981      42646     24519    132167            187       831       1121      1320        734       4193
sub-Total                                44063      98716    116844    130169       74205    463996          1563       3313      3745       4030      2.222     14872
D. R-t-r Resourcs PlHoming              39899    230562    126838       711S4     62670    531103           1415       7737      4065       2202      1876      17296
E. Ag. Research and Training            10034    204551    259038    138625       32873    645121            356      6864       8302       4292       984      20798
F. RurAl Roads                          58784    193408    319820    347837    381739   1301588             2085      6490      10251      10769     11429      41024
C. Project Coordiontlon                  4814      53610     57536      61553      32774    210287           171       1799      1844       1906        981      6701
H. Envron. Strengthening                 1417       9365     10522      12814     11276      45394            50        314       337        397        33S      1436
Total PRJ3CTS  COSTS                    24012   1014407   1119898    95386    693171   4065375              10071      34041     35894      29532     20754    130292
Vtlals SeLed by I8.0 1011311M   13M
I
F 



INDIA
Agriculture Development Project
Rajasthan
Project Cost Suiary
RJOOO                           US$000                       X Total
_--------------------------  -    ---------------------------___1   Foreign    Base
Local  Yoreign      Total       Local Foreign    Total    Exchange       Costs
A   Crop Huabandry                  360280    106236    466516        13751     4055    17806           23        16
E .orticulture                      117050     60060    177110         4468     2292     6760           34         6
C . Animal Husbandry
1. Livestock                     205573     37785    243358        7846      1442     9288           16         8
2. Sheep/ Wool                    59040     34860     93900        2253      1331     3584           37         3
Sub-Total                            264613     72645    337258       10100      2773    12872           22        11
D   Water Resources Planning        166322    222577    388900        6348      8495    14844           57        13
Z   AS. Research and TrainLag       400210     76790    477000       15275      2931    18206           16        16
F   Rural Roads                     834600     94400    929000       31855      3603    35458           10        31
C   Project Coordination             75399     73742    149141         2878     2815     5692           49         5
H   Eznviron. Stre ngthenLng         16474     15265     31739         629       583     1211           48         1
Total BASELINE OOSTS                2234949    721715   2956664       85303    27546   112850            24       100
Physical ContingencLes            225506     72674    298180        8607      2774    11381           24        10
Price ContLngencIes               576940    233590    810530        3231      2830     6061           47         5
Total PROJECTS COSTS                3037395   1027980   4065375       97142    33150   130292            25       115
___________________________________________________________ S15
Values Scaled by 1000.0 - 10/13/1992 15:25



INDIA
Agriculture Development Project
Rajasthan
Summary Accounts by Year
Totals Including ContLngencies                                         Totals Including Contingencies
RsOOO                                                                  US$000
1992/93   1993/94   1994/95   1995/96   1996/97         Total        1992/93   1993/94   1994/95   1995/96   1996/97         Total
I. INVESTKENT COSTS
A. Civil Works                          89428    445186    615303    484797    414960   2049673                3171     14939      19721      15009      12424      65265
B. Vehicles                             10071      16430       3523       3188       1693      34906            357       551        113         99         51       1171
C. Equipment                            91631    299375    195746    153157         32096    772004            3249     10046       6274       4742        961      25272
D. Supplies                              9461      35908      36076      39425      39039    159909             335      1205       1156       1221       1169       5086
E. Training                             20985      27669      33440      35850      28492    146435             744       928       1072       1110        853       4707
F. Technical Assistance                 23445    113417    140907    128297         94105    500170            831       3806       4516       3972       2818      15943
C. Agri. Inputs                          8948      17828      19251      19476      20817      86319            317       598        617        603        623       2759
B. Planting materials                   14231      20532      23556      23928      23984    106230            505        689        755        741        718       3408
I. AnLmals                               2189      17474      22156      24730       6075      72625            78        586        710        766        182       2322
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                 270388    993818   1089958    912847    661260   3928272               9588      33350      34935      28262      19798    125932
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Operating Costs                      13624      20589      29940      41039      31911    137103             483       691        960       1271        955       4360
Total PROJECT COSTS                    284012   1014407   1119898    953886    693171   4065375              10071      34041      35894      29532      20754    130292
Values Scaled by 1000.0  10/13/1992  15:27
Ia, 
IHX
L s



INDIA
Agriculture Development Project
Rajasthan
Summary Accounts Cost Summary
RJOOO                           US$000                        X Total
----------- ----------------  I  Foreign      Base
Local  Foreign      Total       Local ForeLgn    Total       Exchange     Costs
I. IVZSTMNT COSTS
A. Clvil Works                     1340826    148981   1489807       51177      5686    56863           10         50
S. Vehicles                          20112      5028     25140          768      192      960           20          1
C. Equpment                         348004    228629    576633       13283      8726    22009           40         20
D. SuppiLes                         89078      25669    114747        3400       980     4380           22          4
S. Training                          52707     52707    105415        2012      2012     4023           50          4
F. Technical AssLstance             179610    175430    355040        6855      6696    13551           49         12
C. Agri. Inputs                      37038     24692     61730        1414       942     2356           40          2
B. Pleatin  Materials                45869     30579     76448        1751      1167     2918           40          3
I. Animals                          21600      30000     51600         824      1145     1969           58         2
Total IUMSTHME   COSTS             2134845    721715   2856560       81483    27546   109029            25         97
II. RUIC     COSTS
A. Operating Costs                  100104         0    100104         3821        0     3821            0          3
Total 3ASIIE  COSTS               2234949    721715   2956664        85303    27546   112850            24        100                                                    I
Physical Contigencies           225506      72674    298180        8607      2774    11381           24         10
Price Contingencies             576940    233590    810530         3231     2830      6061           47          5                                                   0'
______________________________     ---------------------------   --------------------                                                    C
Total PROJECTS COSTS              3037395   1027980   4065375        97142    33150   130292            25        115                                                    1
Values Scaled by 1000.0 -   10/13/1992  15:26
I-'X



- 161 -
INDIA
AGTIELT       DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - RAJASTHAN
SCHEDuLE or DISBURSEMENTS
IDA Fiscal                                    Cumulative            % of
SPmat%, tp Ar           DighsburRAment      nishursr mnt       Total Cost
FY93a/
II                   5.3                 5.3                5%
FY94          I                   7.4                12.7               12%
II                   8.5                21.2               20%
FY95          I                  10.6                31.8               30%
II                  10.6                42.4               40%
FY96          I                  10.6                53.0               50%
II                  10.6                63.6               60%
FY97          I                  10.6                74.2               70%
II                  10.6                84.8               80%
FY98          I                   8.5                93.3               88%
II                   7.4               100.7               95%
FY99          I                   5.3               106.0              100%
a/    Includes retroactive financing of US$5.0 million and special account of
US$5.0 million.



- 1b2 -



nlDIA
3GRICULTRLS   DEVELOPNKWT PROJEDCT - RLJTSBTAN
Projeat Implementation Seh.dule
Estimted hnnual Contraatual and Other Payments
(US3 million equivalent)
Project Year                                 Total
Project Element          FY93 II       FY94         FY95        FY96         FY97         FY98         FY99 I       Paymnts              Remarks
Loan Timing
Sign/Effec./Close                 **                                                                            *
1. Civil Works.                                                                   775_ ___   -.'_'  3.7   .                    65.3     LCB/Force Account
2. Goods and Yquip_nt           _ 
Equipment                    7         7 ______                 ......1.          ,                                         25.3      ICB/LCB/Local Shopping
Supplies                     71 W,.5.1                                                                                               LCB/Local Shopping
Vehicles                                                                                                                     1.2     Local Shopping
3. Agriculture Inputs                                    773  'X                        '. .              ' "                   6.1     ICB/LCB/Local shopping
4. hnimala                                                               '.                                                    2.3      Local Shopping
4 t s"wsi: ,..j,,!9:-:S'''si5' ...........................................   .   .......   .....   5. 8 
5. Conaultancies.                              2.4' i .        '.. ..                                                          15.9     Accordance with guide-
lines for use of
6. Training                                                                                     :7: 4_7                                 consultants by the IDA 1
borrowers.
7. Inarmntal Operating
Conto                                                                                                                         R,gS>7adaP B. 4.4
Total                            6.67        20.2         26.0        26.3         25.5         19.1           6.5         130.3
Bank Financed                    (5.3)       (15.9)      (21.2)       (21.2)  |  (21.2)        (15.9)         (5.3)        (106.0) 0



- 164 -



- 165 -
AnnAx 20
TNDIA
ARTCULTU       VLOPMENT PROJECT - RAJASTHAN
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
1.    Strategy Paper for Rajasthan Agriculture Development Project -
Department of Agriculture, Rajasthan, February 1992.
2.    Working Papers
(a)   Agricultural Development Project - Rajasthan: Subsidies and Cost
Recovery in Rajasthan's Agriculture - D. Ahluwalia
(b)   Agricultural Development Project - Rajasthan: Crop Husbandry and
Horticulture - H. Singh
(c)   Agricultural Development Project - Rajasthan: Animal husbandry
Component - A.L. Chaudhry
(d)   Agricultural Development Project - Rajasthan: Rural Roads
Component - C.S. Nawathe
(e)   Agricultural Development Project - Rajasthan: Environmental Impact
Analysis - K. Shah
3.   Review of Public Expenditure in Agriculture Sector in Rajasthan - The
New Concept Consultancy Services, New Delhi, February 1992.
4.    Livestock Development Component under Rajasthan Agricultural Development
Project - Department of Animal Husbandry, Jaipur.
5.    RAU Research Component under Comprehensive Agricultural Development
Project - Rajasthan Agricultural University, Bikaner.
6.    Development of Rural Roads under Comprehensive Agricultural Development
Project in Rajasthan - Rajasthan State Agriculture Marketing Board.
7.    A Report on Economic Analysis of Link Roads to Marketing Centers -
Consulting Engineers Group Pvt. Ltd., Jaipur, Rajasthan, May 1992.
8.    Detailed Project Costs
9.    Supervision Plan



; all,



IBRD 2401
70-                          72°                          74                            76-                             78-
SELECTED PROJECT COMPONENTS:
-32'                                 INDIA                                                        .      ZONAL RESEARCH CENTERS
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                           0   AGRICULTURE UNIVERSITY
AGROCLIMATIC ZONES:
RAJASTHAN                                                     EIZj ZONE I
ZONE 11
ZONE III
ZONE IV
ZONE V
M    STATE CAPITAL
) P U N JAB                   0    DISTRICT HEADQUARTERS
To J Foidkot            -       MAJOR ROADS                    30'
30'                                                       ,    U                               -      DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
STATE BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY
, GANG
PA K I S TA N                                                                        HARYANA
26~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8~
jAMER                          ' /   /                                                       26r  U
S   -'  >~~~  PAVK.    I   DIiI  WARAV/   UN~~S 
SIROI  U?APUGAUR 
,   ioi/ur   ICHITTA   GARH       '2/''            ro
28-  hh i    ~ '     /                 - i'    J  r X'   { ;E\                                         28
24'                                     h Polrpur                                          TONK L                                     24L
G UJ A  R AT        To Hitooto orgar  GARPL  (         ,{ 1¼o*trn Tm  h Ujjoi     M AD H VA
(..~~~        ~~~ AAN  NR
o      50     100    150    200 KILOMETERS                                                            P R AD ES H
Thi. nmop ho, boan pr.por.d by Tr. World Book. .oH .oclu. vio.l?r Mr'.
hb convool.oco orr od rn and i0 for iha intone oo oranpr Wrd
Booki Croup. Th. d.non,,naorunod and oh. bovodorior ho TO n on this            a
nmop do rot ipl y, or h. par , of Tb. World honk Groop, Wny Iudwn    )
on /ho legl aootu of oon r orr;tory or ony .ndor,.umont or occopooce. oi'  2
, 1    70'                            72'                             74'                             76'                            7,80
SEPTEMBER 1 992



