Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21902
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-24330)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 73.1 MILLION (US$ 106.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO INDIA
FOR THE
RAJASTHAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
February 26, 2001
Rural Development Sector Management Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 1992)
Currency Unit = Rupees (Rs.)
Rs. 26.00 = US$ 1.00 (at appraisal)
US$ 1.00 = Rs. 45.60 (at completion)
Completion Year (September 2000)
FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP            Agricultural Development Project
ASP            Agricultural Strategy Paper
CLIS           Community Lift Irrigation Scheme
DOA            Department of Agriculture
DOAH           Department of Animal Husbandry
DOH            Department of Horticulture
ERR            Economic Rate of Retum
FAO/CP         FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
GIS            Geographic Information System
GOR            Government of Rajasthan
GOI            Govemment of India
GWD            Groundwater Department
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
ID             Irrigation Department
IDA            Intemational Development Association
IGNP           Indira Gandhi Nahar Project
IMTI           Irrigation Management Training Institute
KSK            Krishi Sewa Kendras (Farmer Service Centers)
MIS            Management Information Systems
MOT            Maintain, Operate and Transfer System
MTR            Mid-Term Review
NABARD         National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development
NCB            National Competitive Bidding
NGO            Non-Government Organisation
O&M            Operation and Maintenance
O&MP           Operation and Maintenance Plan
PIM            Participatory Irrigation Management
PWD            Public Works Department
QAG            Quality Assurance Group
RAU            Rajasthan Agricultural University
RSAMB          Rajasthan State Agricultural Marketing Board
RWSRP          Rajasthan Water Sector Restructuring Project
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SDP            Strategic Development Plan
SDR            Special Drawing Rights
SRSAC          State Remote Sensing Application Centre
SSIRD          Special Schemes and Integrated Rural Development
Department
VO             Veterinary Officers
WB             World Bank
WUA            Water Users Associations
GLOSSARY
Kharif         Monsoon season (mid-June to early December)
Rabi           Winter season (early December to mid-March)
Vice President:    Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:    Edwin Lim
Sector Manager/Director:    Ridwan Ali
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Deepak Ahluwalia



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
RAJASTHAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit No. 2433-IN)
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  10
6 Sustainability                                                                       11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       12
8 Lessons Learned                                                                      13
9. Partner Comments                                                                    14
10. Additional Information                                                             14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   18
Annex 4 Bank Inputs                                                                    19
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  24
Annex 8 Borrower Evaluation of the Project (unedited)                                  25
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
RAJASTHAN AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit No. 2433-IN)
Preface
This is the Core Accountability Implementation Completion Report (CAI) for the Rajasthan
Agriculture Development Project in India, for which Credit 2433-IN in the amount of SDR 73.1 million
(US$106.0 million equivalent) was approved on November 12, 1992, and made effective on January 28,
1993. The Credit closed on September 30, 2000, one year later than planned at appraisal.
At the time of closing, the Credit of SDR 73.1 million was equivalent to US$102.5 million. Final
disbursement was SDR 67.6 million (US$95.3 million equivalent), and SDR 5.5 million (US$7.2 million
equivalent) was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by John Weatherhogg (FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program) and
Deepak Ahluwalia, and peer reviewed by Bemard W. Van De Poll (AFTR1) and Albert Nyberg
(Consultant). The Borrower contributed to the ICR by preparing an Evaluation Report of the project
which is attached as Annex 8 to the ICR. The September 25-October 4, 2000 ICR Mission Aide Memoire
and the Economic Analysis of the Rural Roads Component are available in the ICR file.






Project ID: P010407                                        Project Name: ADP - RAJASTHAN
Team Leader: Deepak Ahluwalia                              TL Unit. SASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date. March 7, 2001
1. Project Data
Name  ADP - RAJASTHAN                                 LIC/TF Number  IDA-24330
Country/Department INDIA                                                  Region. South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector AL - Livestock; AQ - Annual Crops; AR - Research;
TR - Rural Roads; WR - Rural Water Supply &
Sanitation
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD,                                           Effective  01/28/93            01/28/93
Appraisal:  05/15/92                                   MTR   02/24/97             02/24/97
Approval   11/12/92                                 Closing  09/30/99             09/30/2000
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: Government of India/Government of Rajasthan
Other Partners.
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:       Meiko Nishimizu                           Joseph Wood
Country Manager       Edwin Lim                                  Heinz Vergin
Sector Manager:       Ridwan Ali                                 Shawki Barghouti
Team Leader at ICR:   Deepak Ahluwalia                           Ralph Hanan
ICR Primary Author:   John Weatherhogg (FAO-CP
staff); Deepak Ahluwalia.
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome S
Sustainability" L
Institutional Development Impact SU
Bank Performance S
Borrower Performance S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry                          S
Project at Risk at Any Time No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1 The project objectives were to help GOR implement agricultural policies set out in its Agricultural
Strategy Paper (ASP), namely: (a) to accelerate agriculture growth through improved technical, financial
and economic use of resources; (b) to enhance long-term sustainability of growth through appropriate
management and conservation of natural resources; and (c) to improve equity by better targeting of
development programs to the poorer strata of the rural population, including greater opportunities for
women. Policy reforms were expected to be undertaken to support these objectives. These included: (i)
pricing public sector goods and services at true cost; (ii) reducing or eliminating subsidies; (iii) improving
efficiency of water use and sustainability; (iv) reviewing constraints to development of agro-industries and
marketing; (v) increasing emphasis on livestock to exploit its potential for growth and poverty alleviation;
(vi) institutional reformns of rural co-operatives to make them more democratic and responsive to their
members; (vii) strengthening GOR's capacity to evaluate public investments; and (viii) strengthening
environmental oversight for agriculture.
3.1.2 The objectives selected, and investments proposed, were correctly identified as priorities for the
sector's development in the state. The project stressed policy reforms included in the ASP drawn up by
GOR and approved by the State Cabinet in 1992.
3 2 Revised Objective
The project objectives remained unchanged throughout the implementation period, although there was some
adjustment in the size of the components at the Mid-Term Review (MTR).
3 3 Original Components
3.3.1 The project consisted of seven main components. Project costs are given in Annex 2. At ICR, Crop
Husbandry accounted for 13% of project costs, Horticulture 4%, Animal Husbandry 6%, Water Resources
16%, Agricultural Research and Training 15%, Rural Roads 44%, and Project Coordination 2%:
(i)    Crop Husbandry included demonstration and training in land rehabilitation (gypsum application),
increased efficiency of water use (sprinkler and drip irrigation) and development of community lift
irrigation schemes; fodder development (promotion kits, forage and alley cropping demonstrations);
promotion of new crops (sunflower, safflower, castor, ratanjot, tumba and jojoba); information media
support, computerisation, development of regional training institutes, training of women farmers,
participatory development, and training of artisans.
(ii)    Horticulture supported Department of Horticulture (DOH) nurseries, progeny and demonstration
centers, plant raising, demonstrations, training of staff and farmers, horticultural marketing and processing
studies.
(iii) Animal Husbandry included breed improvement, markets, management inforrnation systems (MIS)
and media support, disease surveillance and diagnostic services, technology dissemination and training,
promotion of private clinics and community based veterinary volunteers (gopals), training and
reorganization of the State sheep breeding farms, and upgrading of the existing sheep population through
import and use of exotic breeds.
(iv)   Water Resources studiesltechnical assistance aimed at (a) improved data collection for both
surface and groundwater; (b) completion of groundwater investigations; (c) commissioning a Water
Resources Planning Study; (d) strengthening the Remote Sensing Application Centre at Jodhpur; (e)
experiments and studies on artificial recharge and conjunctive use. Pilot schemes tried various approaches
to O&M of tertiary canals by farmer groups including participation in planning and implementation of the
scheme rehabilitation and formation of WUAs.
- 2-



(v)    Agricultural Research and Training aimed to improve the Rajasthan Agricultural University
(RAU) and included preparation of a Strategic Development Plan (SDP) as a basis for investment in
buildings, equipment and materials.
(vi)   Rural Roads covered construction and improvement of about 2,350 km of all-weather roads in
rural areas.
(vii)   Environmental Strengthening, included within Project Coordination, provided for the establishmnent
of a permanent Environmental Cell to assess and monitor the environmental and sociological impact of the
project and for continued monitoring of the sector in the future.
3.3.2 With the benefit of hindsight the project design created some significant problems. First, the wide
range of investments meant that some 12 government departments/agencies were responsible for project
implementation, which made implementation a heavy task. Second, some aspects were not adequately
prepared and reviewed, in particular, proposals for upgrading indigenous sheep breeds through crossing
with imported exotic breeds and assessment of land acquisition needed for rural roads. Third, it was a
mistake to have the RAU SDP prepared during implementation - it should have been drawn up as a part of
project preparation.
3 4 Revised Components.
The general design of the components remained as set out at appraisal. At the MTR, savings from the
depreciation of the rupee were used to increase the size of the roads component from 1,600 km to 2,350
km. The participatory irrigation management component, originally envisaged for 6 pilot schemes, was
increased to 23 schemes in order to test a greater number of models in different locations.
3 5 Quality at Entry
Quality at entry is rated as satisfactory on balance, though there were some significant shortcomings. The
policy reform agenda was emphasized in project design, and achieved. Government ownership and
commitment to the project was strong. Another positive aspect of project design was that it avoided
creation of any new institution or increase in Government staff establishment. However, greater attention
could have been paid to preparation and design of some of the investment components. Monitoring and
evaluation was not adequately emphasized and project performance indicators were not prepared. Project
economic analysis was limited only to the rural roads component. A financial analyst did not accompany
the appraisal mission and accordingly no special assessment of the borrower's capacity to provide adequate
financial management of the project was carried out, as is now required under current Bank operations
policies. A Project Implementation Plan was also not prepared, as is now required under Bank policies.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4 1 Outcome/achievement of objective
4.1.1 The project has largely achieved its development objectives of supporting sustainable growth of
agriculture in Rajasthan and improving equity. The share of capital expenditures in GOR agricultural
public expenditures increased from 34% in 1991/92 to 40% in 1999/2000 meeting expectations of a shift in
public expenditure composition towards growth enhancing capital spending that would favor more
sustainable growth. Between 1992-99 Rajasthan's agriculture grew at a trend rate of 5.4% per annum
which compares favorably to the 3.6% per annum all India average during the same period and also to the
4.1% per annum growth achieved between 1982-92 in Rajasthan. Project interventions were generally
state-wide rather than focussed on particular geographical regions. Most key aspects of the reform agenda
were met and contributed to improved resource use and growth. Available estimates suggest that specific
activities financed under the project in agriculture, horticulture and water resources have led to substantial
productivity and income benefits (see 4.2 below).
- 3 -



4.1.2 The agreed policy reforms have been achieved, including full cost recovery in agreed goods and
services (seeds, horticulture planting material, fish fingerlings, day old chicks, fodder seed, artificial
insemination), phasing out or applying subsidies more effectively (including raising agricultural power
charges), and enhancing development planning and technical assistance for agricultural research and
training. The share of private sector increased in provision of foundation and certified seed (from 34% in
1992/93 to 53% in 1999/2000), horticulture planting material (33% to 45%), fish fingerlings (15% to
75%), and day old chicks (over 990/o by end of project). In the livestock sub-sector, actions to double the
number of veterinary students were partially met, but intentions to significantly privatise veterinary services
have not materialised. The studies and pilot activities in water resources have proved particularly useful
and have been largely instrumental in the formulation of the State Water Policy and the recent passing of
the Irrigation Act. The same work has also materially helped preparation of the proposed Bank financed
Rajasthan Water Sector Restructuring Project (RWSRP). Overall, the project has had substantial impact
on sector policies. The Agriculture Strategy Paper was updated by GOR in 1997 with policy reforms
extended to new areas, including removing trade licencing restrictions for inputs like seeds and fertilizers,
closing down of a few loss making parastatals, and further encouragement to private sector participation in
agriculture related areas. Irrigation water charges, not part of the policy agenda agreed under the project,
were increased three to five times, depending on crop, in 1999. Formation of WUAs, successful
demonstration of sprinklers and reclamation of saline/alkaline land have promoted better and more
sustainable resource use. A number of project components have had a beneficial impact in improving
equity, including the training of 1.2 million rural women, development of 315 community lift irrigation
schemes where over 80% of the beneficiaries are small and marginal farmers, better and wider
dissemination of extension advice through mass media reaching the remotest areas, and rual road
connections contributing to improved agricultural marketing in hitherto neglected areas.
4 2 Outputs by components
4.2.1 Output indicators are presented in Annex 1, linked to project components and development
objectives. Appraisal or MTR estimates are compared with actual achievements, or estimates based on
project monitoring data and implementation experience.
4.2.2 Crop Husbandry. This component broadly achieved its original objectives. The number of farm
demonstrations proved excessive and at MTR these were reduced to focus on quality and replicability.
Impact of demonstrations has been mixed. Of six new crops demonstrated, only castor proved relevant for
farmer adoption in Jodhpur division. Some 107,000 demonstrations and 95,000 seed kits promoted various
green fodders, alley cropping and urea/molasses treatment of dry fodder. Of the green fodders, multi-cut
fodder sorghum. proved most popular, especially for dairy enterprises, but alley cropping and urea/molasses
treatment were not adopted. Gypsum treatment of saline/alkaline land successfully covered 3,400 ha. at
some 6,300 sites. Early problems with gypsum supply and soil testing were resolved; impact is visually
obvious and incremental financial benefit significant. Project data from a sample of 325 beneficiaries
reported near doubling of yields in crops like wheat, mustard and barley, and per hectare returns increasing,
on average, by about 75%. The program is now being expanded through a Centrally Sponsored Scheme
that provides a 50% subsidy on gypsum cost. Sprinkler demonstrations targeted some 970 sites in districts
where adoption levels had been low. Subsequent uptake was excellent and the demonstrations were
discontinued. Pilot drainage demonstrations were to be run by the IGNP Command Area Authority.
Responsibility was transferred to DOA but following delays and farmers refusal to contribute to costs the
activity was dropped.
4.2.3 The Farm Women's Training Programme successfully reached about 1.2 million women, mostly
through one day courses given by DOA field staff. An external evaluation reported positive responses by
- 4 -



the women, significant adoption of technologies taught, and improved farm incomes. Efforts to develop a
cadre of Gram Sathins (volunteer women motivators) had limited success as most farm women are already
fully occupied with household and agricultural activities. Rural Artisan Training was given to some 600
local artisans in agricultural equipment repair and manufacture. Its success is documented in an extemal
evaluation which reported improved skills and knowledge, improved repair services and a 50% increase in
artisan income after the training.
4.2.4 Infornation, media and management information system (NIS) capacities of DOA have been
strengthened at all levels -- at HQ, 7 regions, 32 districts, and 62 sub-districts. The central unit
established at Jaipur is impressive with outputs of high quality. Indications are that TV and video
productions are popular and reaching a broad section of the agricultural community. Much skill training
can now be effectively transferred through these media, replacing to some extent the village extension
worker. Output is focussed on agriculture and horticulture, but could become broader based. Steps have
already been taken to turn the unit into a registered society so as to retain its income for future maintenance
and further development. 131 offices of DOA have been provided computer facilities and HQ, regional and
district offices are now electronically linked. This has enormously enhanced the Department's capacity to
handle a broad range of data in a timely manner. Strengthening Krishi Sewa Kendras (KSK) was piloted
after the MTR at 30 sites. Since these have only recently been completed it is too early to judge their
impact but such agricultural service centres could become increasingly important focal points for extension
provided they are strongly supported by the infonmation/media unit. Pilot programs to introduce more client
driven extension, first, by contracting pilot areas to NGO extension management and, second, through
direct cost sharing arrangements with farmers have not succeeded.
4.2.5 Horticulture. Performance in the horticulture component has been satisfactory. Some 28
departmental nurseries and 83 registered private nurseries have been established. Effective plant quality
verification and a shift from seedling to grafted plants have also been successfully promoted throughout the
state. Around 39,000 fruit demonstrations and 33,000 vegetable demonstrations were conducted, about
40% on small and marginal farms, and their impact has been significant. An evaluation carried out by the
Departrnent of Horticulture of a sample of 650 demonstrations showed that per hectare returns increased by
45%, and area adoption in subsequent years increased by 101%-212%. Overall, fruit and vegetable area in
the state has almost doubled during the course of the project. Integration of drip irrigation into
demonstrations has led to promising results and highly satisfactory farmer uptake. Performance is
impressive, impact on growth substantial and opportunities for further significant growth demonstrated.
DOH nurseries have significant income from sales and services and GOR is considering their conversion to
self-financing registered societies.
4.2.6 Both DOA and DOH made very good use of external and internal evaluation studies to make
program adjustments or drop failing activities during project implementation.
4.2.7 Animal Husbandry. The Animal Husbandry component has had limited impact on project objectives
and overall performance is rated unsatisfactory. Privatization of veterinary services reached only eight of
the fifty hospitals proposed. Similarly the Gopal (paravet) program, after a promising start, has been
disappointing. Of the 1,100 gopals trained, just 12 are still operational, partly because once the
government stipend ceased the income obtained from Al and castration proved unattractive. Recent
changes have been made to the program to broaden the responsibilities of gopals with consideration of
financial support from the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD). Animal
exchange markets, originally planned for 50 panchayati samitis, 30 municipalities and at 300 panchayats,
were reduced in consultation with the Bank to 41 at the panchayati samiti, 25 at municipal level and none
at panchayat level. These have been successfully completed and are now being run by the local bodies on a
- 5 -



self-sustainable basis. The sub-component for improvement of diagnostic and animal husbandry services
and development of an information system has made satisfactory progress. DOAH has established a
Rajasthan Institute of Livestock Management at Jaipur with hostel accommodation. Completed in 1999, it
has to date provided 14 induction courses (15 days duration) for a total of around 350 Veterinary Officers
(VOs) and 3 courses for about 75 district level staff (7 day courses). Further 7 and 10 day courses are
planned for orientation for Senior VOs, Joint and Deputy Directors.
4.2.8 The Sheep and Wool component had major problems. First year mortality of imported exotic ewes
and their lambs was over 35% and over 80% respectively. Exotic ewe lambing percentage was only
50-60% instead of 120-150%. Body weight of surviving ewes is around 45 kg. instead of an expected 60
kg. The half-bred sheep is not popular since it does not thrive under the local harsh migrant system. As a
result, after the initial import of 1,340 ewes, the original program to import a total of 3,000 ewes was
stopped. Efforts to develop the DOAH sheep farms failed to produce adequate feed for the stock, and
pasture establishment and feed purchase costs are high (around Rs. 1,500 per sheep per annum.). This
component was ill conceived and has failed to contribute to project objectives. This is especially regrettable
as sheep owning societies tend to be amongst the poorest and a chance to meet poverty alleviation and
equity objectives was lost. In 1999, learning from the experience,GOR sheep breeding policy was amended
to concentrate on improvement through selection of superior animals in the local sheep breeds.
Consideration is also being given to disposal of the departmental sheep breeding farms.
4.2.9 Water Resources components performed satisfactorily and contributed significantly to achieving
project objectives. Performance of the Studies sub-component was as follows: (a) Water Resources
Planning Study was undertaken by consultants and resulted in the preparation of a State Water Policy,
approved by the State Cabinet in September 1999. GOR has so far initiated action in 7 of the 13 study
recommendations; (b) Hydrometeorological data collection, processing and use were strengthened by
establishing 14 regional focal offices, provision of 49 raingauges, 11 automatic weather stations, 71 water
level recorders and 30 telemetry stations. The supply of equipment was supported by technical assistance
and staff training, and all the equipment has been commissioned. Further testing is required next monsoon
season; (c) O&M Study was carried out by consultants in 11 schemes covering 640,000 ha and has been
reviewed and accepted; (d) Pricing of Water Study by consultants provided the information required to
formulate an appropriate water cost recovery policy; (e) Basin Investigation Studies under the Ground
Water Department (GWD) provided precise information on aquifers, safe well-spacing, optimum well
yields, static and dynamic ground water reserves. Ground water resources reports for all the 32 districts
and basin wise water resources reports of all the 15 basins have been prepared. In addition a ground water
atlas containing hydrogeomorphological maps of all the districts of Rajasthan has been published by the
State Remote Sensing Application Centre (SRSAC), Jodhpur on the basis of the data collected by the
GWD - in all a highly satisfactory result; (f) Conjunctive Use Studies by GWD included sinking 30
exploratory tubewells and 250 piezometers in the Mahi and Chambal commands and preparation of a
useful report with recommendations for reduction of waterlogging; (g) Artificial Recharge Studies by
GWD established five structures, equipped with seven piezometers and carried out a small pilot
hydrofracturing programme on five wells. The latter was curtailed as disappointing and it is too soon to
evaluate the recharge structures; (h) Remote Sensing. The project provided digital image processing
equipment to SRSAC to enable production of the hydromorphological and arable land use maps for all
districts in the State as well as developing a Geographic Information System (GIS) and provision of
consultant services; and (i) Indira Gandhi Nahar Project (IGNP) studies have been largely completed with
only the field trials for pilot drainage and evaporation studies, which were planned to be completed before
Credit closure, delayed by an unexpected cloudburst. Overall, technical assistance provided through
studies carried out under the project has contributed significantly to an improved understanding of the
water sector in Rajasthan and have also materially assisted preparation of the proposed Bank financed
6 -



Rajasthan Water Sector Restructuring Project (WSRP).
4.2.10 Community Lift Irrigation Scheme (CLIs). 315 schemes have been established, one more than the
MTR target. CLIs performance is very encouraging. Capital cost sharing of 20% by beneficiaries was
introduced under the project, and worked successfully after initial delays. This feature is now adopted for
all CLIs being developed by GOR. Over 15,000 ha of hitherto rainfed area is being irrigated and WUAs
are, by and large, successfully operating and maintaining the schemes. An external evaluation of 10 CLIs
reported a 270% increase in per hectare net income with 84% of beneficiaries being small and marginal
farmers. The Participatory Irrigation Management (PIM) sub-component started as part of the policy
reform program with six pilot schemes under the Irrigation Department (two each in major, medium and
minor irrigation schemes). Subsequently, three schemes were taken up by the Command Area
Development Department in the Chambal command which was increased to 13 at MTR. Further, the
Irrigation Management Training Institute (IMTI), under ID took up another four minors in Gudha medium
irrigation scheme for the PIM program. Various models have evolved over time, generally with increasing
participation of the WUAs. Presently the latter are registered under the Societies Act, and for the future
will come under a new act introduced by GOR as a direct result of the pilot scheme experience. The WUAs
will continue to need technical and monitoring assistance from GOR for some more time to become
self-sufficient, sustainable institutions responsible for O&M of self financing schemes.
4.2.11 Agricultural Research and Training Implementation of this component was delayed due to delays
in commissioning and starting the Strategic Development Plan (SDP) - which was a key condition of
disbursement - and frequent changes in RAU management. Overall performance is rated marginally
satisfactory. Civil works started only from September 1997, with contracts being awarded between
January and April 1998. As a result RAU has been primarily concerned with buildings and equipment,
most of which have only been completed recently and are ready for use. Withdrawal of a contractor slowed
two contracts so that despite re-tendering some buildings are yet to be fully operational at Credit closing.
State level financial constraints emerged after the MTR impeding fund flows to RAU. As well as physical
development, the SDP set a comprehensive twenty year agenda of over 200 policy refonns for higher
education, research priorities, and institutional change. Wisely, World Bank/RAU agreed upon 47 major
short-term reforms and RAU has been addressing mainly these and has made encouraging initial progress
in their introduction. However, the expected return to this substantial investment in research and education
will only be fully realised if the complete reform agenda is implemented, the new buildings and equipment
are fully operationalized after project closing, and RAU can ensure financial sustainability to run and
maintain the facilities. RAU has made a good start in income generation including recent increase in fees,
sale of laboratory and veterinary services, seed sales, rental of excess capacities, consultancy, etc, and it is
important that management continues to give this highest priority. One early positive feature of the
upgraded facilities is that they have enabled scientists to make more competitive bids for external work and
given them the confidence to do so. Further attention is also needed to ensure complementarity between the
two state agriculture universities (the second was created recently while the SDP was prepared with only
one university in mind), and ensure adequate staffing in some of the new departments that have come up.
RAU has commissioned an external review of its progress in implementing the SDP reforms and this
provides an excellent action plan for further progress.
4.2.12 Rural Roads component performed satisfactorily and contributed significantly to achieving project
objectives. The size of the component was increased at the MTR from 1,600 km to 2,350 km, equally
divided between Public Works Department (PWD) and the Rajasthan State Agricultural Marketing Board
(RSAMB). Achievement has been 2,228 km linking about 600 hitherto unconnected villages. The roads
program has been very well accepted by the rural communities. Agricultural marketing has improved and
incomes of agricultural markets linked to these villages have more than doubled.
- 7 -



4.2.13 The main implementation issue has been land acquisition. At appraisal no significant land was
expected to be needed. During implementation land was required for widening alignments and
compensation had to be paid. There were initial delays in announcing awards and making payments, but
with persistent Bank supervision the situation has been largely addressed. Of a total estimated cost of Rs
320.8 million, about Rs 232.6 million has been paid and the balance is at different procedural stages of
award declaration and payment. Progress is being monitored at senior GOR levels. As part of its fiduciary
responsibility the Bank should also continue to monitor progress in this area till it is fully resolved.
4.2.14 Provision of mobile laboratories, appointment of a Technical Examiner and staff training programs
assisted smooth implementation. Further close inspection will be required to ensure that the roads and their
drainage are not damaged and that any defects in newly finished work is brought to the contractor's notice.
One further important contribution of the project has been the adoption of Bank specifications, bidding and
contract practices by PWD and RSAMB in their other road works. Quality control facilities established
during the project are also being adopted for other works.
4.2.15 Environmental Strengthening through the creation of an Environment Cell was intended to
enhance GOR's capacity for environmental oversight of agriculture in the State. It was, inter alia, to:
provide clearance for environmental and social aspects for all investments under the project and
progressively cover all sector investments in the State; establish detailed guidelines for the preparation and
monitoring of environmental assessments; and to undertake a range of studies. On balance, the Cell has
failed to establish a strong environmental oversight capacity in the state and has not established intemalised
environmental review procedures. These concems have been consistently raised by Bank supervision
missions but have not been adequately addressed in the course of implementation. Significant outputs have
been limited to review and clearance of the project's Annual Action Plans, and a consultant study in May
2000 in which guidelines for enhancing the Cell's capacity and screening future investments in the sector
were proposed. GOR needs to ensure these are reviewed with the concerned land/water based executive
departments - the Department of the Environment and the Pollution Control Board - and internalized in
future investrnent planming and review procedures.
4.2.16 Project Coordination. Although implementation was by respective line departments/agencies the
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) played a key role in coordinating/facilitating various tasks which included
preparation of annual action plans, monitoring and reporting on progress, commissioning special studies
from time to time, vetting procurement processes, consolidating and submitting reimbursement claims,
ensuring timely audit, and acting as the nodal unit for interaction with the Bank. Given that there were 12
implementing departrnents/agencies involved the PCU did a commendable job. GOR maintained continuity
of key staff in the PCU which was an important contributory factor to its success.
4.2.17 Overall, the Crop Husbandry, Horticulture, Water Resources, Agriculture Research and Training,
Rural Roads and Project Coordination components are rated Satisfactory. Animal Husbandry and
Environmental Strengthening are rated Unsatisfactory.
4 3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return-
At appraisal an economic analysis was carried out only for the rural roads component, economic rate of
return for which was calculated at 17%. For comparability, the analysis was repeated at ICR and the ERR
is recalculated at 26% (Annex 3), the increase being largely due to higher than anticipated traffic volumes.
While an economic analysis was not done for other components, evidence from evaluation studies carried
out during implementation suggest substantial benefits accruing from investments in CLIs (270% increase
in per hectare net income of beneficiary farmers), land reclamation through gypsum application (75%
-8-



increase in per hectare returns), and horticulture demonstratons (per hectare returns increased by 45%).
4.4 Financial rate of return-
The project was expected to have a significant impact on farm incomes as a result of its policy reforms and
investments, but since the effects were generally state-wide no financial analysis was attempted. Project
data from sample beneficiaries suggests substantial income gains from demonstrations, CLIs, and increased
income from agricultural marketing (para 4.2 above). The project has provided good opportunities for
wage employment to the rural communities in two ways: (a) direct employment of rural labour during
implementation of the project; and (b) increased labour requirement through irrigation and intensified
agriculture.
4 5 Institutional development impact
The institutional development impact of the project is rated substantial. Starting with the preparation of the
Agricultural Strategy Paper (ASP) the project had a significant impact on GOR's capacity to address
agricultural policy issues and formulate specific proposals for a reform agenda. The support for media and
MIS systems for DOA has had a very satisfactory impact. The pilot program for strengthening 30 KSKs
to provide extension services has also been successfully completed. In horticulture, the increase in number
of departmental nurseries and private nurseries has dramatically increased the availability of high quality
planting material. In water resources, the studies financed have contributed to a much deeper
understanding of the water sector in Rajasthan and materially helped in the formulation of the proposed
RWSRP. Formation and successful functioning of WUAs for both the CLIs and the PIM components has
been a significant institutional development in Rajasthan. It has improved the self-sufficiency and
sustainability of the beneficiaries and their irrigation systems and has prepared the way for a wider
adoption of the devolved operation and management system based on WUAs to be supported by the
RWSRP. Implementation of the agricultural research and training proposals, in particular the preparation
of the SDP and development of RAU, has improved the latter's ability to plan and implement development
programs. Similarly the rural roads program has improved the competence and procedures of the PWD
and RSAMB. Even in the case of the less successful livestock components the project has left the
implementing agencies in a sounder position for carrying out future training activities. Finally, the PCU
has been remarkably successful in bringing such a complex project to a successful conclusion. With no
less than 12 implementing agencies this was indeed a daunting task, particularly when the PCU had no
direct implementation powers and only a very small staff.
4 6 Environmental Impact:
The project contributed to improvements in natural resource management through better use of water and
rehabilitation of alkaline soils through the application of gypsum. The roads financed by the project
predominantly follow the previous alignments, are sealed and have improved drainage. The roads
component should therefore improve on the environmental effect of the unimproved roads. Isolated cases
of tree felling were reported in a couple of districts to accommodate road widening, and compensatory
plantations were carried out. Overall, the project environmental impact is rated positive, albeit modest.
4.7 Other Outputs:
The project has been of great assistance in the formulation and preparation of the proposed Bank financed
Rajasthan Water Sector Restructuring Project (RWSRP).
-9-



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5 1 Factors outside the control of governnment or implementing agency
Steady devaluation of the Rupee against the US$ (the Rupee devalued from Rs. 26 per US$ at appraisal to
Rs. 45.6 per US$ at ICR) meant that, despite incurring greater rupee expenditures than estimated at
appraisal, with most of the additionality being used to finance a larger rural road program, the IDA credit
was not fully used.
5 2 Factors generally subject to governmient control
Initial project implementation was materially helped by a good sense of ownership by senior GOR staff.
The ease and pace of implementation was adversely affected by the large number of project implementing
agencies, and slowness in budget releases owing to the tight fiscal situation in the state in the period after
the MTR.
5 3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control
5.3.1 Lack of staff familiarity with IDA procedures for procurement, late recruitment of RAU SDP
consultants, frequent changes of Vice-Chancellors at RAU, and delayed payment of compensation for land
taken up by the roads component slowed project implementation and performance.
5.3.2 Given the small number of staff at the Project Coordination Unit, the project has done a
commendable job in accounting, financial reporting and meeting audit requirements. Audit reports were
submitted on time in most years. There have, however, been large audit disallowances in most years, which
were persistently followed up by project staff and subsequently dropped by the auditors. Audit
disallowances for 1996/7, 1997/8, 1998/9 amounted to Rs. 275.85 million of which Rs. 253.36 million
were subsequently dropped and claims, earlier disallowed, admitted for reimbursement. Disbursements
were not suspended at any time in the project. Independent consultants appointed by the Bank carried out
random post-award review of contracts and SOE financial review and did not find any serious
shortcomings.
5 4 Costs andfinancing-
5.4.1 At appraisal, total project costs were estimated at US$130.3 million. This was to be financed by
US$24.3 million (equivalent) from GOR/beneficiaries, and a Credit of SDR 73.1 million (equivalent to
US$ 106 million) from IDA. At closing, the original Credit was equivalent to US$ 102.5 million on
account of depreciation of SDR vis-a-vis the US$. Final disbursements were SDR 67.6 million (about
92.5% of original Credit and equivalent to US$ 95.3 million). The balance of SDR 5.5 million (equivalent
to US$ 7.2 million) was canceled. Final project cost is estimated as US$121.3 million with
GOR/beneficiary and IDA shares estimated at US$26 million and US$95.3 million respectively.
5.4.2. It is important to note that despite the lower cost in US$ terms, actual expenditures in local currency
increased from Rs.4,065 million at appraisal to about Rs.4,651 million at closing. Most of the increase
was for rural roads (up from Rs. 1,301 million to Rs.2,046 million) due partly to the increase in the
physical target at MTR (up from 1,600 km to 2,350 km) and partly to cost escalation. Some increase was
also experienced for water resources (up from Rs.531 million to Rs.743 million) due to expansion of the
participatory irrigation management sub-component, with some cost savings in the other components.
- 10-



6. Sustainability
6 1 Rationalefor sustainability rating
6.1.1 Policy reforms set out in the ASP and agreed under the project have been largely met. Reforms
related to increased cost recovery are unlikely to be reversed, and in view of the state's tight fiscal situation,
likely to extend further. For instance, irrigation water charges, which were not part of the project reform
agenda, were raised substantially (3 to 5 times) in 1999. GOR has also taken important initial steps in the
reform of its power sector, including raising of power rates for agriculture and unbundling of the State
Electricity Board. Participation of WUAs in the operation and maintenance of irrigation systems was
successfully piloted under the project and the program is now set to expand under the proposed RWSRP.'
Learning from experience under the project, GOR has modified its livestock policy to better suit
state-specific conditions.
6.1.2 Sustainability of project investments depends on the effectiveness of the arrangements made for their
future operation and management. GOR has accordingly already provided funds for the current year and
drawn up an Operation and Maintenance Plan (O&MP) for the project. For the roads component cost of
maintenance of the roads constructed by the project is estimated at around Rs. 8000-10,000/km annually
for ordinary repairs for the next 5-6 years before some renewals become due - or total of Rs 18 to 20
million annually for each of the next five years. This is about one per cent of the State's road maintenance
budget, which should not create difficulties. Thereafter this requirement would be of the order of Rs. 50
million annually to adhere to the renewal cycle, which would mean about 2-3% of the current maintenance
budget. GOR is also introducing - initially on a pilot basis - a Maintain, Operate and Transfer (MOT)
system, by which private contractors are responsible for maintaining sections of highway and all associated
feeder roads, and are allowed to collect tolls on the highway. By this means road maintenance cost would
be passed on to the users. For the irrigation components (both CLIs and surface schemes) responsibility
for O&M rests with the WUAs and despite the fact that the latter are not very old the impression from field
visits is that sustainability of the irrigation investments is likely with the WUAs in many cases already
meeting full O&M costs. For crop husbandry and horticulture, seeds and planting material are now on a
full cost basis and extension services are being supported by the mass media services developed by the
project which should result in cost savings for the service as a whole. In animal husbandry further
support is to be provided for the gopals through credit from NABARD. Livestock services such as Al are
at full cost and should be fully sustainable. For sheep and wool the department is now concentrating on
improvement of the local breeds through a selection program, and considering leasing out its sheep breeding
farms. Both these measures are likely to increase sustainability of support to sheep flocks. The RAU civil
works maintenance costs are estimated around Rs. 10 million annually, which should be within the means
of RAU, particularly if it is successsful in generating extra-budgetary funds - a process which has already
started.
6.1.3 The O&MP provides for additional actions required for completion of the project. These include
registration of the WUAs under the CLIS. So far 230 have been registered under the Societies Registration
Act, and by April 2001 it is planned that all 315 will be registered. In the PIM component, technical
support will continue to be provided to WIJAs, and there are also plans to scale up the approach
considerably under the proposed Bank financed RWSRP. There are also plans to extend the telemetry
system established in two basins as part of the water resources component to cover all the basins in
Rajasthan. Field trials for pilot drainage and evaporation studies for the IGNP study which could not be
completed due to an unexpected cloud burst are planned for next year. GOR has also agreed that key PCU
staff will be retained in position through to at least the end of March 2001 in order to complete the process
of disbursements of the Credit and ensure timely submission of audit certificates to the Bank.
- 11 -



6.1.4 On the basis of the above, the project's sustainability is therefore rated likely.
6 2 Transition arrangement to regular operations
With the exception of RSAMB constructed roads, all implementation has been by the same agencies
responsible for subsequent operation and therefore no difficulties are anticipated. The roads constructed by
RSAMB have been taken over by PWD for maintenance. The borrower has prepared an Operation and
Maintenance Plan for the operational phase of the project which includes technical guidelines, financial
requirements, and performance indicators for operation and maintenance of all the key components. A
dated action plan for completing the RAU reform agenda has also been prepared, and maintenance plans
agreed with WUAs where O&M has been handed over to them.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7 1 Lending:
At preparation/appraisal the Bank concentrated more on policy reform - in line with the ASP - than on
project technical and operational feasibility. As a result, some investment components, in particular the
sheep improvement proposal were inadequately developed and reviewed, and the arrangement by which the
RAU proposal depended on the SDP to be developed during implementation was unrealistic and exposed
the component to risk of delay. With the benefit of hindsight SDP preparation should have been made a
condition for appraisal/negotiations. Borrower capacity in procurement and financial management was not
fully assessed during appraisal, and this created implementation delays in the first year as staff had to be
trained and capacity established. Monitoring and evaluation design focussed mainly on reporting
arrangements and physical and financial monitoring of progress, with comparatively little attention to
assessing development outcomes. Learning from earlier projects, the main project risk correctly identified
was timely implementation of the agreed policy reforms, with GOR commitment fostered to mitigate the
risk. On balance, Bank performance in lending is rated satisfactory.
72 Supervision:
Staffing of pre-MTR supervision missions was inadequate for livestock, fmnancial management and
social/environmental issues. Had more adequate and consistent technical support been given, problems
under the livestock component may well have been identified earlier, remedies identified, or funds
withdrawn. Supervision was effective in monitoring and supporting reform actions. Post-MTR, continuity
was maintained in the Bank task team with long term involvement of field office staff of different skills
(economist, agriculturalist, water resources engineer, roads engineer, procurement, finance, environment,
social). Apart from bi-annual Bank supervision missions, short visits were made, depending on need, by
individual Bank staff or project staff were encouaged to visit the Bank's Delhi office to follow up on
particular issues. Overarching implementation issues like funds flow problems in the post-MTR phase
were identified in a timely manner and followed up at senior GOR levels. Prior to the MMR, project
perfornance indicators were developed in consultation with GOR using a log-frame matrix, and updated
regularly. Although project accounts were routinely qualified no serious accountability problems were
noted. No significant deviations from Bank policies and procedures were noted. Covenants status was
updated regularly and there were no major instances of non-compliance. The Bank showed understanding
in allowing the one year extension of the project period. Bank performance in supervision is therefore rated
satisfactory.
7 3 Overall Bank performnance
Preparation of the ASP provided a sound basis and direction for the project. Despite some design
deficiencies and the large number of implementing agencies the project has generally achieved its
development objectives. The Bank's overall performance is assessed as satisfactory.
- 12 -



Borrower
7 4 Preparation
GOR was strongly engaged in preparation of the project and drawing up the ASP provided a very valuable
focus for the overall scope and direction of the project. Making the project quite so broad and consequently
including so many implementing agencies was a mistake, only retrieved by high-level GOR interest in the
project and good coordination by the PCU. Borrower perfornance in preparation is therefore rated
satisfactory.
7 5 Government implementation performance
GOR performance was good in overall support to project implementation, operation of the PCU and
carrying out the agreed policy reforms. Weak points were the frequent changes of Vice-Chancellors at
RAU, and GOR budgetary difficulties and reduced flow of funds in the period after the MTR. Government
performance in project implementation is therefore rated as satisfactory.
7 6 Implementing Agency:
Performance of the twelve agencies implementing the project varied. Implementation by the State Remote
Sensing Application Centre, and the Departments of Agriculture, Horticulture and Rural Development was
particularly successful. Implementation of the livestock component was more problematic, partly due to
inadequately developed designs and partly due to weak ownership in the implementing departments.
Performance of the PCU was highly satisfactory, given the difficulty of the task, with key staff continuity
playing an important role. Overall performance of the implementing agencies is therefore rated
satisfactory.
7 7 Overall Borrowerperformance
Based on the above assessments the overall borrower performance is considered as satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Based on the review of the project implementation experience the list of lessons learned are as follows:
-   Any hybrid policy reform cum multi-sectoral state-wide investment project is bound to be a complex
operation and in this case 12 departments of GOR were involved. This made Borrower co-ordination
and monitoring and World Bank supervision difficult. Investments would have better been
concentrated on fewer critical areas (3-4 maximum), that responded most directly to objectives, were
technically robust, and had a high chance of success.
* The use of externally conducted component or activity evaluation studies in the course of
implementation as a means of informing managers on progress and problems is a positive lesson.
Performance was generally better in those departments that commissioned such studies early enough
and then took decisive remedial actions (e.g. DOA and DOH).
*   Continuity of key staff (e.g. PCU) contributes to successful implementation. Frequent staff changes
(e.g. RAU) delay progress as valuable time is lost while new staff familiarize themselves with main
implementation issues.
* Under typically harsh field conditions of Rajasthan, especially when migratory practices are followed,
animal breeding programs should avoid use of exotic stock and focus upgrading on selection within the
locally adapted breeds (except for intensive dairying).
* The SAR demonstration programs involved unnecessarily large numbers (165,000 demonstrations were
proposed for agriculture and horticulture alone). It is impossible to maintain quality on such numbers
and a new technology can be demonstrated with far fewer. Future programs should, as was ultimately
agreed in the MTR, focus on fewer high quality demonstrations of technologies with good replication
- 13 -



prospects.
*   Whilst the project reform agenda successfully focussed on the introduction of full cost recovery on
selected farm inputs, relatively little was included to promote income generation and financial
sustainability of the implementing departments. This process is being initialized by the information and
media unit of DOA and the RAU. There is scope to extend this to horticultural nurseries, and other
service providers such as animal and crop extension. To provide incentives, rules would have to be
modified to allow providers to retain the funds raised for their own operations-- rather than be
deposited in a general treasury account.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrow'er/implementing agency
The draft ICR was reviewed by GOR and "agreement with the observations made in the ICR" was
expressed. No comments have been received from the Government of India on the ICR. The Borrower's
evaluation of the project is attached as Annex 8 to the ICR
(b) Cofinanciers
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector)
10. Additional Information
The September 25-October 4, 2000 ICR Mission Aide Memoire, and the Economic Analysis of the Rural
Roads component are available in project files.
- 14 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome/Impact Indicators
Indicator                    Projected in SAR                   Actual/Latest Estimate
I.Agriculture growth through improved
resource use.
I  Increased share of capital expenditures in  I  Not specified     I  Share of capital expenditures increased from
agriculture sector expenditures          2  Not specified           33.9% in 1992/93 to 40 2% in 1999/2000
2  Agricultural growth rate                 3  Full cost recovery   2  Agriculture SDP grew at trend rate of 5 4% per
sustained/accelerated                    4  Full cost recovery      annum between 1992-99 compared to 4 1% per
3  Rajasthan State Seed Co (RSSC) to charge    5  Not specified         annum between 1982-92
true price for seed.                     6  Full cost recovery  3  RSSC  net profit (before  Central subsidies)
4  Sales of plants by Horticulture Dept to be  7  Full cost recovery    steadily improved from  Rs.2.1 billion loss in
at true cost.                            8  Full cost recovery      1992/93 to breakeven currently
5  Encouragement to establishment of private    9  Not specified    4  During implementation period sale price has
nurseries.                              10  Not specified           increased from around 78% to 100% currently.
6  Artificial insemination (Al) services to be    t I  Not specified  5  83 private nurseries have been established during
at true cost                                                        theproject period
7  Day-old chicks to be sold at true cost                           6  Proportion of Al cost recovered increased from 7%
8  Fodder seed sold at true cost                                        in 1992/93 to full recovery currently
9  Increased private participation in seed                          7  Cost recovered increased from 70% to 100%
supply, horticulture planting material, fish                    8  Fodder seed sold at full cost
fingerlings, day-old chicks                                     9  Between 1992/93 and 1999/2000 share of private
10  Percentage improved breed of cattle to                              sector increased from 34% to 53% for foundaton
total cattle population in state                                    and certified  seed, from  33%  to 45%  for
11  Increase in area under fruits and                                   horticulture planting material, from 15% to 75%
vegetables                                                          for fish fingerlings, and to 99% for day-old chicks
10 Increased from 1% in 1992 to 1.8% in 1999
11 Area under fruits and vegetables increased from
80,000 ha in 1992/93 to 155,000 ha in 2000/01
(equals from 0.39% to 0.73% of cropped area)
2. Sustainable growth through management
and conservation of resources.
I  Treatment of alkaline areas              1  2,000 ha to be       1  3,320 ha treated with gypsum
2  Improved water use through                   treated with        2  730 sprinkler/drip set demonstrations installed
demonstration of sprinklers and  better     gypsum              3  See below in output indicators
on-farm water management                 2  240 sprinkler/drip    4  WUAs have taken O&M responsibility for 315
3  Improved statewide planning and data         sets installed          Community Lift Irrigation Schemes (CLIS) and 23
collection on water resources (see Output  3  (See below)           surface irrigation schemes
Indicators below)                        4  6 pilot schemes in
4  Formation of Water Users Associations        surface irrigation
(WUAs) to operate and manage schemes.
3. Improve equity through better targeting
of poor.                                        I  Not specified     I  1 2 million women and 600 male artisans have
I  Human resource development through          2  Not specified         been trained  by the project
training                                                        2  592 villages connected with all-weather roads
2  Expand road network to unconnected
vilvages
- 15 -



Output Indicators:
Indicator                          AppraisalUMTR Estimate    Actual/Latest Estimate
(Aug. 31, 2000)
1. Crop Husbandry Component
Land development demonstrations (no '000)                              2 67                        6.38
New crop demonstrations (no '000)                                      24 5                         41.4
Fodder crop demonstrations (no.000)                                    107 7                       132 5
Training:
- Women (no '000)                                             Not specified                   1,332
- Artisans (no.)                                              Not specified                    681
2. Horticulture Component
Greenhouse/drip irrigation (no.)                                        39                          39
Vegetable demonstrations (no.'000)                                      28                          33
Fruit demonstrations (no '000)                                          35                          39
Rural youth training (no. '000)                                         37                          48
3. Animal Husbandry Component
Animal exchange markets (no)                                            80                          66
Officer training (no )                                                 120                          559
Women/youth training (no '000)                                     Not specified                    26
Purchase of breedable rams (no '000)                                    15                           7
Import of exotic ewes (no '000)                                         3 0                         1 3
Improvement of sheep breeding farms (ha)                               2,700                       1297
Youth training (no )                                                   4,500                       5,745
Nutrition and health control (no)                                      7,500                       19,034
Paravets trained (no.)                                                 1,090                       1,108
4. Water Resources Component
Basin Investigation:
Exploratory tubewells (no)                                            471                         511
Piezometers (no.)                                                     410                         757
Pump tests (no )                                                      220                         224
Conjunctive Use Study:
Exploratory tubewells (no.)                                           30                          30
Piezometers (no.)                                                     250                         256
Pump tests (no )                                                      10                          24
Community lift schemes (CL IS)(no)                                     314                          315
Participatory irrigation management (PIMXno.)                           23                          21
5. Agricultural Research and Training Component
Development of RAU                                                 Not specified          RAU developed as planned
Construct Zonal Training Centres(no.)                                   9                            9
6. Rural Roads Component
Length of rural roads constructed by RSAMB (kn)                        1,181                       1,171
Length of rural roads constructed by PWD (kn)                          1,064                       1,056
Total length (km)                                                      2,246                       2,227
7. Environmental Strengthening Component
Establish environmental cell in the Development Commissioner's     Establish cell             Cell established
Office
- 16 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs by Components (in US$ million equivalent)
Project Component               Appraisal Estimate         Actual/Latest Estimate   Percentage of Appraisal
Crop Husbandry                                        20.3                        15.2            75
Horticulture                                            7.9                        4.8            61
Animal Husbandry                                       14.9                        7.4             50
Water Resources                                        17.3                       19.4            112
Ag. Res.& Training                                     20.8                       18.7             90
Rural Roads                                           41.0                        53.3            130
Project Coordination                                    8.1                        2.5             31
Total Project Cost                                 130.3                      121.3             93
Project Costs by Pro urement Arrangements (in US$ million equ ivalent) *
Expenditure                      Procurement Method                            Procurement Method
Categories                        Appx aisal Estimate                         Actual/Latest Estimate
ICB      NCB    Other  NBF    Total   ICB              NCB    Other  NBF    Total
1. Civil works:                   60       5 2              65 3               68.5     8 4               76 9
2 Vehicles, equipment   8 5      16 9     14 6               40 0     15 5      7 5      8 7               31.6
and materials
3 Consultancies and                       20 6               20 6                       12 2               12 2
training              ___                __      _      _
4 Incremental                              44 444 4                                      0 5               0 5
operating costs
Total                   8.5      76.9    44.9               130.3    15.5      76.0     29.8              121.3
* Note: NBF = Not Bank Financed (includes elements provided under parallel co-financing procedures, consultants under
trust funds, any reserved procurement and any other miscellaneous items)
"Other" includes force account for roads, shopping and direct contracts for vehicles, equipment and materials
Project Financing    Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Component                 Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate        Percen tage of A  praisal
Bank      Govt.    Other    Bank         Govt.    Other    Bank         Govt.    Other
Crop Husbandry          15.9       3.3       0.7       11.8       2.0       1.3       75         61        189
Horticulture            6.1        1.5       0.3       4.1        0.7        0        67         50         0
Animal Husbandry        12.1       2.6       0.2       6.1        1.3        0         50        50         0
Water Resources         13.3       3.2       0.6       14.4      4.8        0.2       108       151        27
Ag. Research &Tmg       17.2       3.5        0        15.9      2.8         0        92         80         0
Rural roads             34.6       7.1        0        41.2      12.1        0        119       171         0
Project Coordination    6.8        1.4        0         1.8       0.7        0        27         47         0
Total Project Cost      106.0     22.5       1.8       95.3      24.5       1.5       90        109        83
- 17 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Present Value of Flows
Economic Analysis                         Financial Analysis
Appraisal/MTR       Latest Estimates         Appraisal         Latest Estimates
Rural roads (km)                    2,350                2,223           .
ERR/rural roads (%)                    17                   26
1/ Calculated in September 2000 constant prices
- 18-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stagc of Project Cycle                    No. of Persons and Specialty                    Performa ce Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists. I FMS, etc.)      j Implementation         Development
Month/Year       Count        Specialty                             Progress            Objective
Identification/Preparation
Appraisal/Negotiation
May 1992                          10    Economist(3),Agriculturist(
I);Livestock Specialist(l),
Horticulturist( 1 );Irrigation
Engineer(l ),Civil
Engineer(l); Private Sector
Specialist( 1 );Environmental
ist(l)
Supervision
Jan 1993                           4   Agriculturist(l); Civil                   HS                    HS
Eng (1); Procurement Sp.(l);
Irrigation Engineer( 1)
April 1993                         5   Agriculturist(l);Civil                     HS
Eng (1 );Economist(l );Procureme
nt Sp. (1),Research Specialist(l)
July 1993                          2   Agriculturist(I),Procurement Sp           HS
(1)
Dec 93                             6   Agriculturist(1);Economist(1);             S
Irrigation Engineer(l), Civil
Eng. (1); Research Sp
(1),Procurement Sp. (1)
May 94                             4   Agriculturist(l);Economist(1);             S                     S
Research Sp. (1), Procurement
Sp.(1)
Oct 94                             6   Agriculturist(l),Economist(l);             S                     S
Irrigation Engineer(2); Research
Sp (1),Procurement Sp (1)
May 95                             5   Agriculturist(I),Economist(I);             S                     S
Research Sp. (1); Irrig. Eng (1),
Procurement Sp (1)
Jan/Feb 96                         5   Agriculturist(l),Economist(I),             S                     S
Civil Eng (1); Ag Research Sp.
(1);Procurement Sp. (1)
June 96                            2   Agriculturist(2)                           S                     S
MTR                                8   Agriculturist(l);Economist(I);             S                     S
Feb/Mar. 97                             Irrigation Engineer(l), Civil
Eng.(l); Ag Research Sp.
(1),Environmentalist (1);
Procurement Sp. (1), Livestock
Sp. (1)
- 19-



Oct. 97                           5   Economist(l); Livestock                   S                   S
Sp (1);Irrigation Engineer(l),
Civil Eng.(l); Ag.Research Sp.
(1)
May 98                            7   Economist(1); Water Resources             S                   S
Sp (1); Civil Eng (1);
Ag.Research Sp (I)Financial
Analyst (1); Procurement Sp. (I);
Social Dev Sp.(l)
Dec 98                            8   Economist(l); Irrigation Eng (1),         S                   S
Civil Eng.(1); Ag Research Sp.
(I)Financial Analyst (1);
Procurement Sp (1),
Environmentalist(I); Information
Tech. Sp (I)
May 99                            7   Economist(l), Irrigation Eng.(l),         S                   S
Civil Eng (1); Ag.Research Sp.
(1), Procurement Sp. (1);
Environmentalist(l); Social
Dev.Sp (1)
6   Economist(l); Irrigation Eng.            S                   S
Nov. 99                                (1);Ag Research Sp. (1);
Financial Sp. (1);
Environmentalist(1), Social
Dev Sp.(1)
April 2000                        7   Economist(l), Irrigation                  S                   S
Eng.(1), Roads Eng. (1),
Ag.Research Sp. (1); Financial
Sp.(l), SocialDev.Sp (1);
Procurement Sp. (I)
ICR
Sept /Oct. 2000                   6    Economist( 1 );Financial                 S                   S
Analyst (1); Ag Economist
(1), Agronomist/Ag
Res.Sp.(I); Irrigation
Eng (1); Civil Eng. (1)
(Including FAO/CP team of
4 persons)
- 20 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimatc
No, Staff weeks              USS (,000)
Identification/Preparation               100.5                       207.2
Appraisal/Negotiation                    29.6                        115.2
Supervision                             240.9                        270.4
ICR                                       9.0                         38.0
Total                                   380.0                        630.8
Also includes Bank-financed and trust fund consultants.
- 21 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
n Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
3 Sector Policies                         O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
O Physical                                O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
O Financial                               O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
a Institutional Development               0 H  * SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
E Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Social
0 Poverty Reduction                O H  *SU O M  O N  O NA
O Gender                           O H *SU O M O N O NA
O Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
0 Private sector development              0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management                0 H  O SU0M  0 N  0 NA
0 Other (Please specify)                  0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
- 22 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6 1 Bank performance                                Rating
O Lending                                           OHS *s OU OHU
El Supervision                                      OHS OS  OU  OflU
O Overall                                           OHS OS  O U  O HU
6 2 Borrower performance                            Rating
O1 Preparation                                      OHS OS  OU  O HU
L Government implementation performance             O HS O S  0 U  0 HU
El Implementation agency performance                O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
El Overall                                          OHS OS  O U  O HU
- 23 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
The following documents are available in ICR file:
1. ICR Mission (September-October 2000) Aide Memoire
2. Economic Analysis of the Rural Roads Component.
3. Operation and Maintenance Plan: Agricultural Development Project (Cr 2433-IN), Project Coordination
Unit, GOR, October 2000.
4. Letter from GOR (F. 1 l(l) ADPIPCU/2000 pt 1) dated January 23, 2001 giving GOR comments on the
draft ICR prepared by the Bank.
- 24 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower Evaluation of the Project (unedited)
About the Credit: The Agriculture Development Project (ADP) was negotiated on 17 December, 1992.
The credit (Credit 2433-IN) became effective from 28, January 1993 under retroactive financing. Project
cost fixed was Rs. 4065.48 million while utilization of credit till 30 September 2000 was Rs. 4651.87
million. Repayment period of the Project is 35 years.
I. Project Objectives:
The essence of ADP is that both the World Bank and the GOR agreed on a broad strategy for agricultural
growth and on specific reforrn measures. The strategies and most of the reforms in ADP are included in the
Agricultural Strategy Paper prepared by the GOR which was also approved by the State Cabinet. Briefly,
the ADP addresses the problems of agricultural development in Rajasthan through a broad approach
linking policy reforms and public investments. The project objectives are to: accelerate the growth of
agriculture through improved technical, financial and economic use of resources; enhance sustainability of
the productive resource base and improve equity within the sector. Policy reforms included: full cost
recovery for publicly provided goods and services; reduced input subsidies, improved efficiency and
sustainability of water use, institutional reforms of rural cooperatives, alleviating constraints to private
investment in agroindustry and strengthening GORs environmental oversight for agriculture.
The reforms to be implemented by the GOR were mutually supporting investments under the Project. The
investments identified under the project preparation were most likely - technically, financially and
environmentally - to contribute to the objectives of the Project. The Project financed the following
components: a) Crop Husbandry; b) Horticulture; c) Livestock; d)Water Resources; e) Agriculture
Research and Training; f) Rural Roads; g) Project Coordination; h) Environmental Strengthening.
For (a), (b) and (c), the Project was to support the GOR in reallocating resources from production
subsidies to a stronger focus on demonstrations, field trials and training because these activities have
proven less costly than subsidies in encouraging the farmers to adopt new technologies. The Water
Resources Component strengthened GORs knowledge and planning for sustained use of surface and ground
water throughout the State. Expansion of the rural road network is considered essential to GORs
production and social objectives. Through reduced input costs and increased farmgate prices, the roads
make new technologies more financially attractive to farmers, facilitate expansion of agro-industry,
marketing and rural commerce, and enhance opportunities for the poor sections of rural Rajasthan to
contribute to agricultural growth for the poor sections of rural Rajasthan to contribute to agricultural
growth. Environmental strengthening would be important to ensure that all the investments in agriculture,
both within and outside the Project, would be carried out according to sound environmental principles.
The objectives of the Project and the investment plan present a comprehensive picture of the ADP. At the
time of the formulation of the project, the overridding consideration was to make the objectives broad based
and still do so many things in so little a time. At the end of the day, the realization is that the multiplicity of
sectors included in the project made the task somewhat difficult.
Though the Project objectives were enshrined in the SAR, however, in practice these were seldom referred
to by the sectoral implementing agencies, which concentrated more on implementation of the investment
plan. A project with a multiplicity of sectors was not in line with the line administrative pattern of the State.
Although the Project Coordination Unit was in place, it could not arrogate to itself the role of an
- 25 -



implementing agency. The resultant situation was that there were upteen implementing agencies, but
without any overall agency responsible for implementation.
The objectives would have been more meaningful if there were an inbuilt mechanism to refer to project
objectives in the context of the sectoral objectives. In the existing scheme of things, the investnent plan
came into the fore and sectoral and project objectives got slightly relegated to the back.
II. Achievement of Project Objectives:
Assesment of the achievement of these objectives of a project, with such a multiplicity of sectors, at macro
level, is a somewhat difficult proposition. All the same it can be said that practically all the major relevant
objectives with substantial development results have been achieved without major short comings. Strictly
speaking the project cost initially fixed was Rs. 4065.48 million which at the MTR was refixed at Rs.
4536. 23 mnillion. Against this, the expenditure incurred till September 2000 has been to the tune of Rs.
4651 million. Around 5.58 US $ million of the credit is expected to remain unutilized due to the falling
value of Indian Rs. vis-a - vis US $ and delayed start of the development works at the RAU because the
SDP was available from the Consultants in June 1996 and approved by the Bank and the GOR in
September 1997 leaving insufficient time for implementing reform agenda.
That the growth of agriculture is registering a steady rise despite the vageries of monsoon is enough proof
of improved technical, financial and economic use of the resources. The CLIS and Women training have
achieved the objective of equity in a big measure. Practically all the policy reforms have been
implemented. Sector wise assessment of achievements is given below.
Crop Husbandry: Broadly speaking, the crop husbandry component can be divided into three:
Demonstrations, HRD and Institutional strengthening. Demonstrations - 38,000 new crop, 37,000 forage
and 6,300 gypsum treatment of saline/alkaline land demonstrations were held which yielded varying results.
Among the new crops, only castor was popular; the same was true about sorghum and green fodder,
gypsum treatment as a measure of land reclamation has succeeded in emphasizing the need for gysum
treatment born out by the increasing demand. The number of Diggi based sprinkler demonstrations was
970. Looking to increasing popularity of the sprinkler, the demonstrations were discontinued. Both in
terms of the number of demonstrations and impacts, the achievement can be rated as highly satisfactory.
Human Resource Development: On the whole, this has been a very successful component - 1.2 million
women and 600 local artisans were trained. External evaluation findings suggest that impact has been
positive. For achievement of equity, the number of women trained was impressive. Utility of nine Zonal
Training Centres recently created is no in doubt. Having been completed only recently, it is too early to
conmment on the impact part. Information and Media Support: With strengthened information media and
MIS capacities at HQ, 7 regions, 32 Districts and 62 Sub - districts, new era of information management
has ushered in. The Agriculture Department is now better equipped to handle a broad range of data in a
timely manner. The achievement has indeed been highly satisfactory. Krishi Sewa Kendras provided at 30
places at MTR are likely to become focal points for extension. Having been created only recently, it will
be premature to add in terms of impact. Results of NGO extension management have not been
encouraging.
Horticulture: At the time of the introduction of ADP, horticulture development in the State was
insignificant. During the project period, 28 departmental and 83 registered private nurseries were
established which distributed 173 million plants during the project period. Shift from seeded to grafted
plants has been a major achievement. The area under fruits has registered a rise of 75% and vegetables,
- 26 -



100%. On the whole, the achievement was highly satisfactory.
Animal Husbandry: Gopal, para veterian concept, was an innovative approach initiated with twin
objectives of providing employment to local educated youth on the one hand and providing cross-breeding
facility at the grass-root level on the other. Though the drop out rate was high, 12 Gopals were still
working. The potential of this programme is not in doubt, and taking lessons from the experience for the
modified form of the programme, financial support from National Bank for Agriculture and Rural
Development is being considered. In privatization of veterinary services, against a target of 50 hospitals,
only nine could be established. Progress in diagnostic services and animal husbandry services including
development of information system has been very satisfactory. Livestock Training Institute and
Para-veterinary schools have done a good job in providing training to a large number of persons of different
levels. The training facilities created will continue to meet the training needs of the department in future
also. Animal Exchange Markets (AEMs) were created at 41 Panchayat Samitis and 25 Municipalities with
modest infrastructural facilities like boundary wall, office, troughs etc. This has provided strength to the
traditionally held AEMs. Management coming to the local bodies (Panchayats/ Municipalities), the AEMs
will be self sustaining and also sustainable. Required amendments in panchayats and municipalities act are
being done. Achievements has been satisfactory.
Sheep and Wool: For improvement in body weight and quality and quantity of wool in the indegineous
breeds, cross - breeding was proposed to be done. With this end in view, target of importing 3000 exotic
ewes was kept. However, till December 1993 only 1340 were imported. Keeping in view the high
mortality rate in the exotic ewes and the lambs, and difficulties in adaptation of the cross bred in grazing
conditions and migration, the import of exotic ewes was stopped. Taking lessons from this experience, now
the thrust is on selective breeding. May be that the sector has failed to contribute to the project objectives
but has helped the Governmnent of Rajasthan in evolving a more pragmatic policy.
Water Resources: For a water deficient state like Rajasthan, importance and contribution of studies
initiated can hardly be over emphasized. Water Resources planning study led to the formulation of State
Water Policy which has been approved by the Cabinet. Hydrometeorological date collection process has
started. The staff of Irrigation Department has been trained to operate the imported equipments. O&M
study findings have been accepted by the GOR. Similarly, the Study on Cost Accounting and Pricing of
water supply from surface water schemes has provided data necessary for vital policy decisions. The
studies have provided very significant input for RWSRP being appraised by the World Bank.
The Basin Investigation Studies provide reliable data base for acquifiers, safe well spacing, static and
dynamic ground water resources etc. Under the project, 408 exploratory tube-wells and 765 piezometers
have been sunk. Ground water resources reports for all the 32 districts and basinwise resources report for
all the 15 basins have been completed. Ground water atlas containing hydrogeomorphological maps for the
districts has been an outstanding contribution of State Remote Sensing Application Centre (SRSAC). For
addressing the problem of water logging in Chambal and Mahi command area, GWD sunk 30 exploratory
tube wells and 250 piezometers. Report has been very useful.
But for field trials for drainage and evaporation studies that could not be carried out before the credit
closing date, due to unusual excessive rains in the area, the IGNP studies for feasibility of irrigation in
stage II are complete. These provide a very useful input in the RWSRP being appraised by the World
Bank.
All the above works meet the project objective to enhance long term sustainability of growth through
appropriate management and conservation of natural resources. This is also true about the formation of
- 27 -



Water Users Associations (WUAs). As a matter of fact, formation of WUAs was taken up on pilot basis as
a policy reform. Formation of WUAs has been a very educative experience. To begin with, two models
were tried - one each by the Irrigation Departnent and CAD. In the light of the experience gained, the third
model was evolved in the form of Guda model. Experience of WUAs in ADP has been of great use in
formulation of RWSRP. The GOR has already promulgated The Rajasthan Farmers Participation in
Management of Irrigation Systems Act, 2000 making membership of WUAs compulsory. On the whole
experience was highly satisfactory.
In a water scarce State like Rajasthan, a low cost and short gestation period scheme like CLIS using
impounded water otherwise going waste has not only augmented agricultural production but also promoted
equity as 80% of the cultivators in the CLIS are small and marginal farmers.
Agriculture Research and Training is the component dealing with Rajasthan Agriculture University (RAU).
In the agro-climatic conditions of Rajasthan, RAU has to play a meaningful role in increasing agricultural
production. Since the expenditure in RAU under ADP was subject to the approval of Strategic
Development Plan (SDP) report of which was received in 1996 and approved by the Government of
Rajasthan and the World Bank in September 1997 greater thrust was on physical infrastructure and
procurement of equipments for strengthening of laboratories and other things and out of 212
recommendations of policy reforms, appreciating the limitations of time, 47 major short term agreed
reforms were implemented. Agreed that the objective of developing RAU a centre of excellence has
temporarily remained eluded, but there is no denying the fact that the SDP has provided a vision of RAU
which will assist RAU in its development as a centre of excellence. Achievement has been satisfactory.
Since the beginning of the project, the road sector has been doing well. Therefore, the SAR target of
constructing 1600 Km of rural roads was raised to 2350 Km at the MTR which has since been achieved.
The roads are conforming to IRC standard and have been appreciated by the people. The roads have given
many economic and social benefits to the population served. An evaluation study shows that traffic
intensity has increased, marketing of perishable commodities like milk and vegetables has been facilitated,
farmers now easily transport the agricultural produce when good prices available and there is steady rise in
the consumption of agricultural inputs. In addition, social benefits have been many: children can cycle
down distances to go to school in neighboring places and patients taken to hospital in emergency. Cycle
and motor cycle repair shops are also coming up. Achievement can be easily assessed as highly
satisfactory.
Policy Reforms: An important feature of ADP is its linkage with policy reforms which along with the
Agriculture Strategy Paper were approved by the State Cabinet prior to appraisal of the Project in May
1992. Practically all the policy reforms have been implemented. Mention of the reforms has been made at
different places earlier. It will suffice to mention here that full cost recovery has been ensured for all goods
and services by RSSC, horticulture plants, fish fingerlings, day-old chicks and Al by Animnal Husbandry
Department. Cost calculations are done on yearly basis. With the studies under water sector, water policy
has been prepared and data available for future policy decisions. 314 CLIS along with O&M
responsibilities have been transferred to WUAs. Participatory Irrigation Management has been a
rewarding experience. Different models for WUAs were tried. The experience has been useful in RWRSP
being appraised by the Bank. Act for formation of WUAs has been issued. To begin with progress in
reforms related to power sector was slow but lately process has been satisfactory. Power tariff has been
substantially revised. Appreciating need for firther reforms, the RSEB has been divided into three
companies; one dealing with generation, second dealing with transmission and the third with distribution.
The GOR has successfully negotiated US $ 180 million credit for power sector restructuring project with
the World Bank which is to become effective in February 2001.
- 28 -



Environmental Strengthening: Environmental Cell was established for strengthening GOR's capability
for environmental oversight for agriculture. It did not work up to the desired extent primarily because
environment as such was a new subject and more so related to agriculture sector. It examined the Annual
Plans prepared by the PCU and prepared environment indicators for the ADP activities.
HI. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome:
Fund Flow: Fund Flow, constraint of which became more acute after the MTR, has been an impeding
factor. This has, to some extent affected implementation and outcome of the project. This is a factor
though exclusively under Government control but, in the prevailing economic scenario in which the GOR is
passing through a difficult financial situation, maintaining fund flow was a difficult thing. It will not be out
of place to mention here that GOR is not the only State in the country to face financial crisis.
Procurement Related Problems: There were a few procurement related issues, particularly related to
irrigation (ID&R) and IGNP, where disputes led to delayed completion of the tasks. These have partially
affected the outcome of the project.
In the initial stages of the project, the pace of procurement instead of being fast was slow because there was
not adequate preparation in terms of procurement procedure according to IDA guidelines and yearly break
up of the items to be procured. This avoidably delayed the procurement process.
Inadequate Time for Implementation of SDP: RAU is one of the very important sectors of ADP.
Expenditures in the RAU was subject to the approval of SDP by the IDA. The SDP itself was received in
1996 and approved by the GOR and the World Bank in September 1997. Implementation of the
recommendation of the SDP (covering reform agenda, civil works and procurement of equipment for an
institution units of which are located at different places in the State) before the credit closing date was very
difficult. This has affected the outcome of the project particularly related to implementation of reform
agenda.
High Turn Over of Vice Chancellors: Since the approval of SDP in 1997, there have been four Vice
Chancellors of the RAU. High turn over of the Vice Chancellors impeded the pace of implementation of
the SDP.
IV. Project Sustainability:
Assessment of sustainability of achievements in a project with a multiplicity of sectors is some what
difficult particularly in a short space available. While detailed assessment has been given in Operation and
Maintenance Plan, macro level assessment is given below briefly:
Investment components were fixed keeping in view the project objectives and the policy reforms. Water
Resources planning study, IGNP study, pricing of water study and O&M study have provided valuable
input for RWRSP being appraised by the World Bank. Water policy has already been approved by the
State Cabinet. Now the road map for future actions is available. Findings of O&M study have already
been approved. Formation of WUAs was done on pilot basis. If the past experience is any guide, WUAs
are sustainable for the simple reason that equity in distribution of water has been achieved and per ha yield
increased. The GOR has already promugated the Rajasthan Farmer participation in Management of
Irrigation Systems Act 2000 for formation of WUAs. Hydrometereological equipments are already in place
and data collection and processing started. This will be very useful for flood forecasting.
- 29 -



Besides investigation studies giving precise data on acquifiers, safe well spacing, static and ground water
resources will help GOR take suitable policy decisions for judicious use of water resource and its
conservation. CLIS for their low cost, short gestation period for augmenting agricultural production and
equity factor will be popular among the poor farmers and will be promoted by GOR.
The SDP has provided plan of development for next two decades. The infrastructure development and the
procurement of equipments done for strengthening of laboratories will start yielding results. To begin with,
47 critical policy reform recommendations have already been implemented. The need of funds will be met
from GOR resources and the ICAR and the possibility of more research projects due to enhanced capacity
of the faculty and income from the farms.
Rural roads will continue to be made according to GOR policy. RSAMB is already constructing roads
from its own resources. So far the maintenance is concemed, the quality of the roads being high and good
number of roads under defect liability period, maintenenace liability being less that 1% of Rs. 164.12
crores of maintenance budget of PWD for 2000-2001 not high. It has been ensured that the funds for
maintenance are available. The GOR is also considering the policy of introducing maintain, operate and
transfer (MOT) concept in the road sector in which a cluster of roads will be maintained by private
enterpreneurs and will be allowed to collect toll tax during the contract period.
Most of the activities initiated by the Agriculture and Horticulture Department will continue. Full cost
recovery of horticulture plants has made the venture of providing quality plants from nurseries sustainable.
Strengthened training institutions by Agriculture Department and RAU will help in HRD at different levels.
In Animal Husbandry though Gopal does not form a success story, all the same lessons have been vital.
Restructured Gopal is being planned to be continued with the assistance of NABARD. AEMs have
become self-sustained. With O&M responsibility going to Panchayat Samitis and Municipalities and
amendment in the Acts having been moved, there is no doubt about sustainability of the AEMs. Leaming
from the experience of cross- breeding in Sheep, henceforth the policy will be selective breeding.
Process of transferring the Environment Cell to the Planning Department has been initiated. The report
entitled Enhancing Capacity of Environment Cell provided by a Consultant will be a useful document for
providing guidelines.
V. Bank Performance:
Bank Performance in project identification, preparation assistance, appraisal and supervision has been
highly satisfactory. As it is, multiplicity of sectors makes the ADP a category apart. At the Project
preparation level and appraisal, it was difficult task to work with different departments which did not have
the experience of working for such a project. Outstanding feature of the project is to see agriculture in its
entirety entailing work with different but complimentary departments. The performance of the Bank
particularly during the implementation phase has been outstanding. Procurement and reimbursements
problems were attended to on a priority basis. On vital issues, concurrence of no objection of the Bank was
obtained expeditiously. Visits of the Supervision Missions were of great help in expeditious
implementation of the project components. The field visits by the Mission Members provided objective and
useful feedback for remedial measures.
The Task Manager never felt tired to impress upon the GOR in wrap up meetings and meetings with the
Chief Secretary/Finance Secretary to maintain fund flow for full results from the project. But for the
- 30 -



intervention and close monitoring by the Task Manager, the compensation of land acquisition issue would
not have been resolved to a level done now. It was owing to the pragmatic approach of the Bank that the
period of the Project was extended for a year more so that sectors like RAU get enough time to implement
the recommendations of the SDP.
VI. Borrowers Performance:
Performance of borrower and implementing agencies in preparing and implementing the project has been
satisfactory. At the conceptual level in the context of the agrarian economy of the State, agriculture was
broadly defined which led to multiplicity of sectors in the Project. Due weightage was given to RAU, for
its role in agricultural development. Rural roads (2-12 kmi) measuring 2300 km have been constructed this
will bring revolutionary changes in agricultural development, judicious use of water resources is the need of
the hour; this has provided invaluable data base for future decisions and RWRSP, not only PIM was
introduced but lessons learned have been of great value for RWRSP; CLIS has promoted equity and
agricultural production at low cost; the livestock sector has not been able to do well. Without any formal
powers, the PCU played a meaningful role in maintaining coordination with line-departments. Thus, in
totality, the performance of borrower and the implementing agencies has been highly satisfactory. Fund
flow did impede the progress. But this was a factor beyond GOR. Rajasthan is not the only State in the
Country in the grip of financial crisis. Till MTR fund flow was not a problem.
VII. Lessons Learned:
a) Multiplicity of Sectors should be avoided: After handling a project involving a large number of
line-departments (12) it was realized that implementation of a project dealing with one or a few
departments is better. The number of line departments being many, a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was
in place but implementation agencies were as many as the departments. This resulted in dual control. It
was difficult for the project coordination unit to be associated with all the details of project aspects of all
the line departments while the line departments thought that no objection/reminders from the PCU virtually
meant that everything was in order. For example, the land acquisition problem. While the PCU thought
that since the roads were constructed either no land acquisition was involved or payment of land
compensation done, the implementation agency accorded priority to achievement of targets and thought that
land compensation was not to be charged to ADP budget, the data was not reported to the PCU and the
PCU did not intervene till at a later stage.
Similarly, the implications of high mortality rates in exotic ewes became an issue for PCU intervention at a
late stage. Restructuning of Gopal Scheme being done now, could have been done earlier if there were no
separate coordination and implementing agencies.
b) Adequate Time for Implementation of SDP: SDP provides a comprehensive programme for the
development of RAU as a centre for excellence. SDP having been approved by the World Bank in
September 1997 implementation of the recommendations started after this crucial date. However, the
remaining period was thoroughly inadequate for implementation of the recommendations before the Credit
Closing date. In such cases, two options were open: (a) the consultancy for SDP should have been given at
the approval stage so that with the commencement of credit, approval of SDP would have been given.
Purpose of such a good work is defeated for want of time, it could not be implemented; or (b) separate
time lirnits fixed for sectors like RAU.
c) Procurement Training: Training for IDA procurement procedure should be organized on half yearly
basis in which besides the nodal officers, officers of the Accounts Service and Officers of the Finance
- 31 -



Department should also be deputed.
d) Advance Planning: Externally Aided Projects are time bound programmes. Therefore, advance planning
in terms of items of procurement, training for procurement procedure and placement of staff should be done
for completing the job in the given period of time.
- 32 -



