                                      Document of
                                    The World Bank


                                                       ReportNo.: 34578-IN




               PROJECTPERFORMANCE ASSESSMENTREPORT

                                         INDIA

                    AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                                     (Credit 24330)


                                  November 28,2005




Sector, Thematic, and Global Evaluation Division
Independent Evaluation Group

Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit= Rupees (Rs.)

1993                      US$l.oo                30.49
1994                      US$l.oo                31.37
1995                      US$1.oo                32.42
1996                      US$1.oo                35.43
1997                      US$1.oo                36.3 1
1998                      US$1.oo                41.25
1999                                             43.05
                          US$1.oo
                          US$1.oo
2000                                             44.94
2001                      US$1.oo                47.19
2002                      US$1.oo                48.61
2003                      US$1.oo                46.59
2004 (January)            US$1.oo                45-43
Source: IMF and WorldBank databases


Abbreviations andAcronyms
ADP              AgricultureDevelopment Project
ASTEN            Asia Technical
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
ERR              economic rate o freturn
GOR              Government o f Rajasthan
ICR              Implementation Completion Report
M&E              monitoring and evaluation
MIS              management information system
MTR              Mid-Term Review
NRM              natural resource management
IEG              IndependentEvaluation Group
O&M              operation and maintenance
PAD              Project Appraisal Document
PCC              Project Coordination Committee
PPAR             Project PerformanceAssessment Report
PTI              Program o f Targeted Intervention
RAU              Rajasthan Agriculture University
S A R            StaffAppraisal Report
SDP              Strategic Development Plan
WUA              Water Users Association


FiscalYear
April 1 March 31
        -


Director-General, Evaluation                           : Mr.Vinod Thomas
Director, Independent Evaluation, World Bank           : Mr.Ajay Clhbber
Manager, Sector, Thematic, and Global Evaluation       : Mr.Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                           : Ms.Nalini Kumar

                                                            1




       IEG Mission:Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthrough excellenceand independencein evaluation.


About this Report
      The IndependentEvaluationGroup assessesthe programs and activitiesof the World Bank for two purposes:first, to
 ensurethe integrityof the Bank's self-evaluationprocessand to verifythat the Bank'swork is producingthe expected
 results,and second,to help develop improveddirections,policies,and proceduresthrough the disseminationof lessons
 drawnfrom experience.As part of this work, IEG annuallyassessesabout 25 percentof the Bank's lendingoperations. In
selecting operationsfor assessment, preferenceis givento those that are innovative,large, or complex; those that are
 relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations;those for which ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank managementhave
 requestedassessments;andthose that are likelyto generateimportantlessons.The projects, topics, and analytical
 approachesselected for assessment support largerevaluationstudies.
      A Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion Report
 (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department)and fieldwork conducted by IEG. To prepare PPARs, IEGstaff
 examine projectfiles and other documents, interviewoperationalstaff, and in most cases visit the borrowing countryfor
onsite discussionswith project staff and beneficiaries.The PPARthereby seeks to validate and augment the
 informationprovided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader IEG studies.
      Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and IEG management approval. Once cleared internally,the PPAR
 is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary.The completed PPAR is then sent to the
 borrowerfor review; the borrowers' comments are attachedto the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of
 Executive Directors.After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


About the IEG Rating System
      The time-tested evaluation methods used by IEG are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work. The
methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or sectoral
approach. IEG evaluators all apply the same basic methodto arrive at their project ratings. Following is the definition
and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the IEG website:
http://worldbank.org/oed).
      Relevanceof Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's current
development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals
(expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational
Policies). Possibleratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectiveswere achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance.Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficiency: The extent to which the projectachieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost comparedto alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible.This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
      Sustainability: The resilienceto risk of net benefitsflows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
      lnstitutionalDevelopmentImpact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or regionto
make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a) better
definition, stability, transparency, enforceability,and predictabilityof institutional arrangements and/or (b) better
alignment of the mission and capacity of an organizationwith its mandate,which derives from these institutional
arrangements. InstitutionalDevelopment Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a project. Possible
ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevantobjectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and supported
implementationthrough appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements for regular
operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory,Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure quality
of preparationand implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the achievement of
developmentobjectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory,Highly
Unsatisfactory.


                                                                     ...
                                                                    111



Contents

PrincipalRatings          ................................................................................................................    v

Key StaffResponsible              ........................................................................................................    v

Preface  ..............................................................................................................................       ..
                                                                                                                                             vi1

Summary     ...........................................................................................................................      ix

1 Background
 .                      ..................................................................................................................    1

2.   ProjectDesignand Implementation                             ...........................................................................  2

        Project Design .........................................................................................................              2
                   Project Components and Financing Plan.....................................................                                 2
        Project Implementation............................................................................................                    3
3 EvaluationFindings
 .                                   .....................................................................................................    4

                   Relevance         ..................................................................................................... 4
                   Efficacy........................................................................................................           5
                   Efficiency.....................................................................................................            9
        Outcome................................................................................................................ -10
        Sustainability.......................................................................................................... 10
        InstitutionalDevelopment impact ..........................................................................                           11
        Bank Performance .................................................................................................                   11
        Borrower Performance ..........................................................................................                      12
4.  Lessons    ........................................................................................................................      13

Annex A BasicDataSheet
           .                              ..............................................................................................     17


This reportwas preparedbyNalini Kumar.who assessedthe projectinOctober-November 2003. Tomas
CaspellanandHelenPhillip providedadministrative support.


                                                     V



PrincipalRatings
                                          ICR*               ICR Review*                      PPAR
Outcome                                Satisfactory           Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory
Sustainability                            Likely                 Likely                        Likely
Institutional Development              Substantial             Substantial                  Substantial
Impact
Bank Performance                       Satisfactory           Satisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance                   Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of the
Bank. The ICR Review is an intermediate Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) product that seeks to
independently verif'y the findings of the ICR.


Key Staff Responsible
Project                                Task Manager/           Division Chief/        Country Director
                                             Leader           Sector Manager
 Appraisal                              Ralph Hanan           Shawki Barghouti           Heinz Vergin
 Completion                          Deepak Ahluwalia            Ridwan Ali               Edwin Lim


                                              vii


Preface

This is the Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) for the Agriculture Development
Project Rajasthan (Cr. 24330), for which a credit inthe amount SDR 73.1 million(US$106.0
million equivalent) was approved inNovember 1992. Actual disbursements were US$95.3
million. US$7.2 million o f the credit was canceled. The project closed on September 30,
2000, one year behind schedule because more time was neededto strengthen institutional
mechanisms for some project components. An Implementation Completion Report (Report
No. 21902) was submitted by the South Asia Region on February 26,2001.
This report was preparedby the Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) based on the
completion report, the Staff Appraisal Report (Report No. 11001, October 23, 1992), the
Development Credit Agreement, review o f Bank files, and a survey o f the literature. An IEG
mission traveled to IndiainOctober-November 2003 where it discussed the project with
Bank staff, relevant government officials, nongovernmental organizations, beneficiaries,
donors, consultants, and academics. The cooperation and assistance o f all stakeholders and
government officials is gratefully acknowledged as is the support o f the staff o f the World
BankCountry Office inDelhi.
Following standard IEGprocedures, the draft PPAR was sent to the Borrower for comments
before being finalized. N o comments were received. Inaccordance with the Bank's
disclosure policy, the final report will be available to the public following submission to the
World Bank's Board o f Executive Directors.


                                                 i x


 Summary

        Agriculture and animal husbandry are the major source o f livelihood for more than 70
percent o fthe population inthe Indianstate o fRajasthan and account for about 40 percent o f
its GDP. Over time, the Government o f Rajasthanhas taken a variety o f measuresto promote
development o f agriculture. Since 1971,the World Bank has supported this effort through
projects inresearch, extension, irrigation, forestry andwatershed protection, dairy
development, and improved storage and marketing facilities. The FY 1993 Rajasthan
Agriculture Development Project (ADP) was conceived as a way to overcome the limited
ability o f single sub-sector projects to resolve overarching policy issues relevant to inter-
related sub-sectors.

        The objectives ofthe RajasthanADP were to help the state government implement
the agriculturalpolicies set out inits Agricultural Strategy Paper, namely (a) to accelerate
agricultural growth through improved technical, financial, and economic use o f resources; (b)
to enhance long-term sustainability o f growth through appropriate management and
conservation o fnaturalresources; and (c) to improve equitybybetter targeting o f
development programs to the poorer strata o f the rural population. The objectives remained
unchanged throughout the implementationperiod. The project was first prepared as a sector
adjustment loan, but prior to approval the Bank and the Government o f India agreed to make
it aninvestment operation. Inits final form the project includedboth a policy reformprogram
andinvestmentcomponents incrop husbandry,horticulture, animal husbandry, water
resource planning, rural roads, agriculture research and training, and environmental
strengthening.Hence it was a very complex operation the implementationo fwhich involved
coordinationacross 12 state government departments. At appraisal, total project cost was
estimated to beUS$130.3 million. Actual total project costs were US$121.3 million.

        The IEGassessmentrates theproject outcome moderately satisfactory. Physical
objectives were largely met but project monitoring and evaluation (M&E) was weak, and a
workable systemwas not established to monitor and subsequentlyevaluate the contribution
to the achievement o f project objectives o f either the policy reform or investment
components. Policies and legislation for full cost recovery on several goods and services
were passed, although their actual implementationwas slow. Also, little progress was made
on enhancing the state government's environmental oversight for agriculture.

        Theprojectprovided for the construction of2,228 kilometers o froads linkingabout
600 previously unconnected villages, but the achievements o fthis component were
overshadowed by land acquisition issues. EveninNovember 2003, more thanthree years
after project closing, these had not beensettled. Numerous crop, fodder, and fruit and
vegetable demonstrations were heldunder the crop husbandryand horticulturecomponents
and thoughthe areaunder fruits and vegetables i s reported to have increased, the weak M&E
makes it difficult to say how much o f this increase can be attributed to the project. More than
a millionwomen were trained, through mostly one-day courses administered by Department
o f Agriculture field staff. Infrastructure, facilities and equipment were built or upgraded at
the Departments ofAgriculture, Animal HusbandryandIrrigation, andthe Rajasthan
Agricultural Universityand the Maharana Pratap University, but it remains to be seen
whether those new buildingsand facilities will be usedeffectively or maintained. Overall, the

                                               X



project generated a large volume o f outputs, but these were not clearly linked to outcomes or
to project objectives. Boththe government's coordination unit andthe Bank supervision
missions were caught up ingetting the multipledepartments to meet their targets and gave
less attention to how these achievements supported the government's agricultural strategy.

        Onbalance the assessment rates sustainability likely even though the state
government's tight fiscal situation hindered work under several components. The increased
understanding o f water resource management issues that the project helped develop has
informed state laws and policies. Various government departments have been technically
strengthened and are better positioned to effectively manage the state's agriculture sector.

        Institutional development impact i s rated substantial andBorrower performance i s
rated satisfactory. However, Bank performance is ratedunsatisfactory, primarilybecause o f a
violation o f a safeguard policy related to resettlement. Inaddition, the project was a very
complex operation and its implementation arrangements were inadequate for that level o f
complexity, several components were not well prepared, supervision was weak, and
monitoring and evaluation was not given adequate emphasis.

        The experience o f the Rajasthan ADP project offers four lessons for future Bank-
supported state-wide multisectoral interventions inthe agriculture sector inIndia and
elsewhere.

    When several policy reforms and investments are required ina sector, a multi-phase
    operation over a longer periodmay be more appropriate. Early attention could then be
    focused on critical policy reforms and the most crucial investments to create the right
   platform for subsequent investments. This would avoidthe simultaneous preoccupation
   withmeetingmultiple targets at the expense o f a soundpolicy framework.

   Monitoring and evaluation o f outcomes should be integral to project design. Realistic
   targets and indicators need to be linked to objectives.

   Complex Bank interventions likethe RajasthanADP require strong and constant Bank
   management oversight to ensure the alignment o f implementation and design and strict
   adherence to Bank procedures and policies.

   Adequate understanding o f the financial situation o f the government at the appraisal stage
   can help ensure the financial health o f a project duringimplementation and the
   sustainability o f activities supported afler closure.




                                                                               Vinod Thomas
                                                                              Director-General
                                                                                  Evaluation

                                                      1


1.        Background

 1.1      Rajasthan, India's largest state, i s inthe northwest o fthe country andborders
Pakistan.About 58 percent o f its 34.2 millionhectaresis under cultivation, 5 percent is
grazing land and pastures and 7 percent i s barrenand uncultivable land.' Agriculture and
animal husbandry are the major sources o f livelihood for more than 70 percent o f the
population and account for about 40 percent of the state's gross domestic product even
thoughRajasthan i s a desert state and has only one percent o f the country's water
resources. The average annual rainfall i s 575 millimeters with large variation across
differentzones. Only about one-third o fthe cultivated landis irrigated and most ofit is
concentrated inthe districts o f Ganganagar andHanumangarh.

 1.2      Rajasthanhas the largest livestockpopulationinIndia and accounts for about 40
percent o fthe wool and 10percent o fthe milk produced inthe country. Animal
husbandry i s an important occupation inall areas o f the state, and i s the mainrural
activity inthe arid western districts. According to the most recent estimates, about 20
percent o fthe state population lives below the poverty line (World Bank 2004) and
animal husbandry i s a significant source o f supplemental income for a large percentage o f
the landless ruralpoor andmarginal farmers.'

1.3       Despite the state's fragile naturalresource endowment, agriculture grew at about
4.1 percent per annumbetween 1980 and 1994. The Government o f Rajasthan (GOR)
historically has provided considerable support for development o f irrigation, rain-fed
agriculturalproduction, soil andwater conservation, fodder production, livestock
(including sheep and cattle), horticulture, agro-forestry, and processing and marketing
facilities. Improvingcommunicationwithin the state through development o f a rural road
network has also beena government priority.

1.4       Since 1971,the World Bank has supported the state government's efforts to
develop agriculture throughprojects inresearch, extension, irrigation, forestry and
watershed protection, dairy development, and improvedstorage and marketingfacilities.
The Agriculture Development Project (ADP) was developed to allow the government to
take a strategic view o f the sector as a whole. The ADP modelbecame popular in
responseto the experience o f single sub-sector projects which were not able to do justice
to overarching policy issues. Inthat model once the Bank had agreedwith a state
government on a broad strategy for agricultural growth, the prime focus was to be on
policy reform though investments considered critical to promotingsustainable growth
were also supported.

1.5      The objectives o fthe RajasthanADP were to help the state government
implementthe agriculturalpolicies set out inits Agricultural Strategy Paper, namely(a)
to accelerate agricultural growth through improvedtechnical, financial, and economic use
o f resources; (b) to enhance long-tern sustainability o f growth through appropriate

''Agricultureo
             Rajasthan Statistical Abstract 2003. http://www.rajamb,codstatabstract2003/landuse.htm
  50 percent f the total landholdings are small or marginal and account for 10percent of the cultivated
area.

                                                2


management and conservation o fnatural resources; and (c) to improve equity bybetter
targeting o f development programs to thepoorer strata ofthe ruralpopulation. These
objectives were to be achieved through a policy and institutional reform program and
investmentsincrop husbandry, horticulture, animal husbandry,water resource planning,
rural roads, agriculture research, andtraining. Project objectives remained unchanged
throughout the implementationperiod.



2.        ProjectDesignand Implementation

PROJECT    DESIGN

2.1      TheRajasthanADP was initially designedas a sector adjustment loanbut in
February 1992, the Bank andthe Government o f India agreed to make it an investment
operation. The project was approved inNovember 1992 andbecame effective inJanuary
1993. Over a six-year period it was to implement a complex and ambitious policy reform
agenda as well as an investment programthat requiredcoordination across 12
government departments and agencies.

Project ComponentsandFinancingPlan

2.2      Policy reforms were to address public expenditure issues, the incentive
framework, and constraints to private sector development. The reforms included: (a) full-
cost pricing o f goods and services suppliedby the public sector to encourage greater
participationby the private sector; (b) reductionor elimination o f subsidiesprovidedby
the Government o fRajasthan; (c) improvement o f the efficiency o f water use and
strengtheningo fmeasuresinsupport o f sustainability o fthe resource; (d) review o f
constraints to the development o f agro-industries and marketing; (e) increase inprograms
for the development o f livestock to exploit its potential for growth and poverty
alleviation; (f) institutionalreforms o f rural cooperatives to make them more democratic
andresponsive to their members; (g) strengtheningofthe state government's capacity to
evaluate public investments through financial and economic analysis; and (h) enhancing
o f state government's environmental oversight for agriculture. The policy reform agenda
was to be accompaniedby investmentsfor:

        RuralRoads(US$41.7 million at appraisal,US$53.3 millionactual),the
        largest component, was implementedby the Public Work Department andthe
        Rajasthan State Agricultural MarketingBoard.
        Water Resources (US$17.1 millionat appraisal,US$19.4 million actual), the
        second-largest component, included several sub-components aimed at improving
        data collection andprocessing, strengthening the Remote Sensing Application
        Center throughpurchase o f equipment, training, and technical assistance.
        AgricultureResearchandTraining(US$20.7 millionat appraisal, US$18.7
        million actual),was implementedbythe Rajasthan AgriculturalUniversity
        (MU)andincludedpreparationofaStrategicDevelopmentPlan(SDP) tohelp

                                               3


         the RAUplan for future demands andmakethe necessary institutionalchanges
         andinvestments.
    0    AnimalHusbandry(US$14.9 million at appraisal,US$7.4 millionactual),
         implementedbythe DepartmentofAnimal Husbandry, was to support breed
         improvement, animal markets, management informationsystems, disease
         surveillance, privatizationo fveterinary services, and strengtheningo fthe
         Rajasthan Instituteo f Livestock Management and existing para-veterinary
         schools.
    0    Crop Husbandry(US$l9.9 million at appraisal,US$15.1 millionactual),
         implementedbythe DepartmentofAgriculture, was to carryout demonstrations
         andtraining on selected farmers' fields with a focus on landrehabilitation,
         improved efficiency o fwater use, fodder development, andpromotion o f new
         crops. This component also supported sodic land reclamationactivities.
         Horticulture(US$7.9 millionat appraisal, US$4.8 million actual),
         implementedbythe DepartmentofHorticulture, was to promotecultivationof
         higher-value crops. Investments were to include development o fnurseries,
         progeny and demonstration centers, training, advertising, marketing and
         processing.
    0    EnvironmentStrengthening(US$1 million actual and appraisal)was to
         strengthen GOR's capability for environmental oversight inthe agriculture sector.
         A permanent Environment Cellwas to be established inthe office ofthe
         DevelopmentCommissioner with the responsibility for assessingthe
         environmental and sociological impact o f investment plans, initially for the
        project and progressively for all proposed for all proposed investments inthe
         agriculture sector.
        ProjectCoordination(US$8.2 million at appraisalandUS$2.5 million actual)
        was to be carried out at two levels, through the Project Guidance Committee (to
        beheadedbythe Chief Secretary) andthe Project Coordination Committee (PCC,
        headedby the Development Commissioner). The PCC was supported by a full-
        time Project CoordinationUnit.

2.3     A t appraisal, total project cost was estimated to be US$130.3 million o fwhich the
IDA sharewas US$106million(equivalent), andgovernmentheneficiarieswere to
provide US$24.3 million. Actual project costs were US$121.3 million ofwhich the IDA
share was US$95.3 million and governmentheneficiary contributionstotaledUS$26
million. US$7.2 millionwas canceled. The project closed inSeptember 2000, one year
behindschedule. The project was extended becausemoretime was neededto strengthen
institutionalmechanisms for agriculturalresearch and training, to consolidate water user
groups (WUGs), and to strengthen institutionalcapacity inthe Environment Cell.

PROJECT    IMPLEMENTATION

2.4     Coordinatingproject activities between 12 government departments/agencies was
a managerial challenge for the project. Some components, inparticular the RAU
component, lagged inperformance. As late as February 1996the Bank had not received
government recommendations on the Strategic Development Planfor the university,
Bank approval o fwhich was a conditiono f disbursement. The civil works for RAU,

                                                       4


 originally to be completed by April 1999, were also heldup by the delay in
 commissioningthe SDP.

 2.5       At appraisal, littleneedfor landacquisitionwas foreseenbecauseroads were to
 bebuilt on existing alignments. However, duringimplementationland acquisition
 became a major issue and delays inannouncement andpayment o f land acquisition
 awards hinderedproject implementation. The establishment and staffing o f the
 Environment Cell was also delayed.

 2.6       Theproject's mid-termreview (MTR) took place inFebruary-March 1997, at
 which time o f the total IDA commitment o fUS$103.4 million, about US$44 million
 remained undisbursed.This included savings from exchange rate movements since the
 start o fthe project, The credit agreementwas amended after the M T R and the size of the
 rural roads component was increased to use the saving. Some revisions were also made in
 the procurement procedures.

 2.7       Project implementationwas negatively affected after the M T R whenthe State
 Finance Department imposed expenditure restrictions in 1997-98 to contain overall
 expenditure growth. The restrictions affected the flow o f fimds to several departments
 and impededprogress on several components. The fiscal situation also slowedprogress
 on the SDP andthe compensation payments for land acquired for rural roads as well as
 causing processing delays inprocurement packages. Further, elections due insome o f the
rural cooperatives were delayed because o fthe nationalelections inJanuary 1998.3



3.        Evaluation Findings

Relevance

3.1       Project relevance i s rated substantial. The project was to assist the government o f
Rajasthan inimplementingits new agricultural strategy andwas fully consistent with the
Bank's assistancestrategy for Indiainthe agriculturesector. The three project objectives
-focusedongrowth, appropriatemanagementandconservationofnaturalresources,and
improved equitybybettertargeting-were alignedwith the Bank's overall development
goals, though as statedthey were too broad and not easily monitored. Further,the project
was highlycomplex andtoo ambitious inwhat it was trying to achieve inits six-year
implementationperiod.

3.2       Theprojecthadfour design shortcomings. First, though agriculture is a state
subject, the design gave less attention to whether all the policy reforms could be

  Most cooperatives inIndia started withpublic sector seed capital. Because of this predominant
shareholding and the limitedmanagerial capability o f the cooperative membership, state governments
appointed civil servants as directors and managers o f these institutions. Over time, this made most Indian
cooperatives essentially public enterprises. The proposed policy changes inRajasthan were intended to
initiate the process of weaning selected rural cooperatives from State control and putting their management
inthehandsoftrue voluntary associations oftheir members.Thisprocesswas adverselyaffectedbythe
delay inthe elections.

                                                   5


 effectivelyimplemented at the state level. For example, some proposedpolicy reforms,
 like increasing flat rate ruralpower tariffs to ensure equivalence with the meteredrate
 were politically difficult to implement at the state level as neighboring states didnot
 pursuesimilar policies. Second, the roadcomponent was inadequately prepared as too
 little time and resources were budgetedfor landacquisition. The design o f the sheep and
 wool sub-component inthe animal husbandrycomponent also had shortcomings. It was
 unrealistic to expect importedexotic ewes and their lambs to thrive under local harsh
 migrant conditions. Third, there was some lack o f consistency between the policy reform
 measures andthe investmentprogram. While the policy reform agenda favoredreduction
 or abolition o f government subsidies, the sub-component on sodic land reclamationwas
 based on the provision o f subsidized gypsum.However early supervision missions
 suggested revisions inthe programto ensure no subsidy on gypsum. Finally, as already
 noted, the project was extremelycomplex which made smooth implementation a
 challenge.


 Efficacy

 3.3      Efficacy i s rated substantial. While several objectives o fthe reform agenda were
 met, progress was limited, especially on enhancing the state government's environmental
 oversight for agriculture. Environment strengtheningwas a small component (Table l),
 but its importance for achievement o f the second objective was far greater than the
 financial resources devoted to it. I t i s also not clear how much success was achieved on
 strengtheningthe state government's capacity to evaluate public investmentsthrough
 financial andeconomic analysis. No rate o freturnwas calculated for the project (see
 section on efficiency) and aworkable systemto monitor and subsequentlyevaluate the
 contribution o fthe policy reform measures and each investment component to the
 achievement o fproject objectives was not effectively established. While the outputs o f
 the projectwere noteworthy (Box 1,followingparagraph 3.7), too little attentionwas
 givento linkingoutputs to clear outcomes andproject objectives. M&Ealso was focused
 on ensuring an input-output balance.

 Table 1: ProjectComponentsand Rating
 Component                          Appraisal estimate          Actual          PPAR Rating
                                    totalas   % of
                                           project cost    totalas% of
                                                                project cost
 Rural Roads                                 32                   44             Satisfactory
 Water Resources
I                                             13                  16             Satisfactory
 Agriculture Research and Training I          15        I         15        IModerately SatisfactoryI
 Animal Husbandry                             11                  6             Unsatisfactory
 Crop Husbandry                              15                   12         Moderately Satisfactow
IHorticulture                      I          6         I         4         I    Satisfactory       I
 Environment Strengthening                    1                   1             Unsatisfactory
 Project Coordination                         6                   2              Satisfactory

 3.4      The complexity o fthe operation meant that the Government's coordinationunit
 andthe Bank supervision missions (including the MTR)gave more attention to getting

                                                6


 individual departments to meet their targets and less to how these achievements
 contributed to supporting the government's agricultural strategy. After the mid-term
 amendments to the project, 44 percent o f the total cost was devoted to the road
 component, and the interventionbecame a rural roads project more than anythingelse.
 However, the achievements o f this component were overshadowed by landacquisition
 issues. Evenas late as November 2003, when IEGundertook its field visit for this
 assessment, more thanthree years after project closing, these issues hadnot been settled.

 3.5     The paragraphs below provide informationon project achievements by objectives:

 Objective1: Contribution to acceleration of agricultural growth in the state through
 improved technical,financial and economic use of resources (Mostly Achieved).

 3.6     A recent agriculturalsectorreview (World Bank 2004a) found a 2.3 percent
 average annual growthrate for agriculture and allied services inRajasthan between
 1991/92 and 2000/2001, lower than the previous decade when it grew at 4.4 percent. The
 broadnature o fthe project's objectives and the weak M&Emakes it impossible to assess
 how much the project may have contributed to this growth. The project introducedthe
 borrower to several innovative ideas that probably contributedto agricultural growth in
 the state. Several o fthese ideas have now been integrated into the state strategy in
particular sub-sectors. For example, the water resource component pilotedwater user
 associations (WAS).Since then GOR haspasseda new act to provide for farmers'
participation inthe management o f irrigationsystems. While policies and legislation for
 fullcost recoveryhavebeenpassedfor several goods andservices, theyhavenot always
been effectively applied andpoliticalpressures could still reverse the gains that have
beenmade. Nevertheless, the project's emphasis oncost recoveryhas ledseveral
government departments (like irrigation, animal husbandry)to appreciate the importance
o fthe concept to promote efficient management resources, though the incentives for
those departments to `push' for applicationo fpolicies remain low: currently any gains
from actions taken by individual departments are deposited ina general treasury account
andthe departments therefore do not benefit directly from their efforts.

3.7      Ruralroads, the largest component, increased the access o fremote villages to
potential markets. Under the crop husbandry component numerous crop demonstrations
were held (Box l), o fthe six new crops demonstrated only castor provedrelevant for
                     but
farmer adoptioninJodhpur division. The pilot drainage demonstrations program failed to
take off andpilot programs to introduce more client driven extension also didnot
succeed. Further, the impact o f the forage development demonstrations was limitedas
neither the alley cropping patterns nor urea/molasses treatment proved adoptable. Though
numerous training courses were heldfor women, it i s difficult to imagine that the mostly
one-day events administered byDepartment o f Agriculture field staff could have resulted
inmuchimprovedincomes for the trainees. Fewwomen interviewedbythe assessment
missionreported tangible economic gains, and some confirmed that little gain inskills
couldbe expected from one short-term training. The horticulturecomponent succeeded in
increasing the number o f departmental andprivate nurseries, the availability o fhigh-
quality plantingmaterial, andthe areaplantedunder fruit and vegetables, though little
information i s available on survival rates o ftrees planted.It is also difficult to tell how

                                               7


much o f the increase inthe area brought under fruit andvegetables can be attributed to
 the project.


 Box 1. ImpressiveProgress on PhysicalOutputs

 Ruralroads: 2,228 kilometers o froads were constructed linkingabout 600 unconnectedvillages.
 Crop husbandry: Six new crops were demonstrated at a total of 38,000 sites. Various green
 fodders, alley cropping systems, and urea/molasses treatment o f dry fodder were promoted
through an extensive program o f about 37,000 demonstrations and some 95,000 promotion seed
kits. Sodic land at 6,300 sites - amounting to 3,400 hectares - was successfully treated with
 gypsum. The Farm Women's Training Program reached 1.2 million women. Rural Artisan
Trainingwas given to about 600 local artisans inagricultural equipment repair and manufacture.
 Horticulture: 39,000 fruit demonstrations and 33,000 vegetable demonstrations were conducted.
Twenty-eight departmental nurseries and 83 private nurseries were established and distributed
 173 millionplants duringthe project period.
Animal husbandry: 1,100gopals( veterinary volunteers at the village level) were trained and 41
animal exchange markets at the panchayat samiti (block level) level and 25 at the municipal
levels were established.
Water resources: Hydrometeorological data collection, processing and use were strengthened.
Usingremote sensing techniques a groundwater atlas and hydrogeomorphological and arable land
use maps for the state were prepared. Three hundred and fifteen community lift irrigation
schemes were established.
Environment strengthening: An Environmental Cell was established in the Development
Commissioner's Office.
Agriculture research and training: Infrastructure and capacity for agricultural research were
builtat the RajasthanAgricultural Universityat Bikaner and at the MaharanaPratap Universityof
Agriculture and Technology at Udaipur.

3.8      Equipment for the information media and Management InformationSystem
(MIS) helped strengthen the Department o f Agriculture, hydrometeorological data
collection andprocessing was strengthened, and the Rajasthan Institute o f Livestock
Management was constructed with hostel accommodation. However, it remains to be
seen whether the newbuildings and equipment will be effectively used and maintained.
Inaddition, MU'Sagricultural research facilities andbuildings were upgraded. Research
was not successfully aligned with field-level realities and the objective o f developing
RAUas acenter ofexcellencestill remains elusive. As acknowledgedbyaBank
supervision mission, the decision to create a second state agricultural university also led
to compromise o f the objective o fpromoting economic use o fresources.

Objective2: Enhance long-term sustainability of growth through appropriate
management and conservation of natural resources (Partially Achieved).

3.9     The project contributed to improvedunderstanding o f water issues inthe state.
The Water Resources Planning Study resulted inthe preparation o f a State Water Policy
approved by the State Cabinet inSeptember 1999.The state government also passed
legislation in2000 to provide for farmers' participation inthe management o f irrigation
systems. While user groups are increasingly being formed (including under the later

                                                   8


RajasthanWater Sector Restructuring Project) and could contribute to improveddelivery
o f irrigation services inthe long run,the organizations do not yet have the capacity
neededfor sustainable water resource management. An external study o fthe working and
impact o f WUAs formed underthe project notes this lack o f capacity and also questions
the extent to which there was genuine farmer participation inselection and execution o f
works. A recent Supervision Missionreport (November 2004) on the formation and
fostering o fWUAs under the Rajasthan Water Sector RestructuringProject also noted
that while these organizations have beenformed, efforts by the Irrigation Department
were still inadequate for their sustainable development.

3.10     The component for Environmental Strengthening was not successful. While the
EnvironmentalCell was established it has not yet assumedresponsibility for monitoring
the environmental and sociologicalaspects ofpublic investmentsinthe entire agricultural
sector (including irrigation) inthe state. This is largely becausethe borrower was not
convinced about the usefulness o f environmental and sociological oversight and also
becausethe government didnot have the requiredenvironmental expertise.

3.11 A significant amount o f sodic landwas reclaimed, but it i s unclear whether the
operation and maintenance o f drainage was givenadequate attention. An IEGassessment
o f the Sodic LandReclamationProject inUttar Pradesh found that too little attention had
beengivento drainage and soil fertility issues creating considerable riskthat the
reclaimedland could returnto its former state.4

Objective3: Improving equity through better targeting of developmentprograms to the
poorer strata of the ruralpopulation (Partially Achieved).

3.12     The increase inthe rural roadnetwork has increased accessibility o f remote and
poor villages and created opportunities available to hitherto poorly connected areas o f the
state to contribute to and benefit from agricultural growth. Further, small andmarginal
farmers have been given an opportunity to increase their incomes through their
participationincommunity lift irrigationschemes. However, there are no studies using
baseline data that could demonstrate this potential impact on poverty. Supervisionreports
notedthe need for intensification o f agriculture and horticulture extension inthe area
undercommunity lift irrigationschemes. While training o fwomen andrural artisans was
expected to leadto increased incomes for the poor, the largelyone day training courses
provideddo not seem likelyto have ledto much increase inopportunities for the women
trainees. The completion report however quotes an external evaluation which reportedly
showed increase inartisan income after training.

3.13     The animal husbandrycomponent, which was expected to makethe largest
contribution to achieving this objective, was unsuccessful. Limited progress was made on
privatizing veterinary services and the gopal (paravet or veterinary volunteers at the
village level) program had disappointing results. The Sheep and Wool sub-component
also faced major problems and failed to contribute to the project objective. The


 For more on this issue see OED Project Assessment of the Uttar Pradesh Sodic Lands Reclamation
Project Report No. 29124.

                                                         9


 completion report notes that the failure o f this component meant that a "chance to meet
poverty alleviation and equityobjectives was lost."

 Efficiency

 3.14     A qualitativeassessmentof efficiency for theproject suggests aratingof modest.
No economic rate ofreturn(ERR) was calculated for the project as a whole. The
 appraisal document explains that since the project investmentcomponents were largely
 supportive innature andwere designedto improve the enabling environment for
 agricultural growth, strengthenthe government's capability to provide high-quality
 services andplan for sustainable exploitation o fnatural resources, benefits could not be
 easily attributable to specific components. Hence an economic rate o freturn(ERR) was
 calculated only for the rural roads component. However, an attempt at calculatingthe
 ERRof some o fthe other components -crop husbandry, horticulture, animalhusbandry,
 and water resources- should have beenmade at least at the ICR stage. The absence of
baseline data, though, inhibitsthe measurement o f economic impact o fthe project.

 3.15     For the roads component, the ERR i s reported to have increased from 17percent
 at appraisal to 26 percent at completion. The increase hasbeenattributed to traffic
volumes that were higher thananticipated. Benefits were estimated based on savings
made on vehicle repairs becauseo froad improvement, beneficiaryproductive time saved,
andincreased transport ofgoods byvehicles. The assessment questions the credibility o f
the ERRreported for at least four reasons: First, only 50 percent ofthe total investment
costs are used inestimating the ERRbecause the calculationassumes that the
quantifiable benefits are 50 percent o f total benefits -but it i s not clear why this
assumption was made. Second, the costs were also underestimated becausethey didnot
consider the opportunity cost o f land. Inthe appraisal the roads were largely expected to
use existing alignments. Third, the ERRcalculations assumeda constant maintenance
cost. The ERR calculations at the ICR stage were made over 23 years. It i s unrealistic to
assume that the maintenance costs o f a rural roadwould bethe same inthe first five years
as inthe twentieth year o f its life. Work done bythe CentralRoadResearch Institute in
NewDelhishows wide variation inmaintenance costs over the years.' Fourth, project
coordinationcosts were not considered. Whenthe ERRi s recalculated using 100percent
o f the investment costs, a percentage o f the project coordination costs, the cost o f
compensation for acquired land, andvariable maintenance costs the ERR drops to 10
percent, which while acceptable i s disappointing whencompared with the original
expectations.6


 Project files reveal that calculations made by the Central Road ResearchInstitute inNew Delhi show that
the maintenance cost for rural roads Rs. 5000 per year per kminthe initial years increasing to Rs. 35,000
per year per kminthe 7th year o f service.
 Inmakingthis re-calculation, the cost ofthe compensation made is assumedto be aproxy for the
opportunity cost o f land. No opportunity cost is assumed for government land which is 40 percent o f the
total land acquired. The maintenance cost inthe original calculation was assumed to be constant at 3
percent o f cumulative investment cost. Inthe revised calculations, maintenance cost i s assumed to be 3
percent o f cumulative investment costs for the first three years and 5 percent o f cumulative investment
costs thereafter. Further, 44 percent o f the project coordination costs were taken into account since the road
component was 44 percent o f the total project.

                                               10


3.16      The roadcomponent was 44 percent o fthe totalproject cost. When a qualitative
assessmento fthe returns from some o fthe other components, like crop and animal
husbandry, agriculture research andtraining are considered, an efficiencyratingo f
modest seemsjustified. The returns from the crop demonstrations do not appear to be
commensurate with costs as notedinpara 3.7. The overallperformance o f the animal
husbandry component was unsatisfactory. The establishment o fthe second agricultural
universitybythe account o f supervision staffledto an inefficientuse o fresources (para
3.8). Further, the Environmental Cell was established but didnot achieve its purpose.

OUTCOME

3.17      Based on the evidence o f substantial relevance, substantial efficacy, andmodest
efficiency, IEGguidelinesindicate that the project's outcome should be rated
moderately satisfactory.

SUSTAIN ABILITY

3.18      Sustainability -the resilience to risk o fnet benefits over time -i s ratedlikely
though this was a close call. The state government's tight fiscal situation limitedthe use
o f facilities created, several construction activities couldnot be completed, and work
under several components was hinderedby lack o fresources and significant capacity
buildingwork remains to bedone to ensure sustainability ofthe WAS.However, the
assessmentconsiders the sustainability rating for the overall project to be likely for five
reasons. First, 44 percent o f the project was rural roads andmaintenance o f these roads i s
an insignificant percentage of the State Public Work Department's roadmaintenance
budget.Ifother ongoingpilot schemes that allow for maintenance o fhighways through
private contractors are expanded, substantial resources couldbe available for
maintenance o frural roads. Second, the increasedunderstanding o f water resource
management issues brought about by the project has informed state policies -the law
promoting farmer participation inirrigationmanagement, experience o f the project with
W A Sare examples. Further, the experience oftheproject with W A Sprovided
important lessonsfor the later Rajasthan Water Sector Restructuring Project. Third,
various government departments have beentechnically strengthened. For example the
information, media, andmanagement informationsystem capacities have been
strengthenedat all levels inthe Department ofAgriculture, the GroundWater
Departmenthasbeenable to undertakeseveral relevant studies, digital imageprocessing
equipment at the State Remote Sensing Application Center has enabled production o f
hydromorphological and arable land use maps for all districts inthe state. These technical
inputs areplaying amajor roleinthe development ofthe agriculture sector inthe state.
Fourth, chances o freversal incertain practices - such as the shift from seedlingto grafted
plantsinhorticulture anduptakeof drip irrigation-is extremelyunlikely.Private
nurseries have also playeda significant role inincreasing the area under fruits and
vegetables inthe state. Among the various h i t plants amla cultivation has increased
dramatically. Fifth, some components that failed (like animal husbandry) nonetheless
have helped designbetterpolicies for providing support for veterinary services and sheep
and cattle breeding.

                                                     11


 INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT               IMPACT

 3.19     Institutionaldevelopment impact i s rated substantial. The project introducedthe
 borrower to several innovative ideas that have now beenintegrated into the state strategy
 inparticular sectors. For example, the water resource sub-component pilotedWAS,
 which led to passa e o f an act to provide for farmers' participationinthe management of
 irrigation systems. Further, partly becauseo f efforts undertakenunder the project, the
                        f
 Government o f Rajasthan adopted a state water policy. Inwater resources, the studies
 financed contributed to the understanding of the water sector inRajasthan.

 3.20     Though full cost recovery for all publicly providedgoods has yet to be achieved,
the project's emphasis on cost recovery has led several government departments to
 appreciate the importance o fthe concept to promote efficient management o fresources
 and insist on full cost recovery for several goods and services and inseveral cases to
reduce or eliminate input subsidies.

3.21      A considerable amount ofinfrastructure and facilities was constructed and                '

technical capacity was upgradedunderthe project inthe Department o f Agriculture,
horticulture andunder RAU.

3.22      However, work remains to be done on consolidating the capacity o f the W A Sto
work effectively, especially inaccounting and financial management, and inensuringthe
effective use o fthe infrastructure and facilities created. Further, the creation o fthe
second agricultural universityhas created aneedto coordinate activities between the two.

BANKPERFORMANCE

3.23      Bankperformance is ratedunsatisfactoryfor several reasons.

3.24      First,a safeguard policywas violated andIEG's guidelines call for Bank
performance to be rated as unsatisfactory when there are any such violations. Initially the
project was to be an Environment Category A because, as notedbythe Final Executive
Project Summary, the construction o f roads "could have adverse environmental effects
dueto loss o f agriculturalor forest land, soil erosion, or traversing protected habitat."
However, Bank staff were confident that the roads would be constructed on existing
alignments and therefore would involve no land acquisition or displacement o fpeople.
Avoiding these concerns was to be one o fthe criteria for road selection. Ifland
acquisition became necessary for broadening the alignment the appraisal document noted
that "the landacquisitionprocess would be completed and compensation paidprior to
calling for tenders." Further, the environmental strengthening component was to assess
the environmental andsociologicalimpact o fthe state government's agricultural
investments under the project. Hence the project was designated as Category B.*
Ultimately, the Environmental Cell didnot work as expected and duringimplementation

'The   RajasthanFarmers' ParticipationinManagement of Irrigation Systems Act came into effect inJuly
2000.
8 Itis disappointing that these issues were notpickedupat the MTR stage when conhsion about the EA
classification of the project remained.

                                                      12


a large amount o f land(4,800 hectares, 60 percent o f it private land) was acquired. As o f
November 2003, when the assessmentmissionwas inthe field, the total compensation
for land acquisitionhadnot beenpaid.gThe fact that the roads hadbeenconstructed and
complete compensation not paid for two years after project completion i s a safeguard
violation.lo

3.25      Second, the project was very complex and its implementationarrangements were
inadequate for the level of complexity. At the project design stage the coordination
requiredto implement such an ambitious operation across several departments was not
thoroughly assessed. Neitherwas adequate allowance givento how normal government
working procedures (flow o f hnds, official transfers) could hinder implementation. The
number ofinvestmentcomponents should havebeen limitedto those considered most
critical and suitedto Bank financial support. Further, the capacity o f the government to
provide financial support for a largemultisectoralproject was not analyzed.

3.26      Third, some investmentcomponents were inadequately prepared at appraisal. This
was true for the sheep sub-component, as acknowledged by the completion report, as well
as for the roads component. A well-prepared road construction component would have at
least roughly estimated the amount o f landthat would have to be acquired and costs
involved inmaking compensation payments. Further, at mid-termwhen the size o f the
road component was increased, adequate management oversight should have been
providedto assess the time that would be requiredto handleacquisitions based on the
experiences inthe early years of implementation. Also the safeguard violation should
have been at least flagged at this stage.

3.27      Fourth, monitoring and evaluation was not adequately emphasized at the design
stage.

3.28      Fifth, for such a complex intervention, Bank supervision was weak. Staffing o f
supervision missions was inadequate for livestock issues. Other components, likethe
Environmental Cell, could not be set up as plannedand continued to be unsatisfactory
throughout the implementationperiod. While supervision missions raised concerns about
the inadequate functioning o fthe Environmental Cell those concerns were not adequately
addressed. This i s not surprisingsince no environmentalist participatedinsupervision
missions untilthe MTR.

BORROWERPERFORMANCE

3.29      Borrower performance is rated satisfactory, though only marginally so.
Government ownership o f the project was strong, and the coordinationunit functioned
well eventhough 12government departments were involved. Thebroad scope and the


 While the Government officials interviewedby the assessment missionreported that the delay in
disbursement for land compensation was mainly on account o f intra-family disputes resulting infmalization
o ftotal amount o f land acquisition payments, project files show that the tight availability o f resources and
procedural problems, like delays inacquiting succession certificates from local revenue officers, were also
partly responsible.

loThe Region inits comments notes that the Bank missions made substantial effort to resolve this issue.

                                              13


 complex designwas a mistakeand the project achieved what it did only because o fthe
 highlevelofinterestofthe senior Government ofRajasthanofficials. However frequent
 staffchanges at senior level ingovernment departments had a negative impact on
 implementation. The implementationo f the rural roads component was also delayed by
 frequent staffchanges at senior levels. Since the approval o f the SDP in 1997 there have
 been four Vice Chancellors at MU, slowing the pace o f SDP implementation. The
 absence o f a full-time Vice Chancellor at RAUfor some time during 1999 also
 contributed to delays inthat component. As already notedinpara 3.8, the GOR's
 decision to create a second agricultural universitycompromised the objective o f
promoting economic use o f resources.

 3.30   Onaccount ofthe tight fiscal situation inthe state, expenditure restrictions
 imposed bythe Finance Department in 1997/98 to containoverall expenditure adversely
 affected project implementation, especially after the MTR. Several departments faced
problems inobtaining clearances for bills at the local treasury offices - even though
 expenditures from externally aided projects were exempt from several restrictions.

 3.3 1 Government responsiveness infollowing up on the advice o f Bank supervision
missionwas also slow. Senior staff changes inimplementingdepartments also ledto
delay infollowing up o f recommendations o f Bank supervision missions. However,
several recommendations were also not effectively followed. For example, the poor
performance o f the gopal scheme hadbeennotedby supervision missions, but steps were
not taken to address the problem earlier. To be fair, however, the complex design o f the
project i s partlyto blame for this as the coordinatingunit and the implementing
departments was preoccupied with meetingproject targets andhad little time to actually
redesign components that were not functioning well. Financialreporting and compliance
with audit requirementswas generally satisfactory.



4.      Lessons

4.1     The experience o fthe Rajasthan ADP project offers four lessons for future Bank-
supported state-wide multisectoralinterventions inthe agriculture sector inIndia and
elsewhere.

Lesson1:When several policyreformsand investmentsare requiredin a sector, a
multi-phaseoperationover a longerperiodmay bemoreappropriate.Early
attention couldthen befocused on criticalpolicy reformsand the most crucial
investmentsto createthe rightplatformfor subsequentinvestments.This would
avoidthe simultaneous preoccupationwith meetingmultipletargets at the expense
of a soundpolicyframework.
The Rajasthan ADP was a hybridpolicy reform cum investmentproject. Infact the
design began as a policy reform project and thenwas changed at a later stage into an
investmentoperation. Itwas a complex state-wide operation that involved 12government
departments. This made Borrower coordinationand monitoring andBank supervision
very demanding. Boththe Government's coordinationunit andthe Bank supervision
missions were caught up ingetting individual departments to meet their targets and gave

                                              14


less attention to how these achievements contributed together to supporting the
Government's agricultural strategy, the realproject objective.


Lesson2: Monitoringand evaluationof outcomes shouldbeintegralto project
design. Realistictargets and indicatorsneedto be linkedto objectives.

Inthe RajasthanADP, M&Eoftheoutcome ofpolicyreform andtheinvestment
components should have beenan integralpart o fthe project. The fact that it was not,
resulted infocus on project outputs rather thanprogress on achievingoutcomes.

Lesson3: ComplexBankinterventionslikethe RajasthanADP requirestrongand
constantBankmanagement oversightto ensurethe alignmentof implementation
and designand strict adherenceto Bankproceduresandpolicies.
The safeguard violation could have beenavoided hadthere beengreater vigilance
exercised inapplying the Bank's Operational Directives. It i s well known that road
construction, and even improvement, can potentiallyinvolve some measure o f land
acquisition. Hence the Operational Directive on Involuntary Settlement should have been
triggered andthe Bank should have worked with the borrower from the beginningto
ensure that the Bank's safeguard policies were met.
Lesson4: Adequate understandingof the financialsituation of the government at
the appraisalstage can helpensurethe financialhealthof a projectduring
implementationandthe sustainabilityof activities supportedafter closure.
Particularly after MTR, the tight fiscal situation o f the government adversely affected
progress on a number o fproject activities. N o analysis was done at the project design
stage to realistically assess government capacity to meet its financial commitment to a
complex and demanding multi-sectoraloperation. Such an analysis would have allowed
the Bank to be aware ofpossible financial constraints that the government could face and
planupfront for such situations. IEG's Sector Lessons Note (World Bank2003) suggests
that at the appraisal stage the following information should at least be compiled:
information on local fundingneeds for theproject period and at least five years beyond
andincluding other significant incremental projects inthe sector; informationon the past
five years o fbudget allocationto that sector and analysis o f any gap; supporting evidence
o f changed government priorities for sectoral budgetary allocations ifbudget demandi s
shown to be significantly beyondpast actuals.

                                         15


References

World Bank. 1976. The Economic Analysis o fRuralRoadProjects StaffWorking paper
No. 241
World Bank.2003. Sector LessonsNote OED's Seven LeadingRural Lessons.
World Bank. 2003a. India Sustaining Reform, Reducing Poverty. A World Bank
Development Policy Review.Oxford UniversityPress.
World Bank. 2004. Country Strategy for India.
World Bank.2004a. IndiaRe-energizing the Agricultural Sector To Sustain Growth and
Reduce Poverty. RuralDevelopment Unit South Asia region, July 30.


                                              17


Annex A. BasicData Sheet


AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT            PROJECT(CREDIT 24330)

Key ProjectData (amounts in US$million)
                                           Appraisal           Actual or             Actual as % of
                                            estimate        current estimate       appraisal estimate
Total project costs                           130.3              121.3                    93.1
Loan amount                                   106.0               95.3                    89.9
Cofinancing
Cancellation                                                      7.18
Institutional performance


Cumulative EstimatedandActualDisbursements
                               FY93       FY94        FY95      FY96       FY97      FY98        FY99
Appraisal estimate (US$M)      5.3        21.2         42.4     63.6       84.8      100.7       106.0
Actual (US$M)                  4.9          3.9        17.3     14.9       16.11      9.6        13.9
Actual as % of appraisal       92.5        18.4        40.8     23.4       19.0       9.5        13.1
Date of final disbursement:


ProjectDates
                                                   Original                          Actual
Appraisal                                          05115/92                         05115/92
Board approval                                     11/ I2/92                        11112/92
Signing                                            12117/92                         12117/92
Effectiveness                                      01128193                         01/28/93
Closing date                                       09/30/99                       09/30/2000


Staff Inputs(staffweeks)
                                                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                   N" Staff weeks                              US$(lOOO)
IdentificationlPreparation             100.5                                    207.2
AppraisalINegotiation                   29.6                                    115.2
Supervision                            240.9                                    270.4
ICR                                     9.0                                     38.0
Total                                  380.0                                    630.8

                                                  18


 Mission Data
   Stage of       Date      No. of           Specializationsrepresented                  Performance rating
 Project Cycle (monthlyear) persons                                                  Implementation    Devel.
                                                                                         Status      Objectives
ADDraisalI       05/93        10        Economist (3). Aariculturist. Livestock
                                                     .     -
 Negotiation                        Specialist, Horticulturist, Irrigation Engineer,
                                                      I.




                                     Civil Engineer, Private Sector Specialist,
                                                    Environmentalist
 Supervision     01/93         4     Agriculturist, Civil Engineer, Procurement           HS             HS
                                             Specialist, Irrigation Engineer
                 04/93         5      Agriculturist, Civil Engineer, Economist,           HS
                                    Procurement Specialist, ResearchSpecialist
                 07/93         2        Agriculturist, ProcurementSpecialist              HS
                 12/93         6   Economist,Agriculturist, ResearchSpecialist,            S
                                          Irrigation Engineer, Civil Engineer,
                                                 ProcurementSpecialist
                 05/94         4   Economist,Agriculturist, ResearchSpecialist,            S              S
                                                 ProcurementSpecialist
                 10194         6   Economist,Agriculturist, ResearchSpecialist,            S              S
                                         Irrigation Engineer (2), Procurement
                                                       Specialist
                 05/95         5   Economist,Agriculturist, ResearchSpecialist,            S              S
                                    Irrigation Engineer, Procurement Specialist
                01-02196       5      Economist,Agriculturist, Civil Engineer,             S              S
                                         Procurement Specialist,Agricultural
                                                  Research Specialist
                 06/96         2                      Agriculturist                        S             S
                  MTR          8   Economist,Agriculturist, Livestock Specialist,          S             S
                02-03/97             Irrigation Engineer,Agricultural Research
                                         Specialist, Procurement Specialist,
                                                    Environmentalist
                 10197         5    Economist, Livestock Specialist, Irrigation                          S
                                        Engineer, Civil Engineer,Agricultural
                                                  Research Specialist
                 05/98         7   Economist,Water ResourcesSpecialist, Civil                            S
                                    Engineer,Agricultural ResearchSpecialist,
                                    FinancialAnalyst, ProcurementSpecialist,
                                            Social DevelopmentSpecialist
                 12/98        8         Economist, Irrigation Engineer, Civil              S             S
                                    Engineer,Agricultural ResearchSpecialist,
                                    FinancialAnalyst, Procurement Specialist,
                                    Environmentalist, InformationTechnology
                                                      Specialist
                 05/99        7         Economist, Irrigation Engineer, Civil              S             S
                                    Engineer,Agricultural ResearchSpecialist,
                                    Procurement Specialist, Environmentalist,
                                            Social DevelopmentSpecialist
                 11/99        6         Economist, Irrigation Engineer, Civil             S              S
                                    Engineer,Agricultural Research Specialist,
                                   Financial Specialist, Environmentalist,Social
                                               Development Specialist
                 04/00        7       Economist, Irrigation Engineer, Roads               S              S
                                    Engineer,Agricultural ResearchSpecialist,
                                   Financial Specialist, ProcurementSpecialist,
                                            Social Development Specialist
ICR             09-10100      6    Economist, FinancialAnalyst, Ag Economist,             S              S
                                   AgronomistIAg Res. Sp. Irrigation Engineer,
                                     Civil Engineer (including FA0 team of 4
                                                       persons)

