Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2433 IN
                         Project Agreement
          (Agricultural Development Project - Rajasthan)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                        STATE OF RAJASTHAN
                      Dated December 17, 1992
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2433 IN
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated December 17, 1992, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and STATE OF RAJASTHAN,
acting by its Governor (Rajasthan).
      WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India (the Borrower) and the Association, the
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount
in various currencies equivalent to seventy three million one
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 73,100,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement,
but only on condition that Rajasthan agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this
Agreement;
      WHEREAS Rajasthan, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the
Page  2
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. (a) Rajasthan declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and agricultural practices,
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
      (b)   Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
Rajasthan shall carry out a program of reforms of the agricultural
sector relating to policy measures, institutional developments and
technological improvements, satisfactory to the Association, and
shall implement such reforms and the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. Rajasthan shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
      Section 2.04. (a) Rajasthan shall, no later than December 31,
1993, and December 31 of every year thereafter during the imple-
mentation of the Project, exchange views with the Association with
regard to the progress of the Policy Reform Program, the Project,
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
      (b)   Rajasthan shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Policy Reform Program, the Project, the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Rajasthan
of its obligations under this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) Rajasthan shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of Rajasthan responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   Rajasthan shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
                  year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the
                  Association.
           (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than nine months after
                  the end of each such year, the report of such
                  audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
Page  3
                  detail as the Association shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Association shall from time
                  to time reasonably request.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
      Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of Rajasthan thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
            (i)   the date on which the Development Credit
                  Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
                  terms; or
           (ii)   the date twenty (20) years after the date of this
                  Agreement.
      (b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
Rajasthan of this event.
      Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      For Rajasthan:
            Chief Sectetary
            Govermment of Rajasthan
            Jaipur, Rajasthan, PIN 302005
            India
Page  4
                                                Telex:
                                                  3652047
      Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Rajasthan may be taken or executed by Chief
Secretary or such other person or persons as Rajasthan shall
designate in writing, and Rajasthan shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
      Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ D. Joseph Wood
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                        South Asia
                        STATE OF RAJASTHAN
                        By /s/ Narayan Valluri
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in India may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
Page  5
1.    Except as provided in paragraph 2 hereof, civil works under
the Project, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Small works estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $5,000,000, may be carried out by force account in a
manner satisfactory to the Association.
3.    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $200,000
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $16,900,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
4.    The following may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association:
      (a)   Livestock for breeding purposes, seeds, planting
materials, semen and materials estimated to cost the equivalent of
$1,000,000;
      (b)   Construction materials for force account works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000; and
      (c)   Other goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000
or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$3,300,000, and vehicles estimated to cost $1,200,000.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more and each contract for goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall
be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II: Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist Rajasthan in carrying out the Project,
Rajasthan shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Page  6
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                      Implementation Program
1.    Rajasthan shall by (i) March 31, 1993 employ in accordance
with the provisions of Section 11 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
consultants to carry out the water resources planning study under
Part D.1 of the project, and (ii) December 31, 1995, furnish to the
Association, for the Association's review and comments, the results
of the study, and take such comments into account in formulating and
implementing the future water resources plans.
2.    Rajasthan shall, not later than March 31, 1993, under terms of
reference agreed with the Association, commission a study for the
preparation of a Strategic Development Plan for Rajasthan
Agricultural University under Part G of the Project.
3.    Rajasthan shall, not later than June 30, 1993, employ in
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, consultants to carry out the studies in the Indira Gandhi
Canal command area under Part D.3 of the Project.
4.    Rajasthan shall, with regard to roads under Part E of the
Project:
      (a)   ensure that such roads be selected in accordance with
criteria, and constructed in accordance with standards, satisfactory
to the Association;
      (b)   without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.07 of
the General Conditions, ensure that roads constructed under the
Project shall be maintained in a manner satisfactory to the
Association;
      (c)   employ consultants in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to verify that roads
have been constructed in accordance with the provisions of sub-
paragraph (a) above; and
      (d)   refrain from using proceeds of the Credit to assist in
financing the construction of roads in the Indira Gandhi Canal
command area, except in Sriganganagar District.
5.    Rajasthan shall, without limitation to the provisions of
Section 9.06 (a) (iii) of the General Conditions, by June 30, 1993
and December 31, 1993, and by each June 30 and December 31, there-
after, furnish to the Association, a report on the progress of the
Project, including the Policy Reform Program.
6.    Rajasthan shall by December 31, 1993 and by each December 31
thereafter furnish to the Association, for the Association's review
and comments, the annual action plan of activities under the Project
for the following year.
7.    Rajasthan shall, without limitation to the provisions of
Section 2.01 of this Agreement, implement a system satisfactory to
the Association, to channel funds required for the Project to all
entities involved in carrying out the Project.
8.    Rajasthan shall complete, not later than December 31, 1996,
the study on experimental recharge schemes under Part D of the
Project, and shall furnish to the Association, for the Association's
review and comments, the results of the study.
9.    (a)   Rajasthan shall maintain the Environment Cell under Part
Page  7
F of the Project with (i) key staff whose qualifications and
experience are satisfactory to the Association, and (ii)
environmental criteria and operating procedures acceptable to the
Association.
      (b)   The Environment Cell shall review the environmental
implications of, and endorse, each annual action plan referred to in
paragraph 6 of this Schedule.
10.   Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.08 of the
General Conditions, Rajasthan shall not call for tenders for roads
under Part E of the Project prior to completion of the process for
land acquisition required for such roads.
