CREDIT NUMBER 2433 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Development Project - Rajasthan)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated         /z, 1992


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2433 IN
DEVELOP     CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                            , 1992, between
INDIA, acting by its President, (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   the Project will be carried out by the State of
Rajasthan (Rajasthan) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to Rajasthan the
proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
Rajasthan;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Gen4ral Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(b)   "Rajasthan" means State of Rajasthan, a state of the
Borrower, or any successor thereto;


﻿- 2 -
(c)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and State of Rajasthan (Rajasthan), of even date
herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement, and
(d)   "Policy Reform Program" means the program of reform
referred to in Section 2.01 (b) of the Project Amendment.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lerd to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to seventy-three million one hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 73,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the
Reserve Bank of India on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1999 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.


﻿-3-
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing
May 1, 2003 and ending November 1, 2027. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on November 1, 2012 shall be one
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percen4 (2-1/2%) of
such principal amount.
(b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due con-
sideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the


﻿-4-
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause Rajasthan to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of Rajasthan
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Rajasthan to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to Rajasthan in accordance with the Borrower's standard
arrangements for developmental assistance to the States of India.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.


﻿-5-
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out
by Rajasthan pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
with sound accounting practices, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   ensure that all records     (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures are retained until
at least one year after the Association has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made; and
(iii)   enable  the  Association's   representatives  to
examine such records.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in   accordance   with    appropriate   auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than (nine] months
after the end of each such year the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably   requested,  including   a  separate


﻿-6 -
opinion by said auditors as to whether the
statements of expenditure submitted during such
fiscal year, together with the procedures and
internal controls involved in their preparation,
can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   Rajasthan shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that Rajasthan will
be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association namely, that the Project Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by Rajasthan, and is legally
binding upon Rajasthan in accordance with its terms.


﻿-7-
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the
Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
New Delhi, PIN 110001
India
Cable address:                Telex:
ECOFAIRS                  953-3166175
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
*    1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-8-
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed. in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By
rized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
For Parts A through F of the Proiect:
(1)   Civil works                              80%
(a) roads              20,000,000
(b) other works         5,900,000
(2)   Vehicles,              14,000,000        100% of foreign
equipment,                               expenditures,
furniture,                                100% of local
materials,                                expenditures
livestock, planting                       (ex-factory
materials, seed and                       costs), and 80%
semen                                    of local expen-
ditures for
other items
procured locally
(3)   Consultants'           12,800,000        100%
services and
training


﻿- 10 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4)   Incremental            1,700,000         70% of
operating costs                          expenditures
incurred until
March 31, 1995,
50% of expen-
ditures incurred
thereafter
until March 31,
1996, and 25%
of expenditures
incurred there-
after
For Part G of the Project:
(5)   Civil works            6,300,000         80%
(6)   Vehicles, equip-       3,700,000         100% of foreign
ment, furniture,                          expenditures,
materials, live-                          100% of local
stock and agri-                          expenditures
cultural inputs                           (ex-factory
costs), and 80%
of local expen-
ditures for
other items
procured locally


﻿Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(7)   Consultants'            1,100,000         100Z
services and
training
Other
(8)   Unallocated             7,600,000
TOTAL               73,100,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term   "incremental operating costs" means the
incremental costs for the operation and maintenance of equipment and
vehicles, and for the maintenance of works incurred by Rajasthan and
its relevant departments and agencies for purposes of implementing
the Project.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made :
(a)   in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,800,000, may be made on
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after
April 1, 1992, subject to the provisions of sub-paragraphs (b) and
(c) below;


﻿- 12 -
(b)   in respect of expenditures under Category (1) (a) unless
and until the consultants employed pursuant to paragraph 4 (c) of
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement have verified that the roads
under Part E of the Project have been constructed in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph 4 (a) of Schedule 2 to the Project
Agreement; and
(c)   in respect of expenditures under Categories (5) and (6)
until the Strategic Development Plan under Part G of the Project has
been approved by the Association.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to accelerate the
growth of agriculture through improved technical, financial and
economic use of resources in Rajasthan; (b) to enhance sus-
tainability of the resource base for agriculture; and (c) to improve
equity within the agricultural sector. These objectives are also
being supported by a specific Policy Reform Program.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Crop Husbandry
Demonstration and training on selected farmers' fields focused
on land rehabilitation, improvements in water use efficiency, fodder
development and promotion of new crops; supported by activities such
as information dissemination through the media, computerization,
training centers development, training of men and women farmers,
beneficiary participation in agricultural extension and crop
development programs, agribusiness studies and training of rural
artisans.
Part B:     Horticulture
Promotion of higher-value crop cultivation through development
of nurseries and of progeny and demonstration centers, raising of
fruit and vegetable plants, training of men and women farmers,
nursery owners and staff of the Departments of Horticulture and
Agriculture, and non-governmental organizations, promotion and
demonstration of intensive horticulture, and plant propagation
technology, supported by advertizing and publicity, and studies in
processing and marketing.
Part C:     Animal Husbandry
1.    Livestock: Breed improvement, development of animal markets,
management information systems, media support, disease surveillance,
diagnostic services, technology dissemination and training,
supported by expanded coverage of community-based veterinary
volunteers.


﻿- 14 -
2.    Sheep Breeding and Wool: Promotion of private sheep-breeding,
reorganization of Rajasthan sheep breeding farms, upgrading of the
sheep population and training.
Part D:     Water Resources
1.    Planning: Improvement of data collection and processing,
groundwater investigations, water resources planning study including
regulated water use, strengthening the remote sensing application
center at Jodhpur, research and studies on experimental recharge
schemes and conjunctive use, provision of equipment, training and
technical assistance.
2.    Lift Irrigation: Construction of lift irrigation schemes
through cost sharing with beneficiaries.
3.    Indira Gandhi Canal: Carrying out of studies on irrigability,
water-logging and salinity issues in the command area of the Indira
Gandhi Canal.
Part E:     Rural Roads
Construction of about 1,600 kilometers of rural roads and
promotion of beneficiary participation in construction of small
roads.
Part F:     Environmental Strengthening
Establishment and strengthening of an Environment Cell to
improve Rajasthan's capability in carrying out environmental
assessment and monitoring environmental performance for agriculture.
Part G:     Agricultural Research and Training
Preparation of a Strategic Development Plan for Rajasthan
Agricultural  University   for  the  purposes   of   strengthening
agricultural and veterinary research, training and education.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1999.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3), (4), (5), (6) and (7) set forth in the table in paragraph
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means    an amount
equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account
at .such intervals as the Association shall
specify.


﻿- 16 -
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
such request, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
and as shall have been shown by said documents
and other evidence to have been paid out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph      3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn     amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall


﻿- 17 -
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
Kf6<
FOR SECRETARY


