F1m r r n avDocument of
FILE COPY IThe World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.p-2047-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
z    CO
ON A                              C    0    z    m
Cl)  X         --i
PROPOSED LOAN                          r0              z
TO THE                                  -Xi
0
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES                    °>
FOR A                                        >P   I 
C)   <
PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT                               m
-z
April 20, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                          Pesos (P)
P1.00                                  US$0.133
US$1.00                                P7.50
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB           Asian Development Bank
DLGCD         Department of Local Government and Community
Development
DPWTC   =     Department of Public Works, Transportation, and
Communications
DOH           Department of Health
LWUA    =     Local Water Utilities Administration
MMA     =     Metropolitan Manila Area
MWSS    =     Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage Authority
NWSA    =     National Waterworks and Sewerage Authority
WD      =     Water District
USAID   =     United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT TO
THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES FOR A
PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of the Philippines for the equivalent of $23.0 million
to help finance a Provincial Cities Water Supply Project. The loan would have
an interest rate of 8.2% per annum and a term of 20 years, including a grace
period of 4-1/2 years. The Government would relend $18.8 million of the
proceeds of the proposed loan, on the same terms as those of the Bank loan,
to the Local Water Utilities Administration (LWUA) to finance the foreign
exchange costs of improving the water supply systems in six cities and of
feasibility studies for improving the systems in 10 other cities. The Govern-
ment would also relend $4.0 million to the Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage
System (MWSS), on the same terms as the Bank loan, to finance the foreign
exchange costs of review and design studies for a sewerage and sanitation
improvement program for Metropolitan Manila. The Government would use the
balance of $200,000 to help finance a training program for the staff of Govern-
ment agencies engaged in water supply for small communities.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited the Philippines in April/May 1975 and
its report, "The Philippines: Priorities and Prospects for Development, Basic
Economic Report" (No. 1095a-PH of May 5, 1976) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 18, 1976 (SecM/76/366). Paragraphs 3-16 below are an
updated summary of that report. Annex 1 contains country economic data.
3.        During the 1960s, the economy grew in real terms at an annual rate
of about 5-6%. However, the rate of growth was less than the level that
might have been achieved if the considerable natural and human resources
of the Philippines had been exploited more effectively. Moreover, the
benefits of growth were distributed relatively unevenly. As the population
and labor force continued to grow rapidly, unemployment rose. Low levels of
taxation accentuated these problems and resulted in inadequate public invest-
ment in necessary infrastructure and social services. A relatively weak
export performance combined with a failure to reduce the import dependence of
domestic industry resulted in a steady deterioration in the balance of
payments position.
4.        During 1970-72, the authorities adopted policies of monetary and
fiscal restraint in order to lay a firm basis for future growth.    With
/1 This is the same discussion of the economy as that in the President's
Report for the Fourth Rural Credit Project (P-2021-PH of March 24, 1977).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
assistance from the Consultative Group for the Philippines, they succeeded in
improving substantially the maturity structure of the external public debt.
Real GNP during that period increased at about 5% a year. In 1972, the
Government initiated a series of social and economic reforms including an
agrarian reform program, tax reforms, and an administrative reorganization.
5.        In 1973, there was a sharp increase in the level of economic activity
in the Philippines and the growth in real GNP doubled to 10%. This upsurge
was led by the international commodity boom, which resulted in higher export
incomes, a strong recovery in agricultural and industrial production for the
domestic market, and an expansion in public and private investment.
6.        Like most countries, the Philippines was profoundly affected by the
events in the world economy that began with the marked increase in the prices
for food and petroleum in late 1973. With international trade the equivalent
of almost half of its GNP, the Philippines was quite vulnerable to the impact
of world inflation, the increase in oil prices, and the prolonged recession
in the industrialized countries. While adverse effects of the recession were
cushioned somewhat in 1974 by a modest improvement in the external terms of
trade, the Philippines was more seriously affected in 1975 by the continued
rise in import prices and reduced demand for Philippine exports. While the
international economic situation has made it difficult for the Government to
realize its objective of accelerating the rate of development, GNP in 1974,
1975, and 1976, nevertheless, grew in real terms at an annual rate of about 6%.
7.        Agricultural production has grown at an average rate of 3.2% per
year during the 1970s, a period which has been characterized by unusually
adverse weather conditions. Rice production increased by 25% in 1973/74, but
because of damage by typhoons, grew by only 1% in 1974/75; the Government had
to import 200,000 tons in the first half of 1975 to ensure adequate stocks.
However, the rice harvest in 1975/76 was very good due to favorable weather
conditions and during this period the Philippines was virtually self-sufficient
in rice. The Government continues to give the highest priority to further
increasing agricultural production and has initiated a number of programs
designed to expand the use of fertilizer, irrigation and supervised credit.
It has also intensified efforts to expand the social services needed in rural
areas, including rural electrification, health and family planning services,
and village road and small-scale irrigation projects.
8.        Although progress has been slower than initially planned, the
Government has made some progress with its agrarian reform for the nation's
one million tenant farmers who grow rice and corn. By September 30, 1976, the
Government had issued Certificates of Land Transfer to 224,000 of the
424,000 tenants on holdings of over 7 hectares; thus, title to 390,000 ha
of the total 825,000 hectares of farms occupied by such tenants has been
transferred. The Government has raised the cash portion of the compensation
package to landlords to reduce their resistance to land reform, but strong
administrative efforts will be necessary to ensure continued progress in the
implementation of the program.
9.        Industry accounts for almost 30% of net domestic product, one third
of total fixed investment and 15% of total employment. Industrial production,
which grew by 12% in 1973, was adversely affected in 1974 and 1975 by the



- 3 -
worldwide economic slowdown and the depressed demand for Philippine exports.
As a result, industrial production increased by only 4% in 1974 and 5% in
1975. Stepped-up public sector spending for infrastructure development anid
other priority projects has contributed significantly to sustaining the
higher level of domestic activity in 1976, especially in the construction
industry. The longer term prospects for industrial growth are favorable
because of the natural and human resource endowment of the Philippines and a
very active private sector.
10.       The Government has made significant progress in increasing public
investment. The ratio of public investment to GNP is currently over 4%,
having risen from 1.8% in FY72. /1 The Government has also implemented a
series of long needed tax reforms and improvements in tax administration.
These reforms, aided by the increased economic activity, the boom in export
incomes, and domestic inflation, resulted in a 36% increase in national
government tax revenues in FY73, and an estimated 47 percent in FY74. The
ratio of national government tax revenues to GNP has increased from an
average of 9% in the early 1970s to about 12% during the period FY74-76.
11.       Significant financial reforms have also been introduced.    At the
beginning of 1976, the Central Bank issued circulars designed to help ration-
alize the level and structure of deposit and lending rates; deposit rates
were raised for the second time in 18 months; long-standing statutory ceilings
on the long-term lending rates of banking institutions were increased from
12-14% to 19% per annum; and the ceilings on short-term lending rates were
raised. Efforts were also made to control short-term money market operations
and to strengthen the organized banking institutions. These actions should
help to improve the mobilization and allocation of domestic resources in the
Philippines.
12.       In the latter part of 1973, inflation emerged as a major problem
in the Philippines. The increase in prices was caused by the large increase
in liquidity that came with the export boom in 1973/74, and by a number of
cost-push factors, including the higher rate of world inflation. To deal
with this problem, the Government adopted contractionary monetary and fiscal
policies, and attempted to reduce the impact of inflation on consumers by
subsidizing such essential goods as wheat, imported rice, and cooking oil.
The annual inflation rate fell from 35% in 1974 to 8% in 1975 and 6% in
1976.
13.       On the external side, Philippine's balance of payments benefited
considerably from the international commodity price boom during 1973. High
prices for the country's chief exports, including coconut products, sugar,
copper and wood products, resulted in a 70% increase in export earnings
and a current account surplus of about $550 million. Since mid-1974, the
external trade position has deteriorated, due to the sharp increases in the
prices of oil and other imports, less favorable prices for Philippine exports,
/1 Fiscal year July 1 to June 30.



- 4 -
and reduced volume of some exports resulting from the downturn in the econo-
mies of the Philippines' main trading partners. As a result, current account
deficits of about $900 million in 1975 and about $1,000 million in 1976 were
incurred. The current account deficits have been offset by direct foreign
investment, inflows of medium- and long-term loan capital, the use of IMF
facilities and some short-term borrowing by the Central Bank. External
reserves were about $1.2 billion at the end of 1976, equivalent to four
months' imports. Assuming continued sound debt management and the mainten-
ance of a reasonable maturity structure of foreign borrowings, the overall
level of external debt of the Philippines is expected to remain within
reasonable limits, as the ratio of debt service payments to exports and
nonfactor services would average about 16-17% during the rest of this
decade. At present, the Bank/IDA share in total debt outstanding is about
17'% and its share in debt-service is about 4%. These shares are expected to
increase somewhat in the years ahead.
14.       Substantial foreign assistance will be essential to help finance the
large investment expenditures which will be necessary for the country's develop-
ment. In order to ensure that disbursement of external assistance reaches
levels commensurate with the level of development expenditures which will be
required during the latter part of the decade and that debt service obligations
remain within reasonable limits, total commitments of official assistance will
need to be maintained in real terms at least at the annual level of about $500
million which was achieved in 1974. The Consultative Group for the Philippines
at its meeting in Paris on June 15 and 16, 1976, agreed that it would be
reasonable for the Philippine Government to seek official aid commitments of
about $600 million in 1976 and $700 million in 1977. Total new commitments of
public and private medium- and long-term capital are estimated to have reached
$2 billion in 1976 and need to be maintained at approximately this level
through 1980.
15.       Despite the slowdown in the growth of the economy, which is pri-
marily a result of worldwide economic conditions, the Government remains
committed to regaining the growth momentum, which began in 1973, to provide
for a continued increase in incomes and employment. Both the Philippine
Government and the Bank's Basic Economic Report estimate that it should be
possible in the longer term for the Philippine economy to grow in real terms
at a rate of about 7% per annum provided that good economic management
continues and international economic conditions improve. High priority must
be accorded to expanding employment opportunities, because unemployment
and underemployment are still high and the labor force continues to grow
at 3% a year. Continued attention must also be given to expanding the
Government's effective family planning program to reduce the rate of growth
of the population and the labor force.
16.       The Government is pursuing a development strategy which focuses on
rural development with emphasis on food production, accelerated industriali-
zation, both in capital-intensive resource based industries and labor-intensive
export industries, and a substantial expansion in public sector investment in
infrastructure to support the growth of the productive sectors. In support
of these objectives, the Government plans to continue its efforts to increase
public revenues, to strengthen the capacity of public sector agencies and to



- 5 -
foster the growth of exports. The Government recognizes that the increased
cost of petroleum and other imports cannot be financed indefinitely by borrow-
ing abroad, and it is actively encouraging both local and foreign investors to
expand productive investments. It will, however, take time for Government
programs to have an impact on the balance of payments, and the Government is,
thierefore, seeking increased support from the international financial community
to assist in the financing of its development effort. The Government's
development program will continue to require foreign resources in addition to
the capital which would become available for the financing of the foreign
exchange component of development projects. Some financing of local costs is
justified, especially for projects of economic and social importance which
need only limited amounts of foreign exchange.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
17.       By April 15, 1977, the Philippines had received 43 Bank loans /1
(of which two were on Third Window terms) and three IDA credits for a total of
$1,113.7 million, net of cancellations. About 40% of Bank lending ($401
million) has been for infrastructure projects in power, transportation, and
water supply and one third ($355 million) has been for agriculture. Of
the remainder, about $250 million has been for industry and about $108 million
has been for social sector projects in education, population and urban devel-
opment. There has been a marked improvement in the execution of Bank-financed
projects in the last four years compared with experience in the 1960s, wlhen
there were serious problems caused by a shortage of peso counterpart funds
and poor administration. All ongoing projects are now being implemented
reasonably well. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA
credits as of February 28, 1977, and IFC investments as of Mlarch 31, 1977 and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
18.       The Bank's lending program has been designed to continue to support
the Philippine development effort with its emphasis on agriculture and infra-
structure and its growing attention to the needs of lower income groups.
About one third of Bank lending planned for the next few years would be
for agriculture and rural development projects and another third would be for
needed basic infrastructure projects, mainly in the fields of transportation
and power. The amount of lending for social sector projects, including
education, population and urban development, is expected to continue to grow
rapidly and account for nearly 20% of future lending. The balance of
future lending would be for industrial development, where growing attention
is being given to the needs of small and medium industries with high employ-
ment potential. The rapid growth in public revenues during the past five
years has allowed for a significant expansion in public investment and both
the ambitious Philippine development program and the Bank's growing lending
program have been designed to make good past neglect and to meet future



-6 -
needs. Bank lending totalled $165.1 million in FY74, $208 million in FY75
and $268 million in FY76 compared to about $30 million a year in the preceding
five years.
19.       This loan and the one for the National Irrigation Systems Improvement
Project are the fifth and sixth loans to be presented to the Executive Directors
in FY77. Other loans which may be ready for presentation within the next few
months are for land settlement and power projects; a smallholder tree farming/
forestry project and a rural infrastructure project are also under consideration
and are well advanced in the appraisal cycle. A primary objective of most of
these projects is to help the Government meet its objective of increasing the
productivity and incomes of the poorer segments of the population.
20.       As of Marclh 31, 1977, IFC has made commitments in the Philippines
totalling $79 million for investment in 14 projects in the fields of devel-
opment banking, power, telecommunications, ceramic tiles, paper, petroleum
products, nickel mining and refining, chemicals and synthetic fibres and
edible oils. Of these investments, $27.4 million had been sold, cancelled
or repaid, leaving a net portfolio of $51.6 million, including $0.6 million
undisbursed. A Regional Mission for East Asia was established in Manila
by IFC on April 1, 1977.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY SECTOR IN THE PHILIPPINES
Background
21.       The Philippines is endowed with abundant water resources.    Not only
does the country have an average annual rainfall of about 120 inches, but it
also has eight major river basins, many lakes and streams, and extensive
groundwater resources. Public investment in the water supply sector has
traditionally been very low, however, with the result that the infrastructure
for water supply, sewerage, and drainage is currently inadequate throughout
the country.  Ilost of the small amount of public investment in this sector
which has taken place in the past has been in the Metropolitan Manila Area
(MMA), so that the situation in provincial cities and smaller communities is
particularly acute.
22.       It is estimated that only about 18.4 million people (43% of the
total population) are served by public water supply systems, of which 4.6 mil-
lion are in the MIIA, 3.7 million in other urban areas, and 10.1 million in
rural areas. In the MMA, 82% of the population has access to piped water,
but in other urban areas and in the rural communities only about 55% and 33%,
respectively, obtain a safe supply through piped systems, artesian wells, and
springs. In communities with piped water systems, the growth in demand, the
advanced age of the systems and the high leakage rates arising from inadequate
maintenance have all gradually reduced water main pressures. Many water
systems are operated to supply water for only a few hours a day to avoid loss
of water during the off-peak hours. The remaining 24.1 million (or 57% of
the population) manage with water which is often of doubtful quality from
sources such as open wells, handpumps, rain water cisterns, lakes, rivers,
and streams.



- 7 -
23.       Sewerage and drainage facilities are also in great need nf improve-
ment. The most recent National Health Plan (1975-85) cited poor environmental
sanitation as a major factor in the high incidence of communicable diseases in
the country. In 1975 not a single municipality in the country was completely
sewered. In the MIIA, only 10% of the population of 5.5 million is served by
the existing system and the existing sewerage network can handle a discharge of
only 15% of the daily water production. The discharge of raw sewage into rivers
and Manila Bay represents a serious aesthetic and health problem. In Manila,
typhoid, cholera, and gastroenteritis are currently endemic; in 1972, morbidity
and mortality from these diseases were about 1,800 and 80, respectively, per
100,000 population. Many other cities rely principally on individual septic
tanks, pits, and the direct discharge of untreated sewage into nearby water
courses.
Development of the Water Supply Sector
24.       The National Waterworks and Sewerage Authority (NWSA) was created
in 1955 to own and operate all of the water and sewer systems then existing
in the Philippines. Almost from its inception, however, NWSA was plagued by
severe mangerial and financial problems. The organization suffered from weak
top management, a lack of staff discipline, financial weakness exacerbated by
low tariffs and inadequate financial planning, and recurring disputes with
contractors and suppliers which often resulted in time-consuming court proceed-
ings. In 1964, the Bank made a loan of $20.2 million (Loan 386-PH) to NWSA to
expand and improve the water supply system serving the Manila Metropolitan Area.
The problems noted above, however, seriously affected project implementation.
After the closing date for the loan was postponed twice, the undisbursed
balance of $0.6 million was cancelled in 1970. Most of the project com-
ponents were completed in 1972, although some works continued until 1975.
25.       During the 1970s, the Government has taken a number of important
steps to improve the organization of the water supply sector. NWSA was
dissolved in 1971 and the Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System (MWSS)
was created under a new charter to be primarily responsible for water supply
and sewerage in the IMMA. Since that time the management of water supply
operations in Metropolitan Manila has improved significantly. The financial
position of MWSS has also been improving steadily. Water tariffs were
increased in 1974, all past Government loans to MWSS were converted into
equity, and the authorized cap,ital of MWSS was restructured, all of which
helped MWSS earn a surplus in FY75. In 1975, the Asian Development Bank
(ADB) made a loan of $51.3 million to help finance the first phase of an
expansion in the water supply program of the MMIA. The project is expected to
increase the LIMA's water supply by about one-third (454,000 cu m/day). The
second phase of the program would increase the system's capacity by another
454,000 cu m/day and should fully meet Metropolitan Manila's water requirements
up to about 1985.
26.       Adequate sewerage and drainage facilities will be essential comple-
ments to an improved water supply in the MMA, however, if stagnant water is
not to increase the already formidable health hazards. A sewerage master
plan, undertaken with UNDP and V1HO assistance, was completed in 1970. Since
that time the sanitation situation has become much worse and the MWSS has



- 8 -
requested Bank assistance to update the study, develop a long-term sewerage
plan, and undertake detailed engineering for a first phase investment program.
27.       The creation of MWSS had no effect on the water supply problems of
provincial cities, whose needs had traditionally been neglected by NWSA.
Consequently, the Local Water Utilities Administration (LWUA) was
established in September 1973 with an authorized capital of P500 million
($66.7 million). Its main objectives are: (a) to assist in the formation
and development of technically sound and financially viable locally-controlled
water districts (WDs); (b) to provide loans to the WDs for .he improvement
and expansion of water supply and waste water disposal systems; (c) to provide
technical assistance and personnel training for the WDs; and (d) to establish
and enforce standards of water quality and service. LWUA is attached to the
Department of Public Works, Transportation and Communications (DPWTC), but
enjoys virtually complete autonomy, subject to the general policy directives
of Government. There are currently about 300 communities in the Philippines
having populations of more than 30,000, of which about 37 had formed WDs as of
September 30, 1976; another 30 had expressed interest in doing so.
28.       Since the establishment of LWUA, significantly greater attention has
been directed to the needs of the provincial cities.    USAID has made loans
amounting to $25.0 million to LWUA for feasibility studies, consulting services,
construction of water supply projects in five provincial cities, and immediate
improvements to water systems in 10 cities.    The ADB has made a loan of
$16.8 million for water supply projects in 5 water districts, and the Danish
International Development Agency has provided $2.3 million for the improve-
ment of water supply in two other water districts.
29.       Responsibility for water supply in the urban centers which are not
covered by MWSS and which have not yet formed water districts, as well as in
the rural areas, rests with the local authorities. A water supply and sewerage
study carried out in late 1976 at the Government's request by staff of the
WHO/IBRD Cooperative Program identified serious deficiencies in the provision
of basic water supply services to those communities which are outside the IMA
and which are too small to form water districts eligible for LWUA support.
Poor data, unclear responsibilities, a lack of technical expertise, inadequate
operational and maintenance practices, and inadequate budgetary allocations
were all mentioned as constraints on the provision of a safe water supply in
these communities.
30.       Several Government agencies at the national level are concerned
with water supply in the small communities.    The Bureau of Public Works of the
Department of Public Works, Transportation, and Communication (DPWTC) constructs
systems in these areas on request and hands them over to local authorities for
operation and maintenance. The Community Development Division of the Department
of Local Government and Community Development (DLGCD) in some cases provides
technical assistance for construction of wells and springs as a self-lhelp
activity by local communities. The Department of Health (DOH) promotes safe
water supplies by approving the sites of water services and exercising surveill-
ance over water quality. The sector study mentioned above stressed the need
for training technical and managerial personnel from these agencies to help
improve the water supply situation in small communities.



- 9 -
31.       The estimated investment in water supply projects in the Philippines
from 1973-76 was about $59 million, or an average of about $15 million per year.
The agencies involved in the sector have proposed an investment of $596 million,
or an annual average of $119 million, during the 1977-81 period. This would
involve an eight-fold increase in the average annual expenditures and is very
ambitious. While the constraints upon the available budgetary resources and
implementation capacity may make it difficult to carry out a program of this
magnitude, the Philippine Government has been successful in substantially
strengthening the agencies responsible for water supply and investment can be
expected to rise rapidly in the years ahead. Strong financial and technical
support from external sources will be needed to provide the financial and
technical support necessary to allow the Government agencies to expand their
water supply and sewerage programs, which are essential to the improvement of
health standards in the Philippines.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
32.       The main objective of the proposed project is to assist the Govern-
ment in expanding and improving three of its water supply and sewerage
prog-ams: the provision of water supply in the provincial cities, the
deve:>pment of a first stage sewerage and sanitation program in Metropolitan
Manila, and the training of staff responsible for water supply in rural
areas. The project would play an important role in helping to prevent the
spread of gastroenteritis and other water-related diseases which otherwise
would continue to debilitate the working population and retard economic
growth.
33.       The project was prepared by the Government with the assistance of
consultants financed by USAID and was appraised by a Bank mission in September
1976. Negotiations were held in Washington in March 1977. The delegation
of the Government of the Philippines was led by H4r. Antonio Locsin, Deputy
Director-General of the National Economic and Development Authority. The
Appraisal Report (No. 1434-PH) is being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. A Loan and Project Summary is attached as Annex III. Supplementary
project data are given in Annex IV.
Detailed Project Description
34.       The project would consist of the following:
(a) Water Supply for Six Water Districts ($30.3 million total cost).
The rehabilitation and construction of facilities for providing an adequate
and safe supply of water in the cities of Baguio, Cabanatuan, Lipa, Lucena-
Pagbilao-Tayabas, San Fernando (La Union), and Tarlac, all on the main island
of Luzon. Engineering consulting services would be provided to develop detailed
designs and assist in the supervision of construction. The detailed features
of development for each of the six water districts are set out in Annex III of
this report.



- 10 -
(b)  Feasibility Studies for Water Supply Improvements ($1.5 million
total cost).   Preparation of feasibility studies, with the assistance of
consultants, for projects to improve the water supply systems in 10 WDs to be
selected by LWUA in consultation with the Bank.
(c) MIanila Sewerage Studies ($6.3 million total cost). Review and
design studies for a first stage sewerage and sanitation improvement program
for the MMA.
(d) Staff Training ($200,000). Training of staff of the Department of
Public Works, Transportation, and Communication (DPWTC), the Department of
Local Government and Community Development, the Department of Health, and other
government agencies in designing and constructing water supply systems in small
comnunities.
Project Implementation
35.       The construction of water supply facilities would be carried out by
LWUA with the assistance of engineering consultants; the completed waterworks,
would, however, be owned, operated, and maintained by the respective water
districts. The feasibility studies for water supply and sewerage would be
carried out by LWUA and I4WSS, respectively, with the assistance of engineering
consultants. The training of government staff engaged in water supply for
small communities would be the responsibility of DPWTC. The selection of
consultants and their terms of reference would be subject to the prior approval
of the Bank (Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement and Sections 3.02 and
3.03(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
36.       LWUA is governed by a Board of Trustees composed of a chairman
and four other members, each appointed by the President for a 5-year term.
The trustees appoint a General Mlanager, who is also an ex-officio rnember of
the Board, responsible for all aspects of LIJLJA's management subject to the
policies established by the Board. Because of the importance of this position,
it has been agreed that LWUA would afford the Bank an opportunity to comment
on the qualifications of any new proposed appointee to this position (Section
3.01 (b) of the Project Agreement). LWUA has five main departments: a Tech-
nical Services Department, Regulatory Department, Loans and Programs Department,
Administrative Department and Office of Financial Services. In addition, there
are also the Offices of the Legal Counsel, Secretary and Auditor. LWUA's
organization has been developed with the assistance of the consultants and is
satisfactory. It has been agreed that the Bank would be given an opportunity
to comment before any major changes are made in LWIUA's organization (Section
3.01 (b) of the Project Agreement).
37.       LWURA's present staff of 280 is adequate for its current operations,
out %,iIL nied to be augmented as its operations expand with the formation of
r,ore -iJs.  lost of LWUA's engineers and other staff are well qualified, but
they wtLI need additional experience before they will be able to carry out
their r-esponsibilities without assistance from consultants.    For this reason,
LWUA is relying heavily on the services of consultants financed by USAID to
assist in institutional and management improvement, the development of
training programs, and the design and construction of USAID-financed water



- II -
supply projects. LWUA has a number of effective training programs for its
staff and for the staff of the W7Ds. The Banl.:-finnnced consul.tarl-, for both)
the detailed engineering and the preparation of feasibility studies would be
responsible for conducting additional training programs. Wlith the assistance
provided, LWUA can be expected to implement the project effectively and to
gradually expand its own capacity to carry out the growing water supply
program.
38.       The six water districts included in the project were formed in 1974
and 1975. The water districts are governed by Boards of Directors who are
drawn from the local private sector and are appointed by the local mayor.
The Board appoints a General Manager who manages the affairs of the District
subject to the guidance of the Board. LIUA has issued a standard organizational
format for all WDs which provides for five functional divisions. The Baguio
WD, which has about 7,000 connections and employs about 120 persons, has
fully adopted the proposed organization, but the others, which are relatively
small and employ between 20 and 55 persons, presently combine technical
functions in fewer divisions. The WZDs will need to strengthen their staff
capabilities substantially during the years ahead to be able to carry out
effectively their increasing responsibilities.
39.       Authority to sign contracts on behalf of the WDs and to make all
decisions relating to the construction of the proposed works would be
delegated to LWUA by the respective WDs. LWIUA has created a new division
within its Technical Services Department responsible for the implementation
of externally-assisted projects. The head of this division is a qualified
and experienced water supply engineer who would be the Project MIanager.
Under the Project Manager there are project officers, who are also qualified
water supply engineers, responsible for implementing the on-going projects;
one project officer is normally assigned to one or two WDs depending on the
degree of attention needed. Project offices would be set up in each 7WD to
supervise construction at the local level. These local offices would be
staffed by the consultants' supervisory personnel and WD operational staff
who would be trained by consultants.
40.       Construction is expected to begin about January 1, 1978, with com-
pletion of all works by December 31, 1981.   Land acquisition for thie well and
storage tank sites and operational buildings is expected to take place before
construction begins. The amount of land needed is relatively small, about an
eighth of a lhectare or less for the wells and only slightly more for the
storage tanks and buildings. Most of the lots that have been identified are
vacant and resettlement of people is not anticipated. LIUA has agreed that
it will take timely action to secure all necessary land (Section 2.08 of thie
Project Agreement).
41.       MWSS would engage qualified consultants to carry out the Mietropolitan
Sewerage Design Study.  The MWSS Project Manager would be assisted in the
supervision of the study by an expatriate technical advisor.
42.       Training for the staff of government agencies engaged in water supply
for small communities would be organized by DPWTC. The training program, which
would be developed with the assistance of an expatriate consultant and is
expected to last 2 years, would be structured in terms of seminars lasting 2-3
weeks followed by field visits. Among the subjects to be included in the
training program would be: the hydrogeology of the Philippines, the selection



- 12 -
of water sources, the design of drilled wells, the measurement of water quality
and flow, and operations and maintenance (Sections 3.03(a) and 3.03(b) of the
Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
43.       The total cost of the project is estimated to be $38.3 million witl
a foreign exchange component of $19.8 million. The total financing required
is $44.6 million including $6.3 million of interest during construction. The
proposed loan would finance the foreign exchange cost, plus $3.2 million of
interest during construction on the Bank loan. Physical contingencies of 16%
of the baseline cost of the water supply component of the project have been
provided because additional drilling and variations in pipeline construction
may be necessary if some wells do not produce an adequate supply of water.
Price contingencies amount to 30% of the baseline costs of the water supply
componenit and assume foreign and domestic price increases on both equipment
and civil works of 10% in 1978 and 1979 and 8% thereafter. The cost estimates
also include the provision for 715 man-months of consultant services to
assist with the detailed design of the water supply systems in the six WDs,
prepare feasibility studies for 10 more WDs, assist in carrying out the
Metropolitan Manila Sewerage Study, and help conduct the training program for
DOH and BPW. The average man-month cost of consultant service financed under
the project is about $6,200, which is about average for foreign consultants
serving in the Philippines.
44.       The Government would relend $18.8 million of the proceeds of the
proposed loan to LWUA, on the same terms as those of the Bank loan, to help
finance the foreign exchange costs of the water supply program. The terms
and conditions of the Government loan to LWUA would be set out in a subsidiary
loan agreement which would be signed before the proposed Bank loan is declared
effective (Section 6.01 (b) of the Loan Agreement). LUTA would retain about
$800,000 of the proceeds of the subsidiary loan to finance the foreign exchange
costs of the feasibility studies for the 10 WDs and would finance the local
costs of these studies from its own resources. It would relend the balance of
the proceeds of $18.0 million, together with $14.8 million of its own resources,
to the six WDs for development of their water supply systems. The loans to the
WDs would have a term of 30 years, including a grace period equal to the
construction period, and an interest rate of 9% per annum. The Bank and LWUA
loans would finance 49% and 41%, respectively, of the cost of the water supply
projects, including the costs of interest during construction. The WDs would
finance the balance of 10% ($3.8 million) of project costs from internal cash
generation. Financing of interest during construction is necessary because the
water supply services provided in the six WDs will be intermittent and unsatis-
factory until the completion of all project works in December 1981, and it
would be difficult for the recently established WDs to generate sufficient
revenues to service their loans before the assets financed come into full
operation.
45.       The Government would relend $4.0 million of the proceeds of the
proposed Bank loan to MWSS on the same terms as those of the Bank loan to
finance the foreign exchange costs of the Metropolitan M4anila sewerage study.



- 13 -
The terms and conditions of the Government loan to MWSS would be set out in a
subsidiary loan agreement which would be signed before the date of effective-
ness of the proposed Bank loan (Section 6.01 (c) of the Loan Agreement).
MWSS would finance the local currency costs of the study.
46.       The Government would use the balance of the proceeds of the Bank
loan of $200,000 to finance the foreign exchange cost of training the staff
of government agencies engaged in water supply for small communities. Any
local costs involved in the training program would be financed through Govern-
ment budgetary allocations.
47.       In view of the urgency of commencing the project, the consultants
for the detailed design of the water supply system in the six water districts
began work in January 1977. It is therefore proposed that the loan finance
retroactively up to $200,000 of the costs incurred for these services after
January 1, 1977.
Procurement and Disbursements
48.       All major contracts for equipment, materials and civil works would
be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Bank's guidelines. In the bid evaluation for equipment and materials,
a preference of 15% of the c.i.f. price of imported goods, or the prevailing
customs duty, whichever is lower, would be provided to local manufacturers.
The contracts for pipe cleaning and lining and the construction of opera-
tional buildings and related equipment (with an estimated total cost of $1.2
million) would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally, in accordance with Government procedures which are acceptable to the
Bank. Foreign firms would be eligible to participate. These contracts are
small ($50,000-$150,000) and widely dispersed geographically; they would not,
therefore, be suitable for international competitive bidding. Urgently
required off-the-shelf items for rehabilitation works, each estimated to
cost less than $10,000 and not exceeding $200,000 in the aggregate, would
be procured in accordance with LWUA's normal procurement practices.
49.       The Bank loan would be disbursed for 15% of local or 100% of the
foreign exchange costs of civil works. For equipment and materials, the
loan would be disbursed for 100% of the foreign exchange costs of imported
equipment, 100% of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured equipment,
and 50% of the price of imported goods procured locally. For consultant
services and training, the loan would be disbursed for 100% of the foreign
exchange costs. Disbursements for interest on the Bank loan during con-
struction would be limited to a maximum of $3.3 million.
Financial Aspects
50.       Prior to the formation of the six WDs in 1974 and 1975, their water
supply operations were the responsibility of the respective municipalities
or city administrations, which did not maintain separate accounts for these
operations. For this reason, the value of the assets taken over have not
been established, nor do the districts have any detailed records of the
physical quantities and locations of these assets. LWUA has begun working



- 14 -
on this problem and it has been agreed that, by not later than December 31,
1977, LWUA would cause each of the six WDs to establish realistic values of
their assets and to maintain complete records of their physical quantities
and locations (Section 4.04 of the Project Agreement).
51.        In 1975 a comprehensive accounting manual with procedures based on
commercial accounting principles was prepared by consultants to be adopted by
all WDs. LWUA has helped install the commercial accounting systems in some
of the WDs formed earlier and is currently training staff to introduce them
in the six project WDs. It has been agreed that LWUA and the project WDs would
adopt accounting procedures consistent with the commercial system proposed by
the consultants no later than January 1, 1978 (Section 4.01(b) of the Project
Agreement).
52.       The Presidential Decree establishing LWUA stipulates that the WDs
shall fix rates and charges for water adequate to cover operating expenses
and debt service as well as to provide a reasonable surplus for investment in
the improvement and expansion of the system. The decree empowers the WDs to
prescribe and revise the rates from time to time and vests in LWUA the power
to review the rates in order to ensure compliance with the above provisions.
LWUA has developed guidelines for the determination of water rates by the
WDs based on: (a) a minimum monthly charge for the first 10 cu m of metered
consumption, depending on the size of the service connection and type of
consumer; and (b) a uniform rate for consumption after the first 10 cu m for
each type of consumer. An element of cross-subsidy is built into the rate
structure as commercial and industrial consumers are charged at twice the
rates of residential consumers. However, LWUA's rate guidelines also contain
inequities in that the average monthly charge for the first 10 cu m is higher
than the charge for subsequent consumption thereby providing for higher
charges for the small residential consumer and encouraging excessive water
usage by larger consumers. Another problem is that the rates are based on
the financing of operating costs and do not contain adequate provisions for
the financing of future investment. It has therefore been agreed that LWUA
would review the existing guidelines not later than June 30, 1978, and would,
in consultation with the Bank, formulate revised guidelines for the WDs
(Section 4.07(a) of the Project Agreement).
53.        All six project UDs incurred operating deficits in 1976 due to low
rates and high levels of unaccounted for water. Five of the water districts
have recently raised their rates and the sixtlh (Baguio) has made adjustments
in the existing rate structure; as a result all six should have operating
surpluses in 1977. Collection efficiency is satisfactory and accounts
receivable are small. Significant further increases will be necessary in
1979 and thereafter to ensure the continued financial viability of the WDs.
It lhas been agreed that the WDs will contribute at least 10% of the costs of
their project investment over the 1977-81 period. This objective will be
achieved by means of periodic rate increases during the project construction
period according to a formula that has been aareed with LWUA.       Beginning in
1982, thie WDs would begin to service their loans. In order to meet operating
costs and debt service and provide some contribution to future expansion, the
WDs should earn rates of return of at least 6% in 1982, 7% in 1983, and 8%



- 15 -
thereafter. (The financial conditions described are set out in Sections 4.05(a)
and 4.06 of the Project Agreement.) The WDs would review their water charges
annually to determine in consultation with LWUA what changes are needed and
should submit to thie Bank annually, beginning by October 1, 1978, a statement
of the results of the review. (Section 4.07(b) of the Project Agreement.)
By 1982 the average rate per cu m is projected to increase to between 2.20
pesos to 3.30 pesos as compared with 1977 rates of 0.50 to 1.70 pesos. To
help ensure the continued financial viability of the WDs, it has been agreed
that during the project construction period they would not undertake any
major capital expenditures other than those included in the project and after
project completion they would not incur any indebtedness unless their internal
cash generation for the past fiscal year (or a later 12 months period prior
to incurring such debt) is at least 1.5 times the maximum debt service
requirement on all its long-term debt for any succeeding fiscal year (Section
4.08(a) of the draft Project Agreement).
54.       Water charges in 1977 are expected to represent about 2.5% of average
family income in 4 WDs and 4% in Baguio and Tarlac. The proportion of family
income absorbed by water charges is not expected to increase significantly
over time because of the expected growth in household incomes; the average
family would by 1982 use 3-4% of monthly income to pay for water. The water
charges in the six project WDs are comparable to those of other WDs and are
within the consumers' capacity to pay. It is expected that a major portion of
further increases in water rates will be borne by those with higher incomes
and commercial and industrial consumers.
55.       LWUA has an authorized capital of P500 million ($66.7 million)
to be subscribed wholly by Government at a rate of not less than P50 million
($6.7 million) each year. It can also borrow funds from domestic and foreign
sources provided that the outstanding amounts of such loans shall not, at any
time, exceed P1,000 million ($133.3 million) in respect of the domestic loans
and $500 million equivalent in respect of the foreign loans. As of July 31,
1976 LWUA's subscribed capital amounted to P98.2 million ($13.1 million).
It had contracted no local loans and its foreign loans aggregated $44.4 million,
of which about $9.7 million was disbursed.
56.       LWUA's projected lending to the WDs of about P880 million
($117.4 million) will be met from foreign borrowings, Government equity and
operating income. The Bank loan would meet about 16% and other foreign loans
about 40% of LWUA's requirements; Government equity would provide about 34%
and the balance of about 10% would come from operating income and repayments
by the WDs.
57.       Financial forecasts show that LWUA would earn net surpluses of
between 4 and 8% on its equity during the years 1977 through 1981 and that its
debt/equity ratio will be 1:1 or better. Thus, LWUA's financial outlook is
satisfactory. However, LWUA's authorized borrowing limit of $633 million
equivalent, which is over 9 times its authorized capital, is very high.     To
help ensure continued sound financial management, it has been agreed that
LWUA's long-term debt will not, at any time, exceed its equity by more than
three times (Section 4.08(b) of the draft Project Agreement).



- 16 -
Project Benefits, Justification, and Risks
58.       The project would assist the Government in expanding its water supply
and sewerage programs which are badly needed to improve health standards and
living conditions in the Philippines. The water supply component would improve
water supply systems which presently suffer from high leakages, unreliable
service, inadequate disinfection and poor maintenance. The project would help
reduce these problems in the six water districts by improving institutional
efficiency, extending water supply services, and training staff to design,
operate, and maintain water systems. As a result of the project, the total
service area of the six WDs would increase from about 3,650 ha to 9,670 ha,
and the population served from 155,000 (31%) in 1977 to 373,000 (59%) by
1985. The long-range objective of the project is to put the water supply
programs in these districts on a self-supporting basis. The funds included
in the proposed loan for the feasibility studies would provide the means for
bringing ten more cities into the program.
59.        All water consumption and production within the project area would
be measured and meter reading and record keeping practices improved. Leakage
surveys would identify pipelines to be replaced and chlorination would make
the water safe for consumption. Without the project it is likely that gastro-
enteritis and other water-related diseases would continue to be a serious
problem in the six WDs and mortality and morbidity rates due to these diseases
would increase.
60.        In each of the six cities, alternative water supply services were
considered; the system adopted in each case represents the least cost method
of attaining project objectives at a discount rate of 12%. Taking the revenue
derived from water charges as the measure of project benefits and assuming the
tariff rates set out in para. 53 and a forty-year project life, incremental
economic rates of return for the six WDs range from 3% in one WD to 7-11% in
the five other WDs, with an average for the six WDs of about 8Z. These low
rates of return reflect the relatively low tariff rates which will prevail
even in 1982. However, the six WDs began with a very inadequate tariff base
and low levels of service, and the tariff increases proposed are about as
large as can realistically be absorbed until a definite improvement of service
is perceived by consumers. The economic rates of return calculated above
do not take consumer surplus, the additional value of the water consumed above
the amount actually paid for it, into account. In addition, there are other
benefits which would accrue in the form of improved health and sanitation and a
more productive population.
61.        The Metropolitan Manila Sewerage Study would provide the basis for
large sewerage investments in the ITHA which are long overdue and urgently
needed to improve the health and sanitation conditions in the Philippines'
largest city. The training program organized by DPWTC would provide prac-
tical instruction in the design and construction of water supply systems in
small communities, which are currently inadequate throughout tnie country.
62.        The major risks associated with the project relate to the institu-
tional capabilities of LWUA and the WDs. There is adequate provision in the
project for engineering consultants to advise LWUA and the WDs in design and



- 17 -
construction. IHowever, LWUA is a new organization whiichi in its forrnative
years is very hieavily dependent on expatriate support.  Tlhe growthi of l.kJA
into a reasonably efficient institution capable of discharging its responsi-
bilities to the WDs is contingent upon the development of internal staff
capabilities to coincide witlh the gradual withdrawal of expatriate support.
The project has been carefully designed to lhelp achieve thiis objective, but
intensive efforts will be necessary by LWUA and its consultants to strengtlhen
its institutional capacity and that of thie WDs. Furthermore, the Directors
on the Water District Boards, thouglh showing great entlhusiasm in their new
roles, are comparatively new to public utility management. Hiow these Boards
will react to public pressures to lhold down water the rate increases wlhici
will be re,quired is by no means certain.
63.       Thie project has been carefully designied to minimize these risks,
whichl are implicit in dealing withi a water supply systems wli ichi are Ln an
early stage of development. Very significant progress lhas been made in the
L ast * veraL years in strengtlhening the institutional base for improving
water supply and sewerage in the Philippines and there is reason to expect
thiat progress will continue.  Bank supervision missions will closely monitor
developments.
Environmental Effects
64.       The proposed project would directly improve the sanitary conditions
in the six cities by extending water service to a larger number of people.
LWUA is aware that environmental sanitation will have to be improved with
the next stage of water supply development and preliminary proposals for
conventional sewerage systems have been made; none of the cities can, however,
at the present time provide the necessary funds nor the trained personnel for
the construction and maintenance of conventional sewerage systems.
65.       The more densely populated parts of the service areas of the
project WDs are conveniently situated for the drainage of their used water
into nearby rivers. In the Baguio WD the hazards to the health of downstream
users of the river water have been recognized and a new sewage treatment plant
is under construction. The National Pollution Control Commission is expected
to set more stringent standards for such discharges in the future, at whiclh
time the other project WDs will also have to consider some degree of sewage
treatment.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Philippines
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Local Water Utilities
Administration and the Bank, the report of the Committee provided for in
Article 3, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the
text of the draft resolution approving the proposed loan are being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors.



- 18 -
67.       Special conditions of the project arc listed in Section ILI of
Annex IV to this report.   The conclusion of a subsidiary loan agreement
between tlhe Government and LW1UA for the project works, referred to in para. 44,
and between the Government and MWSS for the sewerage feasibility studies,
referred to in para. 45, would be additional conditions to the effectiveness
of the Loan Agreement.
68.       I am satisfied thiat tile proposed loan would comply witi tile Art[cles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOM4ENDATION
69.       I recommended that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April     , 1977
Washington, D.C.



TABLE SA                                          page l of l pages
PHILIPPINES          - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LANO  AREA  (THOU  ANZ)--                 - - -  - - - - -  - - --  -  -  - - -  - - - -  - -
------                                   PHILIPPINES                           REFERENCE COUNTOFFS 11970)
UVAL.       300.0                                        nUST RECENT
ATIIC.      U6.3                         1960       1 970  ESTIMATE           THAILAND        TURRET         KOREA.E&. CF
GNMP PER CAPI IA (USD)                    11O.0.     23 0.0     3 70. 0             210.0       48 0.0      270.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (910-YR. MILLION)             217.4      36. 9      4 2. 5              36. 3       35.7        31. 4
POPULATION DENSITY46                                                                                      3190
PER SQUARE Km.                        91. 0      12 3 .0   14 2.0                7 1.0       4.          1.
PER SQ. KRN. AGRICULTURAL. LAND          .      27 9. 0     326.0k .d                        67. 0     1 320. 0
A 1091 STATISTICS
AVERAGE 91RTH RATE (/THOU)            4 5.1       44A.2      43.8a              44..3        4 0. 6      35. 0
AVERAGE DEATH RATE (/THDU)            I11. 9      1 3.2      10. 5               1 3. 7      1 4. 4      11.
INFANT ROARTALITY RATE (ITKUU)           .       80.0        68.0O/l            80. 0       j4 5. 0
LITFE EXPECTANEY AT BIIRTH 10YR)      4 9 .4     55. 6       '58. 4              55.5        5 4 .4      57. 7
t~RGSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3 . 54     3. 3       3. 3                0.2         Z           2.6
POPULATION GROWThl RATE (0)
lot AL                                 3 .0        3.0        2. 9                3 .1        2 .5        2.3
URBAN                                   4 .0       4 .0       4. 0                4 .9        h.2         6. 4
URBAN POPULAT (ON (I OF TOTAL)           2 5.3      27t.46     29.0                15.0        31.2        41. 2
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 T0 14 YEARS                        4 5.7       4 5. 6     I).0       ~        45 .0       4 1 .9      42. 1
IS, TO 64 TEARS                       51. 6      51. 6       5l4.0/             52.)        5 3.9        54. 6
1.5 TEARS RND OVER                     2. 7        2.86       2.0       ~        3.0          4.:3        S. 3
ROE uEPENDENCT RATI10                     0.9        0.9        0,9                 0.9         o.N         0.9
LCIJAUM1C DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.3        I 1.       1 ,4 A              1.1         1.1 L       1. 4
FAMILY PLANNING
AECEPTORS ICUMULATIVE, T HOU).                   35 4. 0  297t2. 5              4 70. 0
UJSERS TX OF MARRIED WOR4EN)                       2. 0      1 9. 0              10.3         9.2        42.0
EMPLOTHENT
TOTAL 14908 FORCE (THOUSAND)          1010 3. 0  1,~300 .   14 200. 0           16 700. 0   14500.0 a   10400.0
LAt3OR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (1)          61. 0      55.0/a     56.0e               79.0L       67.0        50. 5 /
UNEMIPLOYED (0 OF 18009 FORCE)            6 .0        . 0       4. 0                 ..4 . 0l               5 .0
INCOME UISTRIAUIION
Z UF PRIVATE. INCGI4E REC'D AY-
HTI.HEST  50 OF HOUSEHOLDS            29.9          .        24.8/d                .         3 2.9 /8     1.1
H,IGHESt 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS            56 .2         .        54.LA.                         6 0.6        4 4. 5
L9wALST  201 OF HOUSEHOLDS             4 .2         ..        3.9                  .2.94                  'a 
L0AEST   4 0  OF HUUSEHOLDS             1. 9                 I.  1 .9              ..        9R.R        17.7
01.Y'4160TION OF 1LAND OWNERSHIP
& QHLU UT TOP III OF OWNERS               .                     .                    .        33. 0       L 4.0G
C UWNED e 00  AARLLEST 1 01 OW NER?        .           .          .                             0 .9        2.0o
HEALI 19AND NUTRITION
PUPULATION PER PAFUICIAN                   ..         .      3220.0              F 9701.0    222 0.0     2 210.  C
POPULATION PEA NURSING PERSON              ..         .      20 00.              b650.0      1 88 OO     1760.0 (S
POPULATION PER HiOSPITAL BED           119.0'      95 0.0        ..                5 0 .3     49 0 .0    1920. 0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF-
CALORIES (I OF REIUUIAEAENTS)         9 3. 0     100 .0      97. LA              050        1)D.0       103.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PEARAT                 4 4.0      4 5. 0      4 7.0              '52.0        79.         oS
-OF WHICH ANI.MAL AND PUL~E         19 .0 4c   2 2. 0                          11.0 4      22.0 A      19. 0
DENTH A  AT,. 1/IH903) AGES 1-4           9. Oag     9 .0       9. 3A                .         1 5. C /
EDUCATION
ADjuSTED ENROLLIRENT RATIO
PRIRART SCHOOL                        910.       IB0/8     11. L,.                2.0       it 11. 0 A,  1 04. 0
SECONDARY' SCHOOL                     96           9.   ~    4.0/                 6.0       29.0         AA.O.
TEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              10 . 0     1 0.0       1 0.0a             12.0        1. 0         12.0o
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(I OF SECONDARY)I                     14.01f      6.0/c       9.0/a              1 4.0      1 4 .0       1 6.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (I)                    .          .        72. o7,%            79.0        5 5. oLja    9.0
HOU S lA4G
PERSONS PEA RUON (AVERAGE)                                               1~2'...                 .A         2.7
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER ()8.                                  760          .                            6 4. 0        JOd
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
10 OF ALL DWELLINGS)I                 1. 0       2 3 .0        ..                           41 .0       50 .0
RURAL DWELLINGSS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY II)                                I . 0                                     I a 1. 0     30. 0
CON SUY4PTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           22.0       45.0       45.0                79.0        99.0       126.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)             3 .0       9 .0       9.I0                5. 0        4 .0        2.0
ELECtRICITY (ANH/YR PER CAP)            100.0      235.0      315.0               124.0       247.0       307.0
NEASPRIRT IKG/YR PER CAP)                 1.3        2.0        1.5                 1.0         0."         3.4
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



AgU
Page 2 of is pages
laese otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to asp Year hafteo 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 can 1970, and for Most Reoent Estimate btaween
1973 and 1975.
-s Korea has bas   selected as an objective oeotry on the haste sf Its eisilr population, loca tion and incow         leve  end, litke the Philippines, It is
expected to groc eapidly in the cw.og years.
PialoTogs      1260     /a   1950-551 /b    Ratio of pogsolsioo under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;      /c  1960-62;   /d  19621   lo  7-12
and 13-16 years of age respectively; /f Rot including voostioal short-tare -omrse-.
21972/ Las percentage of esploysent; /b 7-12 end 13-16 years of age respectively; 4c Not Including private vocational
schools or votcat   wel ehort-tec  courses.
MST R.RT DTD(iATlm Is 1972j A Ratio of population coder 15 and 65 and ove to total labor force; / An peroentage of
of esployssnt; Id 19Th; Is Including idaivee; /f 1969-n average; LA 7-12 and 13-16 years,
of age respsctiretv.
TiWM   D            1970      ALi196h-661 A      7-13 and 1n-18 years of age respectively;    /c   Poblin schools which include tenhnical eduscation at the
pest-secondary leve.
7URUY        IM~~~ /a      ncludes 17 eastern provinces;    A    1965-67;  Li Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over tc labor force 15
year   and over;  Li 15 Years end over, excludes unesployed;i /.Registerd only;          Lf    lispoeshle inncse;  Z    In-
cluding assistant cures and aidwivee; A 1966-661 a 7-fl1 years of age; Uj Persons 6 Years old and over she
tall the ensus takers they can read and write.
JCRLA, EP. O        1970      /a  As percentage of snployent;     /b  Registered; LA    Registered, not sII precticing in the country;     /d   Water piped
inside.
R8, Noveber 3, 1976
DEFlINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICAtORS
taed Area (thou Isa2)                                                               Populatioo per nor-ing psn-     - Popuistioc dividcd by sonhr of prarricsog
Total -Total surface arcs cprislof land arcs and -niad woer.                            i  sod Ironic groduate curse, 'tr-lnd"' or "c-rtifi.d" n,--e, and
AgRiA. -Moot rc.e-t ec tioss    of agriouIsurol ore   sced tcopor.rily or             sociliary pereonne   with cruising or ecpcri-scn.
potnenetly for crops, pastures, coker       hitches gardesa or to lie             Population ocr heccital bed - Population dioidcd by -ober of hospital bode
fa lea.                                                                            avilable in publIc end private general and      perialfoed hospital and
rohablitucon ceters   colude  nuring hones and cstabllioch-to for
GOP or cace CUS) -GNP Per caPita ee.-k-turotnro                 cr-co       ..  outoda     endprenstfO cccre.
oalc-latcd by rho coon -oor-ion ceibd as World sack Atlas (1973-75                Per capita supply of calories 1    of -nsuire-n-) - Crcp-.cd ico      -scry
basin). 1960, 1970 nod 1975 data                                                    oquivalst ci net food -oppl-e avilable in constry per cap-r per day,
available oppli-o    -pri-e d-ets- prods,ct-o, fop-ori, li        enport-,
PopulatIon ~~~~~~~~~~~~and islsastcadchanges                                  -o  cubk, net supplsc  s-clode -vul feed, oneds, qoa..ts-
Pnpulatio  fold-yr olIlion   - A f July f-rs:  if not avatlble,               tics usd fcc fod pr-oonuog and leIes..    iv diurribution, rnqsir-nnts
a-egace   of two end-year  etsac,1960. 1970 sod 1975 data,                          gore -ciasted by FA0 baird on physmlolgical soe do feorssal artistry
and health conoiderlog e-   -recn   -t1 t-np--aor, body uclghts, afe and
Population de-nity - per 550am    is - Mid-year population Per kqar      ile-          ecdIutrILbu   _.o  fpPoplation, and al1esiog 10% for wuocca t hoc--
octet    0d..:t,    p flO  eoaes  fte,tal Z,n.;  bi old levsl
'Pneuscin dsisry -     er55a      hofani,land - Conpotod as ahov          fst       Per c.Pit. suede eyf proteIn fra       per day) - prosein conte  os f per
agricultural land only.                                                             capita Met capply of food Per day, oct spply of food Ii definod a
above. reqsir-ont    for alIcnsr            t etblished by USDA E-onoic
vital tatistIcs                                                                       R...arch leroices provido For a ooi.ssea a11wani     of 60 iracs of .tota
Crude birth rate per thonuand - A...o 1live births per ch-e...od of oid-              proteie per day, cod 20 grco.   of acimal sod poise protei, of whirl,
year population, ice-yea    alth-lo  -  -- anrg- ending in 1960 and 1970,           10 grecsohoold hrannc       protein, these -sedard    are Inwer th-r rnse
and fi-y-er a-erge ending in 1975 for coot cooe. et-tiate.                          of 75 gran   of total protein act 23 grays of anicul p--o       -s as
Crude death rat   pce thecuand - Anc..al draths per tbh-ad of old-year                averge for rho word, prepooed by FAO cc r0v Tbird World,So-dy-.c
population. r-eo      arithoetic averages esdtng is 1960 and 1910, and            Pa   pcaita orti-orl           ir n etol and voice - Pro- trospply of ford
fl--yeor -v-rg     ending in 1915 for eect trerstertiate.                           derived fro   aelal   and pus-    ie gra-  Per day.
bLasL!t ourcalito ra.-te fLIb . - Aenual deaths of iefsv-    -,ede  on   - verf     Dicathros± Ltniaee       I-4 - 5Anual1 de-hl,   c- rho-a-   Ic ans orn-
asprthousan dlice birtho.                                                       1-4 year. co childre   n I  thit ago grop, sfgcit-d    -0  0 ivdcicr- of
ife onpec__n     a t bitchlyre) - Average nonber of year   of idfe r-ciciog            Ituoocition.
at bIrch,..oucaly five-ye-rav    rages ending ic 1960, 1970 and 1971 for
Crssrerdutorae-Oegconrofsr dagtsw                              nc will         Ad/stdcrlus           ai     -oicary uchool -. fo-llcn,- c     all ageso
boat is her-   ra    ordcoepro            fsc     selce          cc    g-           pretg       of privacy s-h-c-ago populisec      ic-luden child-o aged
spcf Mcfriiy raes         ...ally five.-ya  aveage    coigi      90lYears hot adiscd for differet lcngthn of pct-a-y                           dorarion;
1970 and 1975 for d-1eoing coutries.                                                for cuntricu   ich   --sor-oI ed-toiec, onr-II.-t ray -ored lost
PoPolasi2on groth race f%l    tota   - Coupond as...aI grouch rotss of oft-           si-e con    pupilo Are bt.ew or   bove the official uthool age.
yerppltion for 1950-60t 16-70, and 1970-75.                                 Adiassed etlos        ai       eodr       rul-Cnu            saoe
Pecolation urowtb rato .     - ubja  - Cuopstcd like grouch rate of total             seodar        tdnaco  -equlrn  at leat four year    of approvd prbsary
pepsalation; differet.definitions of urban    -ara  nay affect conpara-             instrution, provides genral, vonatioa1 or tearbr training
bilifry of das  aeog   -eotrien.                                                    inattoctioni for oupils of 12 to 17 yearn of age, correpondenc
Urban couato         1% tf otal  - Rati:oof urban to tota   population                c--oo    arc ge-crIly -oioded.
differest de nticiLon  of orhan areany afferct      oparobility of daru           Yesre of nohonlink provided (fIrst and scn       ee)-Ttlpaoo
ongootriec.                                                                    schooling; at secondary   -level, sontia       lstn_tion cay he par-
doe sintar     foer-ent   - Childr-c f0-l4 y-orsl, worbing-age (15-64 years),         tialy o    c     _pltey  .o.ud
and retired fb5 ye.ar and ovr) as pe-cntageu of aid-year population.              (oaIna      nolno         1 of seoday    - Ocoinli-ci-ulionu
Age d.pseden-y ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 6~5 and over so               iocdide teebeica, icd-stria1 or Other progrn        h-si  operate
tbha- of ages 1) through 6.                                                         Independently or us dep-a.tucor   of -econdary inctitotious.
Ec-uoic dependency ratio     - gacic of population under 1) end 61 and ovr          Adult literar   rat  f%   - Leterate adu1co fable so read and write)a
to the labo "force ic agegroup of 15-lb yearn.                                      pofotg     c   totalI adult pupolatloc aged 15 years andovr
Fanily plan. n     aocr2       fonlatiyg   thou) -Consltive     -onh- of
accptors of birth-conc-c     device  un      upic- of nasional fanily            leonine
plnn  rugran since   -tocpion                                               P..n ecco             (vrage)  A-Avrage nonbr of persons per roon in
Pasfly plannin   - _see- f. of earned woe       - Percetoges of carried               oupied cnetinld-elinga in urban areas, dwellgs occlde
wo-e- of - A-Ild-b-cing age   15i   yees    who  -  birth-cntrol devices            nn-pernanet otr-ture       and anncpied parts.
in all carried wone   Is sas   age group.                                         Octucie  dwliegn wit~hout cined water (2) - Occu pied convetional
dwIlltgc in urban ad rura      arna. without inside or outside piped
Raclesemen                                                                            water faciliti-i as percetageof nil oncapled dweIliog-
Total labor fceco fthouoand) - Econcoi-lly active peruons, in-ladiog                A.ccess to electricity (7. of all dwellngs) -   on-otitonal dwellings
a,naed fornn- and ceseplyped but   ocludlog heusouvue, studento, etc.;              with electricity to liviog quarters as percent of total dwellings in
definitions in vnous countries  re not  -npsrabie.                         urbanand rural aes
Lbrforce toaricultur     (7     Agicultural lahcr ferns fin forcing,             Raral dwllngs conneted to electrIcity C%)       - oputed as above for
forestrdy,hunting andffishing) as .percentage of cosal labor forte,                 rura  dwellings only.
oneuleyc    fIof labo   fot) - i      plcyd arenas ally defined as per...s
who arc able and willing to tube a Job, out of a Job on a given day,              Coosuntion
renino    out of a Job, and seehking werh fur a specifind oiouou    period        gadg  reneivero(per thou cop) - All types of r-tevers for radio broad-
not ecceedig on    wek; nay not hecparable between countries due to                 casts tognea      publio pet thousand of papulatin; e-cldes
different definitin    of unPopayed and sorc      of data, e.g., ..ploy-            uolioenaed rece.iver  in coutries edd in yea-r when regltra cla      of
nent offics statictics, e.-PI. caruys, -opolsery       e.sployot inuac,             radio nets -o is    ffces; data for recet ye-rc nay not ho -opar-hln
sInc  con   -ontics abolishedlinatg
lagos distribstion - Percentage of private inton      (both in nash sod hind)       Passenger care (per thus con) - Passenger Cdrs nonpriue outer v
received by richest 5%, richest 20%, pooreat 201, and pecrecs 407% of               seatIng lensithan eight persona, cocludec anbulan.en, be--e sod
hosasheldo.                                                                          Littary oeh Ilec.
c1leotrici7y (bob/yr per caP) - Annual ceoaneptioe of industrial, cn
Oistrihsation of leand onrhbipe- Per-stage       of loot ownd by weathiest            nrcil public sod private electricity in kilowtt hours Per capita,
10% cod pevrest 10% of land ownrs.                                                  g-ncrlly based on production data, without allowanc       for Iu..ca in
grid ~:bstkallowing for bnpsrca and enperto of electricity.
Health and Nutrition                                                                NesanrPtik/Vr Per cap) - Per capita s'u'l consonption is kilogros
Poss:lato  per phyalcian - Pepslefian divIded.by noehr of practicing                  estiated    eon dosaetic production piu.snet imports of newprint.
physicians qualified fron a udital school at onie-ity Iavel.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976                               ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (X, constanLprices)
US$ million        %             1965-70    1970-75    1976
GNP at Mlarket Prices                    17,515      100.0               5.7       6.3      6.3
Gross Domestic Investment                 5,408       30.9               1.6      12.5      3.7
Gross National Saving                     4,382       25.0               3.6       7.6     -2.0
Current Account Balance                  -1,026       -5.9
Exports of Goods, NFS                     3,105       17.7               4.5       2.2     17.2
Imports of Goods, NFS                     4,201       24.0               7.2       6.5      0.0
OUTPUT LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975
Value Added                   Labor Force            V.A. per worker
US$ million                     M 11illion  __              US$        %
Agriculture                          4,606       29.0              7.8     51.6             591      56,2
Industry                            5,323        33.5             2.2      14.6           2,420     230.0
Services                            5,961        37.5             4.5      29.8           1,325     126.0
Unemployed                              .          .              0.6       4.0               .    _
Total/Average                    15,890       100.0             15.1    100.0           1,052     100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                       Central Government
(Million)         % of GDP            (Pesos million)         % of GDP
197         197       196 -7              1975          1975      1973-75
Current Receipts                 ..          ..        ..              16,838         14.6        14.0
Current Expenditure             ..           ..        ..              14,773         12.8        11.0
Current Surplus                  ..          ..        ..               2,065          1.8         3.0
Capital Expenditures             ..          ..        ..               3,425          3.0         2.8
External Assistance (net)              ..              ..                 287          0.2        0.3
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                        1970      1971       1972      1973      1974       1975
(Million Pesos Outstanding End Period)
Money and Quasi Money                          9,001    10,325     11,872    14,021    16,773     19,254
Bank Credit to Public Sector                   3,263     3,087      2,994     2,860     3,462      6,296
Bank Credit to Private Sector                  8,442     9,688     11,646    15,464    23,098     26,977
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP               22.1      20.4       20.9      19.6      16.8       16.7
General Price Index (1965 = 100)               137.7     159.3      175.4     218.4     337.5      364.8
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                             23.6      15.7       10.0      24.6      54.5        8.1
Bank Credit to Public Sector                    -2.4      -5.4       -3.0      -4.5      21.0      181.9
Bank Credit to Private Sector                   17.2      14.8       20.2      32.8      49.4       16.8
Note:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the
period covered.
Not available.
Not applicable.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                              MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-76)
1974    1975     1976                                       USS million       x
(US$ million)
Exports of Goods, NFS               3,357   2,954   3,105        Coconut Products                    539          21.5
Imports of Goods, NFS              3,782    4,036   4,201        Sugar Products                      607          24.3
Resource Gap (deficit    -)          -425  -1,082  -1,096        Forest Products                     289          11.6
Mineral Products                     437         17.5
Interest Payments (net)              -55     -110    -161        Fruits & Other Agric. Products      119           4.7
Workers' Remittances                           72     106        Other Manufactures                  511          20.4
Other Factor Payments (net)                  -121    -118          Total                           2,502         100.0
Net Cransfers                         271     318     243
Balance on Current Account           -210    -923  -1,026
Direct Foreign Investment              59     125      94      EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1975 /e
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                       402     677     883                                                 US$ million
Amortization                        339     320     355
Subtotal                          63      357     528       Public Debt, including Guaranteed             1,554
Capital Grants                                                   Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                   1,417
Other Capital (net) /a                373     547     581        Total Outstanding and Disbursed               2,971
Other Items n.e.i. /b                   4    -182    -109
Increase in Reserves (+)              289     -76      68     DEBT SERVICE RAT10 FOR 1975 /f
Gross Reserves (end year) /c        1,978   1,360   1,640                                                        X
Inter. Reserves (end year) /d       1,165   1,089   1,157
Public Debt, including Gutaranteed             7.7
Non-Guranteed Private Debt                     8.9
Ftuel and Related Materials                                      Total Outstanding and Disbursed               16.6
Imports of Goods, NFS               3,782   4,036   4,201
of which:   Petroleum               653     710     800     IBRD/IDA LENDING, February 28 , 1977 (US$ million)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                     IBRD         IDA
1965-69         1970-71
Outstanding and Disbursed         319.2        27.0
USS 1.00 = Ps.           3.92            6.43                    Undisbursed                       606.3         5.2
Ps. 1.00 = US$           0.26            0.16                    Outstanding, incl. Undisbursed    925.5       32.2
April 1972-July 1975        Since July 1975
USS 1.00 = Ps. 6.78         US$ 1.00 = Ps. 7.5
Ps. 1.00 = US$ 0.15         Ps. 1.00 = US$ 0.133
/a  Includes SDRs, shiort-term private loans, Central Bank liabilities and use of IMF credit.
/b  Errors and omissions.
/c  Gross reserves of the Central Bank.
/d  Gross reserves of Central Bank plus net reserves of commercial banks.
/e  Excludes short-term debt and IMF standby credit and is on a disbursement basis.
/f  Ratio of Debt-Service to Exports of Goods and Nonfactor Services.



ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PiilLiPPINES
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of February 28, 1977 /1
Loan or
Credit                                                     Amounts (US$ millions)
Number     Year       Borrower        Purpose            Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Fourteen loans and one credit fully disbursed           196.5    10.0
637-PH    1969    Republic of the
Philippines      Irrigation        34.0               0.7
720-PH    1971                       Rice Processing
".            and Storage      14.3               6.9
809-PH    1972    National Power
Corporation      Power             22.0               8.2
349-PH    1973    Republic of the
Philippines     Education II               12.7       4.7
891-PH    1973                       Fisheries          11.6              5.4
939-PH    1973           "           Ports               6.1              5.0
950-PH    1973                       Highway II        68.0              28.1
472-PH    1974                       Aurora-Penaranda
Irrigation                9.5      0.2
984-PH    1974                       Aurora-Penaranda
-  "          Irrigation        9.5               8.6
998-PH    1974           "           DFC-DBP I          50.0             12.0
1010-PH    1974                       Third Rural
Credit           22.0              0.0
1034-PH    1974    National Power
Corporation      Power             61.0              36.1
1035-PH    1974    Republic of the
Philippines     Population         25.0              23.1
1048-PH    1974           "           Shipping           20.0             18.1
1052-PH    1974    Philippine
National Bank   DFC                30.0              23.2
1080-PH    1975    Republic of the    Tarlac
Philippines        Irrigation      17.0              15.8
1102-PH    1975                       Rural
Development      25.0             24.6
1120-PH    1975                       Small and Medium
Industries       30.0             11.9
1154-PH    1976                       Magat
Irrigation       42.0             41.0
1190-PH    1976           "           DFC-DBP II         75.0             75.0
1224-T-PH  1976                       Education III     25.0              22.8
1225-PH    1976                       Livestock II       20.5             17.7
1227-PH    1976                       Chico Irrigation   50.0             50.0
1272-T-PH  1976           "           Manila Urban       10.0             10.0
1282-PH    1976           "           Manila Urban       22.0             22.0
1269-PH    1976                       Second Grain
Processing       11.5             11.5
1270-PH    1976           "           Second Fisheries   12.0             12.0
1353-PH    1977                       Thtird Highways    95.0             95.0
1367-PH /2 1977           "           Jalaur Irrigation 15.0              15.0
Total                                         1,020.0    32.2    604.6
of which has been repaid
(Bank and third parties)                      93.3       -
Total now outstanding                           926.7    32.2
Amount sold                      14.2
of whichi has been repaid
(third parties)                12.6            1.6       -
Total now lheld by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate
adjustments)                                925.1    32.2
Total undisbursed                              599.7      4.9    604.6
/1 A loan of $25 million for a fourth education project was approved by
the Executive Directors on March 1, 1977, and signed on March 25, 1977.   A
loan of $36.5 million for a fouirth rural credit project was approved by the
Executive Directors on April 5, 1977, and was signed on April 11, 1977.
/2 Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of March 31, 1977
Fiscal                                                    Amounts ($ million)
Year                     Company                         Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Development Corporation of the
Philippines                              15.0      4.4     19.4
1967         Manila Electric Company                      8.0       -      8.0
1967         Meralco Securities Corporation                 -     4.0      4.0
1970         Philippine Long Distance
Telephone company                         4.5        -      4.5
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing Inc.                  0.8     0.4      1.2
1970         Paper Industries Corporation of
the Philippines                             -      2.2      2.2
1971         Philippine Petroleum Corporation             6.2     1.8      8.0
1972         Marinduque Mining and Industrial
Corporation                               15.0       -     15.0
1973         Victorias Chemical Corporation               1.9     0.3      2.2
1974         Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation        1.5       -       1.5
1974         Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.    1.5     0.5      2.0
1974         Republic Flour Mills Corporation             1.2       -       1.2
1975         Philippine Polyamide Industrial
Corporation                                7.0       -      7.0
1976         Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                   2.6     0.2      2.8
Total gross commitments                     65.2    13.8     79.0
Less sold, acquired by others,
repaid or cancelled                      20.2      7.2     27.4
Total commitments now held by IFC           45.0     6.6     51.6
Undisbursed                                  0.6       -      0.6



ANNEX II
Page 3
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Loan No. 637     Upper Pampanga River Irrigation; $34.0 Million Loan of
August 18, 1960; Date of Effectiveness: October 15, 1969;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
This is the first major irrigation project in the Philippines and
will supply water year-round to nearly all its 84,000 ha command area. The
project's on-farm development scheme is setting a pattern for future irriga-
tion development in the country.   Some delays were caused by the 1972 floods,
but construction has progressed satisfactorily since then. All works will
be substantially completed and the Loan fully disbursed by the Closing Date
of June 30, 1977. Project costs have increased 72% over appraisal estimates,
largely as a result of rapid inflation, the effects of successive devaluations
of the peso, and design changes in the dam (which accounted for about one-
quarter of the increase in costs). However, as a result of the close coordi-
nation established between irrigation and agricultural support services, the
project is expected to reach full development sooner than was anticipated at
the time of appraisal. Also, there are added benefits from early closure of
the dam resulting in water storage and releases sooner than planned, and
nearly 7,000 ha have been added to the project. Finally, there has been a
considerable increase in the projected world market price of rice. As a
result the estimated rate of return is about the same as at appraisal.
Loan No. 720    Rice Processing and Storage; $14.3 Million Loan of
February 4, 1971; Date of Effectiveness: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This project provides long-term credit through the Development
Bank of the Philippines to finance a program for the development and modern-
ization of the rice and corn processing industry. Originally the project
was restricted to rice and to the private sector, and the emphasis was on
the construction of new integrated -large capacity rice mills. Due in part
to poor harvests and in part to large cost increases for rice mills, the
demand for subloans for new integrated rice mills turned out to be small
/1 These notes are designed to' inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4
and, as explained in the President's Memorandum, dated June 8, 1972 (R72-40),
the Loan Agreement was amended to shift the project emphasis to rehabilita-
tion of existing rice milling facilities. The Loan Agreement was further
amended in April 1974 to (a) expand the scope of the project to include corn
in addition to rice, (b) enable local governments and the National Grains
Autlhority to borrow funds under the project, and (c) streamline procurement
procedures (President's Memorandum SecM74-244 of April 15, 1974). As a
result of these amendments, the project is now progressing satisfactorily.
However, because of long construction period required for the large subprojects,
full disbursement will be delayed by about two years and the Closing Date has
been postponed to June 30, 1979.
Loan No. 809     Fifth Power; $22.0 Million Loan and $10.0 Mtillion
Credit No. 296 Credit of April 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness
July 1, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The project is lhelping the National Power Corporation (NPC) to
finance the construction of a second thermal unit of 150 ISW at Bataan and
transmission facilities in Luzon. Although there has been some minor delay
due to the late delivery of transformers, the project is proceeding satis-
factorily, and the unit is expected to be commissioned shortly. The erec-
tion of transmission lines has been somewhat delayed due to unfavorable
weatlher and poor soil conditions and is now expected to be completed in
April 1977. A tariff increase was approved in October 1976. However, it
was too late for NPC to achieve the expected rate of return of 8% on its
net fixed assets in operation in 1976.
Credit No. 471 Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation; $9.5 Mlillion Credit and
Loan No. 984     $9.5 Million Loan of MIay 14, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Although there has been some delay in constructing the two diversion
darns because of the need for more extensive foundations and abutment area
grouting than originally expected, most difficulties have been overcome and
the work is progressing satisfactorily. Diversion of 75% of Aurora water
into the Pantabangan Reservoir was achieved in September 1975, one year ahead
of the appraisal schedule. All remaining engineering work on the second
diversion damn was completed in July 1976, one year ahead of schedule. In the
area served by the project, lack of competition caused some delay in the
awarding of contracts, but this has been overcome. Efforts to attract bids
from more local contractors have been very effective. Urgent work is being
done by Government force account. Project costs have increased about 54%
over appraisal estimates, largely as a result of inflation. There would be
added benefits from early diversion, however, resulting in additional water
for irrigation sooner than planned, but the rate of return is expected to
fall from the 17% estimated at the time of appraisal to 14%. The credit has
been fully disbursed and disbursement on the loan has now begun.



ANNEX TI
Page 5
Loan No. 998     Industrial Investment and Smallholder Tree-Farming:
$50.0 Million Loan of June 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: September 9, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The proceeds of the Loan are being relent to the Development Bank
of the Philippines (DBP). The industrial portion of the Loan ($48 million)
is being used by DBP to finance direct imports for medium and relatively
large industrial projects. DBP is using the balance ($2 million) to finance
about 1,300 smallholders in a pilot tree-farming project. The Loan is now
fully committed for subloans and disbursements are expected to be completed
before the closing date.
Loan No. 1010     Third Rural Credit; $22.0 Million Loan of June 17, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: August 27, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977
The Loan was fully committed by December 31, 1975 and disbursements
are expected to be completed well before the closing date.
Loan No. 1034     Sixth Power:  $61.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 15, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
The project is helping the National Power Corporation (NPC) to
finance a 100 IW hydro plant at Pantabangan and transmission lines for the
further expansion of the Luzon grid and feasibility studies by consultants
for a future power project. Major equipment for the plant has been con-
tracted and project commissioning is expected this year. The transmission
component of the project is behind schedule because necessary design work has
been delayed due to NPC's heavy construction program. It is now expected
that this part of the project will be completed by the end of 1978, i.e. one
year behind schedule.
Credit No. 349 Second Education; $12.7 Mlillion Credit of January 5,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: April 11, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
The Credit provides $12.7 million to finance improvements to
existing middle and higher level agricultural education institutions,
curriculum development, and new technical and vocational institutions
in rural areas.  The physical facilities are nearing completion but are
about 11 months behind appraisal schedule due to earlier delays. All
project institutions are expected to be in full use by mid-1977. The
technical assistance program, however, is not expected to be completed
until late 1978. Therefore, the postponement of the Closing Date to
December 31, 1979 is being considered.



ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan No. 891     Fisheries; $11.6 Million Loan of May 21, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
This project is designed to provide long-term credit to the private
sector through the Development Bank of the Philippines for marine and inland
fisheries development. The demand for subloans has been adequate, and the
organization to implement them has been properly established. The project is
progressing satisfactorily, and all funds were fully committed by July 1976
and are likely to be disbursed by the closing date.
Loan No. 939     Second Ports; $6.1 Million Loan of October 24, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 19, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977
Progress on civil works construction for both General Santos
and Cagayan de Oro has been slow, due mainly to frequent breakdowns of the
contractor's dredger in General Santos, and the slow mobilization of con-
tractor's plant in Cagayan de Oro. The contractors are making efforts to
overcome the difficulties. By February 1977, work was 17% completed in
General Santos, whereas in Cagayan de Oro progress has so far mainly been
in mobilization and site preparation. The present estimated total project
cost is 75% higher than the appraisal estimate due to worldwide price
increases. However, foreign exchange costs are lower than appraisal esti-
mates as the contractors are locally based. Total traffic at the project
ports is in line with appraisal forecasts and a reasonable financial rate
of return is being earned.
Loan No. 950     Second Highway; $68.0 Million Loan of December 12,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: December 27, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Overall construction progress is satisfactory with about 80% of
the works completed. However, progress on one of the national roads is
not satisfactory and this is expected to delay project completion by about
12 months compared to the appraisal estimate. UNDP-financed road feasi-
bility studies were completed in June 1975, and detailed engineering for
the Third Highway Project (Loan 1353-PH) was completed in August 1976.
Detailed engineering for the proposed Fourth Highway Project is underway
and expected to be completed by August 1977. The total cost of the project
has risen substantially (about 40% above appraisal estimate) because of
inflation following the oil price increase in late 1973.



ANNEX II
Page 7
Loan No. 1035    Population; $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project is assisting the Government in expanding rural health
infrastructure, and in providing staff training facilities and technical
assistance for the development of a management information system and for
training. Under the direction of the Project MIanagement Staff in the Depart-
ment of Health, overall project implementation is progressing well. Training
activities are well ahead of schedule in all 12 regions; the civil works
component lags by 9 months, but is projected to be completed ahead of the
appraisal report timetable due to simplification of construction design.
Progress under the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1048    Interisland Shipping; $20 Million Loan of October 29,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: January 15, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
The Government is relending the proceeds of thie Loan to the
Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) for onlending to beneficiaries
for the acquisition of new and used ships and for major repairs and con-
versions. Progress under the project is satisfactory. Commitments were
originally slow, because of lack of demand from the private sector and
DBP's restrictive collateral requirements. These problems are now being
resolved and subloan commitments are expected to increase during the coming
months.
Loan No. 1052    Private Development Corporation of the Philippines;
$30 million Loan of November 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: February 7, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
The project assists in the financing of industrial subprojects,
the bulk of which are expected to go to export-oriented manufacturing
projects. As of March 31, 1977, commitments for subloans totalling
$12.5 million had been made. While subloan commitments have been some-
what slower than originally expected due to the generally slow pace of
business activity, the implementation of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1080   Tarlac Irrigation; $17.0 Million Loan of January 27,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 27, 1975; Closing
Date: Decemberi31, 1980
The project is assisting the Government to improve 21,000 ha of
land under three existing national irrigation systems and expand irrigation
on 13,000 ha of additional land in Central Luzon. Progress on the groundwater,



ANNEX II
Page 8
water management training and NISIS components of the project has been good.
Force account work on the irrigation component is about 38% completed, but
contract construction which will amount to 80% of the total work has only
started. However, all major civil works contracts are now awarded and
remaining work is all under way. Also most equipment contracts are awarded.
Loan No. 1102   Rural Development; $25.0 Million Loan of April 16,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project is assisting the Government to carry out a rural devel-
opment project on the island of Mindoro.   This includes constructing and
improving 150 km of national highways and 280 km of provincial roads, rehabil-
itating and upgrading Calapan port, improving and extending two national
irrigation systems to serve 12,000 ha of rice land, and 3,000 ha under
communal irrigation systems, providing an agricultural program involving seed
testing laboratories and rat control, providing protection programs in four
watersheds, schistosomiasis control and assistance to Mangyan tribes. Pro-
gress is satisfactory on irrigation and roads, which are being implemented
by agencies having experience with Bank-funded projects, and construction has
begun on Calapan Port. With the exception of the Mangyan Assistance Program,
however, there was little progress under the other programs because of
inadequate budgeting by the various agencies for the new programs. Adequate
1977 budgets have been approved and all work is now expected to proceed
rapidly.
Loan No. 1120    Small and Medium Industries Development; $30.0 Million
Loan of June 5, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 20,
1975; Closing Date: August 31, 1979
The DBP portion of the funds has been fully committed. After a
slow start, commitment of funds under the Industrial Guarantee Loan Fund and
National Electrification Administration is now proceeding well. Overall
progress of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1154   Magat Multipurpose Project; $42.0 Million Loan of
August 7, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is assisting the Government to improve and expand
irrigation on 35,000 ha of land in the Cagayan Valley of Northern Luzon.
Consultant's work on the engineering and economic evaluation studies is
making good progress. The water management training is underway and satis-
factory progress is being made on civil works.



ANNEX II
Pag,e 9p
Loan lio. 1190   Industrial Investment; $75.0 Million Loan of
January 28, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 6, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The proceeds of the Loan are being relent to the Development Bank
of the Philippines for subloans to finance direct imports for medium and
relatively large industrial projects. Commitments of funds, which were
initially much slower than expected due to a slowdown of investment in the
industrial sector as a whole over the past twelve months have recently
improved. As of April 11, 1977, commitments for subloans totaling $7.7 mil-
lion had been made. The Executive Directors approved a proposal to
reallocate $25 million of the funds for small and medium industries on
February 25, 1977, and an amendment to the Loan Agreement to this effect
was signed on March 16, 1977.
Loan No. 1224    Third Education Project; $25 Million Loan of April 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 29, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project covers the first phase (1976-80) of the Government's
eight-year textbook program and provides for the development, production
and distribution of 27 million textbooks. It also provides for curriculum
development, teacher training and technical assistance. Progress under
the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1225    Second Livestock; $20.5 Million Loan of April 8, 1976; Date
of Effectiveness: September 13, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The Loan became effective on September 13, 1976, and initial progress
is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1227    Chico River Irrigation Project; $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date:' June 30, 1981
The project will assist the Government to improve and expand
irrigation on 19,700 ha in the Cagayan Valley. Initial progress under the
project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1269   Second Grain Processing Project; $11.5 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project provides long-term credit through the Development Bank
of the Philippines to assist in modernizing and expanding the Philippine
grain processing industry. The Loan became effective on November 12, 1976,
and initial progress under the project is satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 10
Loan No. 1270    Second Fisheries Project; $12.0 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project provides long-term credit through the Development Bank
of the Plhilippines to assist in increasing fish production for domestic con-
sumption. The Loan became effective on November 12, 1976 and initial progress
under the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1272T Manila Urban Development Project; $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282    $22.0 Million Loans of June 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
December 9, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
The loan will finance (a) improvements in basic sanitary services for
families living in the Tondo Foreshore and Dagat Dagatan area, and (b) improve-
ments in transportation and traffic in the Greater Manila Area. Tendering is
underway for construction of 1,500 of 2,000 serviced lots at Dagat Dagatan,
secondary water mains for Tondo, and the interceptor sewer for Tondo.
Loan No. 1353    Third Highway Project; $95.0 Million Loan of
January 12, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet
Effective; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project will assist the Government in improving the national
and rural road systems and their maintenance. The loan became effective on
March 30, 1977.
Loan No. 1367    Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet Effective;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This Loan will assist the Government in rehabilitating about
22,000 ha of existing irrigation schemes and constructing new irrigation and
drainage facilities for about 2,900 ha of rice land on the island of Panay.
The Loan is not yet effective.
Loan No. 1374   Fourth Education Project; $25.0 Million Loan of
March 25, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet Effective;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project is for agricultural education and training. It
includes assistance for: specialized facilities for forestry, animal science,
and veterinary medicine; a regional agricultural college in the Visayas; and
training for extension workers and farmer leaders. The loan is not yet effec-
tive.



ANNEX III
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
PROVINCAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              The Republic of the Philippines
Amount:                 $23 million equivalent
Terms:                  The Bank loan would be for a term of 20 years, including
a grace period of 4-1/2 years, with interest at 8.2%
per annum.
Relending Terms:        The Government would relend $18.8 million of the
proceeds of the proposed loan, on the same terms
as those of the Bank, to the Local Water Utilities
Administration (LWUA) to finance the foreign exchange
costs of improving the water supply systems in six
cities, and of feasibility studies for improving the
systems in 10 other cities. The Government would
relend $4.0 million on the same terms as the Bank loan
to the Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System
(MWSS) to finance the foreign exchange costs of review
and design studies for a sewerage and sanitation
improvement program for Metropolitan Manila. The
Government would use the balance of $200,000 to help
finance a training program for the staff of government
agencies engaged in water supply for small communities.
Project Description:   The project would provide financing for:
(a)  Water Supply for Six Water Districts.   The main focus
of the proposed loan is to assist LWUA in expanding
its water supply program in six water districts in the
cities of Baguio, Cabanatuan, Lipa, Lucena-Pagbilao-
Tayabas, San Fernando (La Union), and Tarlac, all on
the main island of Luzon. The proposed project is
the first stage of a long-range plan for the develop-
ment of water supply systems in these cities under
master plans extending to the year 2000. In addition
to financing the rehabilitation and construction of
facilities for the production, transmission, and
distribution of water, the project would provide in
each WD: immediate improvements to provide better
service; leak detection surveys; the replacement of



ANNEX III
Page 2
leaking service connections; the provision of new
service connections, water meters, hydrants, and
chlorination equipment; vehicles for operation and
maintenance; office accommodations, meter shops,
laboratories, and stores with required equipment;
and test wells as needed for field investigations.
Engineering consulting services would be provided to
develop detailed designs and assist in the supervision
of construction.
(i) Baguio Water District. Rehabilitation of Buyog
Spring and Santo Thomas Reservoir. Well field
with pumping station. Thirteen km of transmission
pipelines and two storage tanks with a booster
pumping station. One hundred ten km of distribu-
tion pipelines and the rehabilitation of the
Kilometer 8 storage tank.
(ii) Cabanatuan Water District. Rehabilitation of two
existing wells and the construction of a new
well field. Construction of two storage tanks
or of additional wells to meet peak hour demand.
Fifty km of distribution pipelines.
(iii) Lipa Water District. Rehabilitation of two exist-
ing wells and a storage tank, and the construction
of a well field. Thirty km of distribution
pipelines.
(iv) Lucena-Pagbilao-Tayabas Water District. Expansion
and improvements to May-it Spring intake works
and the contruction of 8 km of transmission
pipelines. Two storage tanks, rehabilitation
of the Tongko storage tanks, and 8 km of pipelines.
Fifty km of distribution pipeines.
(v) San Fernando (La Union) Water District. Six
wells in the Bauang and Baroro river banks with
35 km of transmission and distribution pipelines.



ANNEX III
Page .
(vi) Tarlac Water District. Rehabiltation of two
existing wells and the construction of a new well
field and two storage tanks. Twenty-four km
of distribution pipelines.
(b) Feasibility Studies for Water Supply Improvements.
Preparation of feasibility studies, with the assistance
of consultants, for projects to improve the water
supply systems in 10 WDs to be selected by LWUA in
consultation with the Bank.
(c) Manila Sewerage Studies. Preparation of a sewerage
study for the MMA, with the assistance of consultants.
The study would include the updating of previous studies
made with UNDP/WHO assistance in 1967-69, preparation
of a long-term sanitation program for Metropolitan
Manila, tariff studies, and detailed design of a first
stage sewerage project.
(d) Staff Training. The project would provide for the
services of an engineer and equipment for the training
of staff of the Department of Public Works, Transporta-
tion, and Communication, the Department of Health, the
Department of Local Government and Community Develop-
ment, and other appropriate agencies, engaged in
designing and constructing water supply projects in
small communities.



ANNEX III
Page 4
Foreign
Exchange
Estimated Cost                       Local      Foreign     Total   Component
------- US$ milliion-------       (%)
Part A: Water Supply Construction:
Baguio WD                  1.63        1.94       3.56
Cabanatuan WD              2.21        1.42       3.63
Lipa WD                    0.86        0.82       1.68
Lucena WD                   1.98       2.43       4.41
San Fernando WD            1.39       1.23        2.62
Tarlac WD                  1.55        1.42       2.97
Subtotal:             9.62       9.25       18.87      49
Engineering:                 1.13        1.14       2.27
Contingencies:
Physical                    1.53       1.49       3.01
Price                      2.93        2.86       5.80
Land:                         0.36          -       0.36      49
Total Part A:               15.57       14.74      30.31      49
Part B:  Water Supply Feasibility
Studies:                     0.62        0.88       1.50      59
Part C:  Manila Sewerage Studies:      2.30       4.02       6.32      64
Part D:  Training                         -       0.20       0.20     100
Total, Parts A-D             18.49      19.84      38.33      52
Interest during con-
struction for Part A        3.03       3.26       6.29      52
Total Financing Required     21.52      23.10      44.62      52
Financing:            LWUA    MWSS    Water Districts    Bank       Total
---------------- US$ million ---------------------
15.5    2.3         3.8            23.0        44.6
Estimated Disbursements:              IBRD Fiscal Year   Annual   Cumulative
------------- US$ million -------------
1978          4.18         4.18
1979          7.20        11.38
1980          6.16        17.54
1981          4.29        21.83
1982          1.17        23.00



ANNEX III
Page 5
Procurement:          All major contracts for equipment, materials and civil
works would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines. In the bid evalution for equipment and
materials, a preference limited to 15% of the c.i.f.
price of imported goods or the prevailing customs duty,
whichever is lower, would be provided to local manufac-
turers. The contracts for pipe cleaning and lining,
construction of operational buildings and related equip-
ment (estimated total cost of $1.2 million) would be
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally in accordance with Government procedures which
are acceptable to the Bank. Foreign firms would be
eligible to participate. These contracts are small
($50,000-$150,000) and widely dispersed geographically;
they would not, therefore, be suitable for international
competitive bidding. Urgently required off-the-shelf
items for rehabilitation works, each estimated to cost
less than $10,000 and not exceeding $200,000 in the
aggregate, would be procured in accordance with LWUA's
normal procurement practices.
Consultants:          Consultants would be employed by LWUA to prepare detailed
designs and supervise the construction of the water
supply project in the six WDs and make master plans and
carry out feasibility studies for water supply improvement
projects in ten additional provincial cities (244 man-
months). Consultants would be employed by IWSS to update
past studies and prepare a first stage sewerage project
for the MMA, and an immediate sanitation program for high
priority areas within the MMA (429 man-months). Because
of the complex nature of the studies required for the
sewerage and sanitation program, a technical advisor
to the MWSS Project Manager would be employed to ensure
their satisfactory and timely completion (24 man-months).
A consultant would also be employed by the Department of
Public Works, Transportation, and Communication to
establish and carry out a training program for government
staff engaged in designing and constructing water supply
projects tin small communities (approximately 18 man-months,
to be determined during negotiations). The qualifications,
experience, terms and conditions of employment of all the
consultants to be employed would be satisfactory to the
Bank. The average man-month cost for consultants is
estimated to be about $6,200 equivalent.
Rate of Return:        The economic rate of return of the project investments
is estimated to average 8%.
Appraisal Report:      No. 1434-PH, dated April 15, 1977.



ANNEX IV
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare project: nine months (November,
1975 - July, 1976). The project was prepared by LWUA with the
assistance of consultants.
(b)  First presentation to the Bank:                September 1975
First Bank mission to consider the project: November 1975.
(c) Departure of appraisal mission: September 1, 1976.
(d) Completion of negotiations: March 23, 1977.
(e) Planned date of effectiveness: August 1977.



ANNEX IV
Page 2
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
(a) The Bank and the Philippine Government have agreed on an implemen-
tation timetable to ensure effective project implementation.
(b) A Bank mission would visit Manila during the coming months to
review progress in project implementation.
(c) In particular, Bank staff will, during the coming months, need to
review:
(i) the selection and terms of reference of the engineering con-
sultants for Parts [b] and [c] of the Project; and
(ii) the progress of land acquisition.
Section III: Special Conditions
During negotiations agreements were reached with the Government
and LWUA on the following points:
(a) Government would relend the proceeds of the Bank loan to LWUA (for
Parts [a] and [b] of the project) and to MWSS (for Part [c]) on the
same terms as the Bank loan. LWUA would, in turn, relend to the
project WDs the proceeds of the Bank loan for the water supply
project on terms satisfactory to the Bank, and would also make
loans to them on the same terms to meet the local currency costs of
the project and interest during construction (paras. 44 and 45).
(b) By not later than December 31, 1977, LWUA would cause each of the
six WDs to establish realistic values of their assets and maintain
complete records of their physical quantities and location (para. 50).
(c) By not later than January 1, 1978, LWUA and the WDs concerned would
have fully adopted the accounting procedures consistent with the
commercial accounting systems proposed by the consultants (para. 51).
(d) An annual review would be made by each WD in consultation with LWUA
and the Bank to determine what changes are needed in their rate
structures and level of charges. The first review would be completed
not later than October 1, 1978 and the new rates implemented by
January 1, 1979 (para. 53).
(e) During the project construction period, the WDs would generate adequate
funds to meet the operating costs, provide adequate maintenance, and
repay the debt service, and would also provide funds to cover at
least 10% of the investment for the project. For each of the years
1978-1980, the WDs' cash generation to meet project expenditures
would be not less than 9% of the respective WDs' project loan outstan-
ding at the end of the previous year except that in the San Fernando
(La Union) WD, it would not be less than 5% for 1980 (para. 53).



ANNEX IV
Page 3
(f) The rate of return on net fixed assets of each of the 6 WDs would
be at least 6% in 1982, 7% in 1983, and 8% thereafter (para. 53).
(g) During the project construction period, the WDs would not undartake
any major capital expenditures other than those included in the
project and after project completion they will not incur any indebted-
ness unless the internal cash generation of the WD incurring the
debt, for the past fiscal year (or for a later 12 month period prior
to incurring such debt), shall be not less than 1.5 times the maximum
debt service requirement on all its long-term debt for any succeeding
fiscal year (para. 53).
(h) LWUA's long-term debt will not, at any time, exceed its equity by
more than three times (para. 57).
(i) The execution of the relending agreements between the Government and
LWUA for the project works and between the Government and MWSS for
the sewerage feasibility studies would be conditions of effectiveness
of the loan (paras. 44 and 45).



IBRD 12542
I         ~~~FEBURARY' 1877
CLASSIFICATION OF PROVINCES         120'                  122'                  124'                   126'
BY GEOGRAPHICAL REGIONS
I ILOCOS           VI WESTERN VISAYAS                          0
I IlocosNone      37 Aklan
2 Abra             38 Capiz                                 6i
3, locosSur        39 Antique                              8
4Mountain  .40 Iloilo                                              ~~~~~~PHILIPPINES
5 La Union         41 Negros Occidental
6 Benguet        VIICENTRALVISAYAS                                           PRO      VINCIAL               CITIES
7 Pangasinan       42 CebuPR                                                          V   N     I   L     C   T   E
II ICAGAYAN VALLEY    43, Negros Oriental
8 Batanes          44 Bohol
9 Cagayan          45 Siquiior                                          WATER            SUPPLY           PROJECT
10 Kalmnga-Apayao  VIII EASTERN VISAYAS                      I>                         n P OET       CITIS8
IlIsubela         46 Northern Samar                                                   PR    JET_ITE
-18  12 tfugao          47 Surmiar                         Ba,ysan Channel
.12 Nueva Vizcaya   48 Eastern Samar            C   '..   Aar
J4 Ouirino          49 Leyte
Ill CENTRAL LUZON     50 Southern Leyte      Loooa  I     /
15 Nueva Eciia  IX WESTERN MINDANAO       ,              9                             Bo ulo   Proiect Cities
16 Tarlac          51 Zamboanga del Norte                                                       Roads
17 Zambalns        52 Zamboanga del Sur ,     \        f 2  --
20 Bataan           5 Seoale                              1                  -                  ronal Boundaries       4
IV SOTENTGLG          55 Tasnitzai3
SOUTHERN TAGALOX NORTERNMINANA                                                             Provincial Boundaries
'21 Quezon       X1OTEN24NAA
22 Rizal           56 Surigaodel Norte         ; (  F  12    LUZ N                            N
23 Cavite          57 Camiguin                5   iD                                   7 hc boandrnes sown on this map do no |   16
16'  24 Laguna          58 Agusan del None                                                 niply rsdrans-ent or r-repta- b, thi the
26 Batangas        59 Misamis Oriental                1 14 /World Bank and it,uffilitr,
26 Marinduque      60 MiamisOccidental         '/
27 Midoro Oriental  61 LanaodelNorte
28 'Ivindoro Occidental  62 Lanaa del Saron 0                                         50   0    50  100  150  200
29 Romblon         63 Bukidnon                                                         0        5     0   1020
30 Paan64 Agusan del Sar               T      L    a      n6LOM7
V BICOL               65 Surigao del Sur    \1l6   r15
1 Camarines Norte  XI SOUTHIERN MINDANAO  \       ' a
32 Camairines Sar  66 Magaindanao         gee    18
33 Catanduanes     67 North Cotabato  Olongapo/'  ;     21
32 Clayad ns       68, Davao                                                        PH20    IPP I22V\ELi
34 Aorsogo         89 Davao Orientalni 
14 53 ;orsbaon        70 Davao del Sur                                                                                              4
Id'  36 Masbate   ~~~71 Sultan Kadarat           234-
72 South Cotabato        N    L 
sourH        CHINA                                          S 1 i   YANSEA ' 
12-           S   6                           i       '<>e5t     tV       --A     ¢T\\>      <0w47' 4                                 12'-
-10'                                                                                                                                   0
P-c S.
0jS Perto Princesa                     ddG                  /     <t               k1'
G-v ~~~~~~~~~~~~~SULU             SEA                              COTO_
30~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
CHIt N A      QTA IWA N                                  Zabag                              /I ii ~  I7 (J6
tamboa~~~~~~~~~tao 61                 N
WN P'CsltOCIAt:.                            (Basila     -             I0
PHILIPPINES                     '
T NAMSEA         SA                               Jolt   \                                     72     nt 6antos
0  ~~~~~~~.6'
1.,NE  S.'.gNAO                       N                     CELEB6S    SEA
_7L.5t A 5'd
120'                  122'                  124'                   126'
I N 0 NA SmAu   mS~ ~  ~  ~I 



