Report No. 1434-PH
Philippines: The Provincial                                                FILE COPY
Cities Water Supply Project
The Cities: Baguio, Cabanatuan, Lipa, Lucena-Pagbilao-Tayabas, San Fernando (La Union) and Tarlac
April 14, 1977
East Asia and Pacific Region Projects Department
Energy and Water Supply Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of March 31, 1977)
Currency Unit                              Pesos (P)
P 1.00                         -           US$0.133
P 1 million                    -           US$133,000
US$1.00                        -           F7.50
US$1 million                   =           P7,500,000
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
mm        =      millimeter                    =     0.04 inches
cm        =      centimeter                    =     0.39 inches
m         =      meter                         =     3.28 feet
km               kilometer                     =     0.62 miles
km2              square kilometer              =     0.39 square miles
ha               hectare               =             10,000 square meters
or 2.47 acres
i3               cubic meter                   =     264 US gallons
m 3/sec          cubic meters per second       =     22.8 million US gallons
per day
1         =      liter                        -      0.26 US gallons
1/sec            liters per second          =        22,800 US gallons per day
1/cd             liters per capita per day          0.26 US gallons per capita
per day
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB              Asian Development Bank
CDM5             Camp Dresser and McKee International Inc.
DPWTC            Department of Public Works, Transportation and
Communications
JMM       =      James M. Montgomery, Consulting Engineers, Inc.
LWUA      =      Local Water Utilities Administration
!MA       =      Metropolitan Manila Area
MWSS      =      Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System
USAID     =      United States Agency for International Development
WD        =      Water District
LWUA's FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF THE PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ............          ..      .................  i - ii
I.    INTRODUCTION  .......................................                    1
II.    THE SECTOR ........................................                      2
A.    Background  ...................................                   2
B.    Sector Organization  ..........................                   3
C.    Sector Development and Financing  ....               .........    4
III.  THE PROJECT .......................                                        5
A.    Background and Objectives  .               ..................     5
B.    Description  ......           ............................        5
C.    Cost Estimates  ......          .................. .              7
D .    Contingencies  ......         ....................               9
E.   Amount of Loan  ......             .........................    10
F.    Project Financing  .....            .......................    10
G.    Procurement  ......           ............................    10
H.   Disbursements  ................................    11
I.    Design,  Construction and Supervision of
Construction of Water Supply Project  .......    11
J.    Implementation Schedule  ...................             ...    12
K.    Environmental  Impact  ......          ...................    12
IV.    THE BORROWER,  THE BENEFICIARIES AND THE
IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES  .......           ....................    13
A.    The Borrower and the Beneficiaries  ....               .......    13
B.    Implementing Agencies  ......              ..................    13
C.    Local Water Utilities Administration  ....               .....    14
D.    USAID Financed Consulting  Services  ....              .......    15
E.    Training and Staff Development  .....               ..........    15
F.    Water Districts  ........            ......................    16
G.    The Project Water Districts  .....               .............    16
H.    Billing and Collections  ......              ................    17
I.  Metering . ....................................  17
J.    Accounts and Audit  .             ..........................    17
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2
Page No.
V.   JUSTIFICATION     ......................... .... .......  18
A.   General       ......................................  18
B.   Population and Demand Projections ............  19
C.  Least  Cost  Solution  .....  .....................  20
D.   Economic Evaluation ............ ..............  20
E.   Project  Risks   ....... ........ .................  21
F.   Manila Sewerage Design Study ....... ..........  21
VI.   FINANCIAL ASPECTS .................................  22
A.   General   ......................................  22
B.   Past and Present Financial Performance .......  22
C.   Assets Taken Over by the Water Districts         23
D.   Financing  Plan  ............. .. ................  23
E.   Financial Projections ........... .............  25
F.  Water Rates ................ ..................  26
G.   Financial Resources of LWUA ..................  29
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOM4MENDATIONS ....  ........  31
LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEXES
1.  Description of the Project
2.  Feasibility Study for Water Supplies to Ten Cities
3.  Manila Sewerage Design Study
4.  Water Supply Construction - Summary Cost Estimates
5.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
6.  Implementation Schedule
7.  Existing Water Supply Systems and Sources
8.   Population and Water Demand Projections
9.   Organization Chart of the Local Water Utilities Administration
10.   Status of Formation of Water Districts
11.   Typical Organization Chart of a Local Water District
12.  The Project Water Districts
13.   Justification for Metering
14.   Internal Economic Rates of Return and Average Incremental Costs
15.   Baguio WD-Income Statement, Flow of Funds and Balance
Sheets 1976-85
16.   Cabanatuan WD-Income Statement, Flow of Funds and Balance
Sheets 1976-85
17.  Lipa WD-Income Statement, Flow of Funds and Balance Sheets 1976-85
18.   Lucena-Pagbilao-Tayabas WD-Income Statement, Flow of
Funds and Balance Sheets 1976-85



- 3 -
19.   San Fernando (La Union) WD-Income Statement, Flow of Funds
and Balance Sheets 1976-85
20.   Tarlac WD-Income Statement, Flow of Funds and Balance Sheets
1976-85
21.   Financing Plan of Water Districts (1977-81)
22.   Assumptions for Financial Projections
23.   Forecast Performance Indicators 1977-83
24.   LWUA's Guidelines for Water Rates
25.   Schedule of Water Rates
26.   Schedule of LWUA's Foreign Loans
27.   LWUA's Income Statement, Flow of Funds and Balance Sheets
MAPS
IBRD 12542-Location Map
IBRD 12543 to 12548-Existing and Proposed Water Supply Systems






PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF THE PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report covers the appraisal of a project to rehabilitate,
construct, improve and extend water supply systems in the 6 Water Districts
(WDs) in the cities of Baguio, Cabanatuan, Lipa, Lucena-Pagbilao-Tayabas,
San Fernando (La Union) and Tarlac, all on the main island of Luzon in the
Philippines. The project is the first stage, covering the fiscal years 1977
through 1981, of a long range water supply improvement program in these cities
extending through the year 2000, and aims to help implement the Government's
policy of improving water supply services in the population centers of the
country. The project also includes financing of: (a) feasibility studies for
improving water supply systems in the next group of 10 cities; (b) review and
design studies for a first stage sewerage and sanitation improvement program
for the Metropolitan Manila Area (MMA); and (c) training of staff of the Gov-
ernment's departments and agencies in the sector in designing and constructing
water supply systems in small communities.
ii.       The Government of the Philippines will be the borrower and the bene-
ficiaries will be (a) the Water Districts in the 6 cities, (b) Local Water
Utilities Administration (LWUA) for the feasibility studies for the next 10
cities, (c) Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System (MWSS) for the Metro-
politan Manila Sewerage Studies and (d) Department of Public Works, Transport-
ation and Communications (DPWTC) for training of staff.
iii.      The main objective of the water supply project is to provide improved
water supply, at an adequate level of service, to the urban population in the 6
WDs. It is estimated that by 1985 the population served in these WDs will in-
crease from about 155,000 in 1977 (31% of the population) to about 373,000 (59%
of the projected population).
iv.       The total financing required for the project is estimated to be
US$44.6 million equivalent including US$6.3 million equivalent for interest
during the construction period of the water supply systems in the 6 WDs. The
proposed Bank loan of US$23.0 million equivalent will finance about 52% of the
total costs to cover the estimated foreign exchange expenditures plus US$3.3
million for interest during construction on the Bank loan. The balance of
US$21.6 million equivalent (48%) will be provided as follows: (i) by LWUA,
US$15.5 million equivalent (35%); (ii) by WDs, US$3.8 million equivalent (8%);
and (iii) by MWSS, US$2.3 million equivalent (5%).
v.        The water supply project in the 6 WDs includes some rehabilitation
works and construction of wells equipped with pumps, storage tanks, buildings,
about 312 km of transmission and distribution pipelines, and the procurement of
leak detection equipment, water meters, vehicles and engineering and consulting



- ii -
services. These works will be executed by LWUA (on behalf of the WDs) with the
assistance of engineering consultants and the completed water supply systems
will be owned, operated and maintained by the respective WDs. The feasibility
studies for water supply and sewerage will also be carried out by LWUA and
MWSS respectively with the assistance of engineering consultants. The training
of staff in designing and constructing water supply systems in small communities
will be the responsibility of DPWTC.
vi.       All supply and civil works contracts will be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guide-
lines, except that contracts for pipe cleaning and lining, construction of
operational buildings and related equipment, estimated to cost about US$1.2
million equivalent, will be advertised only in local publications. There is
adequate competition and foreign firms can participate. Urgently required
off the shelf items for rehabilitation works estimated to cost less than
US$10,000 each and not exceeding US$200,000 equivalent in the aggregate,
will also be procured on the basis of local bidding. A preference limited to
15% of the c.i.f. price of imported goods or the prevailing customs duty,
whichever is lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation
of bids.
vii.      The water supply project for each WD represents the least cost
solution for meeting the project objectives at a discount rate of 12%. The
internal economic rate (IER) of return based on the projected 1982 tariffs,
which it is assumed the consumers will be willing to pay, is estimated to
range between 3% in one WD and 7 to 11% in the other 5 WDs with an average,
for the 6 WDs, of about 8%. The wide variations in the IER are due to differ-
ent water rates and variations in the investment and operating costs. These
returns are calculated by measuring the benefits from revenues only without
taking into consideration health and other related benefits. The main justi-
fication for the project rests on the need to provide the residents of the six
cities, a modest level of safe water service rather than on the financial
forecasts which do not fully measure the project's contribution to the economic
and social development of the country. The hazards to health of failing to
provide an adequate supply of safe water could be serious.
viii.     The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$23.0 million equiva-
lent for a term of 20 years including a grace period of 4-1/2 years. The
Government of the Philippines will relend, on the same terms as the Bank
loan, US$18.8 million of the proceeds of the loan to LWUA and US$4.0 million
to MWSS and will allocate US$0.2 million to its DPWTC. LWUA will, in turn,
relend US$18.0 million to the WDs repayable over 30 years inclusive of a
grace period of 4-1/2 years.



PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF THE PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Philippines has requested a loan of US$23.0
million equivalent to finance the foreign exchange costs of a project con-
sisting of the following four parts - (A) rehabilitation, construction and
improvement of water supply systems of the 6 Water Districts (WDs) formed by
the cities of Baguio, Cabanatuan, Lipa, Lucena-Pagbilao-Tayabas, San Fernando
(La Union) and Tarlac, all on the island of Luzon (Map IBRD 12542), (B) feasi-
bility studies for water supply projects in another 10 WDs, (C) feasibility
studies and design for a first stage sewerage and sanitation improvment program
in Metropolitan Manila and (D) training of staff in designing and constructing
water supply systems in small communities. The total financing required for
the project is estimated to be US$44.6 million including US$6.3 million for
interest during the construction period of the water supply systems in the 6
WDs. The proposed Bank loan will finance about 52% of the total costs which
represents the estimated foreign exchange expenditures plus US$3.3 million for
interest during construction on the Bank loan for part A.
1.02      The Government will relend US$18.8 million of the proceeds of the
Bank loan to the Local Water Utilities Administration (LWUA) to cover foreign
exchange expenditures of parts A and B and US$4.0 million to the Metropolitan
Waterworks and Sewerage System (MWSS) to meet the foreign costs of the con-
sultants services for part C and $0.2 million to the Department of Public
Works Transportation on Communication (DPWTC) for part D. LWUA will, in turn,
relend US$18.0 million to the Water Districts (WDs) who will be the ultimate
beneficiaries of the major part of the loan.
1.03      The water supply project in the 6 WDs is a part of the Government's
long-term plan for development of water supplies in the population centers of
the country and constitutes the first stage of development in these WDs under
the master plans extending to the year 2000. Projects for improvement of
water supplies in 12 other WDs have been financed by the United States Agency
for International Development (USAID), Asian Development Bank (ADB) and Danish
International Development Agency (DANIDA) (paras 2.06 and 2.07).
1.04      LWUA will be the agency of the Government responsible for implement-
ing parts A and B, MWSS will be responsible for part C and DPWTC for part D.
After completion, the water supply systems constructed under part A will be
owned, operated and maintained by the respective WDs.
1.05      The proposed project would be the Bank's second operation in the
Philippines in the water supply sector. The first loan (Loan 386-PH of
US$20.2 million) was made in 1964 to the National Waterworks and Sewerage
Authority (NWSA) for expansion, extension and improvement of the water supply
system in Manila and improvement of NWSA's operations and management. NWSA's



- 2 -
performance was, however, disappointing. Project execution was impeded by
legal complications in contract awards and continually deteriorating financial
operations of NWSA caused by inadequate tariffs, low collections, staff indis-
cipline and poor management. A sum of US$19.6 million was disbursed against
the loan and the balance of US$0.6 million was cancelled in 1970. Most of the
project components were completed in 1972 (as against the original completion
schedule of 1966) though some works continued until 1975. In 1971, NWSA was
dissolved and MWSS was created under a new charter which took over the obli-
gations of the Bank loan.  Since the creation of MWSS, there has been improve-
ment in the management of water supply operations of Metropolitan Manila.
Water tariffs were increased in 1974 and all past Government loans to MWSS
were converted into equity together with a restructuring of its authorized
capital, which helped MWSS to earn a surplus in FY1975.
1.06      The project for 5 WDs was prepared by Camp Dresser and McKee Inter-
national Inc., (CDM) and for the sixth WD (Baguio) by James M. Montgomery
(JMM)/Adrian Wilson, all consulting engineers of USA.
1.07      Appraisal of the project was carried out by a mission composed of
Messrs. Kapur and Saravanapavan and Ms Julius in September 1976. The first
two had also visited the Philippines in November 1975 for identification of
the project.
II. THE SECTOR
A.   Background
2.01      The Philippines is a country of some 7,100 islands, many of which
are uninhabited. Eleven large islands account for about 95% (300,000 km )
of land area of which some 70% is in the two main islands of Luzon and Min-
danao. The country is endowed with abundant water resources. It has 8 major
river basins, many lakes and streams and extensive groundwater resources. The
average annual rainfall is about 3048 mm, with large variations caused by
monsoon winds and mountains, ranging from 5486 mm in Baras on the island of
Catanduanes to 889 mm in the Cagayan Valley on Luzon. The country's popula-
tion has been growing at an annual rate of approximately 3% over the past
decade and in 1975 was about 42.5 million; 12.3 million (29%) in urban areas
and 30.2 million (71%) in rural communities. The growth rate of the urban
residents is much higher at about 4% compared to about 2.6% for the rural
dwellers. Metropolitan Manila, the nation's capital, with 5.6 million in-
habitants occupies a dominant position in the country and provides a means
of livelihood to some 46% of the total urban population.
2.02      The Philippines economy is based primarily on agriculture, which
employs about half the labor force. During the 1960's the country's economy
grew at a rate of about 5% per annum. As a result of improved monetary and
fiscal policies and a series of social and economic reforms in the early 1970's
the GNP grew by 10% in 1973 but after 1973, sharply rising prices for imported
food, the oil price increase and the resulting prolonged recession in the



industrialized countries adversely affected the growth rate. Consequently,
for the period 1970 to 1975 the GNP growth was around 6%. Prospects for growth
at an annual rate of about 7% over the next 5 to 10 years are reasonably good.
B.   Sector Organization
2.03      The Government of the Philippines has taken some positive steps to
organize the sector and upgrade its efficiency. NWSA, which was plagued by
financial and labor problems, was dissolved in 1971 (para 1.05) and MWSS was
created under a new charter to take over some of its rights and obligations.
Only about 1,900 of the defunct NWSA's 2,700 employees were appointed in MWSS.
Another step in this direction was the creation in 1973 of LWUA to develop
and finance local water utilities in the population centers of the country.
The sector is now divided into the following three parts: (i) Metropolitan
Manila Area (MMA); (ii) large urban centers with populations exceeding 30,000;
and (iii) small urban communities and rural areas. MWSS is responsible for
Metropolitan Manila and for some 82 systems 1/ in the provincial cities.
LWUA helps the formation of WDs in the large urban centers and provides them
with technical and financial assistance. There are about 300 urban centers of
which, as of September 30, 1976, 37 had formed WDs and another 30 had expressed
interest in doing so. Responsibility for water supply in the urban centers
which have not yet formed WDs, as well as for the rural areas, rests with the
local authorities and it is this segment of the sector which needs particular
development (para 2.04). At the request of the local authorities the Bureau
of Public Works (BPW), through its Provincial Waterworks and Wells and Springs
Sections, makes grants, gives technical assistance and constructs piped water
systems or drills wells and develops springs according to local needs. The
Community Development Division of the Department of Local Government and
Community Development (DLGCD) also, in some cases, provides funds to the
smaller communities for constructing wells and springs on a self-help basis,
with the communities providing labor and local materials. There are approxi-
mately 1,300 small piped water systems in the country. The number of rural
communities with non-piped supplies is not known. The other agencies involved
in the sector are: (i) Environmental Sanitation Division of the Department of
Health (DOH), which exercises surveillance of water quality, approves sites for
water resources development and is responsible for rural exereta disposal; (ii)
National Water Resources Council which coordinates all water resource planning;
and, (iii) National Pollution Control Commission which is responsibile for
controlling the discharge of wastes into rivers, lakes and waterways.
2.04      The water supply and sewerage sector study, carried out in late 1976
by staff of the WHO/IBRD Cooperative Program, identified serious deficiencies
in the provision of these basic services to those communities which are out-
side MMA and are too small to form Water Districts eligible for LWUA support.
Poor data, unclear responsibilities, lack of technical expertise in identify-
ing and evaluating alternative affordable solutions, inappropriate construction
1/   This anomaly whereby MWSS continues to be responsible for a large
number of provincial water supply systems persists from the time
of dissolution of NWSA.



- 4 -
techniques, poor operation and maintenance practices and serious budget con-
straints all contribute to this unsatisfactory situation. The sector study
report has identified, as a first priority, the need for training technical
and managerial personnel to be drawn from DOH, BPW, LWUA, MWSS, DLGCD and
other agencies active in the sector. Training would be organized by DPWTC.
A sum of US$200,000 is included in the proposed loan (para 3.07) to cover the
foreign exchange costs of equipment and expatriate experts for conducting the
training courses.
C.   Sector Development and Financing
2.05      The present water supply facilities are inadequate throughout the
Philippines. More than half the population does not have access to safe
water supply. It is estimated that about 18.4 million people (43% of the
country's population) are served by public water supply systems, of which
4.6 million are in Metropolitan Manila, 3.7 million in other urban centers
and 10.1 million in rural areas. In Metropolitan Manila, 82% of the popu-
lation has access to piped water but in other urban centers and in the rural
communities only about 55% and 33% respectively get a safe supply through
piped systems, artesian wells and springs. The remaining 24.1 million (or
57% of the population) manage with water, often of doubtful quality, from
other sources such as open wells, handpumps, rain water cisterns, lakes,
rivers and streams. In the piped water systems, the growing demand, the
advanced age of the systems and the concomitant high leakage rates all have
gradually reduced water main pressures. Many systems are operated to supply
water only for a few hours a day to avoid loss of water during the off-
peak hours. Sewerage and drainage facilities are also in great need of im-
provement. In 1975 not a single municipality in the country was completely
sewered. Many cities rely principally on pit latrines, individual septic
tanks and the direct discharge of untreated sewage into nearby watercourses.
2.06      To remedy the past neglect of this sector, the Government has em-
barked upon an ambitious water supply program. In Metropolitan Manila, the
first part of an expansion project, financed by an ADB loan of US$51.3 million,
which is now under construction is expected to increase water supply by about
one-third (0.45 million m3/day). The second part of the project to be taken
up after completion of the first part, will increase the system's capacity
by a similar quantity and is expected to meet Metropolitan Manila's water
requirements until about 1985. USAID has made loans aggregating US$25.0
million for feasibility studies, consulting services, construction of water
supply projects in 5 WDs, and immediate improvement works in 10 WDs. The
Government expects a further USAID loan of US$10.0 million in 1977 for addi-
tional feasibility studies and immediate improvement projects. ADB made a
loan of US$16.8 million for water supply projects in 5 WDs and DANIDA provided
US$2.3 million equivalent for improvement of water supply in two WDs. The
proposed Bank loan will finance water supply projects in 6 WDs and feasibil-
ity studies for a second package of 10 WDs, as well as the Manila sewerage
design studies.
2.07      The investment in water supply projects during the years 1973 through
1976 was about 445 million Pesos (US$59 million), or an average of about 111



million Pesos (US$15 million) per year.  The agencies involved in the sector
have proposed an investment of 4,471 million Pesos (US$596) million) or an
average of 894 million Pesos per year (US$119 million) during the five years
1977-81. This would involve an eight fold increase in the average annual
expenditures and is clearly beyond the capacity of these agencies to execute.
It is probable that the investments during the period would be about half the
proposed level.
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Background and Objectives
3.01      The primary objective of the project is to provide improved water
supplies by carrying out rehabilitation and construction works in six WDs and
assisting in the development of efficient public utility organizations for
these WDs. Population served with piped water supply will increase from
155,000 in 1977 to about 373,000 in 1985. The project also includes feasi-
bility studies for supply projects in 10 WDs and review and design studies for
a first stage sewerage project for the Manila Metropolitan Area.
B.   Description
3.02      A full description of the project is in Annexes 1, 2 and 3.  The
locations of the cities and the principal physical components are shown in
Maps IBRD 12542 through 12548. A brief description of the project follows:
Part A - Water Supply
Except for the rehabilitation works which are so described all
other items represent new construction in wells with pumps, storage tanks,
pipelines, pumping stations, buildings and the procurement of water meters,
chlorinators, hydrants and vehicles. The consultants' proposals for the six
WDs were reviewed and in consultation with LWUA the WDs and consultants, the
proposed investments for Baguio and La Union WDs were reduced by about 28%.
Baguio Water District
Rehabilitation of Buyog Spring and Santo Thomas Reservoir.
Well field to produce about 130 1/sec with pumping system.
About thirteen kilometers of transmisslon pipelines and
two 3,800 m3 capacity storage tanks with a booster pumping
station. About one hundred and ten kilometers of distribu-
tion pipelines and the rehabilitation of Kilometer 8 storage
tank.



- 6-
Cabanatuan Water District
Rehabilitation of two existing wells and the construction
of a new well field to produce 180 1/sec and one well to
produce about 12 1/sec. Two storage tanks each 1200 m3
capacity or additional wells to meet peak hour demand.
About fifty kilometers of distribution pipelines.
Lipa Water District
Rehabilitation of two existing wells, storage tank and
the construction of a well field to produce 100 I/sec.
About thirty kilometers of distribution pipelines.
Lucena-Pagbilao-Tayabas Water District
Expansion and improvements to May-it Spring intake works
and 8 km of transmission pipelines. Two storage tanks,
500 m3 and 700 m3 capacity, rehabilitation of Tongko stor-
age tanks and 8 km of pipelines. About fifty kilometers of
distribution pipelines.
San Fernando (La Union) Water District
Six induced infiltration wells in the Bauang and Baroro
river banks to produce 100 1/sec and about thirty five km of
transmission and distribution pipelines.
Tarlac Water District
Rehabilitation of two existing wells and the construction
of a new well field to produce 180 1/sec. Two storage tanks
each 2100 m3 and 600 m3 capacity. Twenty-four kilometers of
distribution pipeline.
General - In all Water Districts
Immediate improvement works to provide better service.
Leak detection surveys. Replacement of leaking service
connections, provision of new service connections, meters,
hydrants and chlorination equipment. Ten vehicles suitable
for operations and maintenance, office accommodations, meter
shops, laboratories and stores with required equipment. Test
wells as needed for field investigations.
Engineering
Consultant services for the technical and economic review of pre-
liminary engineering studies, updating demand projections, field investiga-
tions, revision of cost estimates, final design, prequalification of con-
tractors, preparation of bid documents, evaluation of bids and supervision of
construction.



- 7-
Part B - Feasibility Studies
Feasibility studies for water supplies to a second package of 10
WDs.
Part C - Manila Sewerage Studies
Technical review of the 1967-69 feasibility study, additional
economic and tariff studies, sanitation studies and detailed design.
Part D - Training
Training of staff of the DOH, BPW, LWUA, MWSS, DLGCD and other
agencies active in the sector in designing and constructing water supply
schemes for small communities.
C.   Cost Estimates
3.03      The estimated costs of the water supply project, the studies and
training are summarized below and are detailed in Annexes 2, 3 and 4.



-8-
Part A                                                                      Foreign
Exchange
Water Supply             Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total Component
Construction:            -----million Pesos----    ----million US$ -----  percentage
Water Districts
Baguio                   12.25   14.47   26.72    1.63    1.93   3.56
Cabanatuan               16.56   10.67   27.23    2.21    1.42   3.63
Lipa                      6.44    6.18   12.62    0.86    0.82   1.68
Lucena                   14.81   18.23   33.04    1.98    2.43   4.41
San Fernando             10.42    9.19   19.61    1.39    1.23   2.62
Tarlac                   11.66   10.66   22.32    1.55    1.42   2.97
Sub Total;             72.14   69.40  141.54    9.62    9.25  18.87          49
Engineering               8.49    8.56   17.05    1.13    1.14   2.27
Contingencies
Physical                 11.44   11.13   22.57    1.53    1.49   3.02
Price                    21.99   21.46   43.45    2.93    2.86   5.79
Land                      2.72      -       2.72    0.36        -    0.6
Total Part A          116.78  110.55  227.33   15.57   14.74  30.31          49
Part B
Water Supply
Feasibility Studies:      4.62    6.60   11.22    0.62    0.88   1.50          59
Part C
Manila Sewerage
Studies:               17.32   30.15   47.47    2.30    4.02   6.32          64
Part D
Training                   -       1.50    1.50       -       0.20   0.20    100
Total Project Cost
Parts A-D           138.72  148.80  287.52   18.49   19.84  38.33          52
Interest during con-
struction for Part A   22.73   24.45   47.18    3.03    3.26   6.'.9           52
Total Financing
Required            161.45  173.25  334.70   21.52   23.10  44.62          52
3.04      The costs for the works are consultants' estimates developed from
local and foreign price indices. These costs compare closely with recent
bids received for similar projects financed by ADB (see Annex 1, para 5).
The foreign exchange costs include both direct and indirect costs and are
also based upon consultants' estimates. The total foreign exchange cost of



- 9 -
49% for water supply construction compares closely with other civil engi-
neering construction in the Philippines. The cost estimates do not include
duties and taxes on imported goods since LWUA is exempted from such charges.
All prices are adjusted to a baseline of May 1977 and are reasonable.
3.05      Renardet Engineering - ICE (France) was retained by LWUA in Sep-
tember 1976 to provide consulting engineering services for the ADB financed
water supply project. LWUA has retained Renardet also for the detailed design
and supervision of construction of the water supply for the 6 WDs. The amount
of P 17 million provided for these services in the project cost estimates is
10% of the baseline cost including physical contingencies and is reasonable.
Consultants to be appointed by LWUA will be responsible for making the master
plans and feasibility studies for water supplies in 10 more WDs. Consultants
to be appointed by IWSS will update past studies, prepare cost estimates,
detailed designs and contract documents for a first stage sewerage project
estimated at about US$170 million equivalent. The amount of US$6.3 million
equivalent provided in the proposed loan for consultants' services will be
about 3.7% of the estimated construction cost and is reasonable. An expa-
triate senior technical advisor to the MWSS project manager will ensure the
correct execution of the studies which also includes the development of an
immediate sanitation program for priority areas that will not have water
borne sewerage in the near future. All consulting agreements will provide
for training of Filipino staff. The average man-month rate, excluding travel,
housing and local costs for expatriate consultants is estimated to vary be-
tween US$6,000 and US$7,000 equivalent, depending on the length and nature
of the work. These costs are reasonable.
3.06      In view of the urgency to commence the project Renardet started work
on January 3, 1977. It is therefore proposed that the Bank reimburse expendi-
tures for those services incurred after that date. The total retroactive
financing is estimated to be about US$200,000 equivalent. The Government,
LWUA and MWSS will employ engineering consultants, whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment are satisfactory to the
Bank, for the Water Supply Feasibility and Manila Sewerage Design Studies.
3.07      An amount of US$200,000 equivalent is provided for equipment and an
expatriate engineer/consultant for training staff in designing and construc-
ting water supply projects in small communities. No local costs are provided
for this training in the project because the staff costs of the trainees will
be met from the normal budgetary allocations of the agencies concerned. The
Government will appoint an engineer/consultant to carry out the training
program on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
D.   Contingencies
3.08      The cost estimates are based on quantities derived from prelimin-
ary designs prepared by the consultants who made the feasibility studies.
Most of the works in the project are below ground and in the case of Baguio
WD the terrain is hilly and some excavation in rock may be needed. Several



- 10 -
high capacity water wells at depths greater than drilled in the past are pro-
posed and one out of the four test wells drilled recently was dry. Some dry
holes and quantity variations in pipeline construction are therefore antici-
pated and a physical contingency of 20% has been allowed for Baguio and 15%
for the other five cities in the project. These provisions are reasonable
for projects of this type. The total amount provided is P 22.6 million equal
to about 16% of the baseline cost.
3.09      On the basis of discussions with the National Economic Development
Authority the consultants have made provision for price increases, on both
civil works and equipment, these being almost equal in costs, of 10% in 1978
and 1979 and 8% per year thereafter to reflect declining inflationary trends.
The total amount provided is P 43 million, about equally divided between local
and foreign costs and equal to about 26% of the baseline cost plus the physical
contingency. This provision is in general conformity with other forecasts for
civil engineering construction, and is reasonable.
E.   Amount of Loan
3.10      The proposed Bank loan of US$23.0 million equivalent will finance
the estimated foreign exchange costs of the project which represent about 52%
of the total project costs, plus US$3.3 million for interest during construc-
tion on Part A. Financing of interest during the construction period is jus-
tified on the grounds of cash flow of the WDs, which have been formed only
recently and can hardly meet their cash operating expenses. The present
tariffs are very low and will be raised gradually, keeping in step with
improvements in service (para 6.13 and 6.14). However, until the project is
fully operational about December 1981 and substantial improvements in service
are provided to the consumers (para 3.18), the WDs will not be able to generate
sufficient cash to meet the interest on the project investment.
F.   Project Financing
3.11      Of the total financing of about US$44.6 million equivalent required
for the project, US$23.0 million equivalent (52%) will be met from the Bank
loan. The balance of about US$21.6 million equivalent (48%) will be provided
as follows: (i) by LWUA, US$15.5 million equivalent (35%) - US$14.8 million
for Part A and US$0.7 million for Part B; (ii) by WDs from their internal
cash generation, US$3.8 million equivalent (8%) for Part A; and, (iii) by
MWSS from its internal resources, US$2.3 million equivalent (5%) for Part C.
The financing plan for Part A, the water supply construction project, is in
para 6.05.
G.   Procurement
3.12      All procurement and civil works contracts will be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank Group
Guidelines dated August 1975. A preference limited to 15% of the c.i.f. price
of imported goods or the prevailing custom duty, whichever is lower, would
be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. LWUA's local
procurement procedures are appropriate for contracts covering pipe cleaning



- 11 -
and lining, operational buildings and related equipment estimated to cost
about US$1.2 million equivalent, because the advantages of international com-
petitive bidding would be clearly outweighed by the administrative costs
involved. The local procurement procedures are different from international
competitive bidding in that advertisement will be confined to local publi-
cations. There is adequate competition and foreign firms can participate.
Off the shelf items, each costing less than US$10,000 equivalent, urgently
needed for the rehabilitation works, would also be purchased under LWUA's
local procurement procedures. The total cost of such items would not exceed
US$200,000 equivalent.
H.   Disbursements
3.13      Disbursements for civil works would be made at the rate of 15% of
local expenditures or 100% of foreign exchange costs. For equipment and sup-
plies, disbursements would be at the rate of 100% of the foreign exchange cost
of imported equipment, 100% of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured
equipment and 65% of imported goods procured locally. For costs of consul-
tants and training, disbursements would be 100% of the foreign exchange costs.
Interest during construction would be disbursed up to November 30, 1981 to a
maximum of S$3.3 million. The quarterly disbursement forecast is shown in
Annex 5.
3.14      It is proposed that any unspent balance of the loan be used in
making further extensions to the distribution networks in the project WDs.
I.   Design, Construction and Supervision of Construction of Water
Supply Project
3.15      LWUA will be responsible for carrying out the project.  Renardet
will assist in the updating of the preliminary engineering studies, making
leakage surveys, preparation of detailed designs and bid documents, evalua-
tion of bids, supervision of construction and training of staff.
3.16      Authority to make contractual decisions, to sign contracts on be-
half of the WDs, and to make all decisions relating to the proposed works will
be delegated to LWUA by the respective WDs. LWUA has a division within its
organization in the Technical Services Department to provide the overall
supervision and administration for the implementation of on-going projects
in WDs. This division is headed by a Project Manager who is a qualified and
experienced senior water supply engineer. The Project Manager has project
officers, who are qualified water supply engineers, for carrying out the on
going projects. One project officer is normally assigned to one or two WDs
depending on the degree of attention needed. Project offices are set up in
each WD to supervise construction at the local level. These local offices
are staffed by the consultants' supervisory personnel and WD operational staff
who will be trained by the consultants. The responsible LWUA project officer
routinely visits the local project office, inspects the works and reports
progress and problems to the Project Manager.



- 12 -
3.17      The Project Manager is responsible for providing the supervision
and administration of the project. This includes approval of the technical
proposals and documents submitted by the consultants and all matters related
to procurement. He will advise the WDs on technical matters and will be res-
ponsible for liaison with other Government agencies concerned to ensure the
timely acquisition of land for the project. The Project Manager is also res-
ponsible for the day-to-day liaison with the consultants and WDs, and for
monitoring the progress of project implementation. He will have to take par-
ticular care in the award of contracts to avoid the legal complications expe-
rienced in the first loan to the sector (see para 1.06). It is too early to
assess the efficiency of this new division which is currently responsib'le for
the ADB financed projects. Close supervision by the management consultants
will be needed to insure the successful completion of the project on schedule
(see para 4.10). Bank supervision missions would be scheduled to make semi-
annual visits from about July 1977 until the end of the construction of major
project components in 1980.
J.   Implementation Schedule
3.18      Construction is expected to begin about January 1, 1978, with com-
pletion of all works on December 31, 1981 (Annex 6). The closing date of the
loan will be three months later - March 31, 1982 - to allow for unforeseen
delays. Much of the major construction works in the laying of transmission
and distribution pipelines, wells and storage tanks are expected to be com-
pleted by the end of 1980. These facilities will undergo testing and will
be gradually brought into service in the following year when final completion
certificates will be issued. During 1980 and 1981 meters and service con-
nections will be provided and other minor works such as pipe cleaning and
lining completed. In most of the cities the new construction involves re-
placement of pipelines, wells and storage tanks which are long past their
useful lives (see para 3.01). The water supply service will, therefore, be
intermittent and unsatisfactory until the completion of all works in December
1981.
3.19      Land acquisition for the well and storage tank sites and operational
buildings should take place before construction starts. The extent of land
needed is relatively small, in the order of an eighth of a hectare or less for
the wells and a little more for the storage tanks and buildings. Most of the
lots that have been identified are vacant and resettlement of people is not
anticipated. LWUA will acquire land in accordance with a timetable consistent
with the construction program and as shown in the implementation schedule (see
Annex 6, part A).
K.   Environmental Impact
3.20      The proposed project would directly benefit the sanitation in the
6 WDs by making it unnecessary for a substantially greater proportion of
the population to use insanitary private shallow wells. In each WD there
is a provision for improving and extending water service to a larger number
of people thereby improving their personal hygiene and to a smaller degree
environmental sanitation. LWUA is aware that environmental sanitation will
have to be improved with the next stage of water supply development and



- 13 -
preliminary proposals for conventional sewerage systems have been made by
CDM. None of the cities can, however, at the present time provide the
necessary funds nor the trained personnel for the construction and mainte-
nance of conventional sewerage systems. Planning for the future will there-
fore include studies for affordable low cost drainage and sanitation
systems.
3.21      The more densely populated parts of the service areas of the proj-
ect WDs are conveniently situated for the drainage of their used water, which
includes kitchen and bathroom wastes and also septic tank and cesspool over-
flows, into nearby rivers. In Baguio WD the hazards to the health of down-
stream users of the river water has been recognized and a new sewage treatment
plant to treat sanitary sewage is under construction. The National Pollution
Control Commission is expected to set more stringent standards for such dis-
charges in the future, at which time the other project WDs will also have to
consider some degree of sewage treatment.
IV.  THE BORROWER, THE BENEFICIARIES AND THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
A.   The Borrower and the Beneficiaries
4.01      The Government of the Republic of the Philippines will be the bor-
rower and will relend under subsidiary loan agreements and on the same terms
and conditions as the Bank loan: (a) about 82% of the proceeds of the loan
(US$18.8 million) to LWUA to cover the foreign exchange expenditures plus
interest during construction on the Bank loan for the water supply projects
in the 6 WDs and the foreign exchange expenditures of the feasibility studies
for development of water supply in another 10 WDs, and (b) about 17% (US$4.0
million) to MWSS for the Manila Sewerage Study. The execution of the subsi-
diary loan agreements will be a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan.
The Government will allocate the remaining about 1% (US$200,000) to its DPWTC
for training of staff in designing and constructing water supply systems in
small communities. LWUA will, in turn, relend US$18.0 million to the WDs.
4.02      The main beneficiaries of the Bank loan will be the 6 Water Dis-
tricts in the cities of (i) Baguio, (ii) Cabanatuan, (iii) Lipa, (iv) Lucena-
Pagbilao-Tayabas, (v) San Fernando (La Union) and (vi) Tarlac, all on the
main island of Luzon. LWUA and MWSS will be the beneficiaries of the loans
for the feasibility and design studies and the DPWTC will be the beneficia-
ry of the training component in the loan.
B.   Implementing Agencies
4.03      LWUA will be the executing agency responsible for implementing the
water supply project. After completion, the project facilities will be owned,
operated and maintained by the WDs. The Feasibility Studies for the next
group of 10 WDs and for the Manila Sewerage Study will be tho responsibility
of LWUA and MWSS respectively.



- 14 -
C.   Local Uater Utilities Administration (LWUA)
4.04      LWUA was established in September 1973 with an authorized capital
of 500 million Pesos (US$66.7 million), in pursuance of the Provincial Water
Utilities Act of 1973 embodied in Presidential Decree No. 198, primarily
to function as a specialized institution for the promotion, development and
financing of local water utilities. Its main objectives are: (i) to assist
in the formation and development of technically sound and financially viable
locally controlled WDs, (ii) to provide loans to WDs for the improvement
and expansion of water supply and waste water disposal systems, (iii) to
provide technical assistance and personnel training for WDs and (iv) to es-
tablish and enforce standards of water quality and service. It is attached
to DPWTC and enjoys more or less complete autonomy, subject to the general
policy directives of Government. The only control exercised by DPWTC is
that the award of all contracts must have its prior approval. This is not
expected to cause any delays in the award of contracts under the project.
4.05      LWUA is governed by a Board of Trustees composed of a chairman and
four other members appointed by the President for a 5-year 1/ term each having
experience in certain prescribed fields of activity (e.g. finance, economics,
management, engineering). At least 3 of the Trustees must be employees of the
National Government. The Trustees appoint the General Manager, who is also
an ex-officio member of the Board, and is responsible for all aspects of LWUA's
management subject to the policies established by the Board. The Trustees also
appoint a secretary and a legal counsel. All other appointments are made by
the General Manager but supervisory level appointments require the Board's
confirmation. LWUA and WDs were initially exempt from civil service regula-
tions but with the promulgation of Presidential Decree No. 807 in October
1975, they have been brought under the jurisdiction of the Civil Service
Commission. No administrative difficulties are, however, being experienced
by LWUA (and WDs) as a result of this change.
4.06      LWUA has five main departments, namely (i) Technical Services
Department, (ii) Regulatory Department (iii) Loans and Programs Department,
(iv) Administrative Department and (v) Office of Financial Services, besides
the Offices of the Legal Counsel, Secretary 2/ and Auditor. Its organization
has been developed with the assistance of the management consultants and is
satisfactory (para 4.10). LWUA's organization chart is shown in Annex 9. Its
present staff of about 280 is adequate for its current operations, but will
need to be augmented as its operations expand with the formation of more WDs.
LJUA will consult the Bank before making any major changes in its organization.
4.07      LWUA's present General Manager is a competent civil engineer and
heads a good management team of experienced department chiefs. Ilowever, most
1/   The Act provides that of the first four trustees initially appointed,
one shall serve a term of 5 years, the second 4 years, the third
3 years and the fourth 2 years.
2/   At present the Offices of Legal Counsel and Secretary are combined.



- 15 -
of the younger engineers and other staff, though qualified and energetic, lack
experience. LWUA recognizes this deficiency and has been conducting various
training courses for such staff (para 4.12). The present management team,
assisted by consultants, is adequate and can be relied upon to execute the
Bank project in a satisfactory manner. Future appointments to the position
of General Manager of LWUA will be made only after giving the Bank a reason-
able opportunity to comment on the candidate's qualifications and experience.
D.   USAID Financed Consulting Services
4.08      For good reasons LWUA has been relying heavily on foreign consultants.
Its own staff is small and relatively inexperienced. Training of LWUA and WDs
personnel has been an important part of the consultants assignments, and will
continue to be so for some time. The consultants services have been financed
by USAID.
4.09      CDM has carried out feasibility studies for 10 Water Districts of
which projects in 5 WDs have been financed by ADB and 5 are included in the
package of 6 proposed for Bank financing. They have also completed a pre-
feasibility survey of about 100 cities from which LWUA will select some 30-
40 cities for immediate improvement and rehabilitation of their water supply
systems. These are referred to by LWUA as "Demonstration Projects". In June,
1976 CDM was commissioned to carry out feasibility studies for another 10
cities. In carrying out these studies, CDM has been using LWUA's young engi-
neers (cadets) for the field and desk studies and has thus been training them
to undertake such studies independently in due course.
4.10      JMM has also been providing engineering and management consulting
services to LWUA. It carried out feasibility studies for water supply proj-
ects in 6 districts of which 5 have been financed by USAID and one (Baguio)
is included in the proposed Bank project. JMM's current consulting con-
tract covering about 650 expatriate man-months over the period July 1974 to
January 1979 includes, inter alia: (i) institutional development of LWUA and
up to 30 water districts; (ii) training programs in engineering, water dis-
trict management and operation; (iii) comprehensive technical assistance for
design and construction of the 5 USAID funded projects and up to 60 interim
improvement projects; and, (iv) general technical advisory assistance. Sycip,
Gorres, Velayo and Company (SGV), a local management consulting firm working
as a sub-contractor to JMM, has prepared accounting procedure manuals for
LWUA and WDs.
4.11      These services are useful and in due course should enable LWUA to
operate independently and without any outside help.
E.   Training and Staff Development
4.12      Recognizing that training and development of staff in the newly
created organizations of LWUA and WDs are vital for their future successful
operations, LWUA with the assistance of its consultants, has been pursuing
a vigorous training program. Extensive training facilities have been pro-
vided ranging from seminars for policymakers (i.e. Directors of WDs) and



- 16 -
managers to courses for accountants, operators, and other staff. Overseas
training for several LWUA engineers and WD managers was arranged through
a grant from USAID. LWUA has also been operating a cadetship course under
which young engineers receive full time training and take examinations for
appointment to regular positions. 37 young engineers have thus been recruited
on completion of their training and passing the examination. Renardet will
provide practical training to LWUA and WDs staff (para 3.05). These training
and staff development arrangements are satisfactory.
F.   Water Districts
4.13      The Presidential Decree of 1973 authorized the formation of Water
Districts on a local option basis by a resolution of the municipality or
local authority.  Once a district is formed, the local authority ceases
to have jurisdiction over it and the district can be dissolved only by a
resolution of its Board of Directors under the procedure stipulated in the
Act. The Board comprising 5 members, representing various groups (civic,
professional associations, business, educational, women's organizations
etc.) is appointed by the mayor or governor from amongst the nominations
made by the respective groups, for a six-year 1/ term. To guard against
any political influence, the Act forbids appointment of any public official
to serve as a Director. Formulation of policy is the function of the Board
and its implementation is the responsibility of the General Manager, whom
the Board appoints. Financial viability of operations is a basic require-
ment and the Act makes specific provisions for setting of water rates (para
6.11). The Water Districts can borrow money for improvement of water supply
but if a district has borrowed funds from LWUA it cannot incur any further
indebtedness without LWUA's prior approval.
4.14      To qualify for financial assistance from LWUA, a Water District
must hold a "Certificate of Conformance" (CC) or a "Conditional Certificate
of Conformance" (CCC) issued by LWUA. A CC is granted by LWUA after a WD
meets certain minimum standards of utility management in quality of service.
However, since a complete conformance with LWUA's minimum standards may not
be possible in the formative years of a Water District, LWUA awards a CCC
upon being satisfied that the WD has adopted procedures and practices to as-
sure such conformance within a reasonable time. Annex 10 shows the status of
formation of the Water Districts and the issue of CCCs as of September 1976.
As of that date no WD had qualified for a CC.
G.   The Project Water Districts
4.15      The 6 WDs covered by the proposed Bank project were formed on
various dates in 1974 and 1975 and each has been issued a CCC by LWUA
during the period January - August, 1975 (serials 12 and 14 - 18 of Annex 10).
A typical organiation chart of a WD developed by LWUA on the recommendations
1/   The Act provides that of the five initial directors of a newly formed
district, 2 shall be appointed for a maximum of 2 years, 2 for a maximum
of 4 years and one for a maximum of 6 years.



- 17 -
of the management consultants is at Annex 11. This Chart shows that a WD
should have five main divisions - Administrative, Commercial, Engineering,
Production and Construction/Maintenance - each under the charge of a Division
Chief, besides the offices of Secretary, Legal Counsel and Auditor. The Baguio
WD which has about 7,000 connections and employs about 120 persons, has adopted
this organization but the others which are relatively small and employ between
20 and 55 persons are presently combining the technical functions (engineering,
production, construction and maintenance) in one or two divisions. The project
WDs and their organizations are briefly explained in Annex 12.
H.   Billing and Collections
4.16      Billing in all the 6 WDs is on a monthly basis.  Except in Lucena-
Pagbilao-Tayabas WD, billing work is up-to-date and customers accounts are
maintained on a current basis. Consumers are required to pay the bills in
the district offices, by prescribed dates, and delinquents have to pay a
penalty for delayed payment. Non-payment, after due notice, entails discon-
nection and payment of a fee for reconnection. Collection efficiency is
satisfactory and accounts receivable are small.
I.   Metering
4.17      Universal metering of all service connections is the declared
policy of LWUA. In Baguio all consumers are metered but in the other 5
WDs most of the connections are without meters. In mid-1976 LWUA procured
some 3,300 water meters and allocated 1,000 to Lipa WD, 800 to Cabanatuan,
and 500 each to Lucena, San Fernando (La Union) and Tarlac WDs. These are
gradually being installed and after they are installed about half the con-
sumers in these 5 WDs would be metered.
4.18      The experience with the installed meters indicates that metering
will eliminate considerable wastage, improve pressures in the system and
increase revenues. An exercise was carried out to analyze the economic
costs and benefits of metering in the 6 WDs. This is shown in Annex 13.
The analysis indicates that the metering costs are considerably lower than
the estimated benefits. For these WDs therefore, the policy of metering
is fully justified and should be supported.
J.   Accounts and Audit
4.19      The management consultants prepared in 1975 a comprehensive "Com-
mercial Practices Manual" based on commercial accounting principles for
adoption by all the WDs (para 4.10), and trained qualified LWUA staff in
the concepts of the manual. The trained LWUA staff have the responsibility
for training WDs' staff and assisting them in implementing the procedures.
LWUA has helped install the commercial accounting systems in some of the
districts formed earlier and is currently training staff for introducing
them in the 6 WDs. Good progress has been made in the Baguio and Cabanatuan
WDs; the other 4 WDs are in various stages of learning and implementing the
manual.



- 18 -
4.20      The consultants also prepared in September 197o an accounting manual
for LWUA's headquarters, which is currently being tried. By January 1, 1978
LWUA and WDs will fully adopt the commercial accounting system proposed by the
consultants.
4.21      Section 20 of Presidential Decree No. 198 provides that the WDs'
accounts shall be audited by a certified public accountant not in government
service. However, since the 6 WDs in the proposed Bank project have been
in existence for very short periods and have not been maintaining accounts
on a regular basis, their accounts have not been audited yet. An initial
balance sheet of each of the 6 WDs as of December 31, 1976, duLy certified by
an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, will be submitted to the Bank
by September 30, 1977, and commencing with FY 77, the audited accounts of
these WDs and the auditors' report will be sent to reach the Bank not later
than 6 months after the close of each fiscal year.
4.22      LWUA's accounts are required to be audited by the Government auditors.
For this purpose, a team from the Audit Commission is permanently stationed in
LWUA, but no audit reports have been produced as yet. Thus, whether or not the
Government audit would be satisfactory cannot be determined at this stage. In
principle the audit of LWUA's accounts by the Government's Auditors is accept-
able. However, if in the opinion of the Bank this audit is not adequate, the
Bank will require that LWUA's accounts be audited by an independent auditor
acceptable to the Bank. Beginning with the year ending December 31, 1976 a
copy of LWUA's audited accounts and the auditors' report will be sent to the
Bank not later than 6 months after the close of each fiscal year.
V. JUSTIFICATION
A.   General
5.01      The six project WDs comprise a fourth package of water supply pro-
jects in LWUA's ambitious long range development plan to provide water
supplies to some 300 provincial cities where circumstances are appropriate
to the creation of water districts. Most of these cities have old water sys-
tems, often past their useful lives and consequently suffer from high leakage,
unreliable service, inadequate disinfection and poor maintenance. The deli-
vered water is at best of poor quality and bacteriologically unsafe. The
existing water supply systems and water sources for the project WDs are des-
cribed in Annex 7.
5.02      The project will help reduce these problems in the 6 project WDs
by improving institutional efficiency, extending water supply services to the
extent feasible in a first phase, and training staff to design, operate and
maintain water systems. The long range objective is to put the water supply
program on a self supporting basis using the projects assisted by the proposed
loan as a vehicle. The funds included in the loan for the feasibility studies
will provide the means for bringing ten more cities into the program.



- 19 -
B.   Population and Demand Projections
5.03      In Annex 8 are discussed the population and water demand projec-
tions for each of the six WDs up to 1985. In the previous decade the country
as a whole had a high annual population growth rate of about 3% because of high
fertility and low mortality. The cities in the project WDs, however, had
growth rates ranging from 2.5% to 4.1%. In the tourist cities of Baguio and
San Fernando (La Union) there is no reliable data on the seasonal population
and several assumptions were made in the preliminary studies which will
require updating before detailed design.
5.04      Because of the project, the total service area of the 6 WDs is
expected to increase from about 3,646 ha to 9,670 ha and served population
from 31% to 59% by 1985 as summarized below:
Water       Present            Number   Popula-    Project  Pop-  Number    Popula-
Dis-        Service  Popula-  of Con-   tion         Service  ula-  of Con-   tion
trict       Area      tion   nections  Served  %   Area    tion  nections  Served  %
ha      '000                '000         ha    '000                '000
-- --1977                                              1985
Baguio       1900    105.1    7,150       58.6  56   2,200   145.0  14,140  106.0  73
Cabanatuan   388      81.2    3,000       21.4  26   1,250   105.6  10,200   70.0  66
Lipa          510      55.3      850       9.1  16   1,295    69.8   4,500   31.0  44
Lucena        360      94.2    5,800      51.8  55      945   115.4  11,600   72.1  62
San Fer-
nando (LU)  215      67.4    1,000        8.2  12   2,140    88.4   4,500   31.5  36
Tarlac        273     91.2       850       5.7   6   1,840   110.7   9,600   62.3  56
TOTAL     3646    494.4   182650    154.8  31   9,670   634.9  54,540  372.9  59
5.05      The present per capita water consumption is not known as consumers
were not fully metered at the time the consultants made their studies.  How-
ever, by late 1977 all of the systems are expected to be sufficiently metered
to have reliable records upon which to base water consumption forecasts. For
the purposes of the feasibility studies a small sample of metered domestic
consumption was taken in some of the WDs and the best possible interpretation
made of the limited information. On this basis it is estimated that present
daily per capita domestic consumption ranges from 60 to 120 1/cd. Because
commercial, institutional and industrial consumers are seldom metered con-
sumption under these categories is estimated on the basis of a few field ob-
servations. Water production is also not metered and in the case of the deep
well supplies, which are mostly connected directly to the system, the frequent
variation in system pressures resulting from poor operations causes changes in
quantities pumped. Estimates of unaccounted for water, taken to vary from 50-
66% in all of the cities are therefore not very accurate as water production
estimates are based either upon rated pump capacities or brief pumping tests
and short term gaugings of spring sources. With the project, all consumption
and production will be metered, meter reading and record keeping practices



- 20 -
improved, and positive pressures maintained at all times. Leakage surveys
will identify pipelines to be replaced and chlorination will make the water
safe for consumption. Without the project, the past practice in some of the
WDs of abandoning sections of the existing distribution network, because of
consumers requesting disconnections on grounds of poor service would likely
be resumed. Gastroenteritis and other water related diseases would continue
to debilitate the working population, affect the growing children and retard
economic growth. Mortality and morbidity rates due to these diseases would
increase and if the dangerous situation is not rectified, there may be epi-
demics of cholera, typhoid or infectious hepatitis.
5.06      In general the people residing in the provincial cities, have a
lower standard of living than those in Metropolitan Manila. ALso, though there
exist scattered low income groups in each water district, there are no clearly
defined slums such as the Tondo in the Manila foreshore. It is also known
that there is a greater friendliness in the provinces as several people with-
out access to piped water obtain their cooking and drinking water from friendly
neighbors and use dugwell water for washing and cleaning only. However, des-
pite this general fear of health hazards from drinking polluted water, there
appears to be no special demand for public faucets and these are seldom pro-
vided. In the rural sections of Lucena WD there exist some public faucets,
but in Lipa WD a number of public faucets also in the rural sections, were
recently converted to metered domestic connections without any objections
from the local public. The project provides for public faucets in a new
suburb of Cabanatuan being developed by the municipality to house some of the
lower income groups and squatters on government land. The Cabanatuan WD will
provide metered public faucets in this area, the consumption to be paid for by
Cabanatuan Municipality. The project will help raise the standard of living
in the 6 WDs and thereby help reduce the flow of low income groups to major
metropolitan centers like Manila.
C.   Least Cost Solution
5.07      In each city alternative water sources were studied.  The major
project elements represent the least cost for meeting project objectives
at a discount rate of 12%. Some detailed design alternatives which will
require study will also be compared in a similar manner.
D.   Economic Evaluation
5.08      As detailed in Annex 14, the incremental economic rates of return
(IER) for the 6 WDs are calculated using water revenues as a minimal measure
of project benefits. Currently, water rates in all WDs (except Baguio)
are very low and IER based on the estimated 1977 tariff levels ranges from a
negative of about 3% in Lucena-Pagbilao-Tayabas WD to a positive of 11% in
Baguio VD with an average of about 4%. These relatively low rates reflect the
fact that tariff levels in the districts are well below marginal production
costs. However, these districts began with such an inadequate tariff base
that the recent increases (para 6.13), which average about 60% over previous
rates, are as large as can be realistically absorbed until a definite improve-
ment in service is perceived by the consumers. Further increases averaging



- 21 -
about 60% are planned in 1979-80 and again in 1982. Assuming that the con-
sumers will be willing to pay these rate increases (para 6.14), the rates of
return based on 1982 tariffs (adjusted for inflation) will range from about 3%
in one WD to about 7 to 11% in the other 5 WDs with an average, for the 6 WDs,
of about 8%. It is expected that the new rate structure will incorporate an
element of cross-subsidy so that the larger water users can be charged the full
marginal cost for their consumption even though the average rate will still be
somewhat below the marginal cost.
5.09      In part these relatively low rates of return also reflect the
under-estimation of benefits which result from using revenues as a surrogate.
The consumer surplus, or additional value of the total water consumed above
tle amount paid for that water, is ignored by this method.  In addition, the
external benefits that accrue to WD residents when the community water sup-
ply is significantly improved are not fully captured by the water revenues.
While it is impossible to quantify these health and environmental benefits,
their exclusion also biases the IER downwards.
E.   Project Risks
5.10      There is adequate provision in the project for engineering con-
sultants to advise LWUA and the WDs in design and construction. The USAID-
financed JMM management team will provide adequate assistance in operations
and training. However, LWUA is a new organization which in its recent for-
mative years is very heavily dependent on expatriate support. The growth
of LWUA into a reasonably efficient institution, capable of discharging its
responsibilities to the WDs, is contingent upon the development of internal
staff capabilities to coincide with the gradual withdrawal of expatriate sup-
port. A measure of this efficiency may be possible at the time of project
completion. Further, the Directors on the Water District Boards though show-
ing great enthusiasm in their new roles are comparatively new to public utility
management. How these Boards will react to public pressures to hold down water
rate increases which will be required to meet the debt service obligations
cannot be predicted at this time.
F.   Manila Sewerage Design Study
5.11      The sewerage system of the City of Manila was constructed in
1909. Although extensions were made on several occasions, the construction
of major improvements has been neglected. The 1977 population of the study
area is estimated to be nearly five and a half million, of which less than
10% are served by the existing system. it present, water supply to Metro-
politan Manila is 1.14 to 1.29 million m /day. The existing sewerage network
can handle a discharge of only about 15% of this daily water production, which
is expected to increase by a further 0.45 million m-/day by 1979.
5.12      Due to the uncontrolled discharge of raw sewage into rivers and
Mlanila Bay, the shoreline is heavily polluted and presents a serious aesthetic
problem. This creates a direct hazard to health, causes the contamination of
seafood and in some areas inhibits fish life. Typhoid, cholera and gastroen-
teritis are endemic in Manila. In 1972 morbidity and mortality from these
diseases were about 1,800 and 80 respectively per 100,000 population.



- 22 -
5.13      A study entitled "Master Plan for a Sewerage System for the Manila
Metropolitan Area" was carried out in 1967/69 by MWSS with assistance from
WHO and UNDP. Since the time of the study, sanitation in Metro Manila has
become worse, and in 1976 UNDP and WHO approved a Project Document to update
the 1967/69 study. Work was, however, not started because of UNDP's financial
constraints. MWSS will retain the services of a qualified consulting firm or
association of consulting firms acceptable to the Bank to update the study,
prepare detailed designs for a first stage sewerage project and propose a
low-cost sanitation program (para 3.05). The terms of reference for the study
are summarized in Annex 3.
VI.   FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A.   General
6.01      The 6 WDs in which the proposed Bank loan will finance water supply
projects were set up on various dates in the latter part of 1974 or in 1975
(Annex 10). Prior to formation of the WDs, the water supply operations were
the responsibility of the respective municipalities or city administrations,
which did not maintain separate accounts for these operations. The prepara-
tion of the financial projections has therefore been seriously constrained by
the lack of basic data and the information presented is necessarily based, to
a considerable extent, on assumptions which will be tested as the project
develops.
B.   Past and Present Financial Performance
6.02      A summary of the estimated operating results of the Water Districts
for 1975 or part of that year is tabulated below:
Cash     Cash
Period Covered                       Operating  Surplus
Water District                 in 1975                     Revenue Expenses  (Deficit)
Pesos '000
Baguio                6 months - July-Dec                  1,297   1,507       (210)
Cabanatuan        8-1/2 months - March 16-Dec                305      271        34
Lipa                 12 months - January-Dec                  82       90        (8)
Lucena-Pagbilao-
Tayabas             6 months - July-Dec                    284      273       11
San Fernando
(La Union)                                                 NA        NA        --
Tarlac                9 months - March-Dec                   112      140       (28)
6.03      Baguio, Lipa and Tarlac WDs incurred small cash operating deficits
(i.e. without provision for depreciation) in 1975 which were met from their
working capital. The estimates of operating revenues and expenditures for
1976 (Annex 15-a through 20-a) show that Lipa and Tarlac WDs will incur minor



- 23 -
cash deficits which will be covered by grants from the municipalities. The
other four WDs are expected to meet their cash operating expenses from their
revenues. Taking into account the provision for depreciation, all the six WDs
are estimated to incur operating deficits in 1976. The two major contributing
factors are (a) very low water rates and (b) high level of unaccounted for
water. The present level of unaccounted for water ranges between 50% (in
Tarlac) and 66% (in Lipa). Metering of consumption (para 4.17), replacement
of leaking pipes and leak detection measures proposed to be taken as a part of
the project are estimated to gradually reduce the unaccounted for water to
about 25% (30% in Lucena) by 1985.
C.    Assets Taken Over by the Water Districts
6.04      On their formation the WDs inherited the water works from the previous
muncipalities/city administrations. The values of the assets thus taken over,
their expired lives and the accumulated depreciation, have not been established
nor do the districts have any detailed records of the physical quantities and
locations of these assets. In the financial projections, these values have
been assumed on the basis of the rough estimates provided by the consultants
or the WDs. LWUA will cause each of the six WDs to establish by December 31,
1977, realistic values of their assets and maintain complete records of the
physical quantities and their locations.
D.   Financing Plan
6.05      Projections of annual flow of funds for 1976 through 1985 for each
of the 6 WDs are shown in Annexes 15 (b) to 20 (b). The financing plan for
each WD for the project construction period 1977-81 is in Annex 21. A summary
is given below:



- 24 -
WDs' Financing Plan 1977-81
Million Pesos      Million      Percentage
US$
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Project expenditures                       227.33           30.31           83
Interest during construction                47.18            6.29           17
Total Application of Funds            274.51          36.60          100
SOURCES OF FUNDS
IBRD Loan relent by LWUA to WDs            135.00          18.00           49
LWUA Loan                                  110.68           14.76          41
Sub-total                             245.68          32.76          90
Self-generated funds /a                     35.30            4.70          12
Less:  debt service                          (3.23)         (0.43)         (1)
Less:  increase in working capital           (6.48)         (0.86)         (2)
Customer contributions                       3.24            0.43           1
Sub-total                              28.83           3.84          10
Total Sources of Funds                274.51          36.60         100
/a   Assuming tariffs will be increased as projected (para 6.14).
6.06      The Bank and LWUA loans will finance about 49% and 41% respectively
of the project cost including capitalized interest during the construction
period. The balance of about 10% will be contributed by the WDs from their
internal cash generation. The financing of "interest during construction" is
justified in view of the cash requirements of the WDs in the initial years of
their formation. The proposed financing plan is satisfactory. The Government
will provide any shortfalls in the WD's cash generation and any other funds
required for the satisfactory completion of the project.
6.07      The Bank loan to the Government will be for a period of 20 years
including a grace period of 4-1/2 years.  The Government will relend the
proceeds of the loan for the water supply project to LWUA on the same terms
as the Bank loan, and LWUA will, in turn, relend the amounts to WDs on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  LWUA will also make loans to WDs to
cover local costs of the project (including interest during construction) to
the extent such costs are not met from their self-generated funds. LWUA's
current lending terms for long-term loans are (a) interest rate of 3/4 of
1% per month and (b) maturity of 30 years with a grace period equal to the
project construction period. These terms are satisfactory in view of the fact
that the assets to be constructed will have a life of more than 30 years and
also because WDs will not be able to service the debt with shorter maturities.



- 25 -
E.   Financial Projections
6.08      Financial projections of income statements, flow of funds and balance
sheets for the years 1976-85 are in Annex 15(a), (b), and (c) through 20(a),
(b), and Cc) and the assumptions for these projections are in Annex 22. In-
creases in water production, coupled with substantial improvements in unaccounted
for water (para 6.03) and increases in tariffs (para 6.14) are expected to
raise substantially the operating revenues of the WDs. The projections show
that in 1982 (the first full year after project completion), the estimated
revenues in Baguio would be about 2.5 times, in Cabanatuan 7.5 times, in Lipa
10.8 times, in Lucena-Tayabas-Pagbilao 6.0 times, in San Fernando (La Union)
7.4 times and in Tarlac 10.2 times the estimated 1977 revenues. These increases
are necessary for meeting the debt service which will commence in that year.
The operating expenses will also rise partly because of increased operations
and partly due to escalation of prices. The projections show that by 1982,
the operating ratios of the WDs would come down from the existing (1976) level
of about 80-110% to about 20-25% except in Baguio where, due to higher power
and maintenance costs, the operating ratio would be about 52%.
6.09      The highlights of the projected operating results of each of the
6 WDs for 1982 are given below:



- 26 -
Lucena-       San
Pagbilao- Fernando
Baguio  Cabanatuan  Lipa  Tayabas   (La Union)  Tarlac
-------------------- Million Pesos--------------------
Revenue                   13.85       6.87    2.91      8.42        5.06       5.39
Operation and Main-
tenance (including
depreciation)           8.74       3.16    1.31       3.93        2.47       2.50
Operating surplus          5.11       3.71    1.60      4.49        2.59       2.89
Debt Service               4.99       4.88    2.25      5.90        3.55       3.95
Debt service to the
extent it exceeds
the provision for
depreciation            3.50       3.48    1.56       3.87        2.30       2.84
Cash surplus for
meeting capital
expenditures             1.61      0.23    0.04       0.62        0.29       0.05
Average rate Pim           2.80       2.30    2.60      2.30        3.30       2.20
Operating ratio             52%        26%     21%       23%         24%        26%
Rate of return             9.1%       7.2%    6.7%      6.8%        6.1%       6.9%
Debt:  Equity Ratio       82:18      88:12   88:12    83:17        78:22      87:13
Debt service as per-
centage of revenue %  36          71       77        70          70         73
Debt service coverage
(times)                 1.3        1.1      1.0       1.1         1.1        1.0
6.10      In all the 6 WDs, the 1982 projected rates of return on net fixed
assets in operation would be between 6 and 9%; debt service coverages between
1.0 and 1.3 times; and, debt/ equity ratios would range between 78:22 and 88:12.
As the WDs' revenues increase in the subsequent years on progressively greater
utilization of the facilities built tinder the project, their financial perform-
ance is expected to show further improvements. By 1985, the projected rates of
return of the WDs are expected to range between 8 and 11% and the debt service
coverages between 1.2 and 1.5 times. During the project period, the performance
of each WD will be monitored and the performance indicators will include those
set forth in Annex 23.
F.   Water Rates
6.11      The Presidential decree stipulates that WDs shall fix rates and
charges for water as will be adequate to cover operating expenses and debt



- 27 -
service and also provide a reasonable surplus for extension and improvement
of the system. The decree empowers the WDs to prescribe and revise the
rates from time to time and vests in LWUA the power to review the rates
to ensure compliance with the above provisions.
6.12      In pursuance of the above policy, LWUA has, with the assistance of
the management consultants, developed guidelines for determination of water
rates by the WDs. These guidelines propose a rate structure based on what is
called "the revenue unit (RU) concept", which is explained in detail in Annex
24. The essential features of this rate structure are (a) a minimum monthly
charge for the first 10 m3 of metered consumption, depending on the size of
the service connection and the types of consumers - residential, overnment,
commercial, industrial and wholesale and (b) a uniform rate per mi for consump-
tion after the first 10 m3 for each type of consumer. An element of cross-
subsidy is built into the system inasmuch as the commercial and industrial
consumers are charged at twice the rate of the residential consumers.
6.13      The water rates in all the WDs, excepting Baguio, were very low and
the WDs and LWUA were convinced that they needed to be raised substantially to
achieve financial viability. The following increases have since been made by
the WDs: (a) in Tarlac WD about 80% effective November 1, 1976; (b) in Lipa
WD about 66%, in Cabanatuan 25% and in San Fernando (La Union) WD 80%, all
effective January 1, 1977; and (c) in Lucena-Pagbilao-Tayabas WD about 60%
effective April 1, 1977. In Baguio WD the water rate for commercial and
industrial consumers has been increased by about 80% effective October 1,
1976. These increases are satisfactory. The old and the new rates are shown
in Annex 25.
6.14      Significant further increases in water rates will be required in
1979 and thereafter to achieve the objective of financial viability of the
WDs. By 1982 the average rate per m3 is projected to increase to between
2.20 Pesos and 3.30 Pesos as against the 1977 estimated revenue of between
0.50 Pesos and 1.70 Pesos in the 6 WDs. Annex 22 containing assumptions
for the financial projections shows the average rates assumed for the year
1976-85 in each WD. The increases in Lipa, Lucena-Pagbilao-Tayabas and
San Fernando (La Union) WDs will be much sharper than those in Baguio,
Cabanatuan and Tarlac WDs.
6.15      LWUA's guidelines for rate determination (Annex 24) have certain
inequities. The rate structure based on the guidelines results in a higher
average charge per m3 for the first 10 m3 of monthly consumption which hits
the lowest category of small residential consumers with 1/2" connections.
On the other hand, the uniform rate per m3, after the first 10 m3 fails to
discourage excessive use of water which could be possible through progres-
sively increasing block rates. Another drawback is that the objective of
rate making is to generate funds to meet the current financial costs and
not the much higher economic costs of future development of water sources.



- 28 -
Unless the real cost of supplying "additional" water is transmitted to the
consumer, by means of a tariff based on incremental future costs, the consumer
will continue to increase his consumption as though future water sources were
as inexpensive to develop as the past ones, which is not true for the 6 WDs.
A review of the guidelines is therefore necessary. LWUA will carry out this
review, in consultation with the Bank, and by June 1978 formulate revised
guidelines for observance by the Water Districts.
6.16      The WDs will make an annual review of their water tariffs, in
consultation with LWUA, and based upon LWUA's latest guidelines to determine
what changes if any, are needed in their water rate structures and the level
of charges. In the 5 years 1978 through 1982, the review will be completed
and sent to the Bank by October 1 in each year and the agreed changes in rates
will be implemented by January 1 of the following year. After 1982 the
intervals at which the annual reviews will be sent to the Bank will be agreed
with LUWA on the basis of the financial and operating conditions of each WD.
6.17      During the project construction period, the rates will be increased
gradually and be designed to generate sufficient cash surplus (after meeting
the operating costs and maintenance and debt service 1/) to make a contribu-
tion of at least 10% to the investment on the water supply project (para
6.06). This level of contribution is reasonable in the light of the present
financial positions of the WDs and the extent of construction financing avail-
able from LWUA, including the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan. A level
substantially higher would require tariffs to be increased unrealistically.
For convenience in ascertaining the extent of each year's construction ex-
ditures to be financed from internal resources, the contribution will be
measured during 1978, 1979 and 1980 by taking 9% of the year-end amount of
the project loans, except that in San Fernando (La Union) WD the contribution
for 1980 will be about 5%. In San Fernando (La Union) WD the project expendi-
tures in 1977-79 would be about 69% of the total project cost for that WD
while in the other 5 WDs, the corresponding percentages would be between
47 and 58. San Fernando (La Union) WD's outstanding loan at the end of 1979
will be proportionately greater and therefore a lower percentage for 1980 is
justified.
6.18      Beginning with 1982 the Water Districts will be faced with major
debt service payments which will greatly increase their cash requirements.
By that time, therefore, the WDs should set and maintain water rates which
will generate sufficient revenues to cover (a) operating costs including
maintenance and depreciation; (b) debt service to the extent it exceeds the
provision for depreciation and (c) expenditures on normal expansion and
improvement of the systems. To achieve this objective the WDs will earn a
rate of return on net fixed assets of at least 6% in 1982, 7% in 1983 and
8% thereafter.
6.19      The average household in the 6 WDs has about 8 family members and
consumes about 24 m (100 1/cd) of water in a month. The monthly water charge
at the estimated 1977 rates will be about 16 to 20 Pesos (US$2.1 to 2.7) in
1/   On the existing non-project loans which are small.



- 29 -
the 4 WDs of Cabanatuan, Lipa, Lucena-Pagbilao-Tayabas and San Fernando (La
Union) and about 30 Pesos (US$4.0) in Baguio and Tarlac.  An "abili"ty to pay"
survey 1/ of 556 families conducted in April-May 1975 in the city of Lipa and
the municipality of Tanuan determined the average monthly income per house-
hold at 680 Pesos (of which 28% had an average income of 220; 55% of 660,
12% of 1,000 and 5% of 2,700 Pesos). Assuming a modest 5% per annum growth
in household incomes and a 7% rate of inflation, the average monthly income in
1977 should be around 850 Pesos. The average monthly water charge will amount
to about 2.5% of average income in 4 WDs and about 4% in Baguio and Tarlac.
The projected increased rates for 1982 deflated to 1977 prices also show that
the average family would pay about 3 to 4% of monthly income towards water
charges, given a real growth of 7% per annum in incomes. Assuming that the
lowest income category family consumes about 10 m per month (42 1/cd), the
monthly water charge of about 10 to 12.5 Pesos will be about 4 to 5% of income
(except in Tarlac WD which has a minimum charge of 18.75 Pesos). The water
charges in the 6 Project WDs are comparable with the charges in other WDs in
the Phillipines and are within the consumers capacity to pay. To reduce the
burden on the lowest income category consumers, a major portion of the further
increases in rates (para 6.14) will be absorbed by the higher income categories
and by the commercial and industrial consumers.
G.   Financial Resources of LWUA
6.20      LWUA has an authorized capital of 500 million Pesos (US$66.67 mil-
lion) to be subscribed wholly by Government at a rate of not less than 50
million Pesos (US$6.67 million) each year. It can also borrow funds from
domestic and foreign sources provided that the outstanding amounts of such
loans shall not, at any time, exceed 1,000 million Pesos (US$133.33 million)
in respect of the domestic loans and US$500 million equivalent in respect of
the foreign loans. As of July 31, 1976 LWUA's subscribed capital amounted to
98.2 million Pesos (US$13.1 million). It had contracted no local loans and
its foreign loans 2/ aggregated US$44.4 million of which about US$9.7 million
was disbursed. A schedule of LWUA's foreign loans as of July 31, 1976 is at
Annex 26. Taking into account the proposed Bank loan (US$18.8 million for
parts A and B of the project) and a further US$10.0 million USAID loan expected
in 1977, LWUA's total borrowing will amount to US$73.2 million. LWUA expects
to arrange additional loans from the Bank, ADB and other sources to finance
water supply development projects in the new Water Districts. The speed of
such development will necessarily depend on completion of the feasibility
studies for the new projects and progress on the projects now under con-
struction and those proposed under the Bank loan.
6.21      On the basis of the available information, LWUA's projected financial
statements - income statements, funds flow statements and balance sheets for
the years 1976 through 1981 are shown in Annexes 27(a), (b) and (c). These
projections are based on the projects which have been identified or for which
1/   CDM's report "Feasibility Study of Lipa City WD June 1976" - pages
X-6 to X-12.
2/   The foreign loans are made to Government which relends the proceeds
thereof to LWUA.



- 30 -
loans have been or will soon be processed.  Projections have not been made
beyond 1981 for the reason that LWUA's sources of borrowing and amounts
thereof as well as the magnitude of its lending to WDs for future projects
have not been identified. The financing plan for 1977-81 (the construction
period for the proposed Bank project) is given below:
LWUA's Financing Plan 1977-81
Pesos        US$     Percentage
Million    Million
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Loans to WDs for:
IBRD   Project                         245.68       32.76         27
USAID  Project                         408.43       54.46         45
DANIDA Project                          20.84        2.78          2
ADB    Project                         205.40       27.38         22
Sub-total                        880.35      117.38          96
Capital Expenditures                          6.00        0.80           1
Feasibility Studies                          29.51        3.93          3
recoverable from WDs
Total                            915.86      122.11         100
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Operating Income (less debt service
and increase in cash balance)              56.55        7.54          6
Borrowings from:
IBRD                                   141.60       18.88         16
USAID                                  233.13       31.08         25
DANDIDA                                 14.79        1.97          2
ADB                                    122.14       16.29         13
Sub-total                        511.66       68.22          56
Government Equity                           312.00       41.60         34
Repayments by Wus                            35.65        4.75          4
TotaUL                           915.86      122.11         100
6.22      LWUA's projected lending of about 880 million Pesos (11S$117.4
million) during 1977-81 will be met from foreign borrowings, Government
equity and operating income.  The Bank loan will meet about 16% and other
foreign loans about 40% of LWUA's requirements; Government equity will pro-
vide about 34% and the balance of about 10% will come from operating income
and repayments by WDs.



- 31 -
6.23      The average cost of LWUA's present loans is about 4%.  Including
the proposed Bank loan and a likely further loan of US$10.0 million from USAID
in 1977, the average cost would be about 5%. If the interest-free share capi-
tal expected to be subscribed by the Government through 1981 is taken into
account and no further borrowings are assumed through that year, LWUA's cost
of capital would be about 3%. However, if LWUA borrowed another US$73 mil-
lion (equal to the current estimated borrowing - para 6.20), at about 9% p.a.,
its cost of borrowing will rise to about 7% and cost of capital (i.e. includ-
ing interest-free Government equity) to about 5%. LWUA's present lending rate
of 9% p.a. is therefore expected to provide an adequate margin for meeting
its operating costs. The financial forecasts show that LWUA would earn net
surpluses of between 4 and 8% on its equity during the years 1977 through
1981 and that its debt/equity ratio will be 1:1 or better. Thus, LWUA's
financial outlook is satisfactory. However, LWUA's authorized borrowing
limit of US$633 million equivalent (para 6.20) which is over 9 times its
authorized capital, is too high. If LWUA borrowed funds to this limit,
without a corresponding increase in its capital, its heavy debt obligation
could seriously affect its financial position. To guard against heavy un-
debtedness LWUA will maintain a debt:equity ratio of not more than 3:1.
6.24      LWUA's debt service payments to the Government on the proposed
Bank loan (which will be relent by the Government to LWUA and will be
repaid in 20 years including 4-1/2 years grace period) will be about US$2.8
million in 1982 and will gradually decrease thereafter. The six WD's annual
repayments to LWUA over the 25-1/2 years i.e., 30 years maturity including
4-1/2 years grace period, will be about US$3.4 million equivalent. Thus,
it is unlikely that LWUA will have any difficulty in servicing the Bank
loan with the shorter maturity, unless there are major defaults in the
WDs' repayments to LWUA. With a view to keeping each project WD's in-
debtedness within reasonable limits the WD will not (a) during the project
construction period, undertake any major capital expenditures other than
those included in the project and (b) after project completion, incur any
long-term debt if its net revenues for the preceding fiscal year or for
a later twelve-month period prior to such incurrence, are less than 1.5
times the maximum debt service requirement on all its long-term indebted-
ness in any succeeding fiscal year.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      Agreement has been reached with Government, LWUA and NWSS on the
following principal points which have been recorded as covenants in the
draft legal documents:
(i)  Government will relend the proceeds of the Bank loan to
LWUA and to MWSS on the same terms as the Bank loan.
LWUA will in turn, relend to WDs the proceeds of the
Bank loan for the water supply project on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and will also make
loans to them on the same terms to meet the local currency
costs of the project and interest during construction
(paras 4.01 and 6.07).



- 32 -
(ii)  In consultation with LWUA, each WD will carry out an annual
review of its water tariffs and implement the conclusions
of such reviews by January 1 of the following year (para 6.16).
(iii)  Each WD will meet at least 10% of its project investment from
its internal cash generation (para 6.17).
(iv)  The WD's rate of return on net fixed assets will be at least
6% in 1982; 7% in 1983 and 8% thereafter (para 6.18).
7.02      A condition of loan effectiveness is the execution of the two
subsidiary loan agreements on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank,
(a) between the Government and LWUA and (b) between the Government and MWSS,
for relending the proceeds of the loan to LWUA and MWSS (para 4.01).
7.03      The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$23.0 million for
a term of 20 years including a grace period of 4-1/2 years.
April 14, 1977



ANNEX 1
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Description of the Project
A. INTRODUCTION
Master Plans
1.        The Master Plans and feasibility studies for the six cities pre-
pared by consultants cover a period up to year 2000 with implementation
divided into three phases.
2.        The proposed 4 year investment plan recommended by the consultants
for Phase I, with the twin objectives of rehabilitation of the existing sys-
tems and extensions to meet immediate needs, is reasonable. However, because
of the scarce water demand data, the limited knowledge of the groundwater
hydrology, the need for the new Water Districts and LWUA to substantially
improve operational and financial performance, concern that the increases in
tariffs needed to support an investment of the size proposed would be diffi-
cult to impose and collect, the consultants' investment proposals for Baguio
and San Fernando (La Union) WDs were reduced during the appraisal by about
28% and a critical review will be made during detailed design for somewhat
smaller reductions in the order of 5% for Cabanatuan, Lipa and Tarlac WDs.
The shortfall is postponed for inclusion in a Phase II project, now timed
to commence in about 1983 for Baguio and San Fernando (La Union) and 1986
for the other WDs.
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.        The physical components of works briefly described below for con-
struction in the six water districts are shown in IBRD Maps 12543-48. Except
for the rehabilitation works, which are so described all other items represent
new works covering the construction of wells equipped with pumps, storage
tanks, transmission mains, pumping stations and distribution pipelines in
internal networks, service connections, buildings, and the procurement of
vehicles, meters and hydrants. The cost of each item of work and total proj-
ect costs for each water district are given in Annex 4, pages 2-7 and the
total cost of water supply construction is summarized in Annex 4, page 1.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Baguio Water District, IBRD Map 12543
(i) Wells and Springs. Rehabilitation of Buyog Spring, Santo
Thomas reservoir facilities and the construction of a new
well field and pumphouse to produce 126 1/sec including
chlorination equipment.
(ii)  Transmission and Storage.  Rehabilitation of Kilometer 8
storage tank, about 12.5 km of transmission pipelines
varying from 300 to 500 mm in diameter, two storage tanks
each of 3785 m  capacity at Camp Allen and the Hospital
including a booster station at the Hospital.
(iii) Distribution Mains. About 58 km of distribution pipeline
of 150 and 200 mm diameters including valves and fittings
and the rehabilitaion of existing mains, following a leak-
age survey.
(iv)  Internal Network.  About 48 km of pipeline, 100 mm diam-
eter including valves and fittings.
(v) Service Connections. Replacement of 7500 leaking service
connections, 80 faulty hydrants and 100 inoperative meters.
(vi)  Meters and hydrants.  Provision of 7000 new service connec-
tions with meters and 80 hydrants.
Cabanatuan Water District, IBRD Map 12544
(i) Wells. Rehabililtation of two existing wells and the con-
struction of six new wells each with a minimum yield of
30 1/sec and one well with a minimum yield of 12 1/sec
with pumping and chlorination equipment.
(ii)  Transmission and Storage.  Construction of two storage
3
tanks each of 1200 m  capacity or additional two new
wells with pumping and chlorination equipment to meet
peak hour demand and one tank of 250 m  capacity.
(iii) Distribution Mains. About 21 km of pipelines 250 mm to
100 mm diameters including valves and fitting in con-
necting the new wells and internal network.
(iv)  Internal Network.  About 25 km of pipeline, 150 mm and
100 mm diameters including valves, fittings and hydrants.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
(v)  Service Connections.  Metering of all existing connec-
tions, replacement of 600 leaking service pipes and the
installation of 5,300 new service connections.
(vi)  Operational Buildings.  An administrative building and
plumbing shop with a meter repair shop including repair
facilities.
(vii) Vehicles. Two vehicles suitable for operations and main-
tenance.
Lipa City Water District, IBRD Map 12545
(i) Wells. Rehabilitation of two existing wells and the
construction of six new wells with a total yield of
about 100 l/sec with pumping and chlorination equip-
ment.
(ii)  Transmission and Storage.  Connection of new wells to
the distribution mains and rehabilitation of existing
storage tank.
(iii) Distribution Mains. About 16.3 km of pipeline 200 mm
to 100 mm diameters including valves and fittings.
(iv)  Internal Network.  About 11.9 km of pipeline, 150 mm
and 100 mm diameters including valves, fittings and hydrants.
(v) Service Connections. Metering of all existing service
connections, replacement of 200 leakage service pipes
and the installation of new 2050 service connections.
(vi)  Operational Buildings.  An administrative building,
plumbing and meter shop, laboratory and store with
pipe yard.
(vii) Vehicles. Two vehicles suitable for operations and
maintenance.
Lucena-Pagbilao-Tayabas Water District, IBRD Map 12546
(i) Springs. Expansion and improvements to the existing
May-it spring intake and minor improvements to other
existing spring intakes including chlorination equip-
ment.



ANNEX I
Page 4
(ii)  Transmission and Storage.  About 4.0 km of 700 mm
diameter and 4.1 km of 300 mm to 200 mm diameters
pipeline incPuding valvss and fittings. Two storage
tanks, 500 m and 700 m capacity. Covering of exist-
ing storage tanks at Tongko.
(iii) Distribution Mains. About 13.4 km of pipeline 250 mm
to 150 mm diameters including valves and fittings and
the rehabilitation of existing pipelines.
(iv)  Internal Network.  About 33.3 km of pipeline 150 and
100 mm diameters including valves, fittings and hydrants.
(v) Service Connections. Metering of all existing services
and replacement of leaking service pipes and the instal-
lation of 3050 new service connections.
(vi)  Operational Buildings.  An administrative building, plumb-
ing shop, meter repair shop and laboratory.
(vii) Vehicles. Two vehicles suitable for operations and main-
tenance.
San Fernando (La Union) Water District, IBRD Hap 12547
(i) Wells. Six induced infiltration wells of capacity not
less than 100 1/sec in the banks of the Bauang and
Baroro Rivers with pumping and chlorination facilities.
(ii)  Transmission.  Connection of the Bauang wells by a 350 mm
diameter pipeline about 2 km long reducing to 300 mm diam-
meter near Bauang poblacion and extending 14 km up to San
Fernando. Connection of the Baroro River wells to the
existing pipeline and about 6.5 km of 200 mm diameter
pipe connecting Bacnotan to San Juan complete with valves
and fittings.
(iii) Distribution Mains. About 1.4 km of pipeline 250 mm diam-
eter and 2.6 km of 200 mm diameter and 0.6 km of 150 mm
diameter pipelines with valves and fittings.
(iv)  Internal Network.  About 7 km of 150 mm and 100 mm diameter
pipeline including valves, fittings and hydrants.
(v) Service Connections. Replacement of 200 existing service
connections and provision of 1,500 new service connections
including full metering.



AtINEX 1
Page 5
(vi) Operational Buildings. An administrative building,
plumbing, and meter shop with store and pipe yard.
(vii) Vehicles. Two vehicles suitable for operations
and maintenance.
Tarlac Water District, IBRD Map 12548
(i) Wells. Rehabilitation of two existing wells and the
construction of four new wells with a total yield
of 180 I/sec with pumping and chlorination equipment.
(ii)  Transmission and Storage.  sonstructioe of two storage
tanks with capacity 2,100 m and 600 m or additional
two new wells to meet peak hour demand.
(iii) Distribution Mains. About 1.3 km of pipeline 250 mm
and 200 mm diameter and 1.0 km of 450 mm diameter pipe-
line in connecting the wells to the system.
(iv)  Internal Network.  About 21.3 km of 100 mm and 150 mm
pipeline with valves, fittings and hydrants.
(v) Service Connections. Metering of existing services,
replacement of 200 existing service connections and
provision of 4,900 new service connections.
(vi)  Operational Buildings.  An administrative building,
plumbing shop, meter repair shop and laboratory.
(vii) Vehicles. Two vehicles suitable for operations and
maintenance.
4.        An early action program, mostly concerned with rehabilitation of
existing wells to be retained in the systems, metering and reduction of leak-
age aimed at improving service will be carried out in the early stages of the
project. The population and water demand projections, existing water supply
systems and the water sources on which the project is based are described in
detail in Annexes 7 and 8. The length of pipelines, storage capacity and num-
ber of wells are close to what will be needed but actual sizes, capacities,
lengths and numbers will be determined after review, field investigations and
detailed design.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
C. BASIS OF COST ESTIMATES
Unit Costs
5.        Because there was no recent experience in late 1975, the cost esti-
mates in the preliminary engineering studies are based upon unit costs devel-
oped by the consultants by applying consumer price indices and retail price
indices, furnished by the Central Bank of the Philippines, to local price
components, and the Engineering News Record cost index for imported equipment.
The unit costs, however, compare favorably with bids received in mid 1976 on
some of the works to be started in the ADB project. A comparison of some
rounded-off costs for major project components at June 1976 prices for Baclod
City Water District are given below:
Consultants'
Estimate          Bid #1         Bid #2          Bid #3
Pipelines/m
100-600 mm                  73-970          36-748         37-836          39-730
Valves (no)
100-300 mm               1,630-5,700       910-2,900   1,200-2,800    1,000-2,200
Reservoi2
10,000 m                  2,170,000        3,000,000    1,748,000        2,630,000
6.        With regard to well construction, a comparison was made of the cost
curves developed for making the estimates with recent bids received for 100 m
deep wells. In San Pablo the bid for a 150 mm diameter well was lower than
the estimate by P 12,000 per meter. On the other hand, in Batangas, the bid
for a 250 mm diameter well was higher than the estimate by P 5000 per meter.
The estimates are reasonable.
Contingencies
7.        Because of the difficult terrain in Baguio physical contingencies
are assumed to be 20% of construction costs, including engineering. For all
of the other WDs physical contingencies are assumed to be 15%, normally used
in such projecLs, as no special construction problems are anticipated.
8.        Price contingencies assume a 10% increase over the first two years
and 8% thereafter on all costs for the six cities, both on equipment and
civil works which are roughly equal. This is based on the assumption that
both local and foreign cost inflation will be about the same and would follow
the present downward trend over the next four years.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
D. REVIEW, FIELD INVESTIGATIONS AND DETAILED DESIGN
Technical Review
9.        Consultants to be appointed and financed under the project will be
responsible for making the review of the CDM and JMM preliminary engineering
studies, carrying out field investigations, preparing revised cost estimates,
making detailed designs, supervising construction and training Filipino staff.
It is estimated that about 144 man-months of expatriate consulting services
will be needed for these tasks. Some items needing particular attention
during the review are given in the following paragraphs.
10.       The review will include updating of all water production and con-
sumption statistics and revising the demand projections. The results of
the leakage surveys as part of the field investigations (see para 15 below)
should be reflected in the revised demand projections. For Baguio WD, in
addition, an assessment will be made of operating and maintenance costs fol-
lowing the recent acquisition from Baguio Municipality of a small hydroelec-
tric power station. In Cabanatuan the review should include the proposed
water supply in the resettlement area.
11.       In all of the cities, the technical and economic feasibility of
postponing or doing away with the provision of storage should be studied and
the project costs revised accordingly before detailed design. If storage
is found to be necessary, design alternatives should be considered between
elevated storage and standpipes. For all project components, design alterna-
tives should be considered on the basis of the more accurate consumption
statistics now available.
Field Investigations
12.       Field investigations are needed in Baguio to confirm the preliminary
engineering findings that the aquifer in La Trinidad is the most productive.
On the basis of test well results and review of the pollution hazard, the pre-
liminary designs made in 1973 should be reviewed and alternative system config-
urations studied and a recommendation made for the least-cost solution. In
Lipa a test well should be drilled to confirm the theoretical assessment of
groundwater availability to support 15.6 1/sec wells including the reasons
for the recent failure of the public market well to meet the consultants'
forecasts. The consultants should recommend drilling of other test wells
on the basis of their technical reviews of the preliminary groundwater hydrol-
ogy studies.
13.       In San Fernando (La Union) it is proposed that the project be fur-
ther staged, and the Lon-oy river source retained. The technical feasibility
of this proposal will require studies on low-cost treatment of the Lon-oy
water, possibly by utilizing slow sand filters and rehabilitating the trans-
mission pipeline (as proposed for the Santo Thomas scheme in Baguio). The
proposed further staging will require a detailed review of the water demand



ANNEX 1
Page 8
centers between Bauang and San Fernando and, based upon more accurate metered
consumption statistics, an evaluation made of the economic feasibility of
postponing storage and furthei phasing transmission pipelines in achieving
the lest-cost solution.
14.       In all of the cities the areas of high demand and future growth
would be carefully identified to enable the placement of the distribution
networks provided in the project in areas where demand for new service con-
nections is greatest to achieve the projected number of service connections-,
15.       The field investigation will include leak detection surveys for
two months and during that time the consultants would train Filipino staff,
set up regular procedures for leakage surveys and also review the conclu-
sions on leakage in the preliminary engineering studies.
Detailed Design
16.       Before proceeding to detailed design the design criteria in the
preliminary engineering studies would be reviewed on the basis of the field
investigations and the criteria for detailed design agreed with LWUA. At
the same time the unit costs for all of the major project components would
be agreed on the basis of actuals in the ongoing projects and a revised cost
estimate made for the works. When making the revised cost estimates, steps
would be taken to prequalify contractors for the project and also a study
made of the feasibility of project construction on either the basis of sep-
arating procurement of materials and equipment from construction or for com-
bining these in supply and lay contracts. Besides economic feasibility cri-
teria, past experience and special local circumstances would be considered
in the study as discussed in paragraph 22 below.
17.       In reviewing the network analysis made in the preliminary engineer-
ing studies the agreed design criteria based on the field investigations
would be utilized to arrive at the best technical and economic configuration
for the water supply systems and the preliminary designs made accordingly.
Preliminary design of the intake structures for the May-it Spring source, the
river intakes and treatment plant (if the Lon-oy source is found to be
feasible) for San Fernando, wells, sump and booster pump station designs for
the other sources would be made and agreed as would all proposals for the
sizing of storage facilities wherever these are needed.
18.       The topographic surveys for the pipeline design and soil investiga-
tions for the major civil construction works, such as reservoirs, would be
done in sufficient detail so that the contractors will have adequate informa-
tion for pricing their bids.



ANNEX 1
Page 9
C. CONSTRUCTION
Supervision of Construction
19.       The consultants would be responsible for preparing the draft pre-
qualification and post-qualification forms, tender advertisement for publica-
tion abroad, invitation to tender, description of the tendering and evaluation
procedures, conditions of contract, specification, bills of quantities, tender
forms and all related documents required for the purposes of international
competitive bidding. On receipt of the tenders the consultants will make a
detailed evaluation and submit a report making recommendations to LWUA on
the acceptance of bids.
20.       While being fully responsible for the construction of the facili-
ties as specified, particular attention would be given to the well-drilling
program, with the objective of drilling, constructing and developing wells
for the specified yields and long-term service. Special attention will be
given also to the construction of pipelines and service connections to avoid
future leakage developing in the system. The water district staff will be
trained in the setting of meters and the making of water-tight service con-
nections. Assistance will also be given in the construction of immediate
improvement works under the early action program.
Project Management
21.       LWUA will be responsible for carrying out the project and has
appointed a Project Manager for providing the supervision and administra-
tion of the project. (See paras 3.15 to 3.17 in the Appraisal Report.)
Construction Alternatives
22.       There is little experience at the present time on the most econom-
ical method of packaging construction contracts for water supply projects.
The method adopted in the USAID projects is to let out one complete contract
covering all the construction to be done in each major construction category
in each city, the contractor being responsible for both the procurement and
the installation of all major components. It is not clear if more economical
construction would be achieved by the procurement of all the pipes and fit-
tings in the project to be supplied to the various cities for subsequent
installation under separately placed civil works contracts as proposed in the
ADB projects. LWUA feels that there may be practical difficulties in super-
vising procurement, especially in ensuring compatibility of the pipes with
the fittings. There is also the possibility that the civil works contractors
may attribute poor workmanship to manufacturing defects in the pipes and fit-
tings.
23.       Similar alternatives are possible with the construction of wells,
particularly in regard to the procurement of well screens. The consultants
will study these various alternatives and make a recommendation to LWUA on



ANNEX I
Page 10
the metthod of packagling contracts likely to be most economical. For the pur-
poses of construction planning, it hias been assumed that a complete contract
will be let for each city. This assumption is made in the construction
schedule showi in Part A of the implementation schedule at Annex 6.
Disbursement Schedule
24.       The quarterly disbursement schedule shown in Annex 5 is based upon
the construction schedule and on the assumption that contractors will apply
for payments according to works completed in each month. Disbursements on
pipeline construction are expected to commence in early 1978, peak in 1979
and decline slo-wly to about mid-1981.  Well construction will start somewhat
later in 1978, because of the time needed to complete field investigations,
btut will be completed by mid-1980. Operational buildings are also expected
to follow the same schedule as well construction. Meters and service connec-
tions will be procured and installed from mid-1979 to end-1981.
25.       The consultanits' fees for detailed design and the various studies
in the project are assumed to be evenly distributed over the respective study
periods.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Feasibility Studies for Water Supplies to Ten Cities
A. INTRODUCTION
1.        LWUA has an ambitious program for carrying out feasibility studies
and construction of water supply schemes with assistance from USAID, ADB and
the Danish International Development Agency (DANIDA). USAID financed feasi-
bility studies have been followed by the financing of construction by ADB for
five cities, USAID for five ctties and proposed IBRD financing for six cities.
DANIDA is financing waterworks development in two more cities. A recently
completed pre-feasibility study of one-hundred cities, also financed by USAID,
identified some forty to sixty cities for more detailed feasibility studies.
USAID is financinag feasibility studies for ten of these cities and it is now
proposed that IBRD finance the feasibility studies for ten more of these
cities.
2.        In making the feasibility studies for these ten additional cities
LWUA is anxious to continue the staff training started with the USAID studies.
It also wishes to modify the earlier approach by (1) shortening the study
period (2) preparing and implementing an immediate impact program of works,
and (3) including detailed design and preparation of bid documents in the
studies. This new approach is reasonable because of the experience on such
common matters such as development of current costs, design criteria and demand
projections. The terms of reference and the conditions of employment of the
consultants to be selected for these studies should be acceptable to the Bank.
B. SELECTION OF CITIES FOR STUDY
3.        Listed below are sixteen of the forty cities identified in the USAID
studies:



ANNEX 2
Page 2
1975       Present  Additional Estimated
Province               City           Population    Supply       Needed      Cost
m03/d0------  P'
--              North Cotabato       120,840       1,970      4,030     16,125
Pangasinan         San Carlos            90,360       1,000      1,200       2,250
Pangasinan         Dagupan               86,800       7,850      6,650      11,058
Bulacan            Malolos               82,790       4,575      7,225       8,072
Nueva Ecija        San Jose              75,430       1,700      4,200       3,686
Davao Oriental    Mati                    74,930         130     8,270       8,586
Zamboanga del Sur Pagadian               67,500       1,300      7,900      14,700
Misamis Oriental  Gingoog                66,370       1,300      2,200       2,628
Bulacan            Hagonoy               65,410       2,210      4,590       4,132
Bukidnon           Malaybalay            65,133       2,480      1,420       2,609
Albay              Tabaco                65,120       1,680      9,020      13,760
Pangasinan         Lingayen              58,640       1,650      4,050      15,200
Quezon             Lopez                 55,450         --       3,000      11,260
Ilocos Sur         Vigan-Bantay          52,350       1,560      2,040       2,526
Tarlac             Camiling              52,270       1,450      2,050       2,927
Laguna             Los Banos             38,300       1,565      5,635       5,240
4.        Out of this list LWUA proposes the selection of ten cities on the
basis of (1) likelihood of water district formation, (2) population, (3) need
for water supply, (4) per capita cost and (5) economic value to region. This
selection should be completed before terms of reference are prepared for the
appointment of consultants.
C. COST OF STUDIES
5.        LWUA completed in July 1976 feasibility studies on water supplies
to ten cities at an original agreed contract price of US$1.4 million and in
September 1976 signed a second contract for ten more cities, by the same con-
sultants, at a cost of US$1.2 million.
6.        Allowing 10% for inflation and another 10% for contingencies, the
estimated cost of the future studies to be carried out in a period of fifteen
months from the last quarter of 1977 will be about US$ 1.4 million. The
estimated cost of the services is as follows:



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Rate               Amount
Man Months    US$       p        US$           P
Expatriates             100        7,000   7,000    700,000       700,000
Local counterparts      400           -    7,000        -       2,800,000
Travel etc.              -        Lump sum    -      100,000         -
Surveys etc.             -                     -        -         700,000
Contingencies            -           10%       -      80,000      420,000
Total  880,000   4,620,000
7.        In comparison with the actual costs of the earlier studies this
estimate is reasonable. The expenditure is expected to be mostly in 1978
and payments to the consultants will be an agreed monthly schedule and dis-
bursements spaced out evenly over the fifteen months study period.



ANNEX 3
Page  1
PHILIPPINES
PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Manila Sewerage Design Study
A. INTRODUCTION
1.        A Study entitled "Master Plan for a Sewerage System for the Manila
Metropolitan Area" was carried out by MWSS with assistance from UNDP. The
initial study started in December 1967 and was concluded in December 1970.
The study was prepared by a US consulting firm, Black and Veatch International
(BVI), working under an agreement with WHO as executing agency.
2.        The study made recommendations on Administration and Operations
and also a first stage construction program to serve central Manila estimated
at US$72 million equivalent. 1/ Allowing for the additional growth that has
taken place in the intervening years, and based upon prices developed in the
sewerage component of the ongoing sewerage construction in the Tondo slum
upgrading in the Manila Urban Development Project, MWSS estimate that the
cost of carrying out a first stage expansion program will be nearer US$170
million equivalent (P 1,270 million) - an increase of 142%.  The preliminary
estimate is as follows:
Item                       Foreign           Local          Total
-------------- P  000    ---- _______
1.  90" Interceptor from Tondo              4,462             7,933       12,395
2. Rehabilitation of pumping
stations                              6,315           10,801        17,116
3.  Main Pumping Station                   29,445            14,352       43,797
4.  Central Sewer Outfall                  40,950           21,156        62,106
5.  North Manila Interceptor               59,070          189,191       248,261
6.  Sampaloc Interceptor                   27,975           91,926       119,901
7.  South Superhighway Interceptor         47,565          151,432       198,997
8.  Pasay Interceptor                      23,025           75,139        98,164
9.  Nagtaban Vortex Structure               3,015            3,814         6,829
10. Pasig River Interceptor                77,408           39,846       117,254
11. Miscellaneous                          11,602           22,099        33,701
12. Contingencies                          54,840          103,256       158,096
13. Interest during construction           54,975           94,620       149,595
440_647          825,565    1,266,212
1/   In 1969, $1.00 = P3.90.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
3.        This preliminary estimate is only indicative of what may be the
total cost of the project and variations of up to 50% may occur in the
revised cost estimates to be prepared after detailed review. The foreign
exchange component is estimated to be about US$59 million equivalent
(P 440 million).
B. COST OF CONSULTANT SERVICES
4.        MWSS now proposes appointing consultants to update the BVI studies
and prepare detailed designs. Expertise in the design and construction of
large sewerage schemes is not available in the Philippines and it is assumed
that all of the consultants' team will be expatriates. The tentative list of
experts for the two-year sewerage design study is as follows:-
Man-months
Principal-in-Charge                                5
Resident Manager                                  24
Chief Engineer 1                                  24
Chief Engineer 2                                  21
Engineer A                                       106
Engineer B                                       164
Economist                                          6
Financial Analyst                                  6
Structural Engineer                                4
Electronic Engineer                                3
Miscellaneous Engineering                          3
Management Specialist                              2
Training Specialist                                4
Chemist                                            2
Specification Writers                             17
Home Office Support                               20
TOTAL          411
5.        In addition there will be a team consisting of a sanitary engineer,
a public health expert and a sociologist representing a total of 18 man-months
to prepare a sanitation program for those areas of Manila that are not likely
to benefit in the near future from the sewerage project. Because of the com-
plex nature of the studies a technical advisor to the Filipino Project Manager,
represnting a total of 24 man-months, is proposed to insure the correct execu-
tion and satisfactory completion of the studies. There will be a total of
453 man-months of expatriate consulting services for the studies.
6.        The study will commence with a review and the identification of
alternatives for more detailed study. At this point MWSS will obtain advice
from an expert review panel, the costs of which are included in the studies.
The panel will review the documents produced by the consultants and then meet
in Manila to provide guidance on the choice of the best alternative for



ANNEX 3
Page 3
the preparation of detailed designs. The average man-month cost of the
expatriate consultants' services is estimated to be about US$6,200 excluding
travel and local costs. This is reasonable in view of the complex nature of
the tasks to be performed.
7.        The estimated costs of the consulting services are as follows:
Local         Foreign         Total
----------- US$ '000------------
Sewerage Design Study
Consulting Services                  2,087          3,710        5,797
Review Panel                             9             51           60
Total design                 2,096          3,761        5,857
Sanitation Study                           91            111          202
Total Sewerage and Sanitation        2,187          3,872        6,059
Technical Advisor for Studies             122            147          268
Total          2,309          4,019        6,327
8.        The consulting services for sewerage design only is US$5.8 million
and is 3.4% of the estimated construction cost of the future project. This
is reasonable.
C. TERMS OF REFERENCE
9.        The following is an extract from the draft terms of reference for
the proposed study covering the review, identification of alternatives and
the development of a revised sewerage master plan.
Part A:   Review Services and Preliminary Studies
Al. Review Services
This part of the consultant's services shall cover the review
and evaluation of the following:
Concepts
(a) The proposed basic concepts in earlier feasibility
reports, in particular the proposed method of sewage
collection and disposal; the identification of priori-
ties and the selection of the scope of the first stage
program.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
Sanitation
(b) The available data on existing sanitary conditions.
Sewerage
(c) The 1969/70 Sewerage Master Plan and other existing
relevant reports; subsequent oceanographic survey
reports and data; maps, records and record drawings;
and any other relevant documents concerning the existing
situation in the study areas as defined in the Master
Plan.
(d) On-going and planned programs and projects within the
Metrolpolitan Manila Area (MMA) to the extent to which
these may affect sewerage planning and construction.
These programs and projects include: water supply
projects; land reclamation projects; urban renewal;
town planning; housing and industrial development
programs; drainage; flood and pollution control proj-
ects (including in particular the Manganhan floodway,
the Napindan hydraulic control structure, the Laguna de
Bay Interceptors and the Paranaque Spillway) and
highway projects including tunnels, bridges, skyways
and interchanges.
(e) Design criteria proposed in the 1969/70 Master Plan,
in the light of the consultants' work under (c) and
(d) above, particularly those relating to: existing
population; population growth, density and distribu-
tion; and waste water quantities and characteristics.
(f) Existing sewer system, plants and other facilities
within the study area.
On completion of the above and the preliminary sanitation field
survey described in section D12 1/ the Consultant shall submit a Review
and Evaluation Report which shall include assessments of the following:
Sanitation
(i) Existing sanitary conditions in the study area and identi-
fication of high priority areas - especially low income
high density slum areas that require immediate attention.
(ii) The relationship between existing water supply levels and
proposed waste disposal methods.
1/   Section D12 is not included in this extract.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
(iii) Applicability of basic planning concepts and design criteria
on environmental sanitation in the earlier reports.
(iv) Adequacy of existing data and information and specific
need for any supplemental or supportive information such
as needed for any further work (site investigations, toilet
design, establishment of component manufacturers) in
identifying alternatives.
Sewerage
(v) The adequacy of existing data and information, and the need
for any supplemental information.
(vi) The viability and practicability of basic planning concepts
and design criteria, insofar as sewage collection and dis-
posal are concerned;
(vii) The validity of program priorities and strategies previously
proposed;
A2. Preliminary Alternative Studies
As a result of his review under Al, the consultant shall develop
studies directed towards conceptualization of an overall sanitation and
sewerage scheme for the study area with various alternatives to the basic
design concepts embodied in earlier documents. These preliminary alterna-
tive studies shall include:
Sanitation
(a) Alternative sanitation schemes appropriate for each region
and sub-area (water-borne sewerage systems or other non-
conventional methods) as well as immediate sanitation schemes
including water, footpaths and minor drainage that will have
significant impact in improving sanitation.
(b) Preparation of sketch designs of feasible alternatives, to
include low cost waste disposal systems (pit privies, aqua
privies, etc.) that are socially acceptable and compatible
with public health aspects as well as conventional waterborne
reticulation systems, with preliminary cost estimates for
capital and operational and maintenance aspects involved in
each alternative with emphasis where applicable, on local
construction materials (bamboo, clay pipes, etc.) self-help,
and community sharing of costs.
(c) Evaluation of the proposed alternatives in terms of their
technical viability, social acceptability, associated health
benefits, and general cost effectiveness (i.e., maximization
of health benefits per units of expenditure);



ANNEX 3
Page 6
(d) Description of nature (short-term, interim, or long-term)
of the recommended alternative for each region and sub-area
and its relationship to the long-term goals;
Sewerage
(a) Delineation of sewer drainage basins and their subdivisions;
(b) the disposal of raw or partially treated sewage by means
of a submarine outfall or outfalls, as opposed to various
degrees of treatment at one or more sites, combined with
various forms of effluent and sludge disposal. This shall
include the identification of possible alternative disposal
sites, consistent with future plans for land and water
development, and recommendation on effluent quality standards
appropriate to the uses of the receiving waters. It shall
also include recommendations on the priorities and phasing
of any proposed treatment facilities in relation to the
expansion of sewered areas and the anticipated build up of
waste water flow, potential ultimate reuse, such as the
recapture of nutrients by aquaculture and recycling of
sludge having regard to energy requirements and the likely
financial constraints on the overall program.
(c) Examination of alternative alignments, elevations and
design concepts for the trunk sewers and interceptors,
together with ancillary structures such as pumping
stations and siphons. The examination shall include a
study of alternative methods of interceptor construction
(tunneling versus cut-and-cover); and evaluation of the
applicability of combined storm and sanitary sewers
(either generally or in certain areas): possible alter-
natives to the Pasig interceptor and vortex structures
recommended in the 1969 report; and an examination of the
benefits of minimizing pumping of sewage, or of concen-
trating pumping at one or more central points.
(d) Each alternative shall be costed, giving, construction and
recurrent costs (in constant prices), divided between local
and foreign costs both direct and indirect and discounted at
8, 10 and 12%. The consultants shall make preliminary recom-
mendations on the least cost solutions for each alternative.
On completion of Parts Al and A2 the consultant will submit a pre-
liminary draft report in two sections covering the Sanitation Program and the
Sewerage studies as follows:



ANNEX 3
Page 7
Sanitation
(i) The section of the report dealing with sanitation shall
contain recommendations for a specific program that can
be implemented over a three year period. This report
shall identify all the components recommended for each
area including, as appropriate, human waster disposal,
water supply minor footpath and drainage works, etc.
Detailed recommendations for institutional arrangements
for implementing the program including completion of
designs, construction, implementation and monitoring
shall be made. Insofar as this program is designed to
provide immediate sanitation benefits to the low income
groups, the infrastructural provisions under the pro-
gram should be kept simple yet effective. Following
review by the government the consultant will submit a
draft final report including any agreed changes. The
final report will be produced upon approval by govern-
ment of the draft final report.
Sewerage
(ii) MWSS will convene an Expert Review Panel to consider the
work of the consultant to date and to give guidance on the
future direction of the work and selected alternatives to
be studied in greater detail.
A3. Development of Revised Sewerage Master Plan
Based on the reviews and preliminary studies carried out under Al
and A2 above, and the specialized studies carried out under Section D (par-
ticularly those relating to organization and staffing; finance; and tariffs),
and on the findings and recommendations of the Expert Review Panel, the con-
sultant shall prepare an outline of a revised long-term development plan for
sewage collection and disposal for MMA, including an outline of the works to
be constructed in each phase; the target population to be served: the esti-
mated capital and operating expenses and the financial implications of these
(in particular on the tariffs needed to support the project); and the insti-
tutional development of MWSS necessary at each stage to effectively execute
and operate the program.
A4. Identification of First-Phase Sewerage Program
The consultant shall identify, within the long-term development
program, construction and rehabilitation works that should be considered
for a priority first-phase program. At least three alternative packages
shall be presented, of differing sizes, and in sufficient detail to provide
the information necessary to decide which should be adopted and developed
in greater detail. Each package should be covered by a technical and
financial feasibility study in sufficient detail to permit appraisal by
an international financing agency and for this purpose, the data required
by the World Bank "Questionnaire for Sewerage Projects", should be regarded
as a minimum.



ANNEX 3
Page 8
On completion of Parts A3 and A4 and submission of a draft report,
MWSS will decide upon the first-phase program to be adopted, and will give
the necessary instructions to the consultant to proceed with Part B of the
services.
Part B.   Preparation of Final Designs and Tender Documents for
First-Phase Sewerage Program
Bl.       Following completion of Part A, and on receipt of the instructions
as to the package of works to be included in first phase program, the consul-
tant shall proceed with the preparation of the appropriate final designs,
drawings, specifications, bills of quantities, cost estimates and other tender
documents for the procurement of goods and construction services.
B2.       The services to be performed under this Part B shall include, but
not be limited to, the following:
(i) The preparation of design criteria;
(ii) Assistance in preparation of land acquisition plans;
(iii)  Assistance and recommendation in the prequalification of
contractors for the civil engineering works;
(iv)  The preparation of detailed designs, specifications and
tender documents (including invitation to bid, bidding
instructions, form and conditions of contract, bill of
quantities, detailed engineer's estimates and preliminary
PERT-CPM construction and procurement schedules, drawings
and other related documents) for the civil engineering
works and the procurement of goods through international
competitive bidding in accordance with current World Bank
"Guidelines for Procurement";
(v)  Advising MWSS on tenders, prices and estimates for the
carrying out of the contracts for the implementation
of the Project provided that no tender shall be called
or accepted or order placed by the Consultant, except on
behalf of and with approval of MWSS;
(vi) Assistance in the evaluation of tenders and the making of
recommendations for the award of contracts;
(vii)  The preparation of working drawings for the construction
of the civil engineerng works; and
(viii)  The performance of other miscellaneous works not otherwise
specifically mentioned herein but are necessary and incidental
to the proper design of the Project including where appro-
priate, the preparation of terms of reference, contract docu-
ments, etc. for employing third parties and assistance to



ANNEX 3
Page 9
MWSS in inviting proposals, evaluating bids, awarding con-
tracts and supervising the services to be provided by the
third part(s) who may be called upon to undertake data
collection, surveying, mapping, soils investigations, testing,
etc.
10.       The terms of reference also include special studies covering (i) the
evaluation of oceanographic programs, (ii) capacity of the local sewer pipe
manufacturing industry, (iii) the preparation of a planned preventive main-
tenance program, (iv) reduction of infiltration, (v) control of industrial
waste discharges into sewers, (vi) tariff studies, (vii) financing of house
sewer connections, and (viii) a waste water laboratory and a sanitation sur-
vey including institutions for the sanitation programs.
11.       The total study period is expected to be for 24-months commencing
in the third quarter of calendar year 1977. The consultants for the study
will be selected from a shortlist prepared by MWSS and should be
acceptable to the Bank.



PHILIPPINES                      AN.TEX 4
Page 1
PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Water Supply Construction
Summary Cost Estimates
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total    Percentages
Water District             --      POOO       -         US$ 000------ Total Grand Total
BAGUIO:
Civil Works                 9792   342   10134   1306    46    1352   23
Equipment                   2452 14133   16585    327  1885    2212   37
Engineering                 1445  1405    ?850    193   187        380   o6
Contingencies               6509  7968   14477    868  1062    1930   32
Lanu                         956    --      956    127    --       127   02
Total           21154 23848   45002   2821  3180    6O01  100          20
CABANATUAII:
Civil Works                15241  3272   18513   2032   436    2468   42
Equipment                   1312  7397    8709    175   986    1161   20
Engineering                 1934  1363    3297    258   182        440   07
Contingencies               7619  4931   12550   1016   658    1674   29
Land                         788    --      788    105    --       105   02
Total           26894 169      43857   3567   100                      19
LIPA:
Civil Works                 5483  1124    6607    731   150        881   32
Equipment                    959  5051    6010    128   673        801   30
Engineering                  771   855    1626    103   114        217   08
Contingencies               2971  2856    5827    396   381        777   29
Land                         145    --      145      19   --        19   01
Total           10329  9866   20215   1377  1318              100      09
LUCENA-PAGBILAO-TAYABAS:
Civil Works                11632  1836   13468   1551   245    1796   26
Equipment                   3180 16397   19577    424  2186    2610   38
Engineering                 1743  2316    4059    232   309        541   07
Contingencies               6611  7937   14548    882  1058    1940   28
Land                         236    --      236      31    --       31   01
Total           23402 28486   51888   3120  798    6918  1oo           22
SAN FERNANDO (.LA UNION):
Ci-vil Works                9112  1871   10983   1215   250    1465   36
Equipment                   1310  7320    8630    175   976    1151   28
Enzgineering                1231  1248    2479    164   166        330   08
Contingencies               4413  3943    8356    588   526    1114   27
Land                         350    --      350      46    --       46   01
Total           16416  14382   30798   2188  1918    T100  TJ
TARLAC:
Civil Works                10096  2O)P9   12125   1346   271    1617   34
Equipment                   1566  8629   10195    209  1151    1360   28
Engineering                 1369  1373    2742    183   183        366   06
Contingencies               5305  4957   10262    707   660    1367   29
Land                         246    --      246      33    --       33   01
Total           18582 16988   35570   247-8  2265    4743  100         16
GRAND TOTAL
CONSTRUCTIONi               116777 110553  227330  15570  14,741  30311  --          100



pilI,IPpINES
I'ROVINCIAIL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Baguio Cit Water District
Water S00ply_Construction
Cost Estimates
lots 1
-----------------------Local Costs ------------             -----------------Foreign Costs ----------------                   Costs
1977    1978    1979    1980       1981    Subtotal         1977    1978    1979    1980        1981      Subtotal
------------------------------------------------  roOo   ------------------------
Civil Works
Wells and Springs                                   -        78       474    156        -         708             -               -         -        -          -                 708
Transmission and Storage                            -       271      1651   1354        -        3276             -3276
Distribution Mains                                  -        22       134    112        -         268             -       -       -         -        -          _                 268
Internal Network                                    -       386     2414   2027         -       4827              -                                                              4827
Service Connections                                 -        54       326    272        _         652             -      4       27       *7         -         42                 694
Pipe Cleaning and Lining                            -                   -      61       _          61             -      -        -      300         -        300                 361
Total Civil Works                              -      811      4999   3982        _        9792             -       4       21      317                 342               10134
Equipment
Wells and Springs t                                          17       109      36       _         162             -     18      107       35         _        160                 322
Transmission and Storage                            -        79       480    394        -         953             -     446   2724    2234           -       5404                6357
Distribution Mains                                  -         9        54      46 46109                           _      26    155       129         -        310                 419
Internal Network                                    -        71      444    373         -         888             -     347   2171      1823         -      4341                 5229
Service Connections                                 -         8        47      39       -          94             -       90    544      453         -       1087                1181
Meters and Hydrants                                 -        19        48      38    141          246             -     219    552       437     1623        2831                3077
Total Equipmient                              -      203      1182    926    141          2452             -    1146   6253    5111    1623          14133               16585
Totl Civil tcrk  a;.2 F.......t                           1214      6151   4908    i4i         1tE44             -    i;;u    2 7       4,28    1623 1'.,,                     IGi9
Engineering  1/                                    65        54       736    584        -        1439           61       50    687       600         -       1398                2837
Subtotal                                         65      1068     6917    5492    141         13683           61    1200   6961       6028    1623       15873                29556
Leak Detection                                      6         -         -       -       -           6             7        -       -        -        -          7                  13
Contingencies
Physical  2/                                        -       203      1237    982       29        2451             -     230   1255      1085       325       2895                5346
?rice      3/                                               129      1712   2143       74        4058             -     143   1725    2354        851        5073                9131
Total Contingencies                           -      332      2949   3125      103        6509                    373   2980    3439    1176          7968                14477
Land                                                        956         -      -       -          956             -        -      -         -        -          -                 956
GRIAND TOTAL                                       71      2356      9866   8617      244       21154            68    1573   9941      9467    2799        23848               45002
1/  Engineering:   10% of total of civil works and equipment including physical contingency provision.
2/  Physical Contingency:   20% of total civil works and equipment excluding engineering and land.
3/  Price Contingency:  On all costs except land.
1<1



PHILIPPINES
PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Cabanatuan City Water Diatrict
Water Supply Construction
Cost Estimates
------------- Local Costs --------------------           ---------------Foreign Costs ---------------------
Total
1977   1978    1979    1980    1981    Subtotal          1977    1978    1979    1980    1981        Subtotal           Costs
Civil Works
Wells                                  -    1804    2804    1375          -      5983                   588      920      451       -         1959             7942
Transmission and Storage               -    1007    1194       795    1193      4189                    263      300      156     234         953              5142
Distribution Mains                      -     257     315      244      366      1182                     -       -        -        -           -              1182
Internal Network                       -      259     327      292      439     1317                              -                -                           1317
Service Connections                    -      410     415      354      532      1711                    -        _        _        _                          1711
Operational Buildings                  -      254     403      202        -       859                   107      169       84                 360              1219
Total Civil Works                 -    3991    5458    3262    2530    15241                       958    1389      691      234        3272            18513
Equipment
Wells and Springs                       -      85       78      39        -       202            -      605      414      203      106        1222             1424
Transmission and Storage               -       53      63       42       63       221            -      120      136       71     554         433               654
Distribution Mains                     -       99     121       94      141      455             -      352      438      369     449         1713             2168
Internal Network                       -       67      67       60       91       285            -      344      334      299     760        1426              1711
Service Connections                     -      25       32      27       40       124            -      655      601      506       -         2522             2646
Operational Building                   -        3        -       -        -         3            -       48       -        -        _           48               51
Vehicles                               -       22        - -              -        22            -       -        -        -        -           33               55
Total Equipment                   -     354      361     262      335      1312            -      2157    1923    1448    1869          7397             8709
Total Civil Works and Equipment        -   4345    5819    3524    2865    16553                 -      3115   3312    2139    2103         10669            27222
Engineering  I/                       211    289      669      405      329      1903           154       204    381      246      242        1227             3130
Subtotaln                       211   4634    6488    3929    3194    18456               154     3319   3693    2385    2345         11896             30352
Leak Detection                         22       9        -        -       -        31            15       121     -        -        -          136              167
Contingenc ies
Physical 2/                              -   652      873      529      430      2484            -       467    497       321      315        1600             4084
Price    3/                              -   529    1546    1475    1585         5135            -       391    881       896    1163         3331             8466
Total Contingencies                   -  1181    2419    2004    2015         7619            -        858   1387    1217    1478          4931            12550
Land                                     -    788        -       -        -       788            -         -       -       -        -           -               788
GRAND TOTAL                           233   6612    8907    5933    5209    26894               169     4298   5071    3602    3823          16963            43857
1  Engineering:  10% of total of civil works and equipment including physical contingency provision.
2/ Physical Congingency:  157/ of total civil works and equipment excluding engineering and land.
3/ Price Contingency: On all costs except land.
a:x



PHILIPPINES
PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Lipa City Water District
Water Supply Construction
Cost Estimates
-------------------- Local C.jsts -------------        ------------------ Foreign Oosts ---------------
1977   1978    1979    1980    1981    Subtotal         1977    1978    1979    1980    1981        Subtotal
- -pOOO                                                 ----------------------------------------------------------------
Civil Works
Wells and Springs                      -     605      955      477      -        2037           -      201     318      159       -        678             2715
Transmission and Storage               -      20       31       16      -          67           -        3        5       3       -         11               78
Distribution Mains                     -     233      281      281     421       1216           -       -        -       -        -         -              1216
Internal Network                       -     118      154     154      232       658                    -       -                -          -               658
Service Connections                    -     209      155      155     233        752           -       -        -       -        -         -               752
Operational Buildings                  -     223      353      177      -         753           -      129      204     102       -        435             1188
Total Civil Works                   -    1408    1929    1260       886      5483            -      333     527      264               1124             6607
Equipment
Wells and Springs                      -      111     107       54      -         272           -      524      536     268       -       1328              1600
Transmission and Storage               -        1       2        1      -           4           -       16       26      13       -         55                59
Distribution Mains                     -       95      99       99     148        441           _      401      400     400      599      1800              2241
Internal Network                       -      37       31       31      46        145           _      170      156     156      234       716              861
Service Connections                    -        9      12       12      17         50           -      256      223     223      336      1038              1088
Operational Buildings                  -        3       -        -      -           3           -       48       -       -        -          48               51
Vehicles                               -      44        _        _      _          44           -       66       -      -        -          66               110
Total Equipment                    -     300      251     197      211       959                  1481    1341    1060    1169        5051             6010
Total Civil Works and Equipment        98   1708    2180    1457    1097         6442                 1814    1868    1324    1169        6175            12617
Engineering  1/                        98     98      251      168     126        741          104     105      215     152      134        710             1451
Subtotal                              1806    2431    1625    1223        7183          104    1919    2083    1476    1303         6885            14068
Leak Detection                         10     20        -        -      -          30           10     135       -       -        -         145              175
Contingencies
Physical  2/                            -    256      327      219     165        967           -      .273     280     199      175        927             1894
Price  3/                               -    208      579      610     607       2004           -      233      496     554      646       1929             3933
Total Contingencies               108    464      906     829      772       2971         114      506      776     753      821      2856              5827
Land                                    -    145        -        -      -         145           -       -        -       -        -          -               145
GRAND TOTAL                           108   2435    3337    2454    1995        10329          114    2560    2859    2229    2124         9886            20215
1/  Engineering:   107 of total of civil works and equipment including physical contingency provision.
2/ Physical Congingency: 157% of total Civil works and equipment including engineering and land.
3/  Price Contingency:  On all costs except land.



PHiILIPPINES
PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Lucena Pagbilao Tavabas Water District
Water Supply Construction
Cost Estimates
------------------------ILocal Costs ---------------                  ------------------------Foreign Costs-Cos-------                       TC otts
1977      1978      1979      1980      1981      Subtotal            1977      1978      1979       1980      1981      Subtotal
Civil Works
Springs                                     -      205         315      157        _        677                  -        178        282        140       -          600                 1277
Transmission and Storage                    -     1643       2590    1295          -       5528                  -          5          9          4       -            18                5546
Distribution Mains                         -       206         270      270     405        1151                  -           -         -          -       -             -                1151
Internal Network                           -       325        425      425      637        1812                  -          -          -          -       -             -                1812
Service Connections                        -       481         293      293     439        1506                  -         14         19         19      28            80                1586
Operational Buildings                      -       234         369      184        -        787                  -         92        145         72       -           309                1096
Pipe Cleaning and Lining                   -        51          80       40        -        171                  -        246        388        195       -           829                1000
Total Civil Works                    -      3145       4342    2664    1481        11632                  -         535       843        430      28          1836               13468
Equipment
Springs                                    -        52          14        7        -         73                  -        235        117         58       -          410                  483
Transmission and Storage                   -       575         899     449         -       1923                  -       2885      4531        2266       -         9682                11605
Distribution Mains                         -        85         111      111      166        473                  -        238        312        312    468           1330                1803
Internal Network                           -        78          78       78      117        351                  -        431        374        374    562          1741                 2092
Service Connections                        -        33          43       43       65        184                  -        894        496        496    743           2629                2813
Operational Buildings                      -         35         50       25        -        110                  -        184        215        107       -           506                 616
Vehicles                                   -        66           -        -        -         66                  -         99          -          -       -            99                 165
Total Equipment                       _       924       1195      713      348       3180                   -       4966      6045       3613   1773          16397               19577
Total Civil Works and Equipment            -      4069       5537    3377    1829         14812                  -       5501      6888        4043   1801          18233               33045
Engineering  1/                          234       234        637       388      210       1703                 317       316        792        465    207           2097                3800
Subtotal                               234      4303       6174    3765    21'39       16515                  317      5817      7680       4508   2008          20330                36845
Leak Detection                            23         17          -        -        -         40                  32       187          -          -       -           219                 259
Contingencies
Physical  2/                                -      610         831      507      274       2222                    -      826       1033        606    270           2735                4957
Price      3/                               -      493       1471    1414    1011          4389                    -      683       1830       1693    996           5202                9591
Total Contingencies                   -      1103       2302    1921    1285         6611                    -      1509      2863        2299   120%          7937                14548
Land                                       -       236          -         -        -        236                    -         -         -          -       -             -                 236
GRAND TOTAL                              257      5659       8476      5686    3324       23402                 349      7513    10543         6807   3274          28486               51888
I/   Engineering:   10% of total of civil works and equipment including physical contingency provision.
2/   physical Contingency:   15% of total civil works and equipment including engineering and land.
3/   Price Contingency:   On all costs except land.                                                                                                                                                  C.



PHILIPPINES
PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
San Fernando (La Union) Water District
Water Supply Construction
Cost Estimates
Total,
----------------Local Costs-------------------           ---------------- Foreign Costs -----------------            Costs
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    Subtotal          1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    Subtotal
-----------------------------------------------     EPooo  --- -__ __ --__ -__- _-- _ __ ___- ---- _ _-- _ ___-- ----__ __ __ __
Civil Works
Wells                                           1174    1835      918                 3927           -      316     501      250                 1067          4994
Transmission                              -      918    1453      726        -        3097           -      126     200      100      -           426          3523
Distribution Mains                        -       61       75       75     111         322           -        -                -      -             -           322
Internal Network                          -       71       93      93      140         397           -                                                          397
Service Connections                       -      142      117      117     176         552           -        _        -       _                    _           552
Operational Building                      -      245      381      191       -         817           -      146     155      _77                  378          1195
Total Civil Works                   -      2611    3954    2120       427       9112            -     588      856      427                1871          10983
Equipment
Wells                                     -       92      116       57       -         265           -      382     503      252      -          1137          1402
Transmission                              -      211      334      167       -         712           -    1266    2005    1002        -          4273          4985
Distribution Mains                        -       30       30       30      46         136           -       99     120      120   179            518           654
Internal Network                          -       32       24      24       35         115           -      145     109      109   199            562           677
Service Connections                       -        7        9        9      13          38           -      179     167      167   251            764           802
Vehicles                                  -       44        -        -       -          44           -       66        -       _                   66           110
Total Equipment                     -       416     513      287       94         1310          -     2137   2904    1650   629            7320           8630
Total Civil Works and Equipment           -     3027    4467    2407       521        10422          -      2725   3760    2077   629            9191         19613
Engineering  1/                         174      174      514     277       60         1199         157      157    432      239    72           1057          2256
174     3201    4981    2684       581        11621         157    2882   4192    2316   701            10248         21869
Subtotal
Leak Detection                           17       15        -        -       -           32          15      176       -       -      -           191           223
Contingencies
Physical  2/                              -      454      670     361       78         1563            -     409    564      312    94           1379          2942
Price      3/-                                   367    1187    1008       288         2850           -      347    999      870   348           2564          5414
Total Contingencies                  -       821    1857    1369       366         4413           -      756   1563    1182   442            3943          8356
Land                                      -      350        -        -        -         350                -       -            -     -              -           350
GRAND TOTAL                             191     4387    6838    4053       947        16416         172    3814   5755    3498  1143            14382          30798
1/ Engineering: 10% of total of civil works and equipment including physical contingency provision.
2/  Physical Contingency:  157. of total civil wrks and equipment including engineering and land.
3/  Price Contingency:  On all costs except land.                                                                                                                          1>
.a



PHILIPPINES
PROVINCLAIM CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Tarlac Water District
Water Supplv_Construction
Cost Estimates
Total
_ _____--________----Local Costs ----------------                _-    _--------------Foreign Costs-----------------------               Costs
1977     1978      1979      1980      1981      Subtotal        1977      1978      1979      1980      1981       Subtotal
Civil Works
Wells                                                  542      847        423        _        1812           -        160        253      126        -            539                2351
Transmission and Storage                       -       906    1434        717         -       3057            -        176        279      140        -            595                3652
Distribution Mains                             -       312     318         318     476         1424           -                -         -        -                  -                1424
Internal Network                               -       215     282        282      423        1202            -          _                   _        _                               1202
Service Connections                            -       377      354        354     531         1616           -          -          -        -        -              -                1616
Operational Building                           -       294     461         230        -         985           _        299        397      199        _            895                1880
Total Civil Works                    -      2646    3696        2324    1430        10096            -       635        929      465        _           2029               12125
Equipment
Wells                                                  126      162         81        -         369                    694        850      424        -           1968                2337
Transmission and Storage                       -        49       78         39        -         166           -        113        178       89        -            380                 546
Distribution Mains                             -       165      126        126      1?19        606           -        606        552      552      828           2538                3144
Internal Network                               -        60      60         60       90          270           -        284        288      288      433           1293                1563
Service Connections                            -        20       26         26       39         111           -        569        519      519      777           2384                2495
Vehicles                                       -        44        -          -        -          44           _         66          -        -        -             66                 110
Total Equipment                            -      464      452        332      318        1566            -       2332       2387     18i2    2038           8629               10195
Total Civil Works and Equipment                -       3110   4148        2656    1748        11662           -       2967       3316    2337    2038            10658               22320
Engineering  1/                               192       166    477         305      201        1341          171       170        381      269      234           1225                2566
Subtotal                                   192     3276   4625        2961    1949        13003           171      3137       3697    2606    2272            11883               24885
Leak Detection                                 17        11       -          -        -          28           17       131           -        -        -           148                 176
Contingencies
Physical  2/                                    -       467    622         398      262        1749            -       445        497      351      306           1599                3348
Price      3/                                   -       375   1102        1112     967         3556                    371        881      979    1127            3358                6914
Total Contingencies                        -      842   1724        1510    1229         5305             -       816       1378    1330    1433            4957               T27
Land                                            -       246      -           -        -         246                                  -        -        -             -                 246
GRAND TOTAL                                   209      4375   6349        4471    3178        18582          188      4084       5075    3936    3705            16988               35570
1/   Engineering:  10% of total of civil works and equipment including 20% physical contingency provision.
2/   Physical Contingency:   20% of total civil works and equipment excluding land and engineering.
3/   Price Contingency:  On all costs except land.
e* Z



ANN1EX 5
PHILIPPINES
PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD                          Cumulative Disbursements
Fiscal Year                         at end of Quarter
and Quarter Ending                        US$ Million
1978
September 30, 1977                             o.68
December  31, 1977                             1.51
March     31, 1978                             2.73
June      30, 1978                             4.18
1979
September 30, 1978                             5.62
December  31, 1978                             7.54
March     31, 1979                             9.04
June      30, 1979                            11.38
1980
September 30, 1979                            13.29
December  31, 1979                            14.73
March     31, 1980                            15.95
June      30, 1980                            17.54
1981
September 30, 1980                            18.50
December  31, 1980                            19.73
March     31, 1981                            20.73
June      30, 1981                            21.83
1982
September 30, 1981                            22.22
December  31, 1981                            23.00
December 10, 1976



PHILIPPINES
PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
PROJECT COMPONENTS                              1977              1978               1979              1980              1981
- 1   2   31    4   1 1 2 1_3   4      1   2   3   4 1   2   3   4 1   2   3   4
A. WATER SUPPLY CONSTRUCTION
Detailed design and supervision of construction
Bidding and Contract Awards
Immediate Improvement wvorks
Pipelay ing                                                                                                                     m
Construction of Wells and Storage Tanks                                            _
Operational Buildings                                                              _
Meters and Service Connections
Pipecleaning and lining
Procurement of Vehicles
Land Acquisition
B. WATER SU/PPLY FEASIBILITY STUDIES
Master Plan Development
Preliminary Engineering
Detailed design
Review meetings
C. MANILA SEWERAGE DESIGN STUDIES
Sanitation program development
Review of past studies
Identification of Alternatives
Detailed design
Preparation of bid documents
Review meetings                                            _                                                 ,
D. TRAINING
Consultant services for training
in the design and construction                                                             mCN
of water supplies to small communities
World Bank-16854






ANNEX 7
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Existing Water Supply Systems and Sources
A. INTRODUCTION
Location
1.        All of the six project cities are situated on the Island of Luzon
and have reasonably good communication and access to Metropolitan Manila the
nation's capital. Baguio and La Union have airports and the others are up to
three hours by road. The locations of the cities are shown in IBRD Map
12542.
Historical Note
2.        Lipa water supply system is the most recent, the first development
made in 1932 and Baguio the oldest, going back to 1909. Four of the cities
having access to upland catchments, developed springs and provided gravity
supplies in the early years. In the other two, because of the high water
table shallow well supplies preceded pumped schemes. Cast iron pipes con-
veyed the water to small storage reservoirs for distribution through unmetered
service connections. Except for Lucena, there is no information on any wide
spread past use of public faucets, as these now exist only in a few places in
the other five cities. The major components of the existing systems are shown
in IBRD Maps 12543 to 12548.
3.        Recent studies made by the consultants of some 100 urban water sup-
plies show that the existing waterworks systems in most of the provincial
cities and towns of the Philippines are inadequate and unreliable. This is
also true of the six cities in the project. The waterworks facilities are
generally in rundown condition and in constant disrepair because expansion of
transmission, treatment and storage facilities made since the end of World
War II had been poorly planned and badly designed. Most water distribution
networks are old and inadequately sized with leaking pipes and service con-
nections, low pressures and marginal fire fighting capabilities. Some of the
systems suffered war damage, with structural weakening of the networks and
reservoirs. Because water must be rationed, pressures fluctuate over a wide
range and often become negative, with a constant risk of contaminated water
entering the system. The facilities are improperly operated and since the
water is seldom chlorinated it is of doubtful quality.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
B. BAGUIO WATER DISTRICT
Existing Water Supply Facilities
4.        At the time of formation of the Baguio Water District (BWD) in
July 1975, the city obtained its water supply from 18 low-capacity deep
wells, a major surface diversion from the Santo Thomas River (Hydro I com-
plex) and numerous other relatively minor springs and surface diversions.
Flow from the majority of the surface and spring sources is pumped to storage
or pumped directly into the distribution grid. In 1976, BWD initiated an
interim improvement program aimed at moderately increasing production cap-
ability, reducing power costs, upgrading disinfection methods and reducing
wastage of water through metering. Specific improvements include one new well
(Test Well No. 2) with a pumping capacity of 50.4 1/sec, replacement of most
of the existing pumping units, installation of new   chlorination units and
metering of all customer services.
5.        The water supply system includes a 3.72 ha catchment basin near the
top of Mount Santo Thomas, but leakage from the Santo Thomas impounding rese-
rvoir is so large (estimated to vary from 63-126 l/sec) that soon after the
rainy season the reservoir becomes empty. The transmission and distribution
systems include two booster stations and approximately 75 km of pipe ranging
in diameters from 25 mm (galvanized iron) to 400 mm (steel). As more than
50 percent of the mains were installed prior to World War II leakage is high
and most of these pipes require replacement.  There a5e seven distribution
storage reservoirs, with a total capacity of 18,400 m . Because of their
awkward elevations, some of the existing reservoirs are not able to function
properly and will be retired in the future. The customer service piping is
generally galvanized iron and in relatively poor condition. All the meters
are new and of acceptable quality.
6.        In summary, the principal deficiencies of the existing system are
(1) high water losses due to leaks in old distribution pipes and service
lines (2) inadequate hydraulic capacity in the primary network (3) reservoirs
located at differing elevations without established pressure zones which hin-
der efficient operation of the system and (4) inadequate source capacity.
The extent of leakage is unknown but, because of the greater pressures in the
hilly terrain, is expected to be more than in the other WDs in the project and
is probably most of the unaccounted for water, now estimated at 60%.
Pressure Zones
7.        Three pressure zones are proposed below elevation 1,355 m for
development in the future, as these areas become populated. Four presssure
zones (IV, V, VI and VII) are proposed for immediate establishment in the
populated areas above elevation 1,355 m, each zone with an appropriate



ANNEX 7
Page 3
maximum working pressure of 7 kgf/cm  1/.  Two 3,785 m reservoirs are pro-
posed for construction in the project to serve zones IV and V at the Hospital
and Camp Allen where sites are now available. Pressure zones VI and VII in
the uppermost elevations will in this phase be served by the existing reser-
voirs and direct pumping into the system. Additional storage at Upper Pacdal,
Lower Pacdal and Quezon Hill will be provided in the next phase to serve
these upper zones when suitable sites become available. During detailed
design a review will be made of the proposed pressure zones and alterna-
tives for serving these zones studied for achieving greatest economy in
capital and operating costs. The capacities and control elevations of the
existing reservoirs and proposed elevations and capacities of future reser-
voirs for serving these upper elevations are as follows:
Capa-    Control        Capacity nm3      Control    Pressure Zones
Reservoir     city    Elevation                         Elevation    Llevation
Location      m3           m       Phase I   Phase II       m             m
- -  E  .  I  S  T  I N  G  --P  R      P   S  E  D  -  -  -
BagU4o2/             1018     1525         1018        Nil                1485 to 1415
Holv Ghost Hill_/   1608      1493          Nil        Nil
Idisan2/  0/         5432     1528          Nil        Nil
Kilometer &,        7570      1560         7570       7570      1560      1550 to 1480
Upper PacdaL4/       1124     1565         1124       1892      1585      1575 to 1505
Lower Pacdal4/       -         -            -         3785      1526      1485 to 1415
Quezon hill4/         814     1548          814       9462      1526      1485 to 1415
Hospital5/            -        -           3785       3785                1425 to 1355
Camp Allen_/          833     1511         3785       3785                1425 to 1355
TOTAL          18399                 18095       30279
/ rf/cm2 = kilogram force per square centimeter.
To be retired.
3/ To be covered.
S Site to be acquired
5/ Site available.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
8.        Water production in July 1976 is estimated to Me 563,000 m and
for the period January-August 1976, to be 4.]1 million m . Total produc-
tion for 1976 is projected at 6.64 million m . As none of the sources are
metered, water production is calculated from the rated pump capacities for
wells and flow tests for gravity supplies. A list of the 26 existing sources,
dry season yields, pumping dicharge rates and operating hours for July 1976,
is given below:
Dry          Discharge        Operating
Description      Season Yield        Rate             Period
A.  Regular Use          1/sec            1/sec            hours          Remarks
Ambiong Well             31.6              25.2              0          Not operated
Amsing Well               6.9               8.2           166.4
Athletic Bowl Well        NA                3.8           403.6         To be retired
Cabinet Hill Well         7.9              12.6           364.3
Camp 8 Well              37.9              37.9           512.6      (additional 12.6 1/sec
Easter School Well       15.1               9.5           487.0            pump used at
Camp 8, in July)
Ferguson Well             8.8              10.1           536.0
Gibraltar Well            8.2               8.2           547.2
Happy Glenn Well          8.2              11.4           611.6
Harrison Well            14.2              12.6           569.2
Labsan Well              12.6              12.6           700.1
Kisad Well               NA                 0               0            To be retired
Kitma Well               15.8               0               0            Not operated
Idisan Well              NA                18.9       not operated       To be retired
Lucban Well               NA               11.4           417.4          To be retired
MRR Well                  6.3              12.6           548.0
M. Roxas Well            17.4              20.2           616.8
Pacdal Well               NA                4.4           167.9          To be retired
P. Burgos Well           NA                 7.6           694.6          To be retired
Skating Rink Well        NA                 5.0           277.7          To be retired
Teachers Camp Well       18.9              18.9           728.8
B.   Seasonal Use
Amliang Well              NA                6.3           744.0          To be retired
Buyog Spring              9.8                0              0            Not operated
Hydro I Diversion       63.0               37.8           744.0
S. Thomas Reservoir    32.6                 6.3           360.0          Leaking
Test Well No. 2          18.9.             50.4           728.0



ANNEX 7
Page ,
9.        Of these sources 8 are either uneconomical or contaminated and
will be retired and the leaking Santo Thomas reservoir repaired. The total
dry season yield of the sources that will be retained is 315.2 l/sec,
excluding Test Well No. 2 which is expected to have a standby function.
Water Resources Studies
10.       Baguio is situated on a highland plateau with elevations ranging
from 1300 to 1600 meters above sea level in the mountains of Benguet Pro-
vince. During 1975/76 James M. Montgomery (JMM), Consulting Engineers, Inc.
(US) made an evaluation of Baguio water resources as a supplement to a water
supply feasibility study made in 1973 by consulting engineers, Adrain
Wilson and JMM. The evaluation includes a field inventory of potential
sources of supply, geological investigations leading to the preparation of
a geological map, and a test well program.   A preliminary study of the city's
waste water disposal practices was also made to determine the dangers of pol-
lution to the water resources.
Waste Water Disposal
11.       Baguio city's waste water is mostly discharged into the Balili
river to the north thereby polluting the limestone aquifers (identified
as having the greatest potential for development) and also causing health
hazards to downstream users. The city has therefore recently started con-
struction of 130 1/sec sewage treatment plant estimated to cost P 50 million.
Planning of future water development can be therefore based on the assumption
that pollution of the northern aquifer would be substantially reduced.
During a review of the water resources evaluation to be made by the design
consultants for the project the economic feasbility of simultaneously developing
both the northern and southern limestone aquifers would be studied before pro-
ceeding to detailed design. (See para 17).
Hydrology
12.       The weather in the Baguio region varies between two prolonged wet
and dry seasons. The period from May through October experiences high rainfall
whereas the climatic conditions from November through April become hot and
dry. Wet season rainfall is influenced by the strong southwest monsoons
and cyclonic storms. Average annual rainfall in Baguio City during the
last 25 years has equaled 3,700 mm. Wide variations in annual rainfall have
long been observed and it is not uncommon for precipitation to exceed or
fall short of the annual figure by 200 percent.
13.       The highland plateau on which Baguio is situated has four major
drainage systems, These are the north flowing Baguio-La Trinidad Asin-Tuba
drainage systems and the south trending Bued River and Agno River drainage
systems. Th! total tributary drainage area covered by the four systems is
about 240 km . Within this area, elevations range from 600 to 2,250 meters



ANNEX 7
Page 6
above sea level. Topographic conditions vary from mild to moderate on the
plateaus to extremely rugged on the slope and ridges below.
14.       The ground water regime of the Baguio plateau consists of a complex
of several aquifers which have a combined area of about 25 km2. Five prin-
cipal zones of water bearing formations have been identified by the consul-
tants. On the plateau and within the City, two main aquifers named as the
"Shallow Aquifer" and "Baguio Aquifer" have been identified. The Shallow
Aquifer is composed of tight, fine grained alluvial materials with limited
storage and low permeability characteristics. The extent of this aquifer is
limited to the Burnham Park area within the city and La Trinidad Valley on the
outskirts. Beneath the Shallow Aquifer lies the more extensive Baguio Aquifer
occupying much of the plateau area at depths varying from 15 to 50 meters
below the ground surface. The Baguio Aquifer is composed of moderately to
strongly hardened sandstone and conglomerate beds and much of the water bear-
ing capability of this aquifer results from fracture or bedding plane permea-
bility. All but three of the existing production wells have been drilled in
the Shallow and Baguio Aquifers. Production rates of these wells vary from
less than 6 to more than 25 1/sec. This large variation has resulted pri-
marily from site location, construction methods as well as size and depth of
the wells.
15.       Three other important aquifers which are described below are located
on the flanks of the plateau to the south and west of the City have been identi-
fied. The "Camp 7 Aquifer" is found in the large canyon between Camp 7 and 8.
This aquifer is known to be at least 130 meters thick covering an area of at
least 2 sq km and consists of fine to coarse sand and sandstone interfingered
with clay and tight fine-grained material. Beneath the Camp 7 Aquifer lies a
fine grained unconsolidated sand that has been named the "Deep Aquifer". The
total thickness and extent of this aquifer has not been fully determined due
to limited subsurface exploration. In the area of exploration the aquifer
is confined and wells penetrating this zone can yield free-flowing water. A
fifth major aquifer is formed by the Mirador Limestone found in areas north-
west (in La Trinidad valley) and to the southwest of the city. The limestone
is known to have a thickness in excess of 300 meters in certain locations but
water bearing characteristics vary widely and reflect the degree of solution
weathering which the rock has undergone. The geologic investigations resulted
in a decision that test wells should be drilled in the limestone formations
found in the northern and southern areas of the city as having the greatest
potential for development. However, because the test well sites in the
northern areas in La Trinidad valley lay outside BWD limits, and the pollu-
tion of the limestone aquifer by waste water, (para 11 above) the test wells
were all drilled in the south. Of the four that were drilled two wells which
successfully penetrated the Camp 7 Aquifer and Mirador limestone proved suc-
cessful. One well (Test Well No 2) situated in Bakakeng Creek and penetra-
ting the Camp 7 Aquifer is now functioning as a production well with a pumping
capacity of 50.4 I/sec. The consultants have recommended a well field of
nine wells in this area (to meet 1985 demand) with a total capacity of 221
1/sec.



A.NNLX 7
Page 7
16.       As the aquifers are not homogenous and isotropic aquifer coef-
ficients based on the standard Theis equations have little signifiicance and
account for the big variations in the transmissivity coefficients calculated
by the consultants. The Baguio Aquifer transmissivity ranges from 7.5 to
311 cubic meters per day per meter (600 to 25,000 US gallons per day per foot)
while the Mirador Limestone varies from 12.5 and 2,140 meters per day per
meter (1,000 and 220,000 US gallons per day per foot). The direction of
groundwater movement is in the same general direction as the surface drainage
pattern, except where faulting and structural weaknesses have imposed local
disruptions in both direction and flow as in the Mirador Limestone where
high permeabilities have developed on such lines of weaknesses.
Water Balance Studies
17.       Of the sixteen drainage systems identified by the consultants in
the plateau seven were judged to have the highest potential for development
on the basis of a comparison of criteria such as type of supply, quantity
available, water quality, distance from Baguio, elevation differences, acces-
sibility, degree of difficulty in development and water rights. An attempt
was then made to study the water balance and a summary prepared for these
seven systems by computing values of drainge area characteristics, inflow to
basin, outflow from basin, potential perenial ground water yield and existing
additional ground water, to arrive at the potential additional water available.
This last amount wgs 5omputed to be highest in the north of the city in La
Trinidad 15.6 x 10 m /year. The next highest potential availability of water
wag i4  the south of the city (east o5 Test Well No. 2) below Camp 8 at 3.9 x
10 m /year, followed by 2.9 x 10 m /year at Test Well No. 2.
Design Alternatives for Water Source Development
18.       There are two design alternatives:  (1) develop the southern aquifer
to meet 1985 demand even in areas of northern Baguio (2) develop the southern
aquifer to meet demand in the southern areas and the northern aquifer in La
Trinidad valley to meet demand in the northern areas of the city. The consul-
tants have, without a cost comparison study, recommended the first alternative
because the potential well sites to the north are outside BWD limits and the
existing pollution of the aquifer by waste water in the Balili River. Before
commencing detailed design therefore, a cost comparison study will be made
between these alternatives on the basis of the latest available information.
This study will take into account the new sewage treatment facility, the recent
acquisition by BWD of three small hydropower stations, the reduction of leakage
arising from the replacement of the old network and updated demand projections.
The source development in the south of the city proposed by the consultants has
therefore been divided into two stages, the first of which is in the Phase I
project. The second stage source development would be undertaken only if the
cost comparison study justifies this course of action.



ANNEX 7
Page 8
19.       T-he source development included in the Phase I project consists
of a miiufnv of four production wells, (in a well field situated to the east
of Test WelL No. 2) with a combined capacity of 126.2 1/sec. The reduction
in source capacilty will be offset by increased effectiveness in the control of
leakage .iti significant reductions in energy costs.  The well field will
be located a-ound a ground level covered sump into which will discharge the
low head deei, well turbine pumps.  This 1140 m3 capacity sump will provide
for chloriniation and be the intake for the high head booster pumps that will
deliver the uwater to the system.
Water Demand
20.       With the completion of the Phase I project total water production
capacity will increase from 315.2 1/sec to about 441.4 1/sec. Including Test
Well No. 2 which has a standby role and a dry season yield of 50.4 1/sec the
total installed capacity will be 491.8 1/sec. Maximum day water demand is
however expected to increase to 400 I/sec in 1985. Peak hour demand will be
484 1/sec by 1983 increasing to 533 1/sec in 1985. The two 3785 m3 storage
tanks in the project, and Kilometer 8 storage tank will adequately provide for
meeting peak hour demand in pressure zones IV and V. In pressure zones VI and
VII however, on Quezon Hill and Upper Pacdal there may be some peak hour
shortages after 1982 according to the preliminary design. The proposed design
review by the consultants is expected to make recommendations on the need
for increasing storage in the Phase II Project.
21.       Because of the vacationists, maximum day demand is assumed to be
1.5 x average day demand and peak hour demand to be 2 x average day demand.
It will be seen from the water demand projections summarised below and
subject to verification of the assumptions, that there is about 28% standby
capaclty to meet maximum day demand in 1985:
Averageyroduction
Average      Max.       Peak       Installed
Year      lJO On3 /annum       Day        Day        hour       Capacity
_______-------1/sec------------------
1976          6,640           211         317        422          282.6
1977          6,910           219         329        438          282.6
1978          6,910           219         329        438          282.6
1979          6,910           219         329        438          282.6
1980          7,000           222         333        444          315.6
1981         ;7,000           222         333        444          491.8
1982          7o000           222         333        444          491.8
i983          7,630           242         363        484          491.8
1984          8,060           255         383        510          491.8
1985          8,410           266         383        533          491.8



ANNEX 7
Page 9
C. CABANATUAN WATER DISTRICT
Existing Water Supply Facilities
22.       Nine out of ten existing deep wells presently supply water to the
Cabanatuan Water District (CWD). Five of these were constructed in 1922 and
the others in 1948 and 1961. Water from these wells is pumped directly into
the distributio~ system without treatment. Their total measured discharge
rate is 5,780 m /day as detailed below:
Well No.         Pump          Daily Operating Period        Discha&ge rate
hrs                        m /day
1       15 hp vertical               24                        410
2       25 hp horizontal             24                      1,090
3       not available                -                         -
4       30 hp horizontal             24                         910
5       25 hp horizontal             24                        960
6       20 hp horizontal             24                      1,050
7       25 hp horizontal             24                        830
8       1.5 hp vertical              17                        280
9       15 hp vertical               15                        170
10       10 hp vertical               12                         80
23.       The rated capacities and heads of the pumps are not known.  Because
of the reduced o erating hours of Wells 8, 9 and 10, the daily average supply
is about 5,600 m . Wells 2 to 7 are each provided with diesel standby units
of which only two are in working order. Well No. 3 is not used because the
vertical turbine pump fell in and could not be retrieved.
24.       The distribution system has a ground level and an elevated storage
tank and covers about the same service area as the original 1922 system with
extensions made over the years mostly to the internal network. There is
some 20.6 km of piping ranging from 25 to 150 mm in diameter of which 63 per-
cent is over 50 years old and 76 percent is below 75 mm in 3diameter.  Water
is lifted 28 m from thS ground level storage tank of 300 m capacity to the
elevated tank of 380 m capacity to serve a government building and 15 pri-
vate consumers.
25.       Pressures in the system vary from zero to about 0.5 kgf/cm  1/ and
are sometimes negative making the existing 77 fire hydrants of little value
in fire fighting. These hydrants are mostly inoperable as are the 26 valves
1/   Kilogram force per square centimeter.



ANNEX 7
Page 10
in the system. Because of the prevalent low pressures leakage is estimated
to be about 10% of average water production. In October 1975, there were
4 public faucets and 452 commercial, 19 government connections and one
industrial connection of which only 395 were metered. Most of the meters
were not in good working order.
Deficiencies of the water system
26.       The existing system has many deficiencies.  Although present water
production can supply an average of approximately 260 1/cd to the presently
served population, the majority receive water only in the night because of
leakage and wastage and many of these have installed booster pumps on their
service lines. The principal deficiencies are high water losses due to
leaks in the old distribution pipes, inadequate source capacity and inade-
quate hydraulic capacity in the primary network.
27.       Most of the leaking pipes and services will be replaced under the
project on the basis of a leakage survey and the proposed full metering will
substantially reduce the leakage and wastage. The source capacity will be
increased (see para 38 below) and the hydraulic capacity of the primary net-
work will be improved with adequately sized piping in the internal network,
new main grid transmission pipelines, additional storage and the establish-
ment of pressure zones.
Pressure Zones
28.       Two pressure zones have been proposed in Cabanatuan City, the first
one to be established now for the present service area and the second to
serve high ground in the future. In the new Barrio Pangatian suburb only one
pressure zone is now proposed. The ground elevations for pressure zone I
vary from 25 to 33 m above mean sea level (MSL) and for pressure II the ground
elevations will vary from 33 to 40 m above ISL. Two storage tanks at Bantog
Bulalo and in the Poblacion, each of 1200 m capacity for pressure zone I are
proposed in the Phase I project. The economics of either postponing the
construction of these tanks to the next phase or providing additional wells
for peak demand will be studied during detailed design.
Water Resources
29.       CWD is located near the Central Plain of Luzon, a very productive
groundwater region. The Central Plain is the physiographic expression of a
large structural trough that was depressed below sea level during Tertiary
and perhaps early Quaternary times and filled to its present extent with
alluvium washed down from adjacent mountain slopes. The deepest wells in
the Cabanatuan area are about 200 m deep and penetrate only part of the
Quarternary alluvium which overlies older rocks.



ANNEX 7
Page 11
Aquif er
30.       Within the projected service area of the CWD, the Quaternary
alluvium contains a very productive artesian aquifer. The aquifer consists
of lenses of water-bearing material ranging from fine sands to gravels de-
posited in a complex and random pattern and confined by equally complex
clay lenses. In Cabanatuan the well logs indicate clay at the surface
which inhibits recharge in this area. Recharge to this aquifer is through
infiltration from direct precipitation into the exposed permeable beds and
stream channels along the edge of the foothills east of Cabanatuan. Some
recharge also appears to be from Pampanga River which flows at or above
the piezometric surface of the confined aquifer in the Cabanatuan area.
The sands and gravels of the river channel which extend through the con-
fining surface clay may provide a recharge channel. The groundwater flow
is to the southwest at a gradient of 0.001 to 0.0015 according to a report
on the "Water Resources of Central Luzon" made by the Water Resources Plan-
ning Committee. The a erage transmissivity (T) of the aquifer is estimated
in the report as 400 m /day/m and this value was adopted by the consultants
in the preliminary well designs. The T value is confirmed by data from
wells in the vicinity of Cabanatuan and also in the Tarlac area, 40 km from
Cabanatuan, where the same aquifer appears to have similar characteristics.
Wells
31.       Four of the nine CWD wells, for none of which construction or
performance data are available, produce over 10 1/sec indicating that good
wells can be constructed in this area. Data on well performance is limited
to 38 poorly constructed wells by the Bureau of Public Works (BPW) and two
wells of relatively good construction by the National Irrigation Authority
(NIA). These wells have average specific capacities of 1.3 1/sec/m and
3.9 1/sec/m respectively.
32.  3    Assuming zero recharge, average aquifer transmissivity T of
400 m /day/m average storage coefficient of 0.0001 1/ and 15 wells located
at a spacing of 1 to 2 km in the CWD service area, and each well of 30 1/sec
capacity, it is estimated by the consultants that the total drawdown in the
city center for groundwater withdrawal to meet demands up to year 1990 will
be about 53 m, and about 79 m to meet demands up to year 2000. As several
assumptions are made in the calculation, this drawdown is only indicative
and continuous monitoring of existing and future CWD, BPW and NIA wells
will be needed. If there is extensive uncontrolled development of ground-
water for irrigation around the city the drawdown could be greater. On the
other hand the groundwater regime could possibly stabilise before reaching
the above water levels. CWD should immediately apply to the National Water
Resources Commission (NWRC) for the municipal water rights for at least up
to year 2000 and thereby ensure this economical source.
1/   Assumed by the consultants after examination of aquifer material
reported in the well-logs.



ANNEX 7
Page 12
Alternative sources
33.       The principal surface water source in the vicinity of the CWD is
the Pampanga River. This river originates in the Sierra Madre Mountains
located to the east of Cabanatuan and flows in a generally southwesterly
direction, passing along the northern and western periphery of Cabanatuan and
ultimately flowing into Manila Bay. This river and its many tributaries are
the sources of a very extensive NIA irrigation system which serves the major-
ity of the agricultural land from 30 km north of Cabanatuan down to Manila
Bay, 100 km to the south of Cabanatuan.
34.       At present, there are six existing NIA diversion dams within 30 km
of Cabanatuan, and three others to be constructed in the near future. Angat
Dam and the Pantabangan Dam are the only NIA storage dams within the Pampanga
River basin at present, both of which are more than 40 km from Cabanatuan.
35.       Continuous flow records for the Pampanga River at a point approx-
imately three kilometers north of the poblacion of Cabanatuan, exist for the
period from 1964 to 1973.3 Minimum flows during this 10-year period of record
range from 1.21 million m on June 21, 1964, to zero on March 27, 1973. It
would, therefore, be necessary to construct a dam and storage facilities, and
the required transmission pipelines, with treatment and pumping facilities in
order to assure an adequate water supply to meet the future needs of CWD. A
surface water supply from the Pampanga River would therefore present a project
of relatively greater technical complexity and higher cost than the construc-
tion of deep wells.
36.       The banks of the Pampanga River may be suitable for the construc-
tion of induced infiltration wells but because of the unreliability of the
river to provide a full supply during periods of low flow such wells are of
limited value. In the future when the CWD distribution system approaches
the banks of the river, less expensive shallow infiltration wells could pro-
vide service to the adjoining areas and also minimize withdrawals from the
artesian aquifer. Meanwhile accurate information on dry season flows re-
quires to be obtained to aid future planning.
37.       Chemical analyses of samples taken from the nine existing CWD
wells and the two existing NIA wells indicate that these well waters fall
within the maximum allowable limits of the Philippine National Standards for
drinking water. Water from the projected new wells can be expected to be
equally good. The only treatment required would be chlorination to obtain
a residual of 0.02 mg/l 1/.
1/   milligrams per litre.



~A NT-X -7
Page 13
Water Demand
38.       Six wells with a total minimum production capacity of 180 1/sec are
proposed for construction i3 the project. Existing Wells Nos. 5 and 6 with
a total discharge of 2010 m /d (23 1/sec) will be retained in the system. The
water demand in the project period is as follows:
Average Pr9duction        Average     Max.       Peak      Installed
Year      Thousand m /year           Day         Day        hour      Capacity
------------------1/sec-----------------
1976           2,040                 65          78          97          67
1977           2,150                  68         82         102          67
1978           2,260                  72         86         108         127
1979           3,000                  95        114         143         287
1980           3,740                119         142         178         203
1981           4,060                128         154         193         203
1982           4,380                138         166         208         203
1983           4,730                150         180         225         203
1984           5,090                161         194         242         203
1985           5,440                172         207         258         203
39.       Maximum day and peak hour demand are assumed to be 1.2 and 1.5 times
average day demand. Existing total installed capacity is 67 I/sec. If two
new 30 1/sec wells are constructed in each year in 1978, 1979 and 1980, there
would be an immediate improvement in the service. It will be noted that
after 1981 one more well and in 1983 two more 30 1/sec wells will be needed
to provide for peak day demand. The cost of constructing 6 wells (at 1977
prices) is P 9.2 million, i.e., P 3.0 million for 2 wells. The cost of pro-
viding storage to meet this peak demand is however estimated to be P 4.5 mil-
lion. The technical and economic feasibility of achieving this saving of
P 1.5 million on the basis of revised cost estimates and including operat-
ing costs will be studied before detailed design of the project. If found
feasible the savings will be utilized in providing distribution system ex-
tensions in this fast growing city.
New Suburb in Barrio Pangatian
40.       Population from Cabanatuan will occupy this suburb situated about
9 km from the city center. In the Phase I development one well and a stor-
age tank will be constructed and distribution mains will be provided to
serve about 800 3housing lots.  The preliminary sizing of the pumps and stor-
age tank (250 m ) is based on the same criteria as for the main city scheme.
Provision is also made for additional service connections for families now
sharing water supply facilities in Cabanatuan moving into this suburb. New
standpipes provided for the lower income families will be paid for by
Cabanatuan Municipality.



ANNEX 7
Page 14
D. LIPA WATER DISTRICT
Existing Water Supply Facilities
41.       At present, a group of 14 small springs on Mt. Malepunyo about 8 km
east of Lipa and six deep wells situated within the distribution system, sup-
ply water to Lipa City Water District (LWD). The group of springs, (locally
called the Santo Nino Springs) is located at elevations estimated to range
from 400 m to 825 m on Mt. Malepunyo (summit 963 m). Water is collected in
separate concrete intake boxes which are connected by small pipes to a 6.5 km
long 125 mm diameter cast iron transmission pipeline which delivers water by
gravity to Lipa City. TStal piped flow from those springs as measured in
September 1975 was 880 m /day. Several barrios, along the route of the trans-
mission line from the spring sources, obtain their water supply from the LWD.
42.       The six deep wells within the distribution system Iere measured
in September 1975 to have a combined pumping rate of 2,090 m /day. However,
all pumps are shut down for several hou5s daily, and accordingly, actual
well production is estimated at 1,230 m /day as detailed below:
Discharge        Daily Operating
Well                                     date               period
Location              Pump                m /day                hrs.
Mataas na Lupa        15 hp Turbine             425                 21
Mataas na Lupa         15 hp Turbine            265                 21
City Hall Compound   15 hp Turbine              327                 14
Engineering Compound 15 hp Turbine              366                 14
Public Market          5 hp Submersible         483                  5
G.A. Solis Street       5 hp Submersible        225                 13
43.       The distribution system consists of 12.7 km of piping in diameters
ranging from 25 to 250 mm of which 65 percent is of galvanized steel, 75 mm
diameter or smaller and the rest is of cast iron. There are two storage
facilities, i 760 m  reinforced concrete standpipe filled by Wells No. 1 and
2 and a 40 m storage tank at the Public Market filled by Well No. 5. The
other wells pump directly into the distribution system.



ANNEX 7
Page 15
44.       Pressures in the system vary from zero in tMe higher western and
central parts of the city to an average of 2.8 kgf/cm   1/ in the Santo Nino
transmission pipeline. There are 12 known valves and 40 fire hydrants most
of which are inoperable and of little value in fire fighting. In 1975, there
were 30 public faucets along the Santo Nino transmission pipeline. Most of
these have since been closed down and several private connections given in
that area. As of August 1975, there were 638 domestic, 73 commercial and
3 institutional connections of which only 60 were metered. Most of the
meters were not in good working order.
Deficiencies of the existing system
45.       The present level of service is poor.  The majority of consumers
receive water only a few hours daily even though present water production is
around 230 1/cd. Leakage and wastage is about 65 percent of production. Pipe
carrying capacities in some pipes are seriously reduced by tuberculation.
The storage tanks are seldom cleaned and wells do not have adequate sanitary
protection. Chlorination of the water at Santo Nino Springs and the storage
tanks is intermittent and with variable dosages. Potential cross-connections
between water pipes and polluted drains are numerous and with the low system
pressures constitute a major health hazard. There are no meter and plumbing
shop facilities, and transportation, equipment and spare parts are lacking.
Water resources
46.       LWD is located on a terrace at about 310 m elevation above mean
sea level between the high mountain mass of Mount Malepunyo (and associated
peaks) to the east and Taal Lake at near sea level to the west. This high
terrace slopes gently to lower elevations both north and south from Lipa
City and drops abruptly to the west into Taal Lake. The topographic rela-
tionships are somewhat unfavorable to groundwater development through wells
because recharge is limited. The springs at Mt. Malepunyo which are closer
to Lipa are too small to have any practical application. The larger springs
that are more distant may suffer a decrease in flow with increased ground-
water development (see para 52 below). It may be concluded that the LWD for
the foreseeable future must utilize wells to exploit the underlying aquifers
to their maximum safe yield.
47.       Lipa City lies in a volcanic area.  Taal Lake, is in the crater
of a volcano that erupted recently. This volcano is still active, with
Volcano Island in the lake representing the current crater and center of
volcanic activity. The mountain complex of Mount Malepunyo, Dilanan Hill,
Mount Dalanga and Mount Mataas na Bundoc to the east is a non-active
volcanic area composed of andesitic rock of Quaternary and Late Tertiary
Age. Thirty km farther east, Mount Banahaw is classified as an active
volcano. The section between Mount Malepunyo and Taal Lake has been ex-
plored to about 160 m depth by several wells. The rocks identified in
logs are largely adobe (tuff), tuffaceous and sandstone and clay, all
2
1/   1 kgf /cm   = 10 meters head of water.



ANNEX 7
Page 16
derived from volcanic parent material. Correlation of individual rock units
from well to well is unreliable or virtually impossible, probably in part be-
cause of inconsistent logging nomenclature and lenticular and discontinuous
beds.
Aquifers
48.       The volcanic rocks of the Mount Malepunyo complex comprise an
aquifer that supplied the high springs in the eastern part of Lipa City. The
springs are numerous, but none on the Lipa City side are of large capacity.
However, infiltration in the volcanic mountains not only supplies the springs
but is a source of recharge to the sedimentary aquifers to the west. The
sedimentary aquifer system lying between the mountains and Taal Lake consists
of permeable beds separated by impermeable beds but with no continuous pat-
terns that can be recognized through a study of the available logs of exist-
ing wells. The individual aquifers accept a large amount of recharge from
the hills and mountains to the east, and discharge it in the form of springs
and seeps on the steep escarpment of Taal Lake to the west and on the gentle
slopes to the north and south. The fact that continuity of permeable zones
and impermeable zones exists from recharge area to outcrop area is evident
from a study of piezometric head levels at various depths. For example,
water can be heard falling from a higher aquifer to a lower aquifer in a
test well in Lipa City, and local drillers report that wells drilled below
60 and 90 m have much lower static water levels than shallower wells.
49.       It is rather unusual for deeper aquifers to naturally have much
lower piezometric levels than the shallower aquifers. The implications of
this situation are three-fold. Firstly, the deeper wells will require
greater pumping lifts than shallower wells. Secondly, it is undesirable to
tap two aquifers with the same well because the pumping level would be below
the upper aquifer and water would fall freely in the well bore, entraining
air. Thirdly, if a well taps two aquifers the water from the upper aquifer
will continue to cascade down the bore during non-pumping conditions and so
will deplete the upper aquifer uselessly. All wells drilled below the upper-
most aquifer must therefore be carefully sealed where they pass through
aquifers above the production zone.
Wells
50.       LWD has six operating wells with production capaciSies of 2.6 to
5.8 1/sec which can produce a total of approximately 2,091 m /day. Fernando
Air Base, four kilometers west of 3the poblacion, has eight operating wells
currently producing about 2,180 m /day. The production of the other numerous
wells in the area is not known but with one notable exception discussed below
is probably much less.
51.       The consultants studied information on 58 existing wells and
drilled one test well in Lipa City. The studied wells ranged from 21 to
162 m deep and had specific capacities varying from 0.1 to 3.6 1/sec/m. Well
construction generally is poor and so the better wells are considered more
indicative of general aquifer characteristics than the poorer ones. The



ANNEX 7
Page 17
test well was drilled in an attempt to select a design rate for water pro-
duction. The well was drilled to about 91 m with 250 mm diameter casing,
a slotted pipe screen and gravel packing. The pumping test gave a short
term specific capacity of only 0.5 1/sec/m resulting from a pumping rate of
3.8 1/sec and a drawdown of 8.1 m. Additional test pumping will therefore
be needed before detailed design. A 200 m deep well with a pumping water
level of 76 m and an exceptional production capacity of 32 1/sec was drilled
recently at a site near Fernando Air Base in Lipa. For the preliminary de-
sign the consultants have on the3basis of the limited knowledge assumed an
average well capacity of 1,350 m /day (15.8 1/sec) and that approximately
50 percent of all future wells will extend only to the shallow aquifers, with
a total depth of 100 m and that the balance will extend to a total depth of
200 m, all with a nominal casing diameter of 200 mm.
Springs
52.       The large scale development of groundwater would possibly (1) re-
duce the flow from springs and seeps in the mountains and (2) intercept the
groundwater that now flows from the mountains to the springs below Lipa near
Taal Lake. None of these springs can be economically incorporated into the
LCWD System, but the effects of the groundwater development on Santo Nino
Springs will require to be studied by regular monitoring of flows.
Taal Lake
53.       Taal Lake is a large source of surface water about 9 km distant
and situated as it is 300 m lower than Lipa City poblacion would require a
high pumping lift for its development. Taal volcano is currently active and
the water quality though now within acceptable limits may suffer a future
increase in chlorides from the 428 mg/l 1/ measured in 1975, as a result of
the ongoing volcanic activity. As desalination may be needed in the future
the lake cannot be considered to be an economic source for present develop-
ment.
Water Demand
54.       Three pressures zones are proposed for establishment in Lipa City
to serve elevations varying between 240 m and 360 m above mean sea level.  No
additional storage is proposed in the Phase I project. Three new wells are
proposed for Pressure Zone No. 1 and two each in the other pressure zones.
The Public Market well and the Santo Nino springs will be retained to also
serve Pressure Zone No. 1. The water demand in the project period is as
follows:
1/   mg/l = milligrams per litre.



ANNEX 7
Page 18
Average           Average       Maximum       Peak      Installed
Year             ProduQtion            Day           Day        Hour      Capacity
'000 m /year        ------------------1/sec--------------------
1976                740                23           28          35           34
1977                850                27           32          40           34
1978                930                29           35          44           34
1979              1,150                36           44          55           55
1980              1,360                36           44          55           72
1981              1,450                46           55          69          104
1982              1,570                50           60          75          104
1983              1,780                56           68          85          104
1984              1,980                64           75          94          104
1985              2,190                69           83         104          104
55.       Maximum day demand and peak hour demand are assumed to be 1.2 and
1.5 times average day demand. The installed capacity is the sum of total
water production from existing wells (24 1/sec) and springs (10 1/sec) up to
1979. All existing wells are expected to be phased out in 1979. From that
year the proposed six new 15.6 lps wells are expected to be phased in two at
a time. In the early years 1977-78, it will be possible only to meet average
day demand. In the later years it. may be possible to meet peak hour demand
without providing storage. This would require review as more is known about
the aquifer following additional test pumping before detailed design.
E.   LUCENA, PAGBILAO, TAYABAS WATER DISTRICT
Existing Water Supply Facilities
56.       With the exception of the development in 1972 of surface water from
the Dumaca River, Lucena, Pagbilao and Tayabas Water District (LPTWD) has
been supplied by the progressive development of the numerous springs near
Tayabas. The more important of these springs are listed below:



ANNEx /
Page 19
Approximate              Measured3
No.           Spring                      Altitude (m)         Discharge (m /day)
Existing LPTWD Sources
1          May-it                            309                   62,450
2          Lalo Grande                       345                     3,180
3          Lalo Pequeno                      370                       640
4          Ibia                              442                     3,330
5          Dapdap "A"                        350                       620
6          Dapdap "B"                        355                       550
Possible Future LPTWD Sources
7          Dapdap "C"                        345                       650
8          Dapdap "D"                        340                     1,150
9          Dapdap "E"                        340                       750
10         Dapdap "N"                        420                     1,700
11         Dapdap "S"                        400                     1,200
12         Camaysa                           445                     6,100
13         Bakulaw                           445                     1,340
14         Calantas "A"                      410                    8,700
Total         92,360
57.        LPTWD now uses only 8,450 m3 /day of the May-it spring discharge
and all of the water from the other five springs. Including the 3,370 m /day
of partially treated water from the DumIaca River facilities, current water pro-
duction is estimated to total 20,140 m /day. The spring intakes typically
consist of reinforced concrete boxes to which are attached the transmission
pipelines. The water flows by gravity to Tayabas (190 m above mean sea
level) and Lucena and Pagbilao (approximately 10 m above mean sea level).
58.        The Dumaca River source facilities consist of an intake, filter
plant and pumping station at Tongko about half way between Tayabas and
Lucena. The filtered water is lifted into an open ground level tank from
which it flows by gravity to Lucena.



ANNEX 7
Page 20
59.        The river intake consists of a short 600 mm diameter pipe which
conveys raw water by gravity direct from the river to the filter which is of
unconventional design having elements common to both rapid sand filters an
slow sand filters. hf the present rate of pump dischyge of about 3,370 m /
day is equated to the filtration rate, then te 88 m single bay filter would
have a corresponding filtration rate of 3.8 m Id/in 1/. This indicates that
the performance is closer to that of a slow sand filter. There, however,
exists a defective backwash system which consists of two open-jointed, 200 mm
pipes (without laterals) extending about 1/3 the length of the sand bed.
Backwash water is pumped from the river, and there are no waste washwater
troughs. Since the backwash system became defective, the bed has been cleaned
infrequently by stirring with a pressure hose stream. This method of cleaning
the bed taken with the absence of inlet baffling and the resulting scouring
action has caused a variation in the sand bed thickness from about 0.5 to
1.0 m. Also, fines have penetrated throughout the depth of the 750 mm filter
media, and a mud blanket varying from about 10 mm thick (inlet end) to 100 mm
thick (far end) has accumulated on top of the filter. The underdrain system
(which is not connected with the backwash system) consists of one 600 mm
perforated and open-jointed pipe without laterals and extending about 1/3 the
length of the filter in a gravel blanket. The filter media are fine sand
from a local beach. The filter can be drained by gravity only to the top of
the media. The walls of the filter and clear-water well leak. This is an
unsatisfactory source because of the poor quality of the treated water.
60.        There are two pumping units driven by 50 and 60 horsepower motors
lifting water from the clear water well to the ground level tank. One of the
two pumping units is currently operated with the discharge valve throttled
to prevent breaking suction. The effective wire-to-water efficiency of this
pumping unit is reported to be 59 percent (efficiency was reduced by 10 per-
cent by the throttled valve). Breakdown of the pumping units is frequent.
61.        Chlorine is applied at six points:  Lab  Grande Spring, Dapdap
Springs, May-it Springs, the Tongko storage facilities and the storage tank
between Tayabas and Pagbilao. The chlorine which is contained in an un-
regulated tank (with simple needle valves) passes through a rubber hose
and mixes with the water at the intake box.
62.        For lack of a suitable master plan, the present LPTWD transmis-
sion system is a complex network of multiple, interconnected mains which
vary in size from 62 to 300 mm and has a total length of about 71.5 km.
About 60 percent of the transmission mains are 150 mm or smaller in diameter
and mostly of unlined cast iron. Recent mains are of asbestos cement. The
system has three storage facilities. Two of these are located at Tongko
along the transmission mains between Tayabas and Lucena near the treatment
plant. The third is located along the transmission mains from Tayabas to
Pagbilao. The two storage tanks at Barrio Tongko are open-top ground tanks
1/ 1 m/d/m2 = 1.07 USmgad. Slow sand filters operate within a range
of 1.0 to 10 USingad.



ANNEX 7
Page 21
with rii elevations of 70 m above MSL. The smalle5 tank has a capacity of
1,300 m and the larger tank a capacity of 1,900 m . These two tanks receive
all the water pumped from the nearby Tongko filter plant and a portion of the
spring water transmitted to Lucena.  The third storage tank is a dome-covsred
ground tank on the road from Tayabas to Pagbilao with a capacity of 300 m
and an overflow elevation of 76 m above MSL. This tank receives water only
from May-it Spring.
63.        Based on the best information available, total distribution pipes
in the three communities (25.8 km) are divided into 12.5 km in Lucena, 5.5 km
in Tayabas and 7.8 km in Pagbilao. Sixty-one percent of all distribution
piping is smaller than 100 mm in diameter; 67 percent is of galvanized steel;
and 90 percent has been place for over 45 years.  Pipes 100 mm and larger in
diameter are of unlined cast iron.  Pressures in t?e Lucena distribution
system are variable ranging from zero to 2 kg f/cm  because of water ration-
ing.  In Tayabas and Pagbilao the upper end of the range is only 0.8 kg f/cm
because of inadequate distribution system piping.
64.        Information on the number and location of valves is lacking.
There are a total of 84 hydrants, of which 49 are in Lucena, 18 in Tayabas
and 17 in Pagbilao. Most hydrants are inoperable and have pressures too
low for fire-fighting. There are a total of 83 public faucets of which
19 are in Lucena, 18 in Tayabas, and 21 in Pagbilao. Twenty-five public
faucets are installed along transmission mains, mostly between Tayabas and
Lucena and between Tayabas and Pagbilao. Most of the public faucets within
the distribution systems are attached to fire hydrants. In August 1975 there
were 4,600 domestic, 656 commercial, 55 industrial and 3 institutional serv-
ice connections in the water district and only 22 connections with function-
ing meters.
Deficiencies of the existing system
65.        The design and operation of the existing LPTWD water supply
facilities are inadequate and inefficient. The masonry top of the May-it
Spring intake box is not water-tight. A cross-connection exists between the
Dapdap intake boxes and an irrigation ditch. The Dumacaa River diversion
consists of loosely scattered rocks. It has no screening, allowing debris
to enter the filter bed. The quality of treated water from the filter is
variable. Carrying capacities of most of the cast iron and galvanized steel
pipes have been seriously reduced by tuberculation. Leakage in mains and
service pipes is excessive, and repair is usually makeshift because of poor
workmanship and the lack of spare parts.
66.        Many of the public faucets are left open, wasting water continually,
and several of the valves that can be located are inoperative. Most consumers
in Pagbilao have water service only for two or three hours daily. Service is
intermittent over most of the Lucena distribution system. Many consumers
in Lucena and Pagbilao have to use booster pumps on their service lines in
order to obtain water. Several consumers have recently requested to be



ANNEX 7
Page 22
disconnected from the water system because of the unavailability of water
at their connections, even though water obtained from present supply sources
is equivalent to approximately 400 1/cd for present served population.
Consumers sometimes operate distribution valves in order to increase pressures
and water availability in their homes. Private plumbing is not regulated, and
private plumbers take unwarranted liberties in tapping the water distribu.ion
system. Potential cross-connections between water pipes and polluted water
are numerous, with many pipes which are laid in drains being subjected daily
to zero (sometimes negative) pressures.
67.        The LPTWD lacks the basic tools and equipment for proper mainte-
nance of the system. There are no stocks of materials to be used for repair.
Parts needed for repair are often taken from one part of the system to
repair another. There is only one semi-operative four-passenger jeep for
transportation. There are no meter or plumbing shop facilities. Plans of
the existing LPTWD system are incomplete and inaccurate.
Water Resources
68.        LPTWD is located on the southeast flank of a recently active
volcano, Mount Banahaw, and extends down the slope to the sea at Tayabas Bay.
This flank of Mount Banahaw is prolific in large springs, which provide
the major portion of the present LPTWD supply. Wells of small to moderate
capacity provide almost all the water for private and commercial supplies
and also for some governmental agencies and systems that do not use LPTWD
water.
Aquifers
69.        Most of the rocks underlying the LPTWD are the flows, pyroclastics
and volcanic debris that form the slope of Mount Banahaw. Inter-fingering
with these volcanic rocks are Quaternary and Late Tertiary marine and terres-
tial clastic sediments (gravels, sands and clays) which are exposed between
Pagbilao and Tayabas. A narrow coastal strip is covered by alluvium.
70.        The known and potentially good aquifers in the LPTWD areas are the
volcanics on the mountain flanks, which feed the high springs, and the sands
and gravels which supply most of the well production. The volcanic aquifer
is very productive as evidenced by the springs on Mount Banahaw, but no tests
or detailed investigations have been made to determine aquifer parameters,
and no significant records on long-term spring water flow have been kept.
Recharge from rainfall, on Mount Banahaw is significant, although it cannot
be quantified because of the lack of existing data.
Wells
71.        Numerous wells have been drilled in the LPTWD area to provide
the major water supply for residents, commercial enterprises and government
agencies not served by LPTWD. Records and data for 33 wells of varying
reliability and detail were obtained by the consultants to evaluate the
groundwater resources. The two deepest wells in the area are reportedly



ANNEX 7
Page 23
over 600 m deep and located at Pagbilao and at Lucena. Both wells are
moderately productive but the water is of undesirable chemical quality,
one of them reported to be saline. The most productive well known in the
area, with a yield of 18.9 1/sec, is 122 m deep and located at the Tongko
storage tank site. However, the water is high in iron content and the
well has been abandoned.
72.        Static water levels of two to 20 m with specific capacities
of 0.8 1/sec/m or less are common. This is low because the existing wells
are constructed with poor materials and techniques and do not tap the
entire effective aquifer. It would appear that most wells constructed
in the Lucena area, given good techniques (electric logging and gravel
packing) and materials (continuous wire-wrapped screen), should be capable
of producing 10 to 25 1/sec although care would be required to avoid pro-
ducing the saline water that seems to occur at depth. In the Pagbilao
area however wells tend to be less productive and with poor water quality.
Much more study and a test well program will therefore be necessary before
wells are considered to be a feasible alternative and even so the possibility
of need for treatment makes this less attractive than other sources.
Surface Water Sources
73.        The major surface water sources in the study area are the Dumacaa
and Iyam Rivers. The minimum flows 2of the Dumacaa River, which has an
approximate drainage area of 100 km , are currently being utilized by existing
NIA irrigatio~ projects. The lyam river, which has an approximate drainage
area of 90 km , is fed by many small tributaries having long shallow channels
and have no topographically feasible site for impoundment. The waters of
either of these rivers, if used as municipal water sources would require
treatment. When compared with groundwater sources, development of surface
water sources is considerably more costly, including the capital and annual
costs of a dam, water treatment plant and pump station. Furthermore, practical
difficulties related to conflict with potential irrigation water user rights
may be anticipated. Therefore, no further consideration is given to surface
water sources.
Spring Sources
74.        The total measured flows from the 15 major springs near Tayabas
is 92,369 m /day (see para 56) far in excess of the 1985 average demand of
13,000 m /day and more than double year 2000 LPTWD average demand of 39,100
m /day estimated by the consultants. The springs are located to the west and
northwest of Tayabas within a distance of about 5 km. Because of the good
water quality, which results in treatment economies and since there will be
no pumping with consequent energy savings, the springs present the most
economical alternative for LPTWD. Therefore, the consultants proceeded on
the study of the most economical combination of spring sources to meet long
term needs. This was done by making present worth analyses and the chosen
alternative represents the least cost solution.



ANNEX 7
Page 24
F. SAN FERNANDO (LA UNION) WATER DISTRICT
Existing Water Supply Facilities
75.        The San Fernando (La Union) Water District (LUWD) is made up of the
towns of San Fernando, San Juan, Bauang, Bacnotan and San Gabriel. The latter
three cities do not have piped water supply systems. San Fernando and San Juan
obtain their water supply by gravity from two sources. The main source, pro-
viding 90% of the total supply is a diversion dam at elevation 280 m above
mean sea level (MSL) on the Lon-oy River, about 16 km from San Juan and 10 km
east of San Gabriel   The minimum recorded flow at the dam site in the period
1954-57 was 5,100 m /day of which about 4000 m /day is diverted for use by San
Fernando and San Juan. Seven small springs at Cadaclan, some 5 to 8 km east
of San Fernindo at elevations varying from 100 to 200 m above MSL, provide
about 300 m /day for San Fernando.
76.        An 11.6 km transmission pipeline of cast iron reducing from 250 mm
to 200 mm in diameter followed by a 150 mm diameter asbestos 5ement pipe
conveys the water from the Lon-oy diversion works to a 2800 m sedimentation
tank at elevation 115 m above MSL near San Gabriel. The sedimentation tank
has alum solution mixing and feeding facilities which are used about 30 days
in a year when turbidity is high. Chlorine is applied continuously by
gravity hose to the outlet pipe.
77.        Small dams at the Cadaclan springs divert the water into galvanized
steel pipes varying from 32 to 75 mm in diameter, totaling about 12 km and
conveyging to a 3.5 km long 150 mm diameter transmission pipeline leading to a
450 m storage tank at an elevation of 59 m above MSL in San Fernando. This
tank is also connected to the San Gabriel sedimentation tank by an 18.0 km
pipeline of cast iron (300 mm and 250 mm diameter) and asbestos (200 3mm
diameter). This pipeline is also connected near San Juan to a 150 m storage
tank at elevation 66 m above MSL to serve the town. Because of a defective
self closing inlet valve this tank is bypassed by a 25 mm diameter connection
from the pipeline to the San Juan distribution system. The hydraulic gradient
at this point is 90 m above MSL.
78.        At present there are a total of 17.9 km of distribution piping -
14.6 km in San Fernando and 3.3 km in San Juan. Of this total 28% is
galvanized steel piping which has been in place for 50 years. About 25%
of the piping is below 100 mm in diameter and 22% above that size. About 7.2
km of the total 7.4 km of 100 mm pipe is of asbestos cement. Available records
indicate there are 19 fire hydrants and 22 valves in San Fernando but no fire
hydrants and 9 valves in San Juan. There are no public faucets in either
town.



ANNEX 7
Page 25
Deficiencies of the existing system
79.        The present level of service to San Fernando and San Juan is
very low mostly because of poor design and inefficient operation of the
system. About one-third of the consumers receive water only about four hours
daily. Though pressures are generally good, leakage from the system is
correspondingly high. In San Fernando some 3.2 km of new pipes were laid
in parallel to leaking older pipes, but not all of the service connections
have been transferred to the new system. Most of the valves are lost and
there are no accurate plans of the system.
80.        There are no air relief valves on some 30 peaks in the main from
Lon-oy to the San Gabriel sedimentation tank. As constructed, this main is
subject to frequent wash out and blow outs. The main below the San Gabriel
sedimentation basin operates against the high hydraulic gradient of the
San Fernando storage tank. This creates high pressure and increased leakage
along the transmission main and prevents the sedimentation basin being use-
ful for operational storage. The Lon-oy river water though mostly clear
becomes turbid following rains, but the facilities at the sedimentation
basin are inadequate to remove the temporary turbidity.
81.        The Cadaclan transmission system also operates against the
hydraulic gradient of the San Fernando storage tank. Because of leakage
and unauthorized use, little water, however, reaches the storage tank and
sometimes there is reverse flow of Lon-oy water into the Cadaclan transmis-
sion pipeline.
Water Demand
82.        On the basis of several assumptions (see Part F, Annex 8) water
production for LUWD in 1985 is calculated to be about 2.8 million m3/year
(250 1/cd) in 1985. The consultants have analyzed the water production for
the five municipalities in the project for 1985, 1990 and 2000 as follows:



ANNEX 7
Page 26
Average            Maximum           Peak-hour
Year           City               Daily Demand         Daily Demand /1    Demand   /2
---------------- m /day--------------------
1985       San Fernando              5,600                 6,700             9,800
San Juan                    460                  550               700
Bauang                    1,060                 1,300            1,900
Bacnotan                    470                   600              800
San Gabriel                 160                  200               300
Total         7,750                 9,350           13,500
1990       San Fernando              8,700                10,400           15,000
San Juan                    900                1,100             1,400
Bauang                    2,400                2,900             4,200
Bacnotan                    800                1,000             1,200
San Gabriel                 300                  400               500
Total        13,100               15,800            22,300
2000       San Fernando             17,400                20,900           30,500
San Juan                  2,600                3,100             3,900
Bauang                    5,800                7,000            10,200
Bacnotan                  2,600                3,100             3,900
San Gabriel                 900                1,100             1,400
Total        29,300               35,200            49,900
/1   Maximum daily demand is the maximum demand occurring on any day
during the year.  Maximum daily demand is assumed to be 120 percent
of average daily demand.
/2   Peak-hour demand is the highest demand for any hour period during
the year. The peak-hour demand is assumed to be 175 percent of average
daily demand in San Fernando and Bauang and 150 percent of average
daily demand in San Juan, Bacnotan and San Gabriel.
83.       The consultants design criteria on the growth of these municipalities
may be overstated. Peak hour demand in San Fernando is unlikely to be 175
percent of average day demand and may be nearer to 150 percent, as most of the
hotels likely to impose this demand are away from the poblacion and have their
own service tanks. The general economy of the area does not support the
findings that with improves service even if average annual water demand may
double, from 1.4 million m to 2.8 million m from 1976 to 195 it appears
unlikely that it would again increase by 70% to 4.8 million m into 1990. For
the purposes of the preliminary engineering studies it is therefore proposed
to design the system mostly to provide water to San Fernando and the resort



ANNEX 7
Page 27
area between San Fernando and Bauang. Though extensions will be made in the
other municipalities, peak hour demand will be met up to about 1983. After
that year, additional source development and some improvements in transmission
and storage may be needed to serve San Fernando, if the demand as now projected
comes about. (see para 94 below).
Water Resources
84.        The low lying coastal areas of La Union are covered with recent
alluvium and beach deposits including coralline limestone. Exposed in the
hills near the shore and buried beneath the recent deposits are Quaternary
to Late Tertiary clays, sands and tuffs. At greater depth, and exposed
in mountains farther from shore, are older Tertiary marine sediments over-
lying a basement complex of Early Tertiary to Late Cretaceous intrusives
and metamorphosed volcanics.
Wells
85.        Bacnotan, San Gabriel and Bauang, at present, are almost entirely
dependent on shallow well water; so are most of the residents of San Juan
and San Fernando. In those cases where the aquifer is good (frequently
coralline limestone), water salinity is a problem. If good water can be
obtained from an upper zone in the aquifer, production must be strictly
limited to avoid intrusion of underlying saline water. The sand aquifers
generally seem limited in transmissivity and the large drawdowns associated
with high production rates would encourage saline intrusion. Thus, the
coastal areas do not appear favorable for providing a large-scale groundwater
source for LUWD. In the hills inland of the coast, aquifers are poor and
large-capacity wells suitable for municipal use are also unlikely to be
found. However, several of the larger rivers appear to have suitable gravels
and sands in their channels for the construction of relatively large-
capacity induced infiltration wells.
86.        The channels of the Naguilian and Bauang Rivers at Barrio Namating,
about 2 km east of Bauang, appear to be suitable for induced infiltration
wells. The channel of the Baroro River from San Gabriel to about 5 km down
stream also appears to be suitable for such wells. Three test wells were
drilled by the consultants in these river channels to determine preliminary
aquifer coefficients. The test-well in the Naguilian River channel encoun-
tered clay below 9.1 m depth and was therefore abandoned. The test well in
the Bauang River drilled about 3 km east of Bauang, however, encountered
sands and gravels with some clay throughout to a depth of 30.5 m. A 150 mm
diameter slotted-pipe screen was placed in a sand and gravel section from
22.3 to 27.8 m depth. A 50 mm diameter observation well was drilled 20 m
away to a depth of 27.0 m and screened from 24.3 to 26.4 m. The test pumping
equipment was erratic and the drawdown curve for the well shows large varia-
tions wherever the 19.6 1/sec pumping rate of the flow of the pump was
adjusted, about 5 minutes and 15 minutes after the commencement of the test.
Three more such adjustments were made before the pumping water level stabi-
lized at a drawdown of about 10.8 m after about 1000 minutes. Though water



ANNEX 7
Page 28
levels were taken after pumping stopped about 2 days from commencement,
almost full recovery took place in the first minute and therefore made
Lransmissivity calculations infeasible.  After full recovery from the test
another short pumping test of 25 minutes achieved the same drawdown in about
10 minutes. The observation well drawdow-n curve shows no effect for about 200
minutes but slowly rises about 10 cm, over the pumping period.  No river water
levels were kept, but it is presumed that this rise was caused by a rise in
the river water level. It is, however, clear that there is no hydraulic
connection between the observation well and the pumping well. The specific
capacity of the well after two days of pumping at 19.5 1/sec was 1.8 1/sec/
mieter. A maximum safe pumping rate for this well proposed ay the consultants
is a little more than the test rate, 23.1 I/sec (or 2,000 m /day) with a
pumping level of about 18 m below ground level and four meters above the top
of the screen.
37.        On the basis of this experience and since induced infiltration
Wells are found to be the most economic alternative, the consultants propose a
production well drilling program near the existing test well in Ba ang River
with the expectation that one out of three may not meet the 2000 m /day test
pumping rate standard.  However, with better drilling and development tech-
niques and screen. than those used for the test wells, and 3a design improved
through local experience, higher pumping rates than 2000 m /day may be
achieved.
88.        The test well on the bank of the Baroro River drilled about one
kilometer from San Gabriel encountered an upper section of fine to coarse
sand down to a depth of 6 m, a sandy clay section from 6 m to 24 m, and
another section of fine to coarse sand from 24 m to 36.6 m.  Approximately
9 m of the 200 mm diameter perforated casing was installed in the lower sand
section from 26 to 35 m. A 50 mm diameter observation well was constructed
approximately 15 rm downstream of the test well, on a line parallel to the edge
of the river, intercepting essentially the same strata encountered by the test
well. The drawdown test was made with a pumping rate of 12.6 1/sec for 48
hours with water levels taken during this period and for 17 hours during
tihe recovery. The decrease in the slope of the drawdown curve after 5 to 6
minutes of pumping generally shows recharge from the river. After pumping
stopped the well recovered to within 0.33 in of the original water level in one
nminute and almost to the original level in 10 minutes, making a calculation
of transmissivity from the recovery test curve infeasible.  Assuming that the
aquifer is homogeneous and ignoring boundary conditions the consultants have
calculated iransmissivitv on the basis of the drawdown test to be between
26 and 59 m /day/m.  The observation well had a drawdown of only 0.14 m in the
First day of pumping in creasing, to 0.24 ID at the end of the second day with
a correspondingly insignificant recovery of 0.01 m over 1000 minutes. This
indicates that (as in the case of the Bauang River test well) that there is
no hydraulic connection between the observation well and the pumping well and
Jakes the assumption of homogenity rather doubtful.



ANNEX 7
Page 29
89.        The specific capacity of the well after 48 hours of pumping at a
rate of 12.6 1/sec was found to be 0.85 1/sec/m. The consultants propose a
design pumping rate for this well to be approximately 60 percent of the test
rate, 20.5 l/sec or 1,800 m /day, with the pumping water level near the top of
the screened section. As the conditions here are generally similar to those
in the Bauang River test-well the consultants recommend similar development
techniques as discussed above. The water quality in the test wells is within
acceptable standards. There is danger of industrial pollution of the Bauang
River from the chemical factory a few miles upstream, and assurances should
be obtained by LUWD and LWUA from NWRC that this would be closely controlled.
Surface Water Sources
90.        The LUWD contains several streams flowing into the China Sea,
generally in a westerly direction. Among these, the two major rivers, the
Bauang to the south and Baroro, flowing past San Gabriel to the north can be
considered to be potential water supply sources for the LUWD.
Bauang River. The two major tributaries of the Bauang River are the
Naguilian and Ribusan Rivers. The Naguilian River flows have been
measured at a gauging station, located near Barrio Mamating2 The drain-
age area of the river at the gaging station is about 304 km 3 The
minimum recorded flow from 1947 to 1972 was about 130,000 m /day. This
minimum river flow is substantially greater than the projected maximum
daily demand (35,100 m /day) for LUWD service area in the year 2000.
Baroro River. The Baroro river flows have been measured since 1958
at a gauging station located near Barrio Cabaroan in the municipality
of San Juan. There are two irrigation diversion dams near San Gabriel
poblacion, upstream of the gauging station. The recorded minimum stream
flow at this station is 1,700 m /day. Because of the existing irrigation
diversions, most of this minimum flow can be attributed to the Cabassitan
River, a major tributary, which joins the Baroro River main channel about
one kilometer downstream of San Gabriel Poblacion. The Lon-oy water
intake is located about 16 km upstream from the gaging station at
Cabaroan, on the spring-fed main tributary. If it is technically and
economically feasible to develop the Lon-oy source the 4,000 m /day
g5avity supply could meet the estimated 1985 peak hour demand of 1,800
m /day by San Juan, San Gabriel and Bacnotan and in the interim supple-
ment San Fernanio water supply. The Baroro river, with a minimum flow
of only 1,700 m /day at San Gabriel may be considered as a further
supplementary source with an induced3infiltration well scheme to increase
the supply from the north to 5,800 m /day and after supplying San Juan,
San Gabriel and Bacnotan meet up to 40 percent of San Fernando's peak
hour demand in 1985.



ANNEX 7
Page 30
Springs. The existing Lon-oy source, although locally referred to
as a "spring", is actually a surface water source.  Field investiga-
tions of the headwaters of the Baroro River up to about 3 km upstream
from Barrio Lon-oy were carried out to locate major springs which
could be tapped directly at the source, with the possibility of
eliminating extensive treatment works required for surface water.
Several spring fed tributaries, passing through rugged terrain,
were observed, but no single major spring outlet was located. The
stream flow was a combination of complex and more or less uniformly
distributed seepages along the steep slopes of the river canyon.
Consequently, the Lon-oy in which turbidity increases after rain
must be categorized as a surface water source - requiring improved
intake facilities, a reliable transmission pipeline and better
treatment than now existing. The technical and economic feasibility
of developing this source will require study before detailed design.
The Cadaclan source of the old San Fernando system also consists of
several spring-fed streams formed in a similar manner as the Lon-oy
Sprins. The total measured yield of the Cadaclan source of about
300 m /day is too small to be considered in a long-term water supply
plan.
Water Supply Development Alternatives
91.        The consultants studied a number of alternatives for the devel-
opment of the water resources for meeting LUWD long-term demand and have
recommeVded the construction of 3 induced infiltration wells each of
1,000 m /day capacity in the Baroro River channel as part of the least cost
solution. One alternative not considered in detail is the feasibility
of retaining and improving the existing Lon-oy-San Gabriel gravity scheme,
if not for the long term, at least to meet 1985 needs and until the
induced infiltration well scheme is fully developed.
92.        According to local information obtained in September 1976, water
from the Lon-oy source was turbid for only 28 days in the previous 12
months. One possibility for removing this turbidity could be She construc-
cion of two 1,000 m 1/ slow sand filters to treat the 4,000 m day discharge.
A technical and economic analysis of this alternative compared with pumping
the same quantity from out of induced infiltration wells as recommended
by the consultants will be made before de tailed design. The appraisal
report is based on the assumption that the Lon-oy source will be retained
up to 1985.
93.        For the Baulng source development, 5 wells each of 2,000 m /day
capacity and a 2,000 m storage tank were proposed by the consultants for the
Phase I project. However, because the demand projections are based on
assumptions which can only be verified with time, the number of wells are
reduced to 3 and the storage postponed to the future. A corresponding
reduction is made in the sizing of the transmission pipelines. The effect
of this reduction would be to advance construction of the next phase project
from 1985 to about 1983, if the consultants demand projections are found
1/   1,000 m2 = 1/4 acre; assumed filtration rate of 4US mgd/acre.



ANMiEll 2
Page 31
to be correct. This alternative of changing the staging of the project based
on a more careful study of water demand projections could not be undertaken by
the consultants because of insufficient data at the time the studies were
made. More information, especially on individual consumption patterns will be
available at the time of detailed design and with additional field work on the
distribution of demand between Bauang and San Fernando and redesign if needed
of the long transmission pipeline between these places. The economic feasi-
bility of developing fully the closer Baroro source before the more distant
Bauang source will also be studied.
94.        Assuming peak hour demand to be 1.5 times average day for the whole
water district the 1983 peak hour demand and source capacities will be as
follows:
Source              Baroro-Lon Noy         auang      Total        Remarks
in___--_-------- m /day ---------------------
Demand Center
San Fernando           1,900              4,700       6,600       1983 demand
Bauang                    -               1,300       1,300            "
San Juan                 600                -           600           "i
Bacnotan                 500                            500            t
San Gabriel              200                            2 200          "
Total Demand          3,200              6,000       9,200        No storage
Source Capacity        4,000              6,000      10,000        No standby
95.        It is also assumed that the Lon-Noy supply will be retained and
though provision is made for three wells in Baroro river to supply water in
periods of high turbidity these would be replaced by slow sand filters if
the latter are to be found technically and economically feasible.
96.        To meet 1985 peak hour demand, storage and or standby capacity
with extensions to the internal network will be required only if projected
growth as confirmed by the upcoming 1980 census and the response to the
Phase I project indicates this need.



ANNEX 7
Page 32
G. TARLAC WATER DISTRICT
Existing Water Supply Facilities
97.        Five out of seven existing deep wells supplied water to the Tarlac
Water District (TWD) in 1975. Three of these were constructed in 1928
and the others between 1962 and 1972. One of the two wells that were not in
use was abandoned because of pollution and the other because of various
operatignal problems. The total measured discharge from the wells was
1,575 m /day as shown below.
Motor                   3
Well No.   Depth      Horsepower    Discharge, m /day         Remarks
1         183           20             212
2         183           10             295
3         153            -              -                  Polluted
4         183           20             557
5          -             -              -                  Out of Order
6         140           10             284
7         122           20             227
98.        As part of the early action program, TWD proposes rehabilitating
the two unused wells in order to improve the water supply. A reinforced
concrete elevated tank adjacent to important government offices was3installed
in 1928 as part of the original system. It has a capacity of 380 m and
overflow elevation of about 72 m above mean sea level. This tank being well
above the operating hydraulic gradient, is valved off from the distribution
system. It is filled by Wells Nos. I and 2 and provides water to nearby
government offices. A diesel-driven booster pump located at the base of the
tank, has been long abandoned.
99.        The distribution system is at present, divided by valve closures
into five service areas: the "old system", the "new system", the area fed by
Well No. 7, the area fed by Well No. 6, and those government offices supplied
by the elevated tank. The majority of TCWD consumers are connected to the
"old system", which is essentially the original 1928 system less some
abandoned pipelines in the downtown area, and less those sections now isolated
and served by Wells Nos. 6 and 7. Wells Nos. 1 and 2 supply water to the "old
system", only between about 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. During the approximately eight
hours when water is provided, except in the immediate vicinity of the wells,
pressures are zero or negative. Consumers use pumps (hand or electric) on
their service lines to obtain water. The "new system" serves the second
largest group of consumers, including many commercial establishments. It
consists of a stretch of 100-mm diameter pipeline laid in 1968 from the
elevated tank along the river in the downtown area. Well No. 4 is now iso-
lated to serve this are on a 24-hour basis. Distribution pressures range
from zero to 0.8 kgf/cm , and water is generally available. Wells Nos. 6 and
7 serve short segments of 75 mm pipe on San Vicente Road and Camp Makabulos
where pressures are very low, but water is generally available.



ANNEX 7
Page 33
100.       There is approximately 19 km of distribution piping in the system.
Seventy percent (70%) of the piping is 75 mm or smaller diameter GS pipes
which have been in place for almost 50 years, and the rest is cast iron pipe
of diameters ranging from 100 mm to 200 mm.
Deficiencies of the Water System
101.       The TWD water system has many deficiencies similar to those in the
neighboring CWD. The majority of consumers receive water only a few hours
daily. Many consumers have been disconnected, and several blocks of distribu-
tion main have been abandoned, because of water shortage. Fire-fighting
capabilities are practically non-existent. The above is true even though
present water production is equivalent to approximately 309 1/cd for the
presently served population.
102.       System design and operation are inefficient.  Small-diameter
discharge pipes on Wells Nos. 4 and 6 greatly reduce production from those
wells. The elevated tank is filled from an overhead line which requires a
relatively higher hydraulic grade line in the system. Wells Nos. 1 and 2.
which are the only sources of water for the majority of consumers, are
valved off from the distribution system for some 16 hours daily to fill the
elevated tank, which in turn is valved off from the distribution system.
This occurs even though there is sufficient existing well capacity to refill
the tank during minimum-use night hours. Potential cross-connections between
water pipes and polluted water are numerous, with many pipes (often with under
zero or negative pressures) laid in drains. The elevated tank is seldom
cleaned, wells do not have adequate sanitary protection and the water supply
receives no treatment. There are no water quality laboratory facilities,
and no routine water sampling and testing program. Some consumers have
complained of "foul" water.  There is a shortage of equipment, tools and
spare parts. The district has no motor vehicle for transportation. There
are no plumbing and meter shop facilities.
Pressure Zones
103.       The greater part of the water district lies at ground elevations
of 30 m to 50 m above mean sea level with only the area southwest of Tarlac
between the National Road and the Tarlac River ranging from 50 m to 70 m.
The area lower than the 50 m contour with the highest water demand, can be
served from an hydraulic grade line (HGL) of 70 m. The area above the 50 m
contour can be served from an HGL of 90 m. By designating two pressure
zones, the water district could reduce the pumping heads over the area with
the highest water demand and thereby reduce operating costs. This preliminary
conclusion by the consultants requires to be reviewed on the basis of an eco-
nomic comparison between providing storage and/or drilling additional wells
to meet peak hour demand. The comparison will be made at the time of detailed
design.
Water Resources
104.       The TWD is located on the western edge of the Central Plain of
Luzon and the present service area, as well as almost all of the projected



ANNEX 7
Page 34
service area, lies in a very productive groundwater region. Wells are almost
universally used for municipal, private and industrial water supply and are
also currently used in a large-scale private irrigation project (Tarlac
Development Corporation's Luisita Project). Wells are also being studied as
potential sources for a very large-scale National Irrigation Administration
(NIA) project to supplement surface water. The Central Plain of Luzon is the
physiographic expression of a large structural trough separating the Zambales
Mountains to the west from the Sierra Madres to the east. This trough was
depressed below sea level during late Tertiary and perhaps early Quaternary
times. The trough was filled to its present extent with material washed down
from the mountain slopes and deposited in the form of fan and deltaic deposits,
and later, flood plain deposits. The deepest wells in the Tarlac area are
about 300 m deep and penetrate only part of the Quarternary alluvium.
Aquifer
105.       Tarlac and Cabanatuan obtain their water supplies from the same
aquifer system, which is described in paragraph 30 above. There are 13 NIA
wells and 10 Luisita project wells for which reliable specific capacity data
are available. The specific capacities of these 23 wells average 3.85 1/sec/m
and the storage coefficient for one of the NIA tests wells is reported3to be
0.0000826. From this data, an average aquifer transmissivity of 450 m /day/m
and storage coefficient of about 0.0001 (a typical artesian aquifer figure)
has been assumed by the consultants. Though this is adequate for the pre-
liminary engineering studies, actual well design should be based upon test
pumping and good well development. As the aquifer is not homogeneous and
isotropic the aquifer coefficients assumed by the consultants are only
indicative. This is confirmed by the variation in specific capacities
of wells near the Tarlac poblacion being below 4.0 1/sec/m as compared with
wells outside the poblacion.
Wells
106.       A general design for an efficient production well for Tarlac has
been developed by the consultants from available data. For the greatest effi-
ciency, so as to avoid excessive drawdown and minimize costs, it is recommended
that these wells are drilled to Lhe NIA standards. For the same reasons, all
stratigraphic zones that are indicated to be productive by electric and stra-
tigraphic logs should be screened because in an anisotropic aquifer such as
in Tarlac, the specific capacity will increase greatly as the percentage
of total permeable screened section increases. It is anticipated that such
wells should produce 44 1/sec at between 10 and 30 m of initial drawdown in
the area near Tarlac poblacion and other areas where the specific capacity of
existing wells is indicated as poor (less than 4.0 1/sec/m). These same
wells should produce 63 I/sec at between 10 and 15 m of initial drawdown in
the areas where specific capacity of wells is indicated as good (over 4.0
1/sec/m).
107.       A well situated near the river bank encountered seven meters of
sand at the surface, and therefore induced infiltration wells along the Tarlac
River as a feasible alternative was also considered. However, the NIA diverts



ANNEX 7
Page 35
the total flow of the river at a site far above Tarlac for irrigation use
for several months each year. This renders induced infiltration wells
impractical. The recommended drilling program consists of four production
wells of 44 1/sec capacity spaced one to two kilometers apart in the
existing TWD service area. These wells should be pumped intensively for
several years and the aquifer response monitored. The data can then be
interpreted to serve as a guide to further development of the well system
which probably will consist of 44 and 63 1/sec wells spaced about two
kilometers apart.
108.       Each production well should have facilities for measuring quantity
of production or rate of production, times of operation, and water levels.
Routine monthly observations of static and pumping water levels should be
recorded and daily records of pumping be kept. Water samples should be
collected for bacterial analysis monthly and for chemical analysis annually.
It would also be desirable to monitor static water levels in several obser-
vation wells located within the area spanned by TWD wells but far enough
from any well to minimize local drawdown effects. Similar routine static
water level measurements should be made in observation wells surrounding
the well field at a distance.
109.       The water that would be produced from new TWD deep wells is
expected to be satisfactory in all respects except possibly for marginal
iron content. There has been no complaint recorded in the water district
about the iron content at the present levels. Complaints about "brown
water" are usually due to corrosion in the existing unlined cast iron or
steel pipelines.
Water Demand
110.       Two of the elisting five deep wells, Wells Nos. 4 and 6 with a
total capacity of 840 m /day (9.7 1/sec) are proposed for standby duty. The
total installed capacity on completion of the four 44 1/sec wells will there-
fore be about 186 I/sec. As can be seen from the table of water demand up
to 1985 summarized below, the wells should be able to meet peak hour demand
up to 1983 without any storage. Before detailed design the economic feasi-
bility of postponing or entirely doing away with storage will be examined.



ANNEX 7
Page 36
Average P5oduction                                                  Installed
Year       '000 m /annum       Average Day   Maximum Day    Peak Hour  Capacity
-------------- Demand 1/sec --------------------
1976             700                 22             27             33          18
1977             770                 24             29             37         26
1978             820                 26             31              39        26
1979           1,450                 46             55              69        54
1980           2,210                 70             84            105         98
1981           2,810                 89            107            134        186
1982           3,430                109            131             163       186
1983           3,910                124            148            185        186
1984           4,380                139            167            208        186
1985           4,850                154            184            231        186



ANNEX 8
rage L
PHILIPPINES
PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Population and Water Demand Projections
A. INTRODUCTION
Population
1.        The Master Plans for the six cities have population and water demand
projections up to the year 2000. Past population trends were calculated from
the 1948, 1960 and 1970 national census data for all of the barrios (political
subdivisions) in the present service areas of each Water District (WD).
Future service areas have been defined by the WDs with the help of the consul-
tants on the basis of available information on land use and urban planning
data for the years 1990 and 2000.
2.        On the basis of past population trends, future growth rates have been
assumed according to the particular circumstances of each WD. Because of in-
sufficient local data, high and low growth assumptions were not possible.
The main assumption made in the consultants' projections for most of the WDs
is that growth rates from 1970 to 1980 will be about the same as in the pre-
vious 10 years after which there will be a small decline. In the previous
10 years the country as a whole had a high annual growth rate of about 3% - a
result of high fertility and low mortality - but the growth rate in the pro-
vinces were even higher. As the on-going national family planning programs
will take longer in gaining acceptance in the provinces where literacy is low,
the conservative assumption made by the consultants is acceptable for planning
purposes. Each WD has a somewhat different population pattern, e.g, Baguio
and La Union have transient populations in the summer months and Tarlac had a
growth rate of only 2.5% in recent years.
Water Demand
3.        With the exception of Baguio most of the other WDs were only par-
tially metered at the time the consultants made the feasibility study. The
accuracy of the meters and the meter readings in all of the WDs is very low.
For example, in Cabanatuan3an analysis of 360 metered domestic Sonnections
gave a consumption of 33 m /month/connection compared with 23 m /month in the
neighboring city of Tarlac having similar distribution system pressures and
socio-economic conditions. Similar difficulties were met in the other WDs in
the project in the collection of reliable data. As the project provides for
extending piped water service to the lower income groups only modest increases
in water consumption are anticipated. The consultants' assumptions will be
reviewed after project completion and during the annual rate reviews discussed
in para 6.15 of the appraisal report.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
4.        In the last few months all the WDs have started on a program for
replacing defective meters and the installation of new meters with the objec-
tive of full metering of all service connections. By the time of the start
of detailed design in early 1977 this program should be well advanced in most
of the WDs and the design consultants will have more accurate information for
revising the demand projections.
B. BAGUIO WATER DISTRICT
Service Area
5.        Baguio City covers an area of approximately 4900 ha of which half is
developed. Within the city boundaries Baguio Water District (BWD) presently
serves an area of about 1,900 ha including the central business district
(poblacion) and portions of 12 adjacent barrios. The project will provide
improvements and extensions to the present service area. For the long term
the service area is expected to increase in size to about 2,200 ha by 1990
and 2,600 ha by the year 2000.
Population Projections
6.        The resident population in Baguio City increased at the rate of 4.6%
between 1948 and 160 and 5.3% between 1960 and 1970. The city carried out a
census in 1975 and found that because of the slow down in the economy the
growth rate in that period was only 2.6%. It is now expected that with the
improving economic situation the high growth will be resumed between 1975 and
1980 at 4.5%, which is somewhat less than the 5.3% experienced in the past
decade. After 1980 the growth rate is expected to further decline to about
3.9%.
7.        In addition to the "permanent" resident population there is a
"'transient" (floating) population of students and summer vacationists.
Education is a major industry in Baguio and during the 9 months school year
the student population according to the 1970 census, was almost 28% of the
total population living in city. During the summer months about half of
this student population leaves the city to be replaced by vacationists. In
the peak of the summer holiday season of 1970, vacationists were estimated to
be 30% of the total population living in city. The statistics on vacationists
are however unreliable as only an annual total count of people entering the
city is kept and the consultants had to make several assumptions in estimating
the peak numbers. Projections of future student populations and vacationists
assume a growth rate of 3% which is the same as the national growth rate.
Population Served
8.        In 1970 only about 82% of the permanent resident population in the
city lived within the BWD service area. By 1985 this is projected to in-
crease to 88%. The population served is calculated on the basis of surveys
made of typical households and is expected to reduce from 8.2 persons per
connection in 1976 to 7.5 persons per connection in 1985.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
9.        The population projections are as follows:
City        BWD       Population    Student                      Service
Year  Population  Population    Served    Population  Vacationists  Connections
1970    84,500       69,300        50,000      23,500         39,800         NA
1975    96,200       79,900        52,000      27,200         80,500         NA
1976   100,600       83,900        55,800      28,000         82,900       6,800
1977   105,100       88,100        58,600      28,900         85,400        7,150
1978   109,900       92,500        64,000      29,700         87,900        7,800
1979   114,800       97,100        73,200      30,600         90,600       9,140
1980   120,000      102,000        81,400      31,600         93,300      10,430
1981   124,600      106,700        85,500      32,500         96,100      11,100
1982   129,400      111,600        89,900      33,500         99,000      11,830
1983   134,000      116,700        95,700      34,500        102,000      12,590
1984   139,600      122,000       101,600      35,500        105,000      13,370
1985   145,000      127,600       106,000      36,600        108,200      14,140
Water Consumption
10.       With the gradual implementation of the metering program in Baguio,
accuracy of the statistics on water consumption is constantly being improved.
Based on recent surveys the consultants estimated average resident domestic
consumption to be 98.7 1/cd. The mission, however, found that with new infor-
mation from the metering program and recent calibrations of the discharge
from tubewells this to be about 71 1/cd, significantly lower than average
consumption in the other cities in the project and is attributed to Baguio's
much cooler climate and higher rainfall. Transient students and vacationists
are estimated to consume one-third less, 46 1/cd.
11.       Following the completion of an early action program in 1977 there is
expected to be a sharp increase in permanent domestic consumption to 81 1/cd
followed by smaller increases until 1981, to 90 1/cd when the project becomes
operational and then to 110 1/cd by 1985. Transient domestic consumption is
expected to increase to 56 1/cd over these years. Commercial, industrial and
institutional consumption including wholesale by BWD is estimated at 25% of
domestic consumption throughout the project period.
Unaccounted for Water
12.       Unaccounted for water is now a high 60%.  Some of this is because
of poor management in meter reading and possibly unmetered usage. Most of
it is due to losses from the long transmission pipeline and the distribution
network caused by the high pressures due to the extreme variations in eleva-
tion in the city. Because of the great age of the network (see Annex 7,
Section B) and the frequency of burst pipes, an estimation of the leakage
through a survey was not considered necessary by the consultants, who have
recommended replacing most of the old pipes. It is assumed that unccounted
for water will be reduced by half by about 1982 and to one quarter by 1985.
As about one-third of the project cost is in the replacement of old pipelines,



ANNEX 8
Page 4
this is a reasonable assumption. Water sales and new connections are ex-
pected to increase, as more water becomes available for consumption through
the savings in unaccounted for water.
Water Production
13.       Average 3annual production from the existing facilities is estimated
at 6.64 million m /year. With the compleSion of the early action program this
is expected to increase to 6.91 million m /year in 1977 but with no further
significant increases thersafter until 1980 when the new3project will provide
increases to 7.0 million m /year going to 8.41 million m /year in 1985. Aver-
age water consumption and production statistics are summarized below:
Institutional             Average                     Average
Commercial              Consumption                 Production
Do9estic    Induitrial    ToSal       Thsusand        %          Thsusand
Year    m /d           m /d         m /d       m /year   Unaccounted    m /year
1976    6,330           990        7,320       2,670          60           6,640
1977    7,500         1,190        8,690       3,170          54           6,910
1978    8,090         1,310        9,400       3,430          50           6,910
1979    8,920         1,500       10,420       3,800          45           6,910
1980    9,850         1,710       11,560       4,220          40           7,000
1981   10,580         1,840       12,410       4,530          35           7,000
1982   11,410         2,020       13,430       4,900          30           7,000
1983   12,420         2,250       14,670       5,350          30           7,630
1984   13,620         2,490       16,110       5,880          27           8,060
1985   14,580         2,700       17,280       6,310          25           8,410
C. CABANATUAN WATER DISTRICT
Service Area
14.       Cabanatuan City covers an area of 19,300 ha of which only 388 ha is
densely populated and lies within the present service area of the Cabanatuan
Water District (CWD). However, the consultants project population densities
in the present service area increasing by 1990 from the 1970 census figure of
140 persons/ha to 220/ha with an average population density of 98 persons/ha
in the larger 1990 service area. The Phase I project will provide improve-
ments to the present service area and extensions to meet 1985 needs. CWD
will also provide water supply facilities for low and middle income housing in
a proposed new suburb to Cabanatuan in the Barrio of Pangatian. By year 1990,
the CWD service area is expected to grow to over 1,250 ha with a population
of above 123,300. The served population is expected to increase from 25% in
1970 to about 70% in 1985 in these areas.



ANNEX 8
1-age r
Population
15.       Nueva Ecija Province had a 1970 population of 851,294 and an annual
growth rate over 1960-70 of 3.3%, somewhat higher than the national growth
rate of 3%. Cabanatuan City the former capital of the province had a growth
rate of 3.6% in this period and a 1970 population of 99,890 or 12% of that of
the Province. The poblacion had a 1970 population of 28,950 and the CWD
service area a population of 45,098 with a growth rate of 3.5%.
16.       In 1971, the Province had about 143,000 families, 21% classified as
urban. The city serves as an important trade center for the thriving rural
population. In 1974, there were 736 commercial wholesale and retail estab-
lishments and 75 medium and small scale industries. With the recent completion
of the nearby Pantabanguan Dam and reservoir designed for power, irrigation
and recreational use, the prospects for the local economy are favorable.
Local tourism has increased despite the poor sanitation, water and food
related diseases taking a heavy toll on health at a rate of 225 cases for
100,000 population and a death rate of 82 per 100,000, as reported in 1973.
There are no reliable statistics, however, on immigration, emigration, birth
and death rates on which to analyze the past population growth or to forecast
the future growth in CWD.
Population Projections
17.       In forecasting future population growth in CWD the consultants
took into account the expansion of the present service area, the Cabanatuan
City Framework Plan and the economic potential of the city. The past growth
rates in 24 barrios were studied and three projections made for the present
and additional 1990 and year 2000 service areas but for lack of data, only
one growth rate was assumed for each of these areas. In the densely populated
present service area the same growth rate as in the past decade of 3.5% is
assumed for this decade tapering down to 3.0% and 2.9% by 2000. A slightly
higher growth rate is assumed in the additional 1990 service area, at which
time the total projected population in the CWD service area will be 123,300,
as summarized below:



ANNEX 8
Page 6
Present Service Area         Increased Area
for 1990 year service
360 ha                     860 ha
Annual              Annual      Number    Total    Pop-
Pop-   Increase  Popu-    Increase         of        Popu-   ulation    %
Year   ulation    %        lation       %      Connections lation   Served   Served
1960    32,100    -       12,900       -            -       44,500      -
1970    45,100   3.5      18,100      3.9           -       63,200      -         -
1975    53,600    "       22,000      4.0           -       75,600    21,400    28
1976    55,400    "       22,900       "         2,460      78,300    21,400    27
1977    57,400    "       23,800       "         3,000      81,200    21,400    26
1978    59,400    "       24,800       "         3,500      84,100    21,400    25
1979    61,500    "       25,800       It        3,800      87,200    28,300    32
1980    63,600    "       26,900      I"         4,480      90,400    35,200    39
1981    65,500   3.0      27,700      3.5        5,640      93,200    42,100    45
1982    67,500    "       28,700       "         6,800      96,200    49,000    51
1983    69,500    "       29,700                 7,930      99,200    56,000    56
1984    71,600    "       30,700                 9,070    102,300    63,000    61
1985    73,700    "       31,800                10,200    105,600    70,000    66
1990    85,500    "       37,800                   -       123,300        -       -
Population Served
18.       Except for a 1970 census statistic that 27% of the 16190 households
(an average occupancy of 6.17 persons/household) claimed to have been provided
with piped water from the city's water supply system, there are no reliable
records of population served by CWD. The consultants carried out a sampling
of 20 out of the 2251 connections served by CWD in September 1975, and ob-
tained an average of 9.5 persons served per connection. By comparison with
the census statistics it is then assumed, that for each connection there are
3.23 non-occupant users served by CWD. Because of the very limited 0.9%
sample this assumption should be reviewed before detailed design.
19.       In projecting future population served it is assumed that in the
years 1976-1978 the population served will be the same because of the limited
water availability. Though the number of connections will increase in these
years the number of non-occupant users per connection is expected to decrease
to nil, i.e., in 1979 it is assumed that all connections will serve only the
occupants of the households at 6.11 persons per household - near the 1970
average occupancy rate of 6.17 persons per household. As the new wells in
the project are connected to the system in 1979 and 1980 the number of users
per connection is expected to increase to 7.40 and 7.86 but then again
gradually decreased to about 6.86 in 1985 at which time 66% of the population
in the service area will be served by CWD.
Water Consumption
20.       There are no reliable data on domestic consumption.  The consultants
have used their findings in the neighboring city of Tarlac in estimating that



ANNEX 8
Page 7
domestic consumption is about 96 1/cd but will increase to 120 1/cd with im-
proved service and to 133 1/cd in 1985. These assumptions will be verified
before detailed design, in the light of the on-going metering program.
21.       As less than 40% of the commercial connections and only one of the
institutional connections are metered, and the meters are poorly maintained,
reliable data on institutional, commercial and industrial consumption are not
available. On the basis of a study of one month's meter readings in September
1975, the consultants estimate commercial, institutional and industrial consump-
tion to be about 58% of domestic consumption. Following a slight increase in
the early years, to meet suppressed demand, it is expected to reduce to 20%
in 1985.
Unaccounted for Water
22.       Unaccounted for water is estimated to be a high 33%.  Most of this
is from wastage and leakage at flat rate connections. With the completion of
the metering program in 1977, this is expected to be reduced substantially.
Leakage from the system is low at about 10% because of low pressures. Though
most of the older pipes will be replaced in this project and all services will
be metered it is not expected that unaccounted for water can be reduced to
below 25% by 1985.
Water Production
3
23.       Average annual water production is about 2.04 million m .  Small
increases in production can be realized in 1977 and 1978 because of increased
pumping efficiency and good management. From then on average annual water
production keeps pace with demand as each of the new3wells in the project is
c4nnected to the system, increasing to 4.4 million m in 1982 and 5.4 million
m by 1985. Average water consumption and production statistics are summarized
below:
Average Consumption    Unaccounted    Average Production
Year       Thousand m /year             %           Thousand m /year
1976               960                  53                2,040
1977             1,100                  49                2,150
1978             1,250                  45                2,260
1979             1,760                  41                2,000
1980             2,280                  39                2,740
1981             2,620                  35                4,060
1982             2,960                  32                4,380
1983             3,340                  29                4,730
1984             3,710                  27                5,090
1985             4,090                  25                5,440



ANNEX 8
Page 8
D. LIPA WATER DISTRICT
Service Area
24.       Lipa Water District (LWD) covers the whole Lipa City which has a
total area of 20,600 ha. The present LWD service area is only 510 ha covering
the poblacion (130 ha) and ten adjacent barrios. By 1990 the LWD service area
is expected to increase to 1295 ha with a projected population of 25,400. The
Phase I project will provide improvements to existing areas areas and exten-
sions to new areas in meeting 1985 needs. The population density in the
poblacion is expected to grow from (1970 census) 137 persons/ha to 235
persons/ha with a density of 32 persons/ha in the newer areas. Served popu-
lation in these areas is expected to increase from an average of 18% in
1976 to 44% in 1985.
Population
25.       The 1970 population of Lipa City was 93,970, about 10% of that of
Batangas Province (pop: 928,300) in which it is situated. Over the past
decade (1960-70) the province had an annual population growth rate of 3.05%
very to close to the 3% national growth rate. Lipa City had a growth rate
of 3.4% per annum in this period. Lipa City poblacion had a growth rate of
3.6%, somewhat higher than that of the 3.4% growth rate in the LWD service
area.
26.       Natural increase accounted for 87% of the population growth in Lipa
City the rest being immigration. Reliable demographic information for LWD
service area is however not available and the consultants have based the
population projections on a few local economic indicators.
Population Projections
27.       Lipa City has excellent volcanic soils and an agricultural economy.
In 1975 there were about 1500 commercial establishments and some small cottage
industries. There are no major industries near the city or are any expected
to be established in the near future. In 1973, the 15 clinics and hospitals
in the city reported 518 cases and 27 deaths per 100,000 population of water
and food related diseases. Health data for the LWD area however is not
available.
28.       The past growth rates in 23 adjacent barrios and the poblacion
were studied and three projections made for the present, additional 1990 and
2000 service areas. Only one assumption of growth was made for each of these
geographical areas. Because of the increasing congestion, the growth rate in
the poblacion is expected to slowly decrease from 3.6% to 3.5% and 2.0% in
the next decade. Outside the poblacion a temporary decrease is expected in
this decade from 3.2% to 3.0% to be followed by an increase to 3.5% in the
next decade. Growth in the 1990 extension of the service area is also ex-
pected to slow down from 3.9% to 3.5% and 3.0% in the next decade. The
projections covering the period up to year 1990 are summarized below:



ANNEX 8
Page 9
Increased Area
Present Service Area               for 1990 Year Service
Poblacion       Outside Poblacion                        Annual
130 ha              380 ha               785 ha       Increase
Year    Population           Population           Population    _
1960      12,500                9,200                9,200
1970      17,800               12,700               13,400         3.9
1975      21,100               14,700               15,900         3.5
1976      21,800               15,100               16,500         3.5
1977      22,600               15,600               17,100         3.5
1978      23,400               16,000               17,700         3.5
1979      24,200               16,500               18,300         3.5
1980      25,100               17,000               18,900         3.5
1981      25,600               17,600               19,500         3.0
1982      26,100               18,200               20,100         3.0
1983      26,600               18,900               20,700         3.0
1984      27,200               19,500               21,300         3.0
1985      27,600               20,200               22,000         3.0
1990      30,500               24,000               25,400         3.0
Population Served
29.       It is calculated from the 1970 census statistics that on an average
there were 7.55 occupants per household in Lipa City. The consultants made a
sampling of 20 out of the 714 connections existing in 1975 and obtained an
average of 12.75 users per connection and conclude that there are 5.2 non-
occupant users for each connection. It is assumed that over the years, with
improved availability of water, increased tariffs and the metering of all
service connections there would be a marked reduction in the number of non-
occupant users.
30.       In projecting future population served, it is assumed that though
the number of connections will increase in the years 1976-78 the population
served will be the same, because of limited water availability. As the new
wells in the project are connected to the system in about 1980, population
served would increase sharply from an average of 18% in the previous 5 years
to 25%, going on to 44% in 1985 as shown below:
Total Population                              Population Served
Year     1990 Service Area    No. of Connections          No.          %
1976             53,500                790                9,100        17
1977             55,300               850                 9,100        17
1978             57,100               950                 9,100        16
1979             59,000             1,430                12,150        21
1980             61,000             1,900                15,200        25
1981             62,700             2,450                18,000        29
1982             62,400             3,000                20,800        32
1983             66,200             3,500                24,200        37
1984             68,000             4,000                27,600        40
1985             69,800             4,500                31,000        44



ANNEX 8
Page 10
Water Consumption
31.       The available data on domestic water consumption was obtained by
sampling 19 domestic connections over eight days before the impact of the full
metering program and increased tariffs. The consumption of 93 1/cd is there-
fore revised downwards to about 60 1/cd. Following the completion of the
project this is expected to double to 120 1/cd with small increases thereafter
to 126 1/cd in 1985. These assumptions will be verified from available data
nearing the completion of the metering program in early 1977.
32.       Data on non-domestic use such as commercial and institutional con-
sumption is non-existent. Based upon studies in other water districts the
commercial and institutional demand is assumed by the consultants to be 25%
of domestic consumption but gradually reducing to 15% by 1985. At the present
time LWD has no industrial consumers.
33.       As the system is not yet fully metered and a leakage survey will
not be done until late 1977 it is not possible to know now the amount or
to categorize unaccounted for water. The consultants, on the basis of the
available data on production and consumption, estimate this to be a very high
66% of production, about half of which is believed to be lost through leaks
in the distribution mains and service connections. By the time of the com-
pletion of the Phase I project unaccounted for water is expected to be halved
and thereafter reduced to 25% of production in year 1985.
Water Production
34.       Because of the recent failure of the pump in the market place well
(see Anne! 7 Part D), average annual water production for 1976 is a low
740,000 m . In 1977, this well is expected to be brought back into service,
and improvements made in the supply from the other wells. During 1978-80, the
new wells in the project will cause increments in production rising to 1.57
million m in 1982 and 2.2 million m by 1985. Average water production and
consumption statistics are summarized below:
Average Consumption  Unaccounted   Average Prsduction
Year            Thousand m /year          %          Thousand m /year
1976                   250                66               740
1977                   370                57               850
1978                   470                50               930
1979                   640                44             1,150
1980                   810                40             1,360
1981                   960                34             1,450
1982                 1,110                30             1,570
1983                 1,280                28             1,780
1984                 1,460                26             1,980
1985                 1,640                25             2,190



ANNEX 8
Page 11
E. LUCENA, PAGBILAO, TAYABAS WATER DISTRICT
Service Area
35.       The Lucena, Pagbilao, Tayabas Water District (LPTWD) was created out
of Lucena City, the capital of Quezon Province and the adjoining municipali-
ties of Pagbilao and Tayabas all three of which are supplied with water from
one principal source, the May-it spring. The present LPTWD service area of
513 ha covers the densely populated portions of these three urban areas and
some strip development on the transmission pipelines. By 1990 the LPTWD
service area is projected to increase to 945 ha with a population of 130,000-
and by year 2,000 to 2,400 ha with a total population of 222,600. The popula-
tion density in the three poblacions is expected to grow from (1970 census)
155 persons to 218 persons per ha in this period. In areas adjacent to the
poblacions of the three urban areas population density is expected to increase
from 24 persons to 55 persons/ha. Served population by LPTWD is expected to
increase from the current 51,600 to 72,100 in 1985, the period in the Phase
I project. The project will provide improvements to existing areas and
extensions to new areas in meeting 1985 needs.
Population
36.       Though LPTWD is formed out of three municipalities there appears
to be relationship between population growths of Quezon Province (1970 pop:
983,300) and Lucena City and the two Municipalities of Pagbilao and Tayabas
(total 1970 pop: 138,760). Over the past decade (1960-70) the province had
a high annual population growth rate of 4.1%. The growth rate in the future
LPTWD service area for the same period was also 4.1%. The growth rate of the
province is higher than the 3% national growth rate and is unusual in com-
parison with the other provinces discussed in the consultants' reports.
Again, unlike LPTWD the growth rates in urban areas of each province are
usually higher than that of the provinces. No analysis is available at this
time to explain these unusual features in LPTWD but it was observed that the
local economy which is dependent on coconut and fishing, with some minor
industries and tourism appears to be thriving.
37.       Persons born in the three LPTWD areas represented 77% of the total
1970 population. Those born in other parts of Quezon Province were about 10%
and the remainder were migrants from elsewhere. As reliable demographic data
are not available, the consultants did not find it feasible to make projec-
tions on high medium and low assumptions of growth for LPTWD. Only one
projection, based upon available local economic indicators was made.
Population Projections
38.       Agriculture is the principal industry, with coconut plantations
occupying nearly half of the total land areas of Lucena, Pagbilao, and Tayabas.
Tayabas supplies about 75% of the lime used by the country. Lucena has a
coconut-chemical plasticizer factory and a pioneering coconut oil industry.
Pagbilao and Lucena have growing fishing industries and Lucena some local
tourism.



ANNEX 8
Page 12
39.       In 1973, the six hospitals and clinics in Lucena City reported
548 cases and 143 deaths per 100,000 population of water and food related
diseases. Most of these were from "gastroenteritis". Health data for the
LPTWD area is however unavailable.
40.       The population projections for Lucena, Pagbilao and Tayabas make
the following assumptions:
(i) Lucena
The population growth in the present service area would be
2.5% per annum (a little below the 2.6% of the past decade)
until 1980 and reduce to 2.0% thereafter. In the future
service area it is assumed that the 6.1% annual growth rate
of the past decade will not be sustained and would be 4.0%
in the period 1970-80 and reduce to 3.5% thereafter.
(ii) Pagbilao
The annual population growth rate of 1.7% of the past decade
would reduce to 1.0% over 1970-90 in the present service area.
In the future service area this is assumed to be 6.0% per
annum, a little lower than the 6.2% of the past decade.
(iii) Tayabas
The growth rate of 3.7% per annum of the past decade is
assumed to drop sharply to 1.0% per annum during 1970-90.
In the future service area the growth rate of 7.7% per annum
of the past decade is assumed to drop a little to 7.0% per
annum up to 1980 and drop again to 6.0% per annum thereafter.
41.       The population in the 1990 LPTWD service area is projected as
follows:
Population in 1990 Service Area
Year                 Lucena       Pagbilao    Tayabas
1960                 36,000         8,900       10,300
1970                 52,200        10,900       15,300
1975                 60,800        11,700       16,800
1976                 62,600        11,900       17,200
1977                 64,600        12,100       17,500
1978                 66,600        12,300       17,900
1979                 68,700        12,600       18,300
1980                 70,800        12,800       18,600
1981                 72,800        12,900       19,100
1982                 74,600        13,200       19,500
1983                 76,500        13,400       19,900
1984                 78,700        13,700       20,400
1985                 80,700        13,900       20,800
1990                 92,000        15,300       19,900



ANNEX 8
Page 13
Population Served
42.       The consultants estimate that on an average about 9.7 persons are
now served by each connection. The census figures and studies by the con-
-sultants however indicate that in LPTWD there are only about 6.4 to 6.1
persons resident in each household, the difference arising from borrowers
of water from adjoining households without service connections. In the
projections it is assumed that the population served by each connection will
decrease from 9.4 to 6.2 over 1976-85. In the early years of the project not
many connections can be given because of limited water availabiltiy and the
percentage of population served is expected to decrease. After the completion
of the project however the served population will rapidly increase from 51% to
62% as shown below:
Total         No. of           Population Served
Year       Population    Connections           No.        _
1976         91,700          5,500          51,600         56
1977         94,200          5,850          51,800         55
1978         96,800          5,950          52,000         54
1979         99,600          6,100          52,400         53
1980        102,200          6,250          52,700         52
1981        104,800          7,600          53,100         51
1982        107,300          8,850          62,000         58
1983        109,800          9,800          65,400         60
1984        112,800         10,700          68,700         61
1985        115,400         11,600          72,100         62
Water Consumption
43.       Because of non-availability of water consumption data the consul-
tants have based domestic consumption on experience in other water districts
similar to LPTWD. It is assumed that the present domestic consumption is
125 1/cd in Lucena City and 112 1/cd in Tayabas and Pagbilao giving an aver-
age of 118 1/cd for the WD. Though these assumptions are relatively higher
than these for the other WDs in the project they are based on the somewhat
higher level of economic activity in the area and will be verified from new
data nearing the completion of the metering program in early 1977. It is
projected that, except for a big jump of 7 1/cd between 1979-81 when the
project nears completion, that domestic consumption will increase uniformly
to 136 1/cd by 1985.
44.       Because Lucena City is the provincial capital there is some commer-
cial and institutional consumption but because of the non-availability of
data this is assumed to be 15% of domestic consumption. There are a few small
industries in the area and industrial demand is assumed to increase uniformly
from 4% in 1975 to 6.6% in 1985. Both these assumptions are based on judg-
ment and will require study before detailed design.



ANNEX 8
Page 14
45.       The consultants estimated unacounted for water to be 83% of produc-
tion in 1975. Since then the LPTWD has started metering and repaired some
of the leaks and unaccounted for water is now estimated to be 64% of produc-
tion, of which about 26% is leakage. With the improvements in the project
and under the present management, unaccounted for water is expected to be
reduced to 30% in 1985.
Water Production
46.       The present annuil average water productign in LPTWD is estimated
to be about 7.35 million m of which 1.23 million m is water of poor quality.
It is however proposed to phase out this unsatisfactory source and to replace
it with good quality water under the project as can be seen in the water
production and consumption statistics summarized below:
Average Colsumption  Unaccounted  Average Proluction
Year      Thousand m /year           %          Thousand m /year
1976            2,650                64               7,350
1977            2,750                62               7,230
1978            2,810                50               5,620
1979            2,870                48               5,530
1980            2,990                40               4,990
1981             3,100               38               5,000
1982             3,640               35               5,600
1983            3,870                32               5,680
1984            4,110                30               5,880
1985            4,350                30               6,240
F.  SAN FERNANDO (LA UNION) WATER DISTRICT
Service Area
47.       The San Fernando (La Union) Water District (LUWD) is situated on
the west-central coast of La Union Province (1970 pop: 373,680) in north-
western Luzon. The present LUWD service area of 215 ha includes only the
more densely populated sections of San Fernando, the provincial capital and
the adjoining municipality of San Juan. The future service area will include
the urban sections in the adjacent municipalities of Bacnotan, San Gabriel
and Bauang which have no piped water supply service. By 1990, the LUWD
expects to provide service to some 2,140 ha in these five municipalities.
In San Fernando, the population density in the poblacion is expected to
increase from 98 persons/ha to about 178 persons/ha. A slightly lower
growth rate is expected in the San Juan poblacion. Served population is
expected to increase from the current 12% to 36% in 1985 - the period in
the Phase I project.



ANNEX 8
Page 15
Population
48.       Agriculture, particularly rice and tobacco cultivation with some
coconut near the seashore, is the principal industry in the province. Pisci-
culture is of local importance in San Fernando, San Juan and Bacnotan. There
are two cement factories, and a tobacco redrying plant at Bacnotan and a soft
drink bottling plant in San Fernando. Small scale agro-industries like cigar
making and weaving are widespread as are other minor cottage industries. The
scenic coastline has caused an increase in local tourism and a proliferation
of beach resorts between Bauang and San Fernando.
49.       There is no information on the incidence of water and food related
diseases in LUWD. However, in 1973, for the whole province there were re-
ported 557 cases and 35 deaths per 100,000 population from such causes.
50.       In the absence of reliable demographic data, the population projec-
tions for the five municipalities prepared by the consultants generally take
into account the above factors in the assumption of future population growth.
The projections for the expected 1990 service areas for each of the five
municipalities make the following assumptions:
(i) San Fernando and San Juan
The annual rate of population growth of La Union Province over
the past decade was 2.4% and well below the national growth
rate of 3%. In 1970 the population of all five municipali-
ties was 133,200, 36% of that of the province, and population
in the presnt LUWD service area only 20,500 with an annual
growth rate of 3.5% in San Fernando and 2.2% in San Juan pob-
lacions. In the future, San Fernando poblacion is expected
to grow at about 3.0% and San Juan at 2.5% increasing to 3.0%
per annum after 1980. In the suburbs of these poblacions, to
be provided with future water service, the annual rate of
growth is expected to be 4.0% dropping to 3.5% after 1980 in
San Fernando and 2.5% increasing to 3.0% after 1980 in San Juan.
(ii) Bauang
The annual rate of population growth is expected to be 2.0% in
the poblacion but 3.5% in the suburbs up to 1980 increasing to
2.5% and 4.0% respectively after the provision of piped water
supply.
(iii)  Bacnotan
In Bacnotan the annual rate of population growth in the pob-
lacion is projected to be 3.5% up to 1990. The suburbs are
however expected to have an increase in the growth rate from
3.0% to 3.5% in 1980 after the provision of piped water supply.



ANNEX 8
Page 16
(iv) San Gabriel
This is a very small village on the water supply transmission
pipeline (but not now supplied by LUWD) which is expected
to grow at 2.0% per annum up to 1980 after which a somewhat
higher growth rate is expected, following the provision of
piped water supply.
52.       The population in the LUWD 1990 service area is projected as follows:
Year   San Fernando    San Juan       Bauang    Bacnotan    San Gabriel   Total
1960      19,600          5,700         8,700     3,400           1,000     38,400
1970      29,900           7,300      11,300      4,700           1,300     54,500
1975      35,300          8,200       13,100      5,200           1,400     63,200
1976      36,500           8,400      13,400      5,600           1,500     65,400
1977      37,700           8,600      13,800      5,800           1,500     67,400
1978      39,000           8,800      14,200      6,000           1,500     69,500
1979      40,400          9,100       14,700      6,200          1,500      71,900
1980      41,700          9,300       15,100      6,400          2,600      75,100
1981      43,100           9,600      15,600      6,600          2,700      77,600
1982      44,500           9,900      16,100      6,800          2,800      80,100
1983      45,900         10,000       16,700      7,100          2,900      82,700
1984      47,400         10,500       17,300      7,300           3,000     85,500
1985      48,900         10,800       17,900      7,600          3,200      88,400
1990      57,200         12,500       21,200      9,000          4,000    103,900
Water Consumption
53.       Because of non-availability of water consumption data the consultants
have based water consumption projections on information obtained from inter-
views with 30 consumers, the 1970 census and the August 1975 records of
metered consumption. From the interviews it is deduced that the average
number of consumers for connection in San Fernando and San Juan are 8.95
and 6.0 respectively. The 1970 census indicates that the average number
of persons per household in San Juan was 6.04 in that year. In August 1975
there were only 378 metered connections compared with almost 700 metered
connections in September 1976. These later statistics are therefore used
in the present projections.
54.       Domestic consumption is assumed to be 118 1/cd, the same as in the
Lucena, Pagbilao, Tayabas Water District which is similar to LUWD in many
ways. Except for a slightly higher increase in 1980 when the project
benefits come on stream this consumption is expected to increase gradually
to 138 1/cd in 1985. It is estimated that commercial and industrial con-
sumption, all of which is not now fully recorded, is about 80% of domestic
consumption and will reduce to about 34% in 1985. The number of persons
served, taken as an average of 8.2 persons per connection for 1976 is only
expected to reduce to 7.9 persons per connection in 1985 because of the



ANNEX 8
Page 17
newer areas to be brought into the system. Unaccounted for water is now
estimated to be 60% of production and with improvements following a leakage
survey is expected to reduce to 25% by 1985.
Water Production
55.       Annual average water production from the present spring sources is
governed by the hydraulic capacity of the transmission pipelines and therefore
cannot increase from the estimated 1.44 million m until 1980 when the first
well in the proposed new source development will produce water. The water
production and consumption statistics for the project period are summarized
below:
Average Consumption  Unaccounted   Average Pr9duction    Service
Year      Thousand m /year            %         Thousand m /year    Connections
1976              580                60               1,440               920
1977              650                55               1,440             1,000
1978              720                50               1,440             1,120
1979              790                45               1,440             1,240
1980              940                35               1,440             1,450
1981            1,230                30               1,760             1,950
1982            1,520                28               2,110             2,450
1983            1,640                27               2,250             3,130
1984            1,880                26               2,540             3,820
1985            2,120                25               2,830             4,500
G. TARLAC WATER DISTRICT
Service Area
56.       Tarlac Water District (TWD) covers the municipality of Tarlac,
(1970 pop: 135,130) the capital of Tarlac province in central Luzon. The
present TWD service area covers only 273 ha made up of the poblacion and six
contiguous barrios having a population density of 133 persons/ha in 1970.
The consultants project an increase to 189 persons/ha in the present service
area and 39 persons/ha in the projected extensions to the service area by
1990. In this period the service area is expected to grow to over 2000 ha.
The Phase I project provides improvements to the service in the present
service area and extensions to meet 1985 needs. The served population is
expected to increase from 6% in 1976 to 56% in 1985 in the future service
area.
Population
57.       Tarlac Province had a 1970 population of 559,700 and an annual
growth rate over 1960-70 of 2.7%, somewhat lower than the national growth
rate of 3% for the same period. The rate of population growth in the
present service area for this period was an unusually low 2.5% in comparison
with some of the other cities in the project.



ANNEX 8
Page 18
58.       In 1971, the Province had 93,800 families, 16% classified as urban.
Agriculture is the main industry, the two major crops being rice and sugar cane.
Tarlac Municipality is the commercial and government center for the province.
Except for some small scale activities like shoe making, pottery and handi-
crafts there are no major industries in Tarlac. Water and food related
diseases for the whole province had a heavy toll on health, at a rate of 146
cases per 100,000 and a death rate of 23 per 100,000, as reported in 1973.
There are no reliable statistics on immigration, emigration, birth and death
rates to analyze past population growth or accurately forecast future growth
in TWD.
Population Projections
59.       Future population growth in TWD is based upon past growth rates
which are projected into the future with small adjustments for increased
density or additional expansion. In the present service area the rate of
growth is assumed to be 2.0%, one half percent lower than the 2.5% rate of
the past decade. This is expected to further decrease to 1.5% after 1980.
In the extended service areas however a very slightly higher rate of 3.0%
(over the 2.9% of the past decade) is assumed by the consultants. The pop-
ulation projection for the period 1970-85 is shown below:
Present Service      Annual       Increased       Annual
Area          Increase      Area for       Increase
Year                                       1990 Year
Service
Population          %          Population        %
1960          28,400            -            30,200          -
1970          36,300           2.5           40,200         2.9
1975          40,100           2.0           46,600         3.0
1976         40,900             "            48,000          "
1977         41,700             "            49,500          "
1978         42,600             "            51,000          "
1979         43,400            "T            52,500          "
1980          44,300            "            54,000          "
1981          45,000           1.5           55,700          "
1982          45,600            "            57,400          "
1983          46,600                         59,100         "i
1984          47,300                         60,900          "
1985          48,000            "            62,700          "
60.       An average household in Tarlac had 6.3 members according to the
1970 census. TWD made its own census of 673 residential connections and es-
timates 6.9 members per household. In the projections it is assumed that the
number of members per household is 6.75 in 1975 and will decrease gradually
to 6.5 by 1985. Population served is expected to increase from 6% in 1976 to
56% in 1985 as shown below:



ANNEX 8
Page 19
Number of
Year      Total Population       Served Population       %      Connections
1976            88,900                5,400              6            800
1977            91,200                5,700              6            850
1978            93,600                6,800              7          1,000
1979            95,900               15,200             16          2,250
1980            98,300               22,400             23          3,500
1981           100,700               30,900             31          4,700
1982           103,000               39,300             38          5,900
1983           105,700               46,500             44          7,130
1984           108,200               54,100             50          8,370
1985           110,700               62,300             56          9,600
Water Demand Projections
61.       Estimation of domestic consumption is based upon one month's meter
readings in 1975 of 82 domestic connections which yielded a unit per capita
consumption of 96 l/cd. In 1976 this was corrected to 100 1/cd as more meters
were installed. On the assumption that with improved pressures that consump-
tion will increase, the consultants project per capita consumption in 1985 to
be 134 1/cd.
62.       Commercial and institutional consumption is not fully metered and
is therefore not known. On the basis of an assumption that unaccounted for
water is about 50% it is estimated that commercial and institutional consump-
tion is currently 77% of domestic consumption and is projected to reduce to
20% by 1985. There are no industrial connections in TWD.
63.       Unaccounted for water is made of leakage, and public use such as
fire fighting, mains flushing and street cleaning. By ascribing values to
each of these causes for unaccounted for water this is estimated to be about
50%. By 1985 TWD expects to reduce unaccounted for water to 25% of production.
64.       In 1975 the consultants estimated water production to be 1,575 m 3
day. Since then TWD has made, with LWUA help, improvements to the pumping
arrangements and productisn is expected to be able to meet at a minimum aver-
age day iemand of 2,250 m /day in 1978. In 1979 the first of the new 44 1/sec
(3,800 m /day) wells is expected3to be brought into service to meet the pro-
jected peak hour demand of 690 m /day (69 1/sec). The project will increase
total produtcion of 16,000 m /day (184 I/sec) adequate to meet the maximum
day demand in 1985 (See Annex 7, para 110). Average water production and
consumption statistics are summarized below:



ANNEX 8
Page 20
Water C3nsumption        Unaccounted      Water Prsduction
Year          000 m /annum          _    _ _             000 m /annum
1976               350                    50                   700
1977               430                    44                   770
1978               490                    40                  820
1979               910                    37                1,450
1980             1,460                    34                2,210
1981             1,940                    31                3,810
1982             2,440                    29                3,430
1983             2,850                    27                3,910
1984             3,240                    26                4,380
1985             3,640                    25                4,850



PHILIPPINES
PROVINCIAL  CITIES  WATER  SUPPLY  PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
LOCAL WATER UTILITIES ADMINISTRATION
BOARD OP TRUSTEES
AUDITOR'S OFFICE            - -  -  - -  - _        GENERAL MANAGER
1AU ITOROFIEF
SoASOI  U                     PERSONAL STA         |                                                   FINANCIAL SERVPCES
1 SREAIE
1S.EXAMINER1 CONF. SECRETARiy                                                                          CR   IAC FIE
1 AUDITNE                    PUBLICITY & INFO OFFICER_                                                CORP_OFFICEF.
I~~ ~~ AUIIC A_1D                                                                                                 1 
|  LEGAL   l                          |     ~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~            ~     ~~~~ACCOUNTiNG      BUDGET OPNS J
1 CORP. LEGAL COUNSEL                                 1 PROF. ACCOUNTANT VI 'ADCf               I PROF FIN ANAL V
1ILEGAL, COUNSEL III                                  I PROF ACCOUNTANT V                       3 STAFF FIN ANvaL I
I LEGAL COUNSEL 11                                    1 PROF ACCOUNTANT mII                     1 JR BuOGET ANAL
2 PROF AcCOUNTANT it
2GDEN. ACC'T CONTROLLER
1.COST ACCOUNTANT
DEN ACCOUNTANT BOOKKEEPER III
1BCOOKKEEPER HI
2 ACCT. CLERK I.
TECHN ICAL SERVICES                               REGULATORY                                   L OANS & PROIGRAMS                                             ADMINISTRATIVE
_   DEPARTMENT                            _        DEPARTMENT                            _         DEPARTMENT                                         F      7DEPARTMENT
MANAGER                                       MANAGER                                        MiANAGER                                                     MANAGER
ASST. MANAGERD                                ASSr MANAGER bi                                 ASST MANAGER 'TCFtAADM.GOFFRCTOR e
PROF ENGR. VI, IAOC                           I PROF ENGR VIl IADCI                          1 LOAN OFFICER IV IADCI                  1 SYS ANAL. Vl IADCI                 I SR PERS, OFFICER ADCC
4 PROF ENGR IV I                                 PROF ENGR Vl                                   I LOAN OFF CERt 1                      2 PROf ENGR 'V                        1ECORDS MTG OFFICER 11
FROFIENGR H;  2 PROF ENGR V                    1 LOAN ANAL I1                           2 PROF ENGR IV                      1
2PSRO. CENGRAFTSMAN V                                                                           ILS. ANAL IVRESEARCHER                                                      2  UPL. MACH. OPR I
1. ART,ST ILLUSTRATOR 11                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 MSGR - JANITOR
~{ PLANNING & SURVEY                                WD DEVELOPMENT                                     PROGRAMS         l                                                 {     GENERAL SERVICES
1 PROF. ENGR. VII IADCI                        1 PROF. ENGR VliI                                LOC  1 PROF. ENGR VII IDCIS1tSRA. A RDE
1 PROF ENGR. VI                                i PROF ENGR VII IADCI                          1 PROP ENGR. VII (ADC)                                                         1 GEN. SVCS. OFFR. HiI
2 PROF ENGR III                                1 PROF. ENGR V                                 I PROf. ENGR. V                                                                1 PROP MGT.SUPVR. CE
2 PROP ENGR. I                                 2 PROF. ENGR. IV                               I PROF. ENGR. IV                                                               1 DEN SVCS SUPVR I
1 PROP. ECONOMIST 111                          2 COML. SYS. ANAL. 111                         1 PROP. ECON. 11                                                               1 MOTOR FOOL SUPT. 11
1 STAFF ECONOMIST I                            2 COML. SYS. ANAL I                            1 STAFF ECON. II
6PSTAF, ENGRVIIADCI STAFPROF ENGR 1                                                         2 STAFF ENGR. I                                                                1 CUYASER
H~~~~~~~~~~~~~ IL.PRTOS {-                  YRGOOY              |LGN                                                                                                   STENO REPORTER
PROF. ENGR. VI (ADC1 PROF. ENGR. VIII DC)                                                   I'Direcdf in chGrgeo PI,OOOn& A FldOEerOtrone                                  3 SR. CLERK
I PROF. ENGR. VI                               I PROF ENGR. VI IADC)                           I DrtelFin  charge of Monitoring & EGaloecron                                 S  CLERK V    P
2 PROF. ENGR. V                               1 PROF. ENGR. VI                                SrOiBcIy m charge if LPOrOGetarlOns                                            I SR. STOREKEEPER
2 PROF. ENGR. I                                1 PROF. ENGR. V                                I                                                                               1 STOREKEEPER R
2 PROF. ENGR. 11F. EROF. ENGR. 11 NALOe                                                                                                                                        G       SIn inVcharge of MEN. EvE,. & Tran  I SR. AUTOMECHANIC
3 STAFF ENGR. )        2 STAFF ENGR 1                                  tVO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E'Decrlj in charde of Personnel & Records & G-neral Services  1AT   E  
36STAFF ENGR. 1                                2PSTAFF NF t2SAFF RNG'                                      . IAUTO M,,ECHNC,
LCOoEGEND CEPElefCSTDINz
ADC Ast iOrPTion Chief                                                          DV
vvorld Bdnk  16679






ANNEX 10
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Status of Formation of Water Districts
as of September, 1976
I.  Water Districts Formed              Date Formed         Date of Issue of CCC /1
1. Bacolod City                     8 October      '73      16 January      '74
2. Cagayan de Oro City             11 July         '73       4 January      '74
3. Marawi City                     25 September   '73       22 February    '74
4. San Pablo City                  17 December    '73       19 March        '74
5. Davao City                       3 February    '74        4 April        '74
6. Zamboanga City                   6 March        '74      16 May          '74
7. Butuan City                     28 March        '74       6 June         '74
8. Batangas City                   14 January      '74      11 June         '74
9. Camarines Norte                  8 November    '73       16 July         '74
10. Misamis Occidental              17 July         '74      26 August       '74
11. Metro Cebu                      18 July         '74      20 November    '74
12. Lipa City                       18 November    '74       30 January      '75
13. Tabaco, Albay                   21 Janaury      '75       7 February    '75
14. Tarlac, Tarlac                  30 July         '74      18 February    '75
15. Cabanatuan City                 22 November    '74       25 April        '75
16. San Fernando (La Union)          5 September   '74       28 April        '75
17. Lucena-Pagbilao-Tayabas         20 January      '74      16 May          '75
18. Baguio City                     11 June         '75      28 August       '75
19. Sorsogon, Sorsogon              17 December    '74       19 January      '76
20. Bislig, Surigao del Sur         10 September   '74       19 May          '76
21. Leyte Metro                     19 February    '75        6 October      '75
22. Gingoog City                    29 July         '74      21 July         '76
23. Bulan, Sorsogon                  9 May          '75      20 April        '76
24. Banguet, Abra                   29 December    '75       24 August       '76
25. Gapan, Nueva Ecija              14 October      '75      30 March        '76
26. Urdaneta, Pangasinan            20 February    '76       11 June         '76
27. Silay, Negros Occ.              16 March        '76      12 August       '76
28. Puerto Princesa City             3 May          '76       5 August       '76
29. Tuguegarao, Cagayan             26 Febuarry    '74
30. Calamba, Laguna                  7 August       '74
31. San Antonio, Zambales            4 September   '74
32. Tagaytay City                   21 May          '75
33. Malaybalay, Bukidnon             2 September   '75
34. Alaminos, Pangasinan            25 March        '76
35. Vigan and Bantay                31 October      '75
36. Cotabato city                    9 March        '76
37. Baybay Leyte                    15 July         '76
1/   Conditional Certificate of Conformance.



ANNEX 1 0
Page 2
II.   Cities in which Water Districts are being formed or which have
expressed interest in forming Water Districts
1. Dagupan, Pangasinan
2. San Fernando, Pampanga
3. Bocaue, Bulacan
4. Iloilo Metro, Iloilo City
5. Toledo, Cebu
6. Ilagan, Isabela
7. Lingayen, Pangasinan
8. Malasiqui, Pangasinan
9. Floridablanca, Pampanga
10. Guagua, Pampanga
11. Hagonoy, Bulacan
12. Meycauayan, Bulacan
13. Infanta, Quecon
14. Sta. Cruz, Laguna
15. Lukban, Quezon
16. Sariaya, Quezon
17. Bauan, Batangas
18. Atimonan, Quezon
19. Tagkawayan, Quezon
20. Camarines Sur, Metro
21. Boac, Marinduque
22. Iriga, Albay
23. Romblon
24. Kalibo, Aklan
25. Catbalogan, Samar
26. Estancia, Iloilo
27. Calatrava, Negros Occidental
28. Sogod South Leyte
29. Talibon, Bohol
30. Tagbilaran, Bohol



PHILIPPINES
PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
TYPICAL ORGANIZATION CHART OF A LOCAL WATER DISTRICT
| AUDITOR            M _ - -   BOARD OF DIRECTORS   -
LEGAL
COUNSEL
I
SECRETARY                   GENERAL MANAGER                     m NM
ADMINISTRATIVE             COMMERCIAL                ENGINEERING                PRODUCTION                NSTRUCTION &
_ DIVISION       r       DIVISIODIVISION                                     DIVISION                 MAINTENANCE
DIVISION
CHIEF                     CHIEF                                               CHIEF                     CHIEF
ADMINISTRATIVE              COMMERCIAL                 ENGINEER                 PRODUCTION               CONSTRUCTION
DIVISION                  DIVISION                 ENGINER_DVISIN___AINTNANC
FINANCE OFFICER           METER READER                 ESTIMATOR               QUALITY CONTROL              FOREMAN
PERSONNEL OFFICER          SUPERVISOR                  DRAFTSMAN               OFFICER                      MECHANICS
ACCOUNTANT                INVESTIGATORS                                        OPERATORS                    DRIVERS
BOOKKEEPER                BILLING & POSTING                                    SECURITY GUARDS              PLUMBERS
CASHIERS/CLERKS            CLERKS
SECURITY GUARDS           METER READERS             _                         ____l._X___-__
World Bank-16703    m
IX
,1-*






ANNEX 12
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
The Project Water Districts
Baguio
1.        Baguio is a chartered city and is situated on the western slopes of
the Central Cordillera mountain range in Benguet Province on the island of
Luzon.   Ground surface elevations within the city range from about 900 meters
to over 1,600 meters. The average monthly precipitation for the wet season
(May - October) is 518 mm and for the dry season 56 mm. Average temperatures
(during 1951-1970) vary from a high of about 20 C in May to a low of about 18 C
in January. Baguio's economy depends principally on tourism. It is a resort
city for local vacationers and foreign tourists. It is also an educational
center.
2.        Baguio WD was formed in June 1975 and received a Conditional Certi-
ficate of Conformance from LWUA in August 1975. The city's present population
is around 100,000 of which about 56% have access to piped water.  Almost all
of the 7,000 connections are metered. The Water District has an active Board,
headed by a successful businessman, who is keenly interested in improving
water supply to this popular tourist city. The General Manager's position is
currently vacant and the Board is looking for a suitable candidate. Under
its general conditions of lending LWUA requires that the WDs submit to it the
names and biographical data of its General Manger and Departmental Heads and
give serious consideration to LWUA's advice on all matters relating to the
technical and managerial qualifications of its personnel. LWUA will thus be
consulted on the selection of a new General Manager.
3.        Baguio WD's organization follows the general pattern as shown in
Annex 11. Currently, it employs about 120 persons in its administrative,
commercial, production, construction and maintenance and engineering divisions.
The financial and accounting aspects are the responsibility of the Finance
Officer and the Accountant under the Chief of the Administrative Division.
The present staff, taken over on the district's formation is somewhat large
but will be fully utilized as the district's activities increase.
Cabanatuan
4.        Cabanatuan is situated in the central part of Nueva Ecija, the
eastern most province in Central Luzon. The city is a broad plain with an
average altitude of 29 m above sea level.  Its annual average rainfall based
on the 20 year period of 1951-70 is about 1,780 mm and mean temperature 27.6C.
Its 1976 population is about 78,000. Agriculture is the most important sector
of Cabanatuan's economy. The commercial and industrial activities consist
mainly of wholesale and retail businesses and manufacture of furniture and
farm implements. Cabanatuan has also become a stopover for travellers to
North Luzon and provides tourist facilities.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
5.        Cabanatuan WD was formed in November 1974 and was issued a CCC by
LWUA in April 1975. The WD serves about 21,000 people through some 2,500
connections of which about 60% are expected to be metered by the end of 1976.
Its General Manager, with an agricultural degree and business background is a
dynamic person and has recruited some good young staff for the commercial and
accounting divisions. The Board is generally guided by and relies on the
General Manager. This is one of the better-run districts; has 4 main divisions
- Administrative, Commercial, Construction and Maintenance and Engineering;
employs 44 persons and is organized on the standard pattern shown in Annex 11.
Lipa
6.        Lipa is one of the two main cities in Batangas, a highland volcanic
province in the southwestern region of Luzon Island. It is located in a ter-
race with an elevation of about 310 m above sea level. The city is flanked
by a high mountain mass to the east and Taal Lake (at near sea level) to
the West. Its average annual rainfall during the period 1971-74 was about
2,5000mm and monthly temperatures ranged from a minimum of 200C to a maximum
of 31 C. Lipa City's present population is about 54,000 and agriculture is
its principal industry.
7.        The Lipa City Water District was formed in November 1974 and was
granted a CCC by LWUA in January 1975. In September 1976, it had about 760
service connections of which about 300 were metered and served about 17% of
the population.
8.        The WD's General Manager is a qualified engineer; the district
presently employs 28 persons and its organization pattern is the same as in
other districts, except that the production, operations, maintenance and
engineering are handled by a single division. Lipa City WD also maintains
small handpumps in the neighboring villages for which it employs 4 technicians
whose costs are met by the city administration.
Lucena-Pagbilao-Tayabas
9.        Lucena is the capital of the Province of Quezon and the WD also
covers the adjacent municipalities of Tayabas and Pagbilao. Lucena and Tayabas
are located in the coastal plains at elevations from 5 to 30 meters and Tayabas
lies in the foothills of Mount Banahaw at an elevation of about 200 meters.
The average annual rainfall is about 2,000 mm and mean temperature 270C.
Agriculture is the principal industry and coconut plantations occupy nearly
half the land area. Tayabas supplies about 75% of the country's lime. Lucena
has a pioneering coco oil factory.
10.       The WD was formed in January 1975 and was granted LWUA's CCC in
flay 1975. It serves some 51,600 people (about 56% of the served area popula-
tion) through about 5,500 connections of which only about 500 were metered in
August 1976. The present General Manager is old and is due for retirement in
February 1977. The Chairman of the Board (who is the Chief Engineer of the



ANNEX 12
Page i)
local Public Works Department) has to assume a major role in the District s
operation. A suitable replacement for the General Manager's position will
probably have to be recruited from outside the present staff of the WD. The
Water District's organization follows the general pattern and it employs 57
persons. The Finance Officer and the Accountant, recruited recently, have
yet to come to grips with the Distrist's problems. Particular attention will
have to be devoted by LWUA to upgrading the efficiency of this WD to an
acceptable level.
San Fernando (La Union)
11.       San Fernando is situated along the  China Sea on the We-st-Central
coast of La Union, a narrow province along the Northwestern coast of Luzon
Island. The Water District includes the municipalities of San Fernando3, the
provincial capital; San Juan and Bacnotan on the North; San Gabriel on the
Northeast and Bauang on the South. San Gabriel has a h Lly terrain with
elevations from 30 to 400 meters but the other municipalities can generaliy
be classified as coastal lowlands ranging from 10 to 140 meters.  The Le
perature in the area ranges between 25 C and 27 0C. The economy is mainly
agricultural (tobacco and coconut) but some industrial plants - 2 cement
factories, a beverage plant and a tobacco redrying plant - have been con-
structed in recent years; fishponds have also been developed in the area.
San Fernando is also a tourist center.
12.       The Water District was formed in September 1974 and obtained CCC
from LWUA In April 1975. At present it serves about 11% of the estimated
service area population of about 65,000 through some 900 connections of which
about 80% are metered.  Its present staff numbers 24 and its organization is
similar to that in Lipa. The Chairman of the Board, a local businessman,
takes keen interest in the District and devotes adequate time to it. The
General Manager is an engineer who lacks financial background. San F'ernando
WD will need special attention, particularly for upgrading the efficiency of
its administrative, financial and accounting divisions.
Tarlac
13.       Tarlac municipality is situated in the east-central part ot Tarl.i
a landlocked province in central Luzon and is the provincial capital. The
city is generally flat, with a few hills to the west and northeast and has
an elevation of about 40 meters. Its average monthly rainfall ranges from
zero during the dry period to about 600 mm during the rainy period. Its
economy is mainly agricultural and the two major crops are rice and sugar.
Industrial activity is limited to small-scale industries such as shoe-making,
pottery and handicrafts.



ANNEX 12
Page 4
14.       Tarlac WD was formed in July 1974 and received LWUA's CCC in
February 1975. The served area's population is about 89,000 of which appro-
ximately 6% are presently served by the WD through some 800 connections of
which about 150 were metered in August 1976. It has 3 divisions - Adminis-
trative, Commercial and Operations and Maintenance. The total staff numbers
about 20. The Chairman of the Board, an attorney by profession, takes per-
sonal interest in the WD and has provided rent free accommodation to it in
his office building. The General Manager is a capable engineer and a good
manager.



ANNEX 13
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Justification for Metering
1.        The decision on how much (if any) metering should be introduced
into a particular water supply system should be subjected to a cost-benefit
analysis. In areas where water is inexpensive to produce and where easily
accessible ground or surface sources are abundant relative to the expected
population growth, the cost of universal metering may well exceed the benefits
from the induced conservation. These costs include the initial meter purchase
and installation and the recurrent maintenance, reading and billing expenses.
Benefits accrue from the conservation effects of metering which can free more
water for use by other consumers (e.g., those with lower pressures) and/or
permit savings in capital and operating costs by reducing the overall demands
on the system. Metering may also facilitate leak detecton, although its in-
cremental contribution to that end is probably small if the basic distribution
system is in poor repair. However, these benefits arising from decreased
water consumption by the metered individuals must be reduced by the value
to them of the lost water. As long as it is not pure wastage, the consumer
will be suffering some comparative loss when he is asked to pay a price which
is more than the water's marginal value to him.
Metering Costs
2.        The typical 1/ half-inch meter used in the project districts costs
P 126 and is expected to last about five years (with only breakdown mainte-
nance) and is then replaced. The installation or meter mounting cost is about
P 25, and periodic reading and billing costs were estimated in Baguio and
Cabanatuan 2/ at P 2.50 and P 2.70 per meter per month, respectively. Assum-
ing these figures to be representative, the annual equivalent cost per meter
(using a 12% discount rate) can be calculated as follows:
1/   One-half inch meters accounted for an average 94% of connections
in the six cities.
2/   The other cities either were just beginning their metering program
or lacked reliable historical information.



ANNEX 13
Page 2
p
Meter purchase                          34.90
Installation                             6.93
Total capital cost                  41.83
Reading, billing, etc.                  31.20
Total annual cost per meter         73.03
Thus, the monthly cost is slightly over P 6 per meter.
Conservation Benefits
3.        To calculate how much consumption would have to be reduced to offset
this expense one needs the marginal supply cost of producing water in each of
the six cities. As detailed in Annex 14 and summarized in Table 1, Column (1)
in para 4 below, this average incremental cost (AIC) varies considerably, from
3                ~~~~~~3
about P 1.6/m3 in Tarlac to P 5.2/m  in Lucena.  If it is assumed initially
that all of the water which is conserved under metering was pure wastage
before (i.e., of zero value to the consumer) then the corresponding reduc-
tions in consumption per month which would be necessary to justify metering
3
are shown in Column (2) of Table 1 and range from 3.8 to 1.2 m  month.
Cost-Benefit Comparison
4.        To determine the likelihood of such a reduction in consumption,
a comparison must be made between metered and unmetered consumers. However,
reliable consumption information on unmetered consumers is naturally difficult
to find. In Lipa City WD the first month's consumption of 46 newly metered
connections was available, and this should provide a good indication (perhaps
somewhat conservative) of what consumption was prior to metering since the
consumer had not yet received a bill under the new system which would induce
him to change his consumption pattern.
Table 1: Information Summary of Six Cities
(1)                 (2)
Decrease in
AIC /1          Consumption /2
(P m3)           (m3/month)
Baguio                2.3                 2.6
Cabanatuan            2.1                 2.9
Lipa                  2.3                 2.6
Lucena                5.2                 1.2
San Fernando          3.7                 1.6
Tarlac                1.6                 3.8
/1   Average of calculations discounting at 12% and 15%.
7W   Assuming water consumed was wastegber ore metering.



ANNEX 13
Page 3
The average consumption per connection was 63 m , although the mean was 42 m
due to very high consumption by several households which were subsequently
discovered to have badly leaking pipes and/or fixtures. By way of comparison,
the city with the most metered connsctions in existence, Baguio, recorded an
average monthly conslmption of 21 m , while Cabanatuan's average of 360 slch
connections3was 33 m . San Fernando (La Union) showed an average of 30 m and
Tarlac 23 m on their respective metered connections. These various figures
are not strictly comparable, of course, since income levels, water charges and
many other factors vary across cities. For example, Baguio has the highest
average income but also a water charge which is currently more than double
that of any of the other cities (due mostly to more difficult supply condi-
tions). Nevertheless, a rough compa ison can be made between average monthly3
household consumptions of 20 to 35 m  for metered connections and around 60 m
for non-metered consumption.
5.     ,4 Thus, it appears highly probable that the necessary minimal reduction
of 1-4 mj/month could be expected in response to metering. The cost of this
reduction to the consumer can be estimated by noting that such a reduction
would amount to only around 5% of the original consumption. Thus, it is also
likely that the total value of such a relatively small amount is near zero.
In other words, even if the consumer's demand curve were so steep that the
average value of that lost water was half its AIC the corresponding reduction
necessary to justify metering (i.e., twice the figures shown in Table 1,
Column (2) of para 4) could still be expected to take place. The general
conclusion therefore is that metering is clearly justified for the 6 districts
included in this project.



ANNEX 14
PHILIPPINES
PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Internal Economic Rates of Return and Average Incremental Costs
1.        The incremental return on investment or internal economic rate of
return (IER) is the discount rate which equates the present values of the
cost and benefit streams attributable to the investment. Project justifica-
tion is then determined by comparing this rate with the opportunity cost of
capital in the economy. Whten the benefits of a water supply project are
minimally approximated by the revenue generated, the same input information
can be used to calculate the average incremental cost (AIC) of the water soiK.
The AIC is the cost per cubic mieter of the incremental water sold, averaged
over the project's life and discounted back to the present using the oppor-
tunity cost of capital. Thus if the price of water is set equal to its AIC,
the internal economic rate of return on the project will just equal the
opportunity cost of capital.
2.        Tie assumptions used i-o calculate the IER and AIC for the six
project cities are listed below.
(1)  All costs are in constant (i977) prices, exclusive of
taxes and duties.
(2)  Incremental :onsumptior and operating costs are taken
from Ainnexes ! -.'0 with all costs adjusted for inflation.
(3)  The shadow price of foreign exchange (in terms of pesos
per dollar) is 11% above its official rate.
(4)  The opportunity CuSt of capital is 12-15%.
(5)  The projects have a useful life of 40 years.
3.        Table" i Lil.        sh: O if'ow the input data for the six WDs based on
these assumptions, antd Table / sum-m arizes the results of the IER and AIC
calculations.



ANNEX 14
Table 1
Incremental Production and Costs for Baguio WD
Incremental
Incremental        Operating and            Capital
Year           Water Sles       Maintenance Costs /i        Costs
(000 m )             (000 P)               (000 P)
1977                 0                    0                   145
1978               260                -125                  3,817
1979               630                -204                 17,280
1980             1,050                -308                 14,373
1981             1,360                -318                  2,333
1982             1,730                -189                      0
1983             2,180                  182                   564 /2
1984             2,710                 489                  1,026 12
1985             3,140                 808                    934 /2
1986             3,140                 808                      0
1987-2022        3,140                 808                      0
/1   Incremental costs are negative in early years due to
decrease in power costs from substitution by hydro-
electric power and larger supply of water by gravity
from Santo Thomas reservoir.
/2   Not financed through the proposed IBRD loan but
essential for the full utilization of project
components.



ANNEX 14
Table 2
Incremental Production and Costs for Cabanatuan WD
Incremental
Incremental           Operating and             Capital
Year          Water Sales          Maintenance Costs           Costs
(000 m )               (000 P)               (000 P)
1977                  0                     0                    421
1978                150                    14                 10,423
1979               660                     63                 12,016
1980             1,180                    167                  7,463
1981             1,520                    281                  6,579
1982             1,860                    336                       0
1983             2,240                    404                       0
1984             2,610                    465                      0
1985             2,990                    535                       0
1986             2,990                    535                       0
1987-2022        2,990                    535                       0



ANNEX 14
Table 3
Incremental Production and Costs for Lipa City WD
Incremental
Incremental          Operating and             Capital
Year          Water Sales         Maintenance Costs           Costs
(000 m3)              (000 P)               (000 P)
1977                 0                     0                    235
1978               100                     3                  4,812
1979               270                    12                  5,383
1980               440                    56                  3,704
1981               590                    97                  3,029
1982               740                   122                      0
1983               910                   135                      0
1984             1,090                   153                      0
1985             1,270                   176                      0
1986             1,270                   176                      0
1987-2022        1,270                   176                      0



ANNEX i4
Table 4
Incremental Production and Costs for Lucena WD)
Incremental
Incremental          Operating and            Capital
Year          Water Sales         Maintenance Costs           Costs
(000 m )              (000 P)               (000 P)
1977                 0                     0                    645
1978                60                   -48                 12,752
1979               120                   -11                 16,682
1980               240                    59                  9,952
1981               350                   154                  4,843
1982               890                   195                      0
1983             1,120                   225                      0
1984             1,360                   260                      0
1985             1,600                   317                      0
1986             1,600                   317                      0
1987-2022        1,600                   317                      0



ANNEX 14
Table 5
Incremental Production and Costs for San Fernando
(La Union) WD
Incremental
Incremental          Operating and             Capital
Year          Water Sales          Maintenance Costs          Costs
(000 M-)               (000 P)               (000 P)
1977                 0                     0                   382
1978                70                     5                 7,871
1979               140                    -1                10,933
1980               290                    -2                 5,964
1981               580                   160                 1,541
1982               870                   262                     0
1983               990                   304                   282/1
1984             1,230                   378                   257/1
1985             1,470                   459                   934/1
1986             1,470                   459                     0
1987-2022        1,470                   459                     0
/1   Not financed through the proposed IBRD loan but essential
for the full utilization of project components.



ANNEX 14
Table 6
Incremental Production and Costs for Tarlac WD
Incremental
Incremental          Operating and            Capital
Year         Water Sales          Maintenance Costs          Costs
(000 m )              (000 P)               (000 P)
1977                 0                    0                   418
1978                60                    1                 8,121
1979               480                   65                 9,905
1980             1,030                  199                 6,643
1981             1,510                  326                 5,074
1982             2,010                  406                     0
1983             2,420                  467                     0
1984             2,810                  525                     0
1985             3,210                  593                     0
1986             3,210                  593                     0
1987-2022        3,210                  593                     0



ANNEX 14
Table ,
Average Revenue, AIC, and IER
Average Revenue Average Incremental Cost Internal Economic Return
1977    1    /1  at 12%  at 15   Average  1977 Tariffs 1982 Tariffs
(P/m )                (P/m )                      (Percent)
Baguio         1.7      2.8      2.1      2.5       2.3         10.5         10.7
Cabanatuan    0.8       2.3      1.9      2.4       2.1          3.8          8.4
Lipa           0.7      2.6      2.0      2.5       2.3          2.6          9.4
Lucena         0.5      2.3      4.5      5.9       5.2         -j.2          2.7
San Fernando  1.0       3.3      3.3      4.1       3.7          1.8          7.2
(La Union)
Tarlac         1.2      2.2      1.4      1.8       1.6          9.4         10.8
/1   For the IER calculations this average revenue is deflated to 1977 prices,
which are the following: Baguio P 1.7, Cabanatuan P 1.4, Lipa P 1.6,
Lucena P 1.4, San Fernando P 2.0 and Tarlac P 1.4.



PHILIPPXNES
PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
BAGUIO WD                                           IxI,co.;E  I1 r L T                          MILLION PESOS
1976      1977        1  c7      1979       1930       18         1982       I983       198-;      1935
P-PsJLATlcrl-THOIJ5iAND          100.59    105.12    1 O.U7    114.32    1  0.05    12-.53    129.44    134 44    139.63    145.02
PPU'LATION SEPV.'ED- WATER        55.76      53.653     63.'6      73.  5     81.39      65.49      89. 89     93.72    101 .58    106.01
% POPULATION SERVED- WATER        55.44      55.77      58.22      63.71      67.82      6s.60      69.45      71.20      72.75       73.1C
GCONNECTIONS- WATER                6.80       7.15       7.80       9.14      10.43      11.10      11.83      12.59      13.37       14.1 s
VOLUME SOLO-MILLION  ',A3          2.67       3.17       3.43       3.80       4.22       4.53       4.90       5.35        5.88       6.31
CONSUMPTION/CONNEC/MONTH          32.72      36.98      36.63      34.67      33.69      34.01      34.54      35.42      36.57       37.13
% UNACCOUNTED FOR  WATER          59.79      54.08      50.38      44.95      39.74      35.27      29.96      29.85      27.0C       25.00
PRODUCTION-MILL. M3                6.64       6.91       6.91       6.91       7.00       7. JC      7.30       7.133      8.06        8.41
PER CAPITA PRODUCTION LCO        326.25    322.90    295.99    25. 79    235.64    224.32    213.34    218.46    217.29    217.29
REVENUES- WATER                    3.79       5.39       5.83       6.47       8.44       9.06      13.73      14.99      16.47       17.66
OTHER OPZRATIONAL REVENUE          0.09       0.10       0.10       0.11       0.11       0.12       0.12       0.13        0.14       0.14
TOTAL REVENUES                     3.88       5.49       5.93       6.57       8.55       9.18      13.85      15.12      16.60       17.80
WAGES- WATER                       0.78       0.66       0.94       1.04       1.14       1.37       1.64       1.97        2.37       2.8'
CHEMICALS                          0.04       0.06       0.07       0.07       0.08       0.09       0.10       0.12        0.14       0.16
POWER                              2.20       2.75       2.90       3.10       3.26       3.43       3.77       4.52       5.25        6.03
MATERIALS                          0.40       0.44       0.48       0.53       0.59       0.64       0.77       0.93        t.il       1.34
OTHER EXPENSES                  . 0.14       -0.15       0.16       0.18       0.20       0.24       0.28       0.34        0.41       0.49
DIRECT COSTS-WATER                 3.56       4.27       4.56       4.92       5.27       5.77       6.57       7.88       9.28       10.85
OTHER INDIRECT COSTS               0.19       0.27       0.29       0.32       0.42       0.45       0.69       0.75        0.82       0.88
s===s=-  =w=====   ====s===  =-=====    =s==-  .= .===  ======    S==ss    Sa=              =
TOTAL COSTS                        3.?5       4.54       4.85       5.25       5.69       6.22       7.26       8.63       10.10      11.74
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION         0.14       0.95       1.08       1.33       2.86       2.96       6.59       6.49       6. v        67.C6
DEPRECIATION                       0.11       0.13       0.13       0.26       0.84       1.38       1.49       1.51        1.5.       1.60
cS-===s==  *-=s=c~=  s===U===  fs=======  Ws=====S  =S==ss===  =s=-====  ==ts_====   =t_ z2ttz=
INCOME BEFORE INTEREST             0.03       0.82       0.95       1.06       2.01       1.57       5.11       4.97        4.95       4.46
INTEREST CHARGED OPER.             0.12       0.20       0.16       0.12       0.08       0.04       4.51       4.46       4.41        4. 35
s= a=rs   ma=====   =s===   =m===    ===.-  ===sr=f==   *=====t=== s==r-===  s====
NET SURPLUS (-+1                   0.09       0.62       0.79       0.94       1.93       1.53       0.60       0.51        0.53       0.10
AVERAGE RATE CASE                  4.24       5.C6       4.93       9.93      32.66      53.21      55.86      55.36      55.33       55.75
=DPERATING RATIO %                96.46      82.70      81.77      79.63      66.56      67.79      52.40      57.10      60.86       65.95
-RATE OF RETURN                    0.70      16.16      19.25      10.-72      6.17       2.95       9.14       8.99        8.94       8.00
Average Rate P/m3                  1.42      1.70        1.70       1.70       2.00       2.00       2.80       2.80       2.80        2.80
1.1
Note:  Minor differences in totals are due to roundings                                                                                            n
December 4, 1976



PHILIPPINES
PROVINCIAL CITIES WATiER SUPPLY PROJECT
BAGUIO WD                                          FLOW OF FUNDS                             MILLION PESOS
---  __  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  __ _ _ _-__     _ _ _  _ __ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ -    ____________    _  __--  -     -------  ______--
1976      1977      1978       1979       1980      198'       1982      1983       1984      1985
==---  ss-w==Z=-t=-5=tatra=s=====s====xastSs=.-== = = =====.==:= == =Z $s==as===== ==-=S- S -==.=S= -Sea a as,-as.-----s a  g
SOURCES OF FUNDS
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION       0.14      .0.95      1.08       1.33      2.85      2.96       6.59       6.49      6.50       6.06
 ---   -----       -----     -----      -----       --   -            -- -         ----    -- --
GROSS INTERNAL GENERATION        0.14       0.95      1.08       1.33      2.86       2.96      6.59       6.49      6.50       6.06
OTHER CONTRIBUTIONS              0.00       0.00      0.12       0.26      0.29       0.22      0.25       0.26       0.24      0.23
IBRD LOAN                        0.00      0.06       1.66      10.57     11.06       5.12      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
NATIONAL LOANS                   0.00       0.07      2.46      10.17      7.86      -0.96      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
OTHER LOANS                      1.89       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
TOTAL LOANS                      1.89       0.14      4.12      20.73     18.92       4.16      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
=si5s== .. S====U;t  =s====-  S=w=S==   UUSlSS;= =ssZ=-;S                   ts=s====;  Runs;==;  maSsa
TOTAL SOURCES                    2.03       1.09      5.32      22.32     22.07       7.34      6.84       6.75       6.74      6.29
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
=SS== ===s= ===5=t===S
INVESTMENT IN PROJECT            0.00      0.14       3.93      19.81     18.08       3.04      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
CAPITALIZED INTEREST             0.00       0.00      0.20       1.31      3.09       4.12      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
OTHER WORKS                      1.89       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       1.00      1.00       2.00      2.00
TOTAL INVESTMENT                 1.89       0.14      4.13      21.12     21.17       7.16      1.00       1.00       2.00      2.00
FOREIGN LOAN AMORTIZATION        0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.29       0.31       0.34      0.38
NATIONAL LOAN AMORTIZATION       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.20       0.22       0.24       0.26
OTHER LOANS AMORTIZATION         0.00       0.44      0.44       0.44      0.44       0.44      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
TOTAL AMORTIZATION               0.00       0.44      0.44       0.44      0.44       0.44      0.49       0.53       0.58      0.64
OPER.INTEREST LONG T.DEBT        0.12       0.20      0.16       0.12      0.08       0.04      4.51       4.46       4.41       4.36
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE               0.12       0.64      0.60       0.56      0.52       0.48      4.         4.99       4.99       4.99
INCREASE IN WORK.CAPITAL         0.02       0.31      0.59       0.65      0.38      -0.30      0.85       0.75      -0.25     -0.71
Ss===,=   t====  =tSS===  =s====   =52S==  S2ss2==   3=====f5  =Z:===3  sS=SS==S  SSsStf==
TOTAL APPLICATIONS               2.03       1.09      5.32      22.32     22.07       7.34       6.84      6.75       6.74       6.29
DEBT SERVICE RATIO-              1.18       1.49      1.81       2.38      5.54       6.21       1.32      1.30       1.30       1.21
Note: Minor differences in totals are due to roundings
December 4, 1976
I.-



PHILlPPINES
PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
BAGUIO WD                                          BALANCE SHEET                            MILLION PESOS
1976      1977      1t73        1979       1980       1981       1982       1983       1984       1985
A S S E T S
FIXED ASSETS IN OPER.             5.25       5.25      5.25      15.64      51.21      58.98      59.98      60.98      62.98      64.98
MINUS ACCUM.DEPRECIATION          0.12      .0.26      0.39       0.65       1.49       2.88       4.36       5.88       7.42       9.02
NET FIXED ASSETS                  5.i3       5.00      4.87      14.99      50.32      56.10      55.61      55.10      55.55      55.95
WORK IN PROGRESS                  0.00       0.14      4.27      15.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
CASH AND BANKS                    0.20       0.11       0.43      1.07       1.28       0.94       1.24       1.87       1.45       0.62
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE               0.32       0.69      0.74       0.82       1.07       1.15       1.73       1.89       2.08       2.22
INVENTARIES                       0.08      .0.13      0.14       0.15      .0.17       0.18       0.22      .0.26       0.31       0.37
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS              0.60       0.92       1.31      2.05       2.51       2.28       3.19       4.02       3.84       3.22
St===S==z   ===5=z=    =S=======           =s==  =SS====S==S =5===s  z=S==X===
TOTAL ASSETS                      5.73       6.07     10.45      32.04      52.83      58.37      58.B0      59.12      59.39      59.17
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
EQUITY                            3.00       3.00      3.00       3.00       3.00       3.00       3.00       3.00       3.00       3.00
CONTRIBUTIONS                     0.00       0.00      0.12       0.38       0.67       0.88       1.13       1.39       1.64       1.66
OPERATIONAL SURPLUS              -0.31      .0.30       1.09      2.04       3.97       5.50       6.10       6.61       7.15       7.25
TOTAL EQUITY                      2.69      .3.30      4.21       5.41       7.64       9.39      10.23      11.00      11.78      12.11
LONG TERM DEBT(NET)               1.74       1.45      5.13      25.43      43.91      47.59      47.06      46.48      45.84      45.15
ACCOUNT PAYABLES                  0.54       0.54      0.30       0.32       0.34       0.37       0.40       0.44       0.48       0.53
CUSTOMER DEPOSITS                 0.33       0.34      0.37       0.44       0.51       0.54       0.58       0.61       0.65       0.69
CURRENT MATURITIES                0.44      .0.44      0.44       0.44       0.44       0.49       0.53       0.58       0.64       0.69
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES         1.30      .1.32       1.11      1.20       1.28       1.40       1.51       1.63       1.77       1.91
TOTAL LIABILITIES                 3.04       2.76      6.24      26.62      45.19      48.99      48.57      48.11      47.61      47.06
=s=====;  *-====S  ==S==z==           Z= =   =.sZS   in     = ;SZZ          *=S =S;;S==t mu===ma
TOTAL EQUITY-LIABILITIES          5.73       6.07     10.45      32.04      52.83      58.37      58.80      59.12      59.39      59.17
*WORKING CAPITAL-MILLION         -0.26       0.04      0.64       1.28       1.67       1.37       2.21       2.96       2.71       2.00
*CURRENT RATIO                    0.46       0.70      1.18       1.71       1.96       1.63       2.12       2.46       2.17       1.68
% DEBT/(DEBT+EQUITY)             39.37      30.44     54.92      82.44      85.18      83.52      82.14      80.86      79.55      78.85
x
Note:  Minor differences in totals are due to roundings                                                                                      I
December 4, 1976                                                                                                                     n



PHIL IPP INES
PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CABANATUAN WD                                            INCOME STATEMENT                                     MILLION PESOS
1976       1977       1978       1979       1980       1981       1982       1983        1984       1985
POPULATION-THOUSAND              78.33      81.19      84.15       87.22      90.40      93.24      96.18      99.21     102.33      105.56
POPULATION SERVED- WATER         21.40      21.40      21.40       28.30      35.20      42.10      49.00      56.00      63.00       70.00
% POPULATION SERVED- WATER       27.32      26.36       25.43      32.45      38.94      45.15      50.95      56.45      61.57       66.32
CONNECTIONS- WATER                2.46       3.00        3.50       3.80       4.48       5.64       6.80       7.93        9.07      10.20
VOLUME SOLD-MILLION  M3           0.96       1.10        1.25       1.76       2.28       2.62       2.96       3.34        3.71       4.09
CONSUMPTION/CONNEC/MONTH         32.52      30.61       29.64      33.66      42.43      38.76      36.32      35.07       34.13      33.40
% UNACCOUNTED FOR  WATER         53.01      48.82      44.98       41.27      39.03      35.41      32.33      29.45      26.98       24.83
PRODUCTION-MILL. M3               2.04       2.15        2.26       3.00       3.74       4.06       4.38       4.73        5.09       5.44
PER CAPITA PRODUCTION LCD       261.55    275.64    289.72    290.62    291.17    264.28    244.90    231.55    221.13    212.84
REVENUES- WATER                   0.47       0.88        1.00       1.76       3.42       3.93       6.82       7.68        8.54       9.40
OTHER OPERATIONAL REVENUE         0.02        0.03       0.03       0.04       0.04       0.04       0.05       0.05        0.06       0.06
TOTAL REVENUES                    0.49       0.91        1.03       1.80       3.46       3.98       6.87       7.73        8.60       9.46
WAGES- WATER                      0.23       0.29        0.32       0.36       0.39       0.47       0.56       0.68        0.81       0.97
CHEMICALS                         0.00       0.02        0.02       0.03       0.04       0.05       0.06       0.07        0.09       0.10
POWER                             0.10       0.12        0.13       0.20       0.27       0.32       0.38       0.45        0.53       0.63
MATERIALS                          0.04      0.04        0.05       0.06       0.15       0.25       0.28       0.31        0.34       0.37
OTHER EXPENSES                    0.05        0.07       0.07       0.08       0.09       0.11       0.13       0.16        0.19       0.22
 _  _    _-___  -                                                _        - ---         --------
DIRECT COSTS-WATER                0.42       0.54        0.61       0.73       0.94       1.20       1.41       1.67        1.96       2.30
OTHER INDIRECT COSTS               0.01       0.04       0.05       0.09       0.17       0.20       0.34       0.38        0.43       0.47
===== -=== Z=====  ====5===  ========  ===== =  =  2=======  ========  =_======  ========  S=======
TOTAL COSTS                       0.42       0.58        0.66       0.82       1.12       1.39       1.75       2.05        2.39       2.77
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION        0.07       0.33       0.37        0.98       2.35       2.59       5.11       5.68        6.21       6.6'
DEPRECIATION                      0.08       0.08       0.08        0.24       0.74       1.24       1.40       1.41        1.43       1.4L
*S=== 2 ======        =========  =2====   SS= ===-=    ==== S======   rs=== =======
INCOME BEFORE INTEREST           -0.01       0.24       0.29       0.74        1.61       1.34       3.71       4.27       4.78        5.24
INTEREST CHARGED OPER.            0.01       0.01       0.01       0.01        0.01       0.00       4.41       4.36        4.31       4.26
222=2==    222====  =====   2s===   s=2====  s====    fls====2  2222=2==    22===   *s=====
NET SURPLUS (+)                  -0.01       0.23        0.28       0.73       1.60       1.34      -0.70      -0.09        0.47       0.98
AVERAGE RATE BASE                  1.63       1.63       1,55       7.67      27.14      46.21      51.27      50.12       49.45      49.01
*OPERATING RATIO X               85.15      64.24      63.84      45.42       32.22      35.01      25.52      26.53      27.76       29.25
*RATE OF RETURN %                -0.54      14.78       18.59       9.66       5.92       2.91       7.24       8.53        9.67      10.70
Average Rate P/m3                  0.49       O. 80    080         1.00       1.50       1.50       2.30        2.30       2.30       2.30
Note:  Minor differences in totals rr-- due to rcundings.
December 4, 1976



PHILIPPTIN ES
PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
-C-BANATWOANFWNDSMILLION PESOS
C_______________---------------------_-_--------_-----_--------------------- _ ________ _ _____    _       _ _ _.___
1976      1977      1978      1979      1980       1981      1982      1983       1984      1985
SOURCES OF FUNDS
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION      0.07      .0.33     0.37       0.98      2.35      2.59      5.11       5.68      6.21      6.69
GROSS INTERNAL GENERATION       0.07      0.33       0.37      0.98      2.35      2.59       5.11      5.68      6.21       6.69
OTHER CONTRIBUTIONS             0.02      0.02       0.11      0.09      0.16      0.27       0.29      0.30      0.33       0.34
IBRO LOAN                       O.Oo      0.18      4.52       5.75      4.75      5.43       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
NATIONAL LOANS                  0.00      0.24       6.90      8.88      5.20      5.14       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
OTHER LOANS                     0.12                 0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
TOTAL LOANS                     0.12      0.42      11.42     14.63      9.95     10.57       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
*gS===n  S======= ====    =-= ========= Ssn====  D====n===                           =2==   *-====
TOTAL SOURCES                   0.21      0.76      11.90     15.70     12.46     13.42       5.40      5.98      6.54       7.04
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
INVESTMENT IN PROJECT           0.00      0.40      10.91     13.98      9.54      9.03      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00
CAPITALIZED INTEREST           o0oo       0.01       0.55      1.72      2.82      3.74       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
OTHER WORKS                     0.17      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.50      1.00       1.00
__ __ _      _____ ______- -      ----   --------   - --  -   - -   --- -----  -   - - --   - - -- -- --  -    - --- --
TOTAL INVESTMENT                0.17      0.42      11.46     15.69     12.35     12.77       0.00      0.50      1.00       1.00
FOREIGN LOAN AMORTIZATION       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      O.OD      0.00      0.21       0.23      0.25       0.27
NATIONAL LOAN AMORTIZATION      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.27      0.29      0.32       0.35
OTHER LOANS AMORTIZATION        0.00      0.02       0.02      0.02      0.02      0.02       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
________ _-            --  -   _      --             -    -   ___ -----  -  __     --------     - - -----
TOTAL AMORTIZATION              0.00      0.02      0.02       0.02      0.02      0.02      0.47       0.52      0.57       0.62
OPER.INTEREST LONG T.DEBT       0.01      0.01      0.01       0.01      0.01      0.00       4.41      4.36      4.31       4.26
m===%=-=  *-====== ==2=====  ======== ========  ========  ========  S======.
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE              0.01      0.03      0.03       0.03      0.03      0.03      4.88       4.88      4.88      4.88
INCREASE IN WORK.CAPITAL        0,03      0.31      0.40     -0.02       0.08      0.63      0.52       0.60      0.66      1.15
=s=S=t=  Zmfl===  ==S==   2S~====    2c====   S=z===   S=====    t====   =r====   Sr=:==
TOTAL APPLICATIONi              0.21      0.76      11.90     15.70     12.46     13.42      5.40       5.98      6.54       7.04
DEBT SERVICE RATIO             14,68      9.29      11.26     31.67     80.90     99.45       1.05      1.16      1.27       1.37
Note:  Minor differences in totals are due to roundings.
December 4, 1976



PHILIPPINES
PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CABANATUAN WD                                       BALANCE SHEET                             MILLION PESOS
1976      1977       1978      1979       1980      1981       1982       1983       1984      1985
=s-r,=ss=sssssssssss=====r====s=ss======== === ======== = ==t===  2-==2==S=S=2= 22=2= 22 = -22- fl27==
A 5 5 E T S
FIXED ASSETS IN OPER.            3.37       3.37      3.37      15.94      43.29     56.06      56.06     56.56      57.56      58.56
MINUS ACCUM.DEPRECIATION         1.70       1.78       1.87      2.11       2.85      4.09       5.49       6.90       8.33      9.78
NET FIXED ASSETS                  1.67      1.59       1.50     13.83      40.44     51.97      50.57      49.66     49.24      48.78
WORK IN PROGRESS                 0.00       0.42      11.88     15.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
CASH AND BANKS                   0.04       0.34       0.74      0.63       0.53       1.15      1.36       1.92       2.52      3.63
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE              0.09       0.11       0.13      0.22       0.43      0.50       0.86       0.97       1.07      1.18
INVENTARIES                      0.01       0.02      0.02       0.02       0.05      0.07       0.08       0.10      0.11       0.12
________ _______                                            _ - - --- ___ _ _  ----- - - -    -- -_
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS             0.14       0.47       0.89      0.88       1.01       1.72      2.31       2.98       3.71      4.93
2222=2=2  ..22===2  ==S=====  ====   2=====             ======  2======  22=;==2  =...  ==  2s=2=2=
TOTAL ASSETS                     1.81       2.47      14.27     29.71      41.46     53.69      52.88      52.64      52.94     53.72
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
EQUITY                           1.63       1.63       1.63      1.63       1.63       1.63      1.63       1.63       1.63       1.63
CONTRIBUTIONS                    0.04       0.06       0.17      0.26       0.42       0.69      0.97       1.28       1.61       1.95
OPERATIONAL SURPLUS             -0.02       0.21       0.49      1.22       2.82       4.17      J.4-       3.38       3.85       4.83
________ - -----   _______       -- -----  --------  - _    ___ ----_-- - - -     -- -          -------
TOTAL EQUITY                     1.66       1.91       2.30      3.11       4.88       6.49      6.08       6.29       7.09      8.41
___   - - _ _ _  _ _ _ _                                                    - _      -------- -- -----
LONG TERM DEBT(NET)              0.10       0.49      11.88     26.49      36.42     46.52      46.00      45.43      44.81     44.13
ACCOUNT PAYABLES                 0.02       0.02       0.03      0.04       0.06       0.07      0.08       0.10       0.11       0.13
CUSTOMER DEPOSITS                0.01       0.03       0.04      0.05       0.08       0.14      0.20       0.25       0.31       0.36
CURRENT MATURITIES               0.02       0.02       0.02      0.02       0.02       0.47      0.52       0.57       0.62       0.68
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES        0.06       0.07       0.09      0.11       0.16       0.68      0.80       0.92       1.04       1.17
TOTAL LIABILITIES                0.15       0.56      11.97     26.60      36.58     47.20      46.80      46.35      45.85     45.30
*=222222    *2SS .===.2 ..=====  *-===       2222   = ...==== U2SaS2=2 2  USS==2 S   wS=        32t22=
TOTAL EQUITY-LIABILITIES         1.81       2.47      14.27     29.71      41.46     53.69      52.88      52.64      52.94     53.72
*WORKING CAPITAL-MILLION         0.11       0.42       0.82      0.80       0.88       1.51      2.03       2.63       3.28       4.44
*CURRENT RATIO                   2.52       6.37       9.86      8.29       6.40       2.51      2.89       3.24       3.55       4.20
% DEBT/(DEBT+EQUITY)             5.46      20.36      83.81     89.48      88.19      87.76     88.33      87.83      86.34      83.99
Note: Minor differences in totals are due to roundings.
December 4, 1976



PHILIPPINES
PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
LIPA WD                                           INCOME STATEMENT                           MILLION PESOS
1976      1977       1978      1979       1980       1981      1982       1983       1984       1985
=,==.=============s. S SS.. ========s=======================================u =s==== =ss=========-  ==  ====ss===s= = s=s==
POPULATION-THOUSAND             53.46      55.26     57.12      59.04      61.02     62.68      64.39      66.16     67.97      69.84
POPULATION SERVED- WATER         9.10       9.10       9.10     12.15      15.20     18.00      20.80      24.20     27.60      31.00
% POPULATION SERVED- WATER       17.02     16.47      15.93     20.58      24.91      28.72     32.30      36.58      40.61     44.39
CONNECTIONS- WATER               0.79       0.85       0.95      1.43       1.90       2.45      3.00       3.50       4.00      4.50
VOLUME SOLD-MILLION  M3          0.25       0.37       0.47      0.64       0.81       0.96      1.11       1.28       1.46       1.64
CONSUMPTION/CONNEC/MONTH        26.37      36.27      41.23     37.30      35.53      32.65     30.83      30.48      30.42     30.37
% UNACCOUNTED FOR  WATER        66.22      56.47      49.46     44.35      40.62      33.79     29.30      28.09      26.26      25.12
PRODUCTION-MILL. M3              0.74       0.85       0.93      1.15       1.36       1.45      1.57       1.78       1.98       2.19
PER CAPITA PRODUCTION LCD      222.79    255.91    279.99    259.31    245.85    220.70    206.80    201.52    196.54    193.55
REVENUES- WATER                  0.11       0.26       0.33      0.90       1.30       1.54      2.89       3.33       3.80       4.26
OTHER OPERATIONAL REVENUE        0.01       0.01       0.01      0.02       0.02       0.02      0.02       0.02       0.03       0.03
- _     _     -    ____-        ___-               _-- _ ____   -  ------  - _  -     ---- ___ _ _ _
TOTAL REVENUES                   0.12       0.27       0.34      0.91       1.31       1.56      2.91       3.35       3.82       4.29
WAGES- WATER                     0.09       0.10       0.11      0.12       0.13       0.16      0.19       0.23       0.27       0.33
CHEMICALS                         0.00      0.01       0.01      0.01       0.02       0.02      0.02       0.03       0.03       0.04
POWER                            0.03       0.03       0.04      0.05       0.07       0.08      0.09       0.12       0.14       0.17
MATERIALS                         0.01      0.02       0.02      0.02       0.07       0.12       0.14      0.14       0.15       0.16
OTHER EXPENSES                   0.01       0.01       0.01      0.01       0.01       0.02       0.02      0.02       0.03       0.03
DIRECT COSTS-WATER               0.13       0.17       0.19      0.22       0.30       0.39      0.47       0.54       0.63       0.74
OTHER INDIRECT COSTS             0.00       0.01       0.02      0.04       0.06       0.08       0.14      0.17       0.19       0.21
======SS  z==S===S  ==s=====  =======  ========= SS=SS==   5,==SSS=  S===S===       =-=====.
TOTAL COSTS                      0.13       0.18       0.20      0.26       0.36       0.47       0.61      0.70       0.82       0.95
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION      -0.01       0.09       0.14      0.65       0.95       1.09      2.30       2.65       3.00       3.34
DEPRECIATION                     0.09       0.09       0.09      0.14       0.37       0.62       0.69      0.70       0.71       0.73
=am*====  SSSS===S  =====Z==  S======   S       =S======= =======   5=S===  fl=S=====  SSSS=:=S  5x==;===
INCOME BEFORE INTEREST          -0.10       0.00       0.05      0.51       0.58       0.47       1.60      1.95       2.29       2.62
INTEREST CHARGED OPER.           0.01       0.01       0.01      0.01       0.00       0.00      2.03       2.01       1.99       1.96
*s=zS;S   aSwS==sS  fl2=;==;  *ssssss=  =sss;=S  =S=sWSSS  SSflfl=s  Stf===ss   Ss====;  -sss=====
NET SURPLUS (+)   -             -0.11      -0.01       0.04      0.50       0.57       0.46      -0.43     -0.06       0.30       0.65
AVERAGE RATE BASE                 1.28      1.26       1.17      3.28      12.24      21.64      23.91     23.46      23.25      23.03
*OPERATING RATIO %             111.67      66.76      59.27     28.57      27.65      30.11     20.96      20.94      21.40      22.13
*RATE OF RETURN X               -7.86       0.17       4.43     15.48       4.71       2.15       6.71      8.31       9.85      11.36
Average Rate P/mr3                 0.44      0.70       0.70       1.40      1.60       1.60       2.60      2.60       2.60       2.60  r
Nbte: Minor differences in totals are due to roundings.
December 4, 1976



PHILIPPINES
PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
LIPA  WD                                             FLOW OF FUNDS                          MILLION PESOS
1976      1977       1978      1979       1980      1981       1982      1983       1984       1985
=33=~ == ===============s=s=============-===3=3= = = ==
SOURCES OF FUNDS
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION      -0.01      0.09       0.14      0.65       0.95       1.09      2.30       2.65      3.00       3.34
GRANTS FOR OPERATION             0.03       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
GROSS INTERNAL GENERATION        0.02       0.09      0.14       0.65      0.95       1.09      2.30       2.65       3.00      3.34
OTHER CONTRIBUTIONS              0.00       0.00      0.02       0.09      0.10       0.13      0.15       0.15       0.15      0.15
IBRD LOAN                        0.00      0.12       2.69      3.26       2.90       3.06      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
NATIONAL LOANS                   0.00       0.11      2.54       3.22      1.97       1.78      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
OTHER LOANS                      0.11       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
                     ___- _____
TOTAL LOANS                      0.11       0.23      5.23       6.48      4.87       4.84      0.00       0.00       0.00      QdOO
*3====3==  =s===2===  =s======  ======== =====        ===== = =   =3=3==  a=======  =3======  33======
TOTAL SOURCES                    0.13       0.32      5.39       7.21      5.92       6.06      2.44       2.80       3.15      3.49
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
INVESTMENT IN PROJECT            0.00      0.22       5.00       6.20      4.68       4.12      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
CAPITALIZED INTEREST             0.00       0.01      0.25       0.78      1.29       1.72      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
OTHER WORKS                      0.14       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.50       0.50       0.50
   _    __                                                            _ - -_ ---     -_____ --   _-   __ _____ -  - _ ---- _ ______
TOTAL INVESTMENT                 0.14       0.23      5.25       6.98      5.97       5.84      0.00       0.50       0.50      0.50
FOREIGN LOAN AMORTIZATION        0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.12       0.13       0.15      0.16
NATIONAL LOAN AMORTIZATION       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.10      0.11       0.12       0.13
OTHER LOANS AMORTIZATION         0.00       0.02      0.02       0.02      0.02       0.02       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
__ _ _ _ _ -   -   - - -   - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - -   -  _ _ _ _ _  -   - - - -   - - - - - - - -  _ _ _ _ _ _ _
TOTAL AMORTIZATION               0.00       0.02      0.02       0.02      0.02       0.02       0.22      0.24       0.26       0.29
OPER.INTEREST LONG T.DEBT        0.01       0.01      0.01       0.01      0.00       0.00       2.03      2.01       1.99       1.96
TOTAL OPERATIONAL INTEREST       0.01       0.01      0.01       0.01      0.00       0.00       2.03      2.01       1.99       1.96
X,====               3=======  3==z====  *======= 3=3=====  5=S=====  33=====3  ======   ===-==  a=======
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE               0.01       0.03      0.03       0.03      0.03       0.02       2.25      2.25       2.25       2.25
INCREASE IN WORK.CAPITAL        -0.01       0.06      0.11       0.21     -0.07       0.19       0.20      0.05       0.41       0.74
3s=3==-   ======== =3=3=3=   *=====  3=33=3==  .===z==  33======  3-=====   3ass=3==   an======
TOTAL APPLICATIONS               0.13       0.32      5.39       7.21      5.92       6.06       2.44      2.80       3.15       3.49
DEBT SERVICE RATIO               2.67       2.65      4.66      23.26     36.56      45.31       1.02      1.18       1.34       1.49
Note: Minor differences in totals are due to roundings
December 4, 1976



PHILIPPINES
PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
LIPA WD                                                  BALANCE SHEET                                MILLION PISOS
1976      1977       1978      1979       1980      1981       1982       1983      1984       1985
tSSSUSSSSXS==S8*SStSUSSUUU=t====S=fltU==2==s8==                      ===r====S=== ==t=  =S =SS==  ==sf==   === =S==  ====sUs -Sf ltts-=s=-sa=*=t
A 5 S E T S
FIXED ASSETS IN OPER.            3.52       3.52      3.52       7.98     21.95      27.79      27.79     28.29      28.79      29.29
MINUS ACCUM.DEPRECIATION         2.22       2.31       2.40      2.54       2.91      3.53       4.23       4.93      5.64       6.37
NET FIXED ASSETS                 1.30       1.21       1.12      5.44      19.03     24.25      23.56      23.36     23.14      22.92
WORK IN PROGRESS                 0.00       0.23       5.48      8.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
CASH AND BANKS                   0.10       0.17       0.28      0.43       0.32      0.50       0.55       0.57      0.94       1.65
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE              0.05       0.03       0.04      0.11       0.16      0.19       0.36       0.42      0.48       0.54
INVENTARIES                      0.01       0.01      0.01       0.01       0.02      0.03       0.04       0.04      0.05       0.05
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS             0.16       0.21       0.33      0.55       0.51      0.73       0.95       1.03       1.47      2.24
m.=nfz  *2===== w====   ========  ===T=.=;  =U=t= = = ===S  f n=t   =S-                        St==
TOTAL ASSETS                      1.46      1.66       6.93     13.99      19.54     24.98      24.51      24.39     24.61      25.16
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
EQUITY                           1.46       1.46       1.46      1.46       1.46       1.46      1.46       1.46       1.46      1.46
CONTRIBUTIONS                    0.03       0.03       0.05      0.14       0-94       0.37      0.51       0.66       0.82      0.97
UtRNATIONAL SURPLUS             -0.15      -0.16      -0.12      0.38       0.96       1.42      0.99       0.93       1.23      1.89
TOTAL EQUITY                     1.33       1.33       1.39      1.98       2.65       3.25      2.96       3.05       3.51      4.31
LONG TERM DEBT(NET)              0.09       0.30       5.50     11.96      16.81     21.43      21.19      20.93     20.64      20.33
ACCOUNT PAYABLES                 0.01       0.01       0.02      0.02       0.02       0.02      0.02       0.02       0.03      0.03
CUSTOMERS DEPOSITS               0.00       0.00       0.00      0.02       0.04       0.07      0.10       0.12       0.15       0.17
CURRENT MATURITIES               0.02       0.02       0.02      0.02       0.02       0.22      0.24       0.26       0.29       0.31
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES        0.03       0.03       0.04      0.05       0.08       0.31      0.36       0.41       0.46       0.51
SHORT TERM DEBT                  0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
TOTAL LIABILITIES                0.12       0.33       5.54     12.01      16.89      21.74     21.55      21.34      21.10     20.84
*.s,S=S      S=== S=SS =S =  S====            :n=s=   33S==     Etf===  S tSSft=CSS aw-==    wsf=s=
TOTAL EQUITY-LIABILITIES          1.46      1.66       6.93     13.99      19.54      24.98     24.51      24.39      24.61      25.16
*WORKING CAPITAL-MILLION         0.14       0.20       0.31      0.52       0.45       0.64      0.84       0.89       1.29       2.04
*CURRENT RATIO                   4.49       6.27       8.17     10.23       6.25       2.38      2.67       2.53       3.18       4.35
% DEBT/(DEBT+EQUITY)              6.19     18.28      79.87     85.81      86.37      86.85     87.73      87.27      85.48      82.50
..5
Note:I Minor differences in totals are due to roundings
December 4, 1976



PHILIPPINES
PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER, SUPPLY PROJECT
LUCENA-PAGBILAO-TAYABAS WD                           INCOME STATEMENT                                MILLION PESOS
-------- ------________ ---_ ---- ------- _--- _--- _--------- _- _---- __--- ----- -- _---------- -_-- ---------------_-_---- -- 
1976      1977      1978      1979       1980      1981       1982      1983      1984       1985
2==~=========ss====x=-5======s====t================3-===  s=-s====e  ====
POPULATION-THOUSAND             91.70     94.20     96.80      99.60    102.20    104.80    107.30    109.80    112.80    115.40
POPULATION SERVED- WATER        51.60     51.80     52.00      52.37     52.70     53.10      62.00     6%.37      68.73     72.10
% POPULATION SERVED- WATER      56.27     54.99     53.72      52.58     51.57     50.67      57.78     59.54      60.93     62.48
CONNECTIONS- WATER               5.50      5.80      5.95       6.10      6.25      7.60       8.85      9.80      10.70     11.60
VOLUME SOLD-MILLION  M3          2.65      2.75      2.81       2.87      2.99       3.10      3.64      3.87       4.11      4.35
CONSUMPTtON/CONNEC/MONTH        40.15     39.51     39.36      39.21     39.87      33.99     34.27     32.87      32.04     31.24
% UNACCOUNTED FOR  WATER        63.95     61.96      50.00     48.10     40.08      38.00     35.CO     32.00      30.00     30.27
PRDDUCTION-MILL. M3              7.35      7.23      5.G2       5.53      4.99      5.00       5.60      5.68       5.88      6.24
PER CAPITA PRODUCTION LCO      390.25    382.40    296.10    289.30    259.41    258.00    247.48    238.22    234.27    237.00
REVENUES- WATER                  0.80      1.38       1.41      2.30      3.59       3.72      8.37      8.89       9.46     10.00
OTHER OPERATIONAL REVENUE        0.02      0.03       0.03      0.04      0.04       0.05      0.05       0.06      0.06      0.07
_______  -  -  _    __-  _ ---   - -_            __-   ___  ___ -   ----   - -_ ---- - - -
TOTAL REVENUES                   0.82      1.40       1.44      2.33      3.63       3.77      8.42      8.94       9.52     10.07
WAGES- WATER                     0.37      0.41       0.45      0.50      0.54       0.65      0.78       0.94      1.13       1.36
CHEMICALS                        0.03      0.06       0.05      0.06      0.06       0.07      0.08       0.09      0.10       0.12
POWER                            0.12      0.13      0.11       0.12      0.12       0.13      0.16       0.18      0.21      0.24
MATERIALS                        0.08      0.09       0.10      0.15      0.28       0.38      0.40       0.41      0.41       0.42
OTHER EXPENSES                   0.03      0.04       0.04      0.05      0.05       0.06      0.06       0.07      0.09       0.10
________  ----- --------       - -   -----         _______ _-_____ - -   -----  -                 __
DIRECT COSTS-WATER               0.63      0.73       0.75      0.87      1.05       1.29      1.49       1.69      1.93       2.24
OTHER INDIRECT COSTS             0.04      0.07       0.07      0.11      0.18       0.19      0.42       0.44      0.47       0.50
tS====-=  ==s======  ==3=====  ======s=  s===<====  23======  s=3=5=2=  ======= ===== ====
TOTAL COSTS                      0.67      0.80       0.82      0.98       1.23      1.48      1.90       2.14      2.41       2.74
_______ _____-_ _____ _______ _ _ __ _                 _--    _____ ____ __ -_____
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION       0.14      0.60      0.61       1.35      2.40       2.29      6.52       6.81      7.12       7.34
DEPRECIATION                     0.45      0.45       0.45      0.59       1.23      1.89      2.03       2.04      2.05       2.08
INCOME BEFORE INTEREST          -0.31      0.15      0.16       0.76      1.16       0.40      4.49       4.77      5.06       5.26
INTEREST CHARGED OPER.           0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      5.32       5.27      5.21       5.15
355===5=  35s2=2  ==r=====  ==s=z  =w=====2  a3=.3====  32==2=5  w-z====z  3S==5==f3  ws.==."
NET SURPLUS (+)                 -0.31      0.15       0.16      0.76       1.16      0.40     -0.84      -0.50     -0.15       0.1t
AVERAGE RATE BASE                9.19      8.70       5.33     13.15     3S.16      62.81     66.48      64.70     63.40      62.34
*OPERATING RATIO %              82.33     56.92      57.42     42.t1      33.96     39.20     22.62      23.90     25.27      27.17
*RATE OF RETURN %               -3.34      1.72       1.90      5.81       3.05      0.64      6.75       7.37      7.98       8.43
Average rate P/m3                0.30       0.50      0.50      0.80       1.20      1.20       2.30      2.30       2.30      2.30
Note:
Minor differences in totals are due to roundings.
December 4, 1976






PHILIPPINES
PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
LUCENA-PAGBILAO-TAYABAS WD                                  FLOW OF FUNDS                           MILLION PESOS
------------------__----__------_   - -    -------______________________--- -- -              _-             --  - -    ------
1976      1977      1978      1979      1920       1981      1982      1983       1984      1985
SOURCES OF FUNDS
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION      0.14      0.60      0.61s1.35            2.40      2.29      6.52       6.81      7.12       7.34
--- --      -- - --       -- -   -- ------   -  ----                              --- -  - - -
GROSS INTERNAL GENERATION       0.14      0.60       0.61      1.35      2.40      2.29       6.52      6.81      7.12       7.34
OTHER CONTRIBUTIONS             0.00      0.00       0.03      0.03      0.04      0.26       0.28      0.26      0.27       0.30
IBRD LOAN                       0.00      0.37      7.90      11.81      9.01      6.16       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
NATIONAL LOANS                  0.00      0.26       5.89      8.09      4.15      3.11       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
TOTAL LOANS                     0.00      0.63      13.79     19.90     13.16      9.27       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
u=f==222  &us=====  f=lfl==  =f======  ======   *==-====  =S=====2  z=w=flS  MUNS25==  am==R===
TOTAL SOURCES                   0.14      1.23      14.42     21.28     15.59     11.81       6.80      7.07      7.39       7.63
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
INVESTMENT IN PROJECT           0.00      0.61      13.17     19.02     12.49      6.60       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
CAPITALIZED INTEREST            0.00      0.02       0.67      2.18      3.66      4.67       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
OTHER WORKS                     0.09      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.50       1.00      1.00
________     _ _ _ _  _        _ ---   --------  -            _ _ _ _-_-_____-_---_- -      _______
TOTAL INVESTMENT                0.09      0.63      13.85     21.20     16.16      11.27      0.00      0.50      1.00       1.00
FOREIGN LOAN AMORTIZATION       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.36      0.39      0.43       0.47
NATIONAL LOAN AMORTIZATION      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.22      0.24      0.26       0.28
 ______- - -----  ---                   ____ -              _ -            __----  -------
TOTAL AMORTIZATION              0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.57      0.63      0.69       0.75
OPER.INTEREST LONG T.DEBT       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       5.32      5.27      5.21       5.15
=CZ=====  =zz=====  =======  ========  ms=====;  ===z=S==  z======= ==55===  =X5======  ===5====
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE              0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       5.90      5.90      5.90       5.90
INCREASE IN WORK.CAPITAL        0.05      0.60      0.58       0.08     -0.57      0.55       0.90      0.67      0.49       0.73
.5=5=5==   5=s-====   lSt===    s=== SS=  l535=5==    S=s5s==    s====$=== 355=s=== SSgs 53==5===
TOTAL APPLICATIONS              0.14      1.23      14.42     21.28     15.59     11.81       6.80      7.07      7.39       7.63
DEST SERVICE RATIO              0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       1.11      1.15      1.21       1.24
x
Note: Minor differences in totals are due to roundings.
December 4, 1976



PHILIPPINES
PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
LUCENA-PA!GBILAO-TAYABAS WD                             BALANCE SHEET                               MILLION PESOS
1976      1977       1978        1979       1980       1981       1982       1983       1984       1985
S--SS==S-s==t==S =s2*t=r=========C=Z =====5    sC  ====s===S=-===-=====ssr=zsss==s==s=
A S S E t S
FIXED ASSETS IN OPER.             18.10      18.10      18.10      28.77      69.93      81.20      81.20      81.70      82.70       83.70
MINUS ACCUM.DEPRECIATION           9.09       9.54       9.99      10.58      11.81      13.70      15.73      17.77      19.82       21.90
NET FIXED ASSETS                   9.01       8.56       8.10      18.20      58.12      67.50      65.47      63.93      62.88       61.80
WORK IN PROGRESS                   0.00       0.63      14.48      25.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00
CASH AND BANKS                     0.05       0.55       1.14       1.10       0.35       1.73       1.31       1.96       2.42        3.14
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE                0.05       0.17       0.18       0.29       0.45       0.47       1.05       1.12        1.19       1.26
INVENTARIES                        0.06       0.04       0.04       0.05       0.08       0.11       0.12       O.12       0.13        0.13
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS               0.16       0.76       1.36       1.45       0.89       2.31       2.48       3.20       3.74        4.53
TOTAL ASSETS                       9.17       9.95      23.94      44.64      59.01      69.81      67.95      67.13      66.62       66.33
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
EQUITY                             9.45       9.45       9.45       9.45       9.45       9.45       9.45       9.45        9.45       9.45
cONTRTRUTIONS                      0.00       0.00       0.03       0.06       0.09       0.35       0.63       0.88        t.16       1.45
OPERATIONAL SURPLUS               -0.31      -0.16       0.00       0.77       1.93       2.33       1.49        1.00       0.85       0.96
TOTAL EQUITY                       9.14       9.29       9.48      10.27      11.47      12.13      11.57      11,33       11.45      11.86
LONG TERM OE8T(NET)                0.00       0.63      14.42      34.32      47.48      56.17      55.54      54.86      54.11       53.29
ACCOUNT PAYABLES                   0.03       0.03       0.04       0.04       0.04       0.05       0.06       0.06        0.06       0.07
CUSTOMER DEPOSITS                  0.00       0.00       0.01       0.01       0.02       0.89       0.15       0.20        0.24       0.29
CURRENT MATURITIES                 0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.57       0.63       0.69        0.75       0.82
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES          0.03       0.03       0.04       0.05       0.06       1.51       0.84        0.94       1.05       1.18
TOTAL LIABILITIES                  0.03       0.65      14.46      34.37      47.54      57.68      56.38      55.80       55.16      54.47
*   .axc:a                       Ss======    * Z          z=       =.ftx.= 2   aw.===   f===   ss=s==:=
TOTAL EQUITY-LIABILITIES           9.17       9.95      23.94      44.64      59.01      69.81      67.95      67.13       66.62      66.33
*WORKING CAPITAL-MILLION           0.14       0.74       1.32       1.40       0.83       1.37       2.27        2.94       3.44       4.17
*CURRENT RATIO                     6.40      30.53      31.61      28.93      14.57       1.53       2.96       3.39        3.55       3.84
% DEBT/(DEBT+EQUITY)               0.00       6.35      60.33      76.96      80.54      82.24      92.76      32.88       92.53      81.80
Note:
Minor differences in totals are due to roundings
December 4, 1976



PHILIPPINES
PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SAN FERNANDO  WD                                      INCOME STATEMENT                            MILLION PESOS
-----------------------------------                                            -   --------------              ------ -------- -------
1976      1977       1970       1979       1960       1961       1982       1983       1984       13685
POPULATION-THOUSAND              65.40      67.40      69.50      71.30      75.10      77.G0      80.10      82.70     85.50      Q8.40
POPULATION SERVED- WATER          7.50       8.20       9.07       9.92      "1.B0      15.21      19.10      21.91      26.74      31.50
% POPULATION SERVED- WATER        11.47     12.17      13.05      13.30      15.45      19.60      23.8S      26.49      31.28      35.63
CONNECTIONS- WATER                0.92       1.00        1.12      1.24       1.43       1.95       2.45       3.13       3.82       4.50
VOLUME SOLD-MILLION  M3           0.58       0.65       0.72       0.79       0.94       1.23       1.52       1.64       1.88       2.12
CONSUMPTION/CONNEC/MONtH         52.54      54.17      53.57      53.09      54.02      52.56      51.70      43.66      41.01      39.26
% UNACCOUNTED FOR  WATER         59.72      54.86      50.00      45.14      34.72      30.11      27.96      27.11      25.98      25.09
PRODUCTION-MILL. M3                1.44      1.44       1.44       1.44       1.44       1.76       2.11       2.25       2.54       2.83
PER CAPITA PRGD.CTION LCD       526.03    481.12    434.88    397.70    340.10    317.02    302.66    281.35    260.24    246.14
REVENUES- WAtER                    0.38      0.65       0.72       1.42       1.69       2.21       5.02       5.41       6.20       7.00
OTHER OPERATIONAL REVENUE          0.02      0.03       0.03       0.04       0.04       0.04       0.05       0.05       0.06       0.06
TOTAL REVENUES                     0.41      0.68       0.75       1.46       1.73       2.26       5.06       5.46       6.26       7.06
WAGES- WATER                       0.18       0.20      0.22       0.24       0.26       0.31       0.38       0.45       0.54       0.65
CHEMICALS                          0.00      0.01       0.01       0.02       0.02       0.02       0.03       0.04       0.04       0.05
POWER                              0.01      0.01       0.01       0.01       0.01       0.05       0.20       0.26       0.39       0.53
MATERIALS                          0.06       0.07       0.07      0.C0       0.09       0.24       0.25       0.25       0.26       0.27
OTHER EXPENSES                     0.06       0.06       0.07      0.07       0.08       0.10       0.12       0.14       0.17       0.20
DIRECT COSTS-WATER                 0.30       0.34       0.38      0.41       0.45       0.73       0.97       1.14       1.40       1.71
OTHER INDIRECT COSTS               O.00       0.03       0.04      0.07       0.08       0.11       0.25       0.27       0.31       0.35
TOTAL COSTS                        0.30      0.37       0.41       0.48       0.54       0.84       1.22       1.41       1.71       2.06
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION        0.11       0.30       0.34       0.97       1.19       1.42       3.84       4.05       4.55       5.00
DEPRECIATION                       0.29       0.30       0.30       0.42      0.83        1.18      1.25        1.25      1.26        1.30
INCOME BEFORE INTEREST           -0.19       0.01       0.04       0.55       0.36       0.24       2.59       2.80       3.29       3.70
INTEREST CHARGED OPER.             0.00      0.01       0.01       0.00       0.00       0.00       3.20       3.17       3.13       3.09
W.==S======  ========  ========  ========== -=====  =s===t  SC====   *ww==
NET SURPLUS (+-   -               -0.19       0.00       0.04       0.55       0.36       0.24     -0.61      -0.37        0.15       0.61
AVERAGE RATE 8ASE                  8.46       8.25       7.95      12.58     28.41      41.38      42.67      41.67      40.91       40.86
*OPERATING RATIO X                73.99     55.25      54.80      33.19      3,.07      37.14      24.18      25.82      27.33      29.1d
*kATE OF RETURN %                -2.23        0.08       0.54       4.39       1.27       0.57       6.08       6.72       8.03       9.06
Average rate P/rm3                0.66      1.00       1.00         1.80      1.80        1.80       3.30       3.30       3.30       3.30
I.
Note: Minor differences in totals are due to roundings
December 4, 1976






PHILIPPINES
PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SAN FERNANDO  WD                                FLOW OF FUNDS                                       MILLION PESOS
____                 -    _ ------------- _                   -------
1976      1977       1978       1379       1980       1991       1982      1963       1984       1985
S-SS2ES3SS--ssStXs39=S5==UtU=5=5=SgSZ===-=======5==a===SS===2= =t= =fls2==SS=5==flflS=s===s
SOURCES CF FUNDS
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION        0.11       0.30       0.34      0.97       1.19       1.42       3.84       4.05       4.55       5.00
GROSS INTERNAL GENERATtON         0.11       0.30       0.34       0.97       1.19      1.42       3.84       4.05       4.55       5.00
OTHER CONTRIBUTIONS               0.00       0.00       0.02       0.03      0.05       0.10       0.12       0.16       0.18       0.20
INCREASE OTHER LIABILtTIES        0.04      -0.07       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
IBRD LOAN                         0.00       0.18       4.01      6.42       4.66       2.63       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
NATIONAL LOANS                    0.00       0.20       4.58       6.76      4.22       0.48       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
OTHER LOANS                       0.06       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
-_                                                            _     _      _   ___ - ------  _ -- -----   _   -- - 3__ --     -- - - - - -   -   ------
TOTAL LOANS                       0.06       0.38       8.59      13.18      8.88       3.11       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
*S=v===S  3a=====   t=====    ==S====  =====Z==  ==f5====   ==Z3=z  aSmS===S ==f*Rl==S  3**Zt=W
TOTAL SOURCES                     0.21       0.61       8.95      14.18     10.12       4.63       3.96       4.22       4.73       5.19
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
S== =-=_= == = = =55== == =5==
INVESTMENT IN PROJECT             0.00       0.36       8.20     12.59       7.55       2.09       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
CAPITALIZED INTEREST              0.00       0.01       0.42       1.39      2.38       2.92       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
OTHER  WORKS                      0.18       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.50       0.50       2.00
____ _-            -   ---                                _  ____ _   ____
TOTAL INVESTMENT                  0.18       0.38       8.62      13.99      9.93       5.01       0.00       0.50       0.50       2.00
FOREIGN LOAN AMORTIZATION         0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0,18       0.20       0.22       0.24
NATIONAL LOAN AMORTIZATION        0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.16       0.18       0.20       0.21
OTHER LOANS AMORTIZATION          0.00       0.01       0.01       0.01      0.01       0.01       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
________ _______-    _ ___   ________   _  -____       _ - ----    ______
TOTAL AMORTIZATION                0.00       0.01       0.01      0.01       0.01       0.01       0.34       0.38       0.41       0.45
OPER.INTEREST LONG T.DEBT         0.00       0.01       0.01       0.00      0.00       0.00       3.20       3.17       3.13       3.09
*fl==5=   =s5==v=  === =         ======   ========  ====z==  ==S=====  ===z=z25  xt*%Uf=   *Rw2fz=
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                0.00       0.02       C.02       0.02      0.02       0.01       3.55       3.55       3.55       3.55
INCREASE IN WORK.CAPITAL          0.03       0.22       0.31      0.17       0.17      -0.39       0.41       o.17       0.68      -0.33
z=zShz   wSi=n==M  8s=== z   ====== === = ==          ===8==   sS====:   A====w  *as=*===  U==3==
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                0.21       0.61       8.95      14.18     10.12       4.63       3.96       4.22       4.73       5.19
DEBT SERVICE RATIO               26.45      15.97      18.88     57.30      79.59    109.18        1.08       1.14       1.28       t.41
Note: Minor differences in totals are due to roundings
December 4, 1976



PHILIPPINES
PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SAN FERNANDO  WD                                BALANCE SHEET             .-ILLION PESOS
_ _-- -- - -__------                    _       - -----------                                        _-_ __---
1976      1977      1978      1979      1980       1981      1982      1983       1984      1985
Ss5"tSUMSt2esSaSW*3S**3sSSSSSttrs-ss=ZS=====s=====_======t=t========S==S=== ss-== =a==s=tt====ssuesrssn==z=
A S S E T S
FIXED ASSETS IN OPER.          11.88     11.88      11.88     21.86     44.79     49.ao      49.80     50.30     50.80      52.80
MINUS ACCUM.DEPRECIATION        3.48       3.76      4.07      4.50      5.33       6.51      7.76      9.01     10.27      11.57
- _______ -_   __   ________    _______    ____.___ _-_____    ___-- ___     --------     --------   -------
NET FIXED AssETS                8.40      8.10       7.60     17.36     39.46      43.29     42.04     41.29     40.53      41.23
WORK IN PROGRESS                0.00       0.38      9.00     13.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       J.00
CASH AND BANKS                  0.06      0.18       0.48      0.57      0.71       0.27      0.36      0.52       1.15      0.74
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE             0.03      O.C8       0.09      0.18      0.22       0.28      0.63      0.68      0.78       0.88
INVENTARIES                     0.00      0.02       0.02      0.02      0.03      0.07       0.07      0.07      0.08       0.08
TOTAL CURRENT ASSEtS            0.09      0.28       0.i00     0.77      0.95       0.61      1.06      1.28      2.00       1.71
S==ss=tSZ=  s=a   ss= tS=====Z  s==s==  flSfSe=S  U==sfZSS  flfl==fl  aSMS=SZZfl               sss
TOTAL ASSETS                    8.49      8.76      17.40     31.14     40.42     43.90      43.11     42.57     42.53      42.94
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
-- - -- ---------------
EQUITY                          8.50      8.50       8.50      8.50      8.50       8.50      8.50      8.50       8.50      8.50
CONTRIBUTIONS                   0.00       0.00      0.02      0.05      0.09       0.20      0.32      0.48       0.66      0.85
OPERATIONAL SURPLUS            -0.19      -0.19     -O.f5      0.39      0.75       0.99      0.38      0.02       0.17      0.78
________ ____--                _____  --______             -____      -___ ______ _________-_-_-____- -- - _______
TOTAL EQUITY                    8.31       8.31      8.37      8.94      9.35       9.69      9.20      9.00       9.33     10.13
LqNG TERM DEBT(NET)             0.05      0.41       8.99     22.15     31.01      33.78     33.40     32.99      32.54     32.04
ACCOUNT PAYABLES                0.04       0.01      0.01      0.01      0.02       0.04      0.05      0.06       0.07      0.09
CUSTOMER  DEPOSITS              0.01       0.02      0.02      0.02,    G.03        0.06      0.08      0.11       0.15      0.18
CURRENT MATURITfES              0.01       0.01      0.01      0.01      0.01       0.34      0.38      0.41       0.45      0.49
fi                                                                                              _ -   -   ---   __  --------   ______   _  -   -----   ___  - ------
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES       0.07       0.04      0.04      0.05      0.06       0.44      0.51      0.59       0.67      0.77
OTHER LIABILITIES               0.07       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00
--------    - ____ - -
TOTAL LIABILITIES               0.18       0.45      9.03     22.20     31.07      34.22     33.91     33.58      33.21     32.81
*UNT;*              =u2S WfS  zssss===   fl=sS   ====;=== , SSSS          - *SU S  2tSS -    S= *aSSl=
TOTAL EQUITY-LIABILITIES        8.49       8.76     17.40     31.14     40.42      43.90     43.11      42.57     42.53     42.94
*WORKING CAPITAL-MILLION        0.04       0.26      0.57      0.74      0.91       0.52      0.93       1.10      1.79       1.43
*CURRENT RATIO                  1.39       7.11     13.60     16.45      16.72      1.40      2.09       2.18      3.00      2.23
% DEBT/(DEBT+EQUITY)            0.61       4.75     51.79     71.24      76.84     77.72     78.41      78.57     77.72      75.98
Note: Minor Differences in totals are due to roundings
December 4, 1976
pO



PHILIPPINES
PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
TARLAC   WD                                        INCOME STATEMENT                       MILLION PESOS
1976      1977       1978      1979      1980       1981       1982      1983       1984       1985
-==========2======2            =~-=======3===========2==========.==========.======r===s====
POPULAT ION-THOUSAND            88.90      91.20     93.60      95.90     98.30    100.70    103.00    105.70    108.20    110.70
POPULATION SERVED- WATER         5.40       5.74      6.75      15.19     22.40      30.90     39.32      46.48     54.13      62.33
% POPULATION SERVED- WATER       6.07       6.29      7.21      15.84     22.79      30.69     38.18      43.97     50.02      56.30
CONNECTIONS- WATER               0.80       0.85      1.00       2.25      3.50       4.70      5.90       7.13       8.37      9.60
VOLUME SOLD-MILLION  M3          0.35       0.43      0.49       0.91      1.46       1.94      2.44       2.85       3.24      3.64
CONSUMPTION/CONNEC/MONTH        36.46      42.16     40.83      33.78     34.76      34.40     34.46      33.27      32.26     31.60
% UNACCOUNTED FOR  WATER        50.00      44.16     40.24      37.10     33.94      30.96     28.86      27.11      26.03     24.95
PRODUCTION-MILL. M3              0.70       0.77      0.82       1.45      2.21       2.81      3.43       3.91       4.38      4.85
PER CAPITA PRODUCTION LCD      355.15    367.68    332.82    261.57    270.30    249.14    238.97    230.19    221.71    213.19
REVENUES- WATER                  0.22       0.52      0.59       1.46      2.34       3.10      5.37       6.26       7.13      8.01
CTHER OPERATIONAL REVENUE        0.01       0.01      0.02       0.02      0.02       0.02      0.02       0.03       0.03      0.03
TOTAL REVENUES                   0.23       0.53      0.60       1.48      2.36       3.13      5.39       6.29       7.16      8.04
WAGES- WATER                     0.14       0.15      0.17       0.19      0.20       0.25      0.30       0.35       0.43      0.51
CHEMICALS                        0.01       0.01      0.01       0.02      0.03       0.04      0.05       0.06       0.08       0.09
POWER                            0.06       0.07      0,09       0.17      0.28       0.39      0.52       0.65       0.80      0.98
MATERIALS                        0.03       0.03      0.04       0.04      0.12       0.20      0.23       0.23       0.24       0.25
OTHER EXPENSES                   0.01       0.02      0.02       0.02      0.02       0.03       0.03      0.04       0.04       0.05
DIRECT COSTS-WATER               0.24       0.29      0.32       0.43      0.65       0.90       1.12      1.34       1.59       1.89
OTHER INDIRECT COSTS             0.01       0.03      0.03       0.07      0.12       0.16       0.27      0.31       0.36       0.40
jl===    = -====            ===== ==-      = =    ==== ==5=     =    =    = ==         = ==5 =  =  =Z= =2 2 ==  =2= =
TOTAl. COSTS                     0.25       0.3t      0.35       0.50      0.76       1.05       1.39      1.65       1.94       2.29
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION      -0.03       0.22      0.26       0.98      1.59       2.07      4.00       4.63       5.21      5.75
DEPRECIATION                     0.04       0.05      0.05       0.17      0.58       0.99       1.11      1.12       1.14       1.16
9 2======  s=3=    ====        ===S====  ===s===  =2======  U=2=2=22  3=a=====  .2=2==2  w2=z===
INCOME BEFORE INTEREST          -0.07       0.17      0.21       0.81      1.01       1.08      2.89       3.51       4.07       4.59
INTEREST CHARGED OPER.           0.00       0.01      0.01       0.00      0.00       0.00      3.57       3.53       3,49       3.45
3=22=2   =2=2===     ==SS=S==  S2222==2======S   S===T  32zzT=2=     .2 S====;  =.=====  2=======
NET SURPLUS (+)                 -0.07       0.17      0.21       0.80      1.01       1.08     -0.6S      -0.02       0.58       1.14
AVERAGE RATE BASE                1.72       1.74      1.70       6.63     22.66      38.18      42.10     41.23      40.85      40.70
*OPERATING RATIO %             111.35      58.90     57.58      33.86     32.39      33.70     25.77      26.32      27.18      28.44
*RATE OF RETURN %               -4.05       9.91     12.44      12.14      4.46       2.84       6.86      8.52       9.97      11.27
Average rate   P/m3              0.62       1.20      1.20       1.60      1.60       1.60       2.20      2.20       2.20       2.20
0
Note:  Minor differences in totals are due to roundings
December 4, 1976



PHILIPPINES
PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
TARLAC    WD                                         FLOW OF FUNDS                           MILLION PESOS
1976      1977      1978       1979      1980      1981       1982      1983       1984      1985
==sssssez=sts==ass=sssss=====5=s==s==s======S====-====    ==s======fl======S====t==== =s=s=3tXs==t=SSsB=S===S
SOURCES OF FUNDS
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION     -0.03       0.22      0.26       0.98      1.59      2.07       4.00      4.63       5.21      5.75
GRANTS FOR OPERATION             0.03      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
-_______   -   -----   --------  -   -----                      ______       ____- - ------
GROSS INTERNAL GENERATION        0.00      0.22      0.26       0.98      1.59       2.07      4.00       4.63      5.21       5.75
OTHER CONTRIBUTIONS              0.00      0.00       0.03      0.23      0.27       0.30      0.33       0.37      0.37       0.37
IBRO LOAN                        0.00      0.20      4.29       5.73      5.08      5.31       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
NATIONAL LOANS                   0.00      0.22      4.56       6.19      3.72       2.72      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
OTHER LOANS                      0.06      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
 _     - __ ---              _______ -_ _ -        ____ _-___   ___ _-_              .      _______-----
TOTAL LOANS                      0.06      0.41      8.85      11.93      8.80       8.03      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
----S= == =  ==_ ===   ========    =                          ==  S = *==  =  = ===  s S aS==:=s=
TOTAL SOURCES                    0.07      0.63      9.14      13.13     10.66      10.40      4.33       5.00      5.5B       6.12
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
INVESTMENT IN PROJECT            0.00      0.40      8.46      11.42      8.41       6.88      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
CAPITALIZED INTEREST             0.00      0.01       0.43      1.36      2.29       3.05      0.00       0.00      0 00       0.00
OTHER WORKS                      0.14      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.50      1 00       1.00
----- --------                      -- ------ ----------- -                                   -----
TOTAL INVESTMENT                 0.14      0.41       8.89     12.79     10.70       9.93      0.00       0.50      1.00       1.00
FOREIGN LOAN AMORTIZATION        0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.21       0.23      0.25       0.27
NATIONAL LOAN AMORTIZATION       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.18       0.19      0.21       0.23
OTHER LOANS AMORTIZATION         0.00      0.01       0.01      0.01      0.01       0,01      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
________ ____                            _ -----   _______  -     -----   _______   _  - ------
TOTAL AMORTIZATION               0.00      0.02       0.01      0.01      0.01       0.01      0.38       0.42      0.46       0.50
OPER.INTEREST LONG T.DEBT        0.00      0.01       0.01      0.00       0.00      0.00      3.57       3.53       3.49      3.45
________  -_ __    ____       -- _ -----   --------   -_         _    -     ----   --------  _____
TOTAL OPERATIONAL INTEREST       0.00      0.01       0.01      0.00      0.00       0.00      3.57       3.53       3.49      3.45
*s=-========     r  =ss=== s     =====    s===fl 5   =S=ss=   ss=i=  *--====   =====-=  *=-==
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE               0.00      0.02       0.02      0.02      0.01       0.01      3.95       3.95       3.95      3.95
INCREASE IN WORK.CAPITAL        -0.07      0.19       0.23      0.33     -0.06       0.45      0.38       0.55      0.63       1.17
s3==S===  z5=====2  ===SS===  a=saz===  =2=====S  xS======  *S======  a=======  =S======  am======
TOTAL APPLICATIONS               0.07      0.63       9.14     13.13      10.66     10.40      4.33       5.00       5.58      6.12
DEBT SERVICE RATIO               1.33      9.47      14.23     61.06    113.77    159.42        1.01      1.17       1.32      1.46
Note:  Minor differences in totals are due to roundings
December 4, 1976



PHILIPPINES
PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
TARLAC   WD                                     BALANCE SHEET                          MILLION PESOS
1976      1977      1978       1979      1980       1981       1982      1983       1984       1985
A 5 S E T S
FIXED ASSETS IN OPER.            1.81       1.81      1.81      11.90     34.60      44.53     44.53      45.03     46.03      47.03
MINUS ACCUM.DEPRECIATION         0.04       0.09      0.13       0.31      0.89       1.88      2.99       4.11       5.25      6.41
----__--- _-  __-----_ _-_-----_--   - ----- _----- __ _- --_ _-_
NET FIXED ASSETS                 1.76       1.72      1.67      11.60     33.71      42.66     41.54      40.92      40.78     40.62
WORK IN PROGRESS                 0.00       0.41      9.30      12.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
CASH AND BANKS                   0.01       0.08      0.30       0.59      0.48       0.89       1.06      1.57       2.16      3.29
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE              0.01       0.07      0.08       0.18      0.29       0.39      0.67       0.79       0.89       1.00
INVENTARIES                      0.00       0.01      0.01       0.01      0.04       0.06      0.07       0.07       0.08      0.09
_-- _-- -- _--  -  _-- --  ___-  - -- _- - --  - - -___- - --  _- __-- -_- - - -
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS             0.02       0.15      0.39       0.79      0.81       1.34       1.80      2.43       3.13      4.38
*s=ws====  5======  ==2===u=t  =n=====   2======  SSt-=5  =Ss===S=   aS5Zs==S  S*Sfl3=Z   332-5
TOTAL ASSETS                     1.78       2.28     11.37      24.38     34.53      44.00     43.34      43.35      43.92     45.O0
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
EQUITY                           1.67       1.67      1.67       1.67      1.67       1.67       1.67      1.67       1.67       1.67
CONTRIBUTIONS                    0.0!      0.03      0 06       0.29      0.55       0.8S5      1.18      1.55       1.92       2.28
OPERATIONAL SURPLUS             -0.07       0.09      0.30       1.10      2.11       3.19       2.52      2.50       3.08       4.22
TOTAL EQUITY                     t.63       1.79      2.03       3.06      4.33       5.71      5.36       5.72       6.67       8.17
_--__- _-__----  -   _- --  _---__-___- _--- _ -  ----  _------  _--
LONG TERM DEBT(NET)              0.05       0.45      9.29      21.20     29.99      37.64     37.22      36.76      36.26     35.71
ACCOUNT PAYABLES                 0.01       0.01      0.01       0.02      0.04       0.05       0.07      0.08       o.10       0.11
CUSTOUER DEPOSITS                0.01       0.02      0.03       0.09      0.15       0.21       0.27      0.33       0.40       0.46
PREPAID REVENUE                  0.07       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
CURRENT MATURITIES               0.01       0.01      0.01       0.01      0.01       0.38       0.42      0.46       0.50       0.55
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES        0.10       0.04      0.05       0.12      0.20       0.65       0.76      0.67       0.99       t.12
TOTAL LIABILITIES                0.16       0.49      9.34      21.33     30.19      38.29      37.98     37.63      37.25      36.83
3s=2.a-=  =*t====  ======t  Ss===S==  23===2  =2=33=2=  flSZ==s  flfl3333  SS3s=   *SZ;.s=;
TOTAL EQUITY-LIABILITIES         1. 78      2.28     11.37      24.38     34.53      44.00      43. 34    43.3       43.92      45.00
*WORKING CAPITAL-MILLION        -0.07       0.12      0.35       0.68      0.62       1.08       1.46      2.01       2.64       3.81
*CURRENT RATIO                   0.17       3.55      7.46       6.51      4.06       2.07       2.37      2.7        3.15       3.91
X DEUT/(DEBT+EQUITY)             2.98      20.03     82.09      87.40     87.38      86.83      87.40     86.54      *4.47      81.37
a
Note:  Minor differences in totals are due to roundings                                                                                   n
December 4, 1976



PHILlpPINES
PROVINdIAL C1TIES WA7Ea SUPPLY PROJECT
Finencitn  Pier oF Meter DitEricts (197-1)
Pesos 8Colsostu.n WD                   l.ips Cit5 DO          -Ldoet--PoTUlso-T sb$               a                   WD stnedo  (La Union) k'  Series W0      -                 otal
Pesos      USS    Percent-   P .            US$    Prcent-   P-oi           S       Perce  t-   Pesos       US$ Percent-   Peo               US$    Pe -,    Pesos             US$    Pans          Peas         US$      Pee.a.t-
age                             age                             sge                             age                               .5ge                              age                                a ge
--------- Million ---------   --------- Milli -----------   -------- Million------_____    -_--------Million---------   ----------Mlillion---------    --------- Million_---------- ___------ Million-----------
APPLICAIION UP FUNDS
Projeot Cspasdltoees                                45.00      6.00      84.4       43.86      5.85       83.2      20.22       2.70      83.3       51.89      6.92      82.2       30.80       4,11       81.2      35.57        4.75       83.3      227.33       30.31       82,8
It-eet daring non-trocsion                          8.72      1.16      15.6        8.83      1.18       16.8       4.05      0.54       16.7      11.21       1.49      17.8        7.12       0.95       18.8        7.15       0.95       16.7       47 18        6.29       17.2
Tasel Appliceti.n  of Foods                   53.72       7,16     100.0      52.69       7.03     100.)      24.27       3.24      100.0      63.10      8.41      100.0      37.92        5.06     I00.0       42.72        5.70     100.0       214.51       36.60     100 0
SOURC08 OF FPNDS
Interna1 r--bh  ee.r.. iot                           9.17      1.22       17.1       6.61      0.88       12.6       2.92       0.39      12.0        7.25      0.97       11.5       4.23       0.56       11.1        5.12       0.68       12.0        35.30       4.70       12.9
Lees: sdbt  erti-e reqninealest                     (2.78)    (0.37)      (5.2)     (0.15)    (0.02)      (0.3)     (0.14)    (0.02)       (0.6)       -          -          -       (0.08)      (0.01)     (0.2)      (0.08)      (0.01)     (0.2)       (3 23)      (0.43)     (1.25
Less: I-.re.e.  is tPrking s-pit-l                  (1.63)   (3.22)       (3.0)     (1.40)    (0.19)    (2.7)        (0.50)    (0.07)     (2.0)      (1.24)    (0.17)      (2.0)     (0.55)      (0.07)     (1.4)      (1.16)      (0.15)     (2.7)       (6.481      (0.868)    (2.4)
Coatonra constribations                              0.88      0.12        1.6       0.64       0.09       1.2       0.35       0.05        1.4       0.35      0.05        0.6       0.20        0.03       0 5        0.82       0.11        1 9         3.24       0 43        1.2
Eub Total                                      5.64       0.75      10.5        5.70      0.76      10.8        2.63      0.35       10.8       6.36       0.85      10.1        3.80       0.51       10.0       4.70        0.63       11.0       28.83        3 84      10.5
bORROWINGS
iBRD Loan                                     28.48       3.80      33.0      20 62       2.75      39.1       12.03      1.61       49.6      35.04      4.70       55.8      17.89        2.39      47.2       20.62        2.75      48.3       135.00       18.00      49.2
LtWUA Loss                                    19.60       2.61      36.5       26.37      3.52      50.1        9.61       1.28      39.6      21.50       2.86      34.1       16.23       2.16       42.8      17.40        2.32      4087       110.68       14.76       40.3
Sab Total                                     48.08       6.41      89.5       46.99      6.27      89.2       21064      2.89       89.2      56.74       7.56      89.9       34.12       4.55       90.0      38.02        5.07       89.0      245.68       32.76       99.5
Tatel So--es of Ftnds                         53.72       7.16     100.0       52.69      7.03     108.0       24.27      3.24      100.0      63.10       8.41     100.0       37.92       5.06      100.0      42.72        5.70      100.0      274.51       36.60 10-.0
1/.  The totals  slightly differ doe tn ro-ndlga.
Dene.ber 4, 1976



ANNEX 22
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial Projections
General
The financial statements - Income Statements, Flow oW Funds State-
ments and Balance Sheets for the six Water Districts in Annexes 15ta), (b),
and (c) through 20 (a), (b) and (c), show the projected financial results
for the WDs' operations for the years 1976 through 1985. The basic assumptions
for these projections are given below.
Income Statements
Revenue
1.        Production and sales of water are according to the projections in
Annex 8.  Unaccounted for water which is around 50-66% in all the six WDs is
projected to decline to about 25% (30% in case of Lucena) by 1985, assuming
metering of all consumers and an efficient leakage and waste detection pro-
grams. Rate increases are assumed in 1977, 1979, 1980 and 1982, to generate
adequate funds (a) during the project construction period (1977-1981), to
make a constribution of about 10% to the proposed investment, and (b) after
project completion to meet the debt service and leave a reasonable surplus
for normal extension and improvement of the system.
The average rates adopted in the financial projections are given
below. The increases in 1977 are partly due to increases in tariffs and
partly to expected improvement in the efficiency of meter readings and
metering of unmetered connections:
Lucena-       San
Lipa    Pagbilao-    Fernando
Baguio  Cabanatuan   City    Tayabas        (La Union)    Tarlac
1976         1.42      0.49        0.44       0.30        0.66          0.62
1977         1.70      0.80        0.70       0.50        1.00          1.20
1978         1.70      0.80        0.70       0.50        1.00          1.20
1979          1.70     1.00        1.40       0.80         1.80         1.60
1980         2.00      1.50        1.60       1.20        1.80          1.60
1981         2.00      1.50        1.60       1.20        1.80          1.60
1982         2.80      2.30        2.60       2.30        3.30          2.20
1983         2.80      2.30        2.60       2.30        3.30          2.20
1984         2.80      2.30        2.60       2.30        3.30          2.20
1985         2.80      2.30        2.60       2.30        3.30          2.20



ANNEX 22
Page 2
2.        Other operational revenue comprises mainly the miscellaneous rev-
enue items e.g., connection and reconnection fees, penalties for delayed
payments, supervision fees etc., and are projected to increase by about 5% -
10% annually.
Operating Expenses
3.        Staff costs (wages) are projected to increase 10% annually during
1977 through 1981 (25% for Cabanatuan in 1977 to meet expected increases in
staff remuneration) to cover escalation. The WDs do not propose to employ
additional staff until after completion of the project, and the current staff
is orisidered adequate to meet the operating requirements till about 1981.
A 201% increase in wages is projected annually in 1982 through 1985 - 10%
towards employment of additional staff and 10% for escalation of prices.
4.        Chemicals are projected at 8 pesos per 1,000 m3 of water produc-
tion in 1976 and are escalated 10% annually.
5.        Power costs are projected to increase with the increase in water
production and are escalated 10% annually. In Baguio, power costs per m
of water produced are estimated to increase between 4 and 7% in 1978-1981
(inclusive of escalation of 10%) due to expected cheaper cost of hydro-
electric power and greater use of water supplied by gravity from Santo
Thomas Reservoir. In San Fernando (La Union) WD, power costs during
lP982-1985 are based on the estimated power consumption for the new source
of supply.
6.        Materials for maintenance are projected to increase about 10%
annually through 1979 (through 1980 for Baguio and San Fernando) and there-
after these costs are assumed at about 0.5% of the gross value of assets in
operation (about 1.2 to 2% in Baguio).
7.        Other expenses follow the projections under wages.
8.        Other indirect costs are the provisions for bad debts and are
assumed at 5% of water revenues.
9.        Depreciation has been calculated at 2.5% of the average gross
fixed assets in operation.
Cash Flow and Balance Sheet
10.       Contributions relate to customer contributions towards cost of
providing new service connections. The average estimated cost of a new
connection is 300 Pesos. It is assumed that 50% of the new consumers will
pay the cost of connections in lump and the remaining 50% will elect to pay
in installments over a five-year period with an appropriate interest charge
(interest charge ignored for projections).



ANNEX zz
Page 3
11.       IBRD loan.  This represents the Bank loan which will be re-lent
by LWUA to the respective WDs at LWUA's rate of 3/4 of 1% per month. Under
LWUA's terms interest unpaid at the end of the month is added to the principal
and earns interest at the same rate.
12.       National Loan.  This is the projected LWUA's loan to WDs to cover
local costs of the project to the extent not met from internal cash generation
(estimated at about 10% of the investment including IDC) and includes interest
during construction.
13.       Other Loans.  These are the small loans from LWUA to WDs made in
1975 and 1976 mainly for water meters (and other minor works in Baguio and
San Fernando WDs) and are assumed repayable in five equal annual installments
at LWUA'S interest rate.
14.       Investment in project follows the project costs in Annex 4.
15.       Capitalized interest represents the interest during construction
of the project.
16.       Other works are the non-project works in 1976 and in 1982 through
1985.
17.       Amortization.  For the Bank loan re-lent by LWUA to WDs and for
LWUA's loans to WDs for local expenditures on the project, the debt amorti-
zation is assumed in equal annual payments in 30 years inclusive of a grace
period of 4-1/2 years, at the LWUA's present interest rate of 3/4 of 1% per
month.
18.       Accounts receivable are assumed at about 1-1/2% months billing.
19.       Inventories are projected to be about three months consumption of
materials and chemicals.



ANNEX 23
PHILIPPINES
PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Forecast Performance Indicators 1977 - 1983
1.        The following indicators will assist in monitoring the performance
of the Water Districts in the six cities. Each WD will be asked to include
these indicators in its reporting and to compare its achievements with the
forecast.
2.        Following are the forecast performance indicators, using Baguio as
an example:
1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983
Water produced (m  million)        6.91   6.91   6.91   7.00   7.00   7.00   7.63
Water sold             "           3.17   3.43   3.80   4.22   4.53   4.90   5.35
Unaccounted for water %              54      50     45      40      35     30      30
Number of connections
(thousands)                     7.15   7.80   9.14  10.43  11.10  11.83  12.59
Operating revenues
(million P)                     5.49   5.93   6.57   8.55   9.18  13.85  15.12
Operating expenses (before
depreciation) million P         4.54   4.85   5.25   5.69   6.22   7.26   8.63
Operating surplus (before
depreciation) million P         0.95   1.08   1.32   2.86   2.96   6.59   6.49
Operating surplus (after
depreciation but before
interest) million P             0.82   0.95   1.06   2.01   1.57   5.11   4.97
Net surplus (aftsr interest)    0.62   0.79   0.94   1.93   1.53   0.60   0.51
Average rate P/m                   1.70   1.70   1.70   2.00   2.00   2.80   2.80
Operating ratio %                    83      82     80      67      68     52      57
Rate of return %                     -       -      -       -       -     9.1    9.0
Debt:  Equity Ratio               30:70  55:45  82:18  85:15  84:16  82:18  81:19
Debt Service coverage (times)   1.5    1.8    2.4    5.5    6.2    1.3    1.3



A1NEX 24
Page 1
PHIL TPPINES
PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
LWUA's Guidelines for Water Rates
1.        On the recommendation of its consultants, James M. Montgomery,
LWUA has formulated the following guidelines for observance by the local
Water Districts in fixing and reviewing water rates. The basic objective
is that the WDs should operate on a self supporting basis, without any
subsidy from Government.
2.        The Water District is required to compute its projected revenue
requirements for the next year, and determine (on the basis of historical
and other information) what percentage of it will be derived from unmetered
and metered consumers. Since most connections in the six project cities are
expected to be metered during 1977 the following describes the metered tariff
only.
3.        Water consumption through all 3metered connections is converted into
revenue units (RU). For the first 10 m of consumption, the following factors
are adopted for this conversion:
Size of Connection                  Ratio to 3/8" Connection
Domestic and        Commercial and
Government           Industrial          Wholesale
3/8"/1                1.0                   2.0                 3.0
1/2"                  2.5                   5.0                 7.5
3/4"                  4.0                   8.0                12.0
1"                  8.0                  16.0                24.0
1-1/2"                 20.0                  40.0                60.0
2"                 50.0                 100.0               150.0
3"                 90.0                 180.0               270.0
4"                180.0                 360.0               540.0
/1 A 3/8" connection is actually a 1/2" connection regulated by an
orifice to give the discharge of a 3/8" connection. The minimum
size of unmetered connections is therefore 1/2" and equal to 2.5 RUs.
3 3
Each m  of water consumption in excess of 10  is weignted as I RU for do-
mestic and government, 2 RUs for commercial and industrial and 3 RUs for
wholesale connections but no distinction is made for consumption through
different pipe sizes. The RU total thus arrived at is then divided into the
total revenue requirement for arriving at the RU chare which forms the basis
for determining the service charge for the first 10 m (using the above
weights) and the commodity charge for subsequent consumption.



ANNEX 24
Page 2
3.        In practice, this method of rate determination has several drawbacks.
First, the present tariff structure results in higher average water costs for
the smaller consumers since about 95% of domestic connections are 1/2 inch,
and for them the first 10 m3 consumption is equal to 2.5 RU per m3 while
subsequent consumption is equal to one RU/m3. LWUA has proposed introducing a
3/8" connection (which is actually an orifice on a 1/2" outlet) for which the
consumer would be charged the same no district at present has been provided
with any 3/8" meters or constrictors 1/.
4.        Second, the practice of charging business consumers twice the re-
sidential rate for purposes of cross-subsidization can be counter-productive
unless the distinction between business and residential customers is very
carefully made. Problems with this distinction have already led to complaints
in one district from resident-owners of rooming houses who are paying double
for water which is used for essentially domestic purposes by their student-
boarders (to whom the rate is actually passed on). There are also many small
"commercial establishments" which are really storefront houses whose occupants
have no higher income than the non-self-employed and whose water is used
almost entirely for domestic purposes. Many of the small businesses in these
communities are operating in the highly-competitive informal sector where there
is little or no scope for passing on water rate increases to the customer.
Even where the increase is passed on the final burden may fall directly on
the lowest income classes depending upon the type of business. A more equit-
able method of cross-subsidization would be from the larger water consumers
(business or residential) to the smaller through a system of progressive rates
where the unit price of water increases along with the quantity consumed.
5.        Third, the level of the tariff should be based on incremental
future costs, not average historical costs. Unless the real cost of supplying
additional water is transmitted to the consumer (by means of a tariff based
on incremental future costs) he will continue to increase his consumption as
though future water sources were as inexpensive to develop as the past one.
This is clearly not true for these six districts; in every case the marginal
(future) cost per m3 is substantially higher than the average cost per m3.
6.        Finally, the cost of the initial connection to the public system
averages around P 300 plus individual house fittings of about P 100-200. For
the poorer consumers this may represent a very large outlay so that an install-
ment plan to spread the cost over five years has been discussed with LWUA.
All of the districts and LWUA have agreed in principal to this proposal, and
it is estimated to affect 50% of the new consumers.
1/   In addition, there is little economic justification for charging less
for 3/8" connections since there is no cost savings from smaller dis-
tribution lines with both the existing and proposed distribution
networks sized to accommodate system peaks and fire-fighting demands.



ANNEX 25
PHILLIPINES
PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Schedule of Water Rates 1/
Old         New         Date of Effect
Rates       Rates         of New Rates
-----Pesos/m7----
Domestic Metered Connections
Baguio                                    1.25          1.25             -
Cabanatuan                                0.40          0.50       Jan.   1, 1977
Lipa                                      0.30          0.50        Jan.   1, 1977
Lucena-Pagbilao-Tayabas                   0.25          0.40       April  1, 1977
San Fernando (La Union)                   0.28          0.50       Jan.   1, 1977
Tarlac                                    0.40          0.75       Nov.   1, 1976
Commercial and Industrial
Metered Connections
Baguio                                    1.50          2.50       Oct.   1, 1976
Cabanatuan                                0.80          1.00       Jan.   1, 1977
Lipa                                      0.60          1.00        Jan.   1, 1977
Lucena-Pagbilao-Tayabas                   0.40          0.80       April  1, 1977
San Fernando (La Union                    0.56          1.00       Jan.   1, 1977
Tarlac                                    0.80          1.50       Nov.   1, 1976
1/    The rates in this schedule are for the metered connections for consumption
exceeding 10 m3 per month. For first 10 m3 of monthly consumption a service
charge ranging from P 10.00 to P 18.75 is made for 1/2" domestic connections
in each WD. Domestic consumers with larger size connections pay higher
service charges and the service charge for commercial and industrial
consumers is twice the domestic rate (three times the domestic rate in
Lucena-Pagbilao-Tayabas WD). For unmetered connections, different rates are
applicable in each WD, increasing with the increase in the size of the
connections.  These connections will be metered in the coming year.



ANNEX 26
PHILIPPINES
PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Schedule of LWUA's Foreign Loans
As of July 31, 1976
Source                              Terms                       Amount
USAID Loan of 1974           Interest - 2% for the first    15.0 million
10 years and 3% thereafter
Maturity - 40 years includ-
ing 9-1/2 years grace period
USAID Loan of 1976                "           "       "       10.0 million
DANIDA Loan of 1974          Interest - free                   2.6 million
Maturity - 24 years includ-
ing 7 years grace period
Asian Development Bank       Interest - 8.75%                 16.8 million
Loan of 1975              Maturity - 26 years including
a grace period of 6 years
Total    44.4 million



ANNEX 27 (a)
PHILIPPINES
PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Local Water Utilities Administration
Income Statement
.  1/                              Million Pesos
Year Ending December 31                   1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
REVENUES
Interest on loans to Water Districts      0.62   4.00   17.62   37.03   56.87   71.45   80.94
Interest on Investments                     -     3.25    5.25    5.25    3.25    5.25    5.25
Other Income                               0.03   0.10    0.10    0.10    0.10    0.10    0.10
Total Revenues                        0.65   7.35   22.97   42.38   60.22   76.80   86.29
OPERATING EXPENSES AND INTEREST
Salaries and Other Operating Enpenses      0.81   5.80    6.95    8.34   10.01   12.01   14.42
Interest and Financing Charges              -     0.44    3.85    9.81   16.85   22.38   26.52
Total                                0.81   6.24   10.80   18.15   26.86   34.39   40.94
Operating Surplus (Deficit) before
depreciation                            (0.16)  1.11   12.17   24.23   33.36   42.41   45.35
Depreciation4/                              -     1.18    1.36    1.58    1.80    1.91    1.99
Net Surplus (deficit)                     (0.16) (0.07)  10.81   22.65   31.56   40.50   43.36
Net surplus as a percentage of equity       -      -      4.2     6.9     7.7       8.1    7.3
1/ For the period August 16 through December 31, 1975.
4/  Includes 1.0 million pesos each year for amortization of organizational
expenses and for abortive feasibility studies.
December 22, 1976



ANNEX 27 (b)
PHILIPPINES
PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Local Water Utilities Administration
Flow of Funds Statement
Million Pesos
Year Ending December 31                          1976     1977      1978        1979      1980        1981     1977-81
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Operating Surplus (Deficit)                      1.11    12.17      24.23      33.36      42.41     45.35      157.52
Long-Term Borrowings:
IBRD                                        -        3.79      29.30     45.73      37.49      25.29      141.60
USAID                                     21.88    75.49       59.36     42.90      27.69      27.69      233.13
ADB                                         3.86    25.20      50.40      21.40      16.34      8.80      122.14
DANIDA                                     3.12    12.54        2.25                   -         -         14.79
Total                         28.86   117.02    141.31    110.03        81.52     61.78      511.66
Government Equity                               83.00   112.00      50.00      50.00      50.00     50.00      312.00
Principal  Repayments by WDs                      -        -          -         6.46      13.52      15.67      35.65
Total Sources of Funds       112.97   241.19    215.54    199.85    187.45    172.80   1,016.83
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Long-Term Loans to WDs for:
IBRD Project                                -        2.21      52.00     86.85      64.58      40.04      245.68
USAID                                     47.91   120.84       98.96      76.63     56.00      56.00      408.43
ADB                                       35.60    53.40       82.50      48.10     12.40       9.00      205.40
DANIDA                                     7.08    17.87        2.97        -         -          -         20.84
Total                         90.59   194.32    236.43    211.58    132.98    105.04         880.35
Principal Payments                                -         -         -          -          -         2.03       2.03
Investments                                    30.00    20.00         -       (30.00)    30.00         -        20.00
Capital Expenditures                             0.41      1.50      1.50       1.50       0.75      0.75        6.00
Feasibility Studies recoverable from WDs         4.44     8.88       9.42       8.41       2.80        -        29.51
Total Application of Funds 125.44   224.70    247.35    191.49    166.53    107.82           931.89
Cash Surplus (deficit)                         (12.47)   16.49    (31.81)       8.36      20.92     64.98       78.94
Cash Balance - End of Year                      19.77    36.26       4.45      12.81      33.73     98.71       98.71
December 22, 1976



ANNEX 27(c)
PHILIPPINES
PRO_INCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Local Water Utilities Administration
Balance Sheet
Million Pesos
As at December 31                               1975      1976      1977      1978      1979      1980     1981
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Gross Value  of Fixed Assets                    2.77      3 18      4.68      6.18      7.68     8.43      9.19
Less:  Depreciation                               -       0.18      0.54      1.12      1.92      2.83     3 82
Net Nlalue of Fixed Assets                      2.77      3.00      4.14      5.06      5.76     5.60      5.36
Long Term Loans to WDs
IBRD Project                                 -         -        2.21    54.21   141.06   205.64   245.68
Other Projects                              8.52    99.11   291.22   475.65   593 92   648.80   698 13
Total                                       8.52    99.11   293.43   529.86   734.98   854.44   943.81
Investments                                      -       30.00    50.00    50.00    20.00    50.00    50.00
Net Current Assets
Cash                                           32.24    19.77    36.26        4.45    12.81    33.73    98.71
Other Current Items (Net)                       1.00      1.00      1.00      1.00      1.00      1.00      1 00
Total                                      33.24    20.77    37.26       5.45    13.81    34.73    99 71
Organizational Expenses and
Feasibility Studies                         6.57    10.01    17.89    26.31    33.72    35.52    34.52
Total Assets                               51.10   162.89   402.72   616.68   808.27   980,29 1,133.40
Liabilities and Equity
Long Term Borrowings
IBRD Loan                                    -         -        3.79    33.09    78.82   116.31   ]41.60
Other Loans                                 4.47    33.33   146.56   258.57   322.87   366.90   401.36
Total                                       4.47    33.33   150.35   291 66   401.69   483.21   542.96
Equity
rovernment Capital                         40.00   123.00   235.00   285.00   335.00   385.00   435.00
Grant and Donations                         7.09      7.09      7.09      7.09     7.09      7 09      7.09
Retained Earnings                          (0.46)   (0.53)   10.28    32.93    64.49   104.99   148.35
Total                                      46.63   129.56   252.37   325.02   406.58   497.05   590.44
Total Liabilities and Equity               51.10   162.89   402.72   616.68   808.27   980.29 1,133.40
Debt: Equity Ratio                               9:91    20:80    37:63    47:53    50 50    49:51    48:52
December 22, 1976






(N.
u-I-
t-O
0~~~~~~~~~
tY ~    ~  D                                            0-
CL   %.,dj                    j 
-.               '-   ,  '.
ZneOt0*3W3set$@2stS                                                                         0, -
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
,  .  _  _  _  _  _ R N N N N N; N N N N R n e X X 8 n - -0         -\     ZN                                                                             (
0~~z4 
-  a                                       Z 
Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
w  co~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
~ d ~                                                                      _______VI___                 Z__






y                         -
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                                  -
1500                                                                       7_AMBIONG
Worl 6antandh1inrev 1/ ,A,g __ ~~                                                      15 ~/ 1500  1600
} \-4 /< a 137 EXISTING AND PROPOSED WATER SUPPLOGS1STE
E1 585  .KITMA __-------   I                         I                                                                            4l300        -        ------ Water Mains(DiameterinMillimeters)400
BOOST                      ~
1400    f                                                                1
/     1400                                                                                                            I ,DAoL                      GI
t ~     ~~~~                                        / i      IST WEIL N375 /  .~-           d00                                   162/20
{   /  P24Crt iC   /             946tLSoo       x,AL.                                         i.,    ell260               _______                          Pressure Zone Boundories~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  5  '
t~  CAMP ALLEN (IV)
05L5/ON HILL \V)
/   R  _   WAIER SUPPIIED BY.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FAI L
IERA'I 'ZN  T.
EL1431~~~~~~~~~222                                   EI2
1400~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
0  0  00   600   800  1000
n~ b   A- 'hi,500                                                                                                                                                      PROVINCIAL  CTE
i- P IY   = 1                          1 4 00. 1   \p- 1   bI                                          N                                                                                             I T I E
World dank and in affiliates~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E,s.g                                            .lsd      F..
-         -         -  - -- Water Mains (Diameter in Millimeters)
*    Ui    Storage Tanks (Capacity in Cubic Meters)
130 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~0                              0          (      Wells (lps/gpm)(Elevation in Meters)
E]AREA OF MAP  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~                                                                        BOVRPUPIGA                                                      Spring
16'                           "A r                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AREA 6 WELL FIELD  -                     Woter District SerMice Area Boundary
BEST WELL NO   1                                                26.2/ 2000
ELST3W0LL NO.,Fl 12600----                                                                                                Pressure Zone Boundaries
Pressure Zone Designations
City Boundary
PROM KM5 STORAGE TANK (V)                                                                                          10                           Cnor
WATER SUPPLIED BY.                                                                                               -40CotusZ w
(I) SANTO THOMAS RESERVOIR, 32.6/520                                                                                                                                                                  c  V
-14-    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 1                        2)1HY0RO-1, 63.0/1000---                                                                                                                         Roads 






~~~~120 62-                                    Thle    1        ;SwI ,t 1h, -p 1  I
L U Z O  N
toorh
16'                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~6-
Obrero                                           cnog
~14-                          14'                    Mo.opyop
_120                            .      .
Moyapyop S.,                                                                                                                                                             P-sgor.-
_                            . .     J          ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~C,.z R.I.S                                                                               , 
Volde FOeute '                                                                                                                                .,
rS)pon    9                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Porego I a\
}  Pngos     |                                                                                     .                            Schem>^; I
\   l  ~~~~~~~~~~~~    Z9i ~~~~~~~~~~~Mraosngair ungal
Soviog Nore                                                         PHIIPP.NES '
ZONE
- PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CITY OF CABANATUAN
EXISTING  AND  PROPOSED WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM
Exis-tg    Proposed    Ftore
P-oivO    Poledt
J.i_ -_t                                           Water Mains (Diameter in Millimeters)
t-Crsoo:                                                                                         Storage Tanks (Capacity in Cubic Meters)
/1   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                            9  ~~~~~~~~0Wells
\'    I /  |             '                                                                      t                       *          l                Present Service Areao
,- g   .  rWater District Service Area Boundary
i0     500 oOOG soo  l   1500    2000     1                 =-===_                           Pressure Zone Boundary
__.2.-                                         Eats Boro                           METERS                                                                         Roads                                                                c c
~ to                                              ~==~-~                                                                        Rivers                                                               -r
- San Fernando                                                                                                                                                                                           rn
-'Sumocob                  (Pamponga) 






IRRO 12545
nc~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~PHI LIPPINES                                                                                                                                                                     _NAI11
TAAL  -\                                                     ~~~~~PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
LAKE                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CITY OF LIPA                                          4utbn
E,XISTING AND PROPOSED WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM
E-xistin   Proposd    Futre,                                                                                                                     60    C
tvo~~~~~~~1 'r-'  ~ ~ ~ ~      ~       ~        ~       ~       ~         -Water Mains (Diameter in Millimeters)
~~~ ~~~>  5)                                                       U ~~~~~~~~~~~             Storage Tanks (Capacity in Cubic Meters)                                                                    -    Ieei
0        0         -    wells                                                                   T.1 sot
(                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A Springs0
>~~-< -. ~~Present Sernice Area
Water District Sernice Area Boundary                                                         2
~~~~~~~~   ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pressure Zone Boundary
Sopor                                   $60~~~~~~~~~~~0
oc,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                       nooo             5tnel              3
5)  tO'~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
(AAL                      c
LAffL -~
307   --                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IERN,113 I RFLEL
(U     ~      3L     Zy 
Kj                                                      ( tPg   0                                 oor
Spring                 I                           Tonbo                         o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                7~ld. ~
I  -. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    1      W
)t,0  ~~~~~~~~~~~~'  Bogotis ott ~   ~    ~    ~     ~ ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~.U-g
?  500   1000   1500   20,00   2500
~-~1            SMETERSS1gA .
)  -                                yooaoo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T,                                                                                     1"d






IBRD 12546
To                                                                                                                      JANUARY 1977
|  Lucbuo -                                                                       PHILIPPINES
MARNG                              PROVINCIAL CITIES WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CITIES OF LUCENA, PAGBILAO, TAYABAS
EXISTING AND PROPOSED WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM
E-fislig  Propos-d  Fuh,re
Pro1ncl  Pru1nst
_____            ---    Water Moins (Diometers in Millimeter|
U 1    U  20  F  2   Storage Tonks (Capacity n Cubic Meters)
CAIIAYSAN  \     .<Io 
SPRING  400   ,                                                                     Springs
-4,                                t                                  H S\@oO Asa 0Hydraulic Control Chambers
'ORJGE aNZ %> Present Service Area
- - (                 --- Water District Service Area Boundary
LL tUNO                                                                             Municipal Boundaries
/-IN* -                Contours
300~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~                   FLR N~,~~'                     ~30
,Z,2<~~~~~~~~
0 03E TANK                                                            T
T.;L,P.  .        ;                          E,  
00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0~
Tt A4    ( A      n
1LU  Z 0 N?
T AY A 8A 5                                      GCfEAN
0       1000     2000     3~000                                                           />Mo?~
METERS                                  - C3I






IBRD 12547
,< T                                       JANUARY 1977
PHILIPPINES                                                                                              0
PROVINCIAL CiTIES                                                                                                    -o
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT                                                                                  34
CITY OF SAN FERNANDO (La Untion) .v
EXiSTING AND PROPOSED WATER SUPPtY SYSTEM    -            _       Bacnotan
Pvopoed   Fita~e                                                                                                      50
tbsti.ifg    roleO    Pmoject  -00
-_----_--- Watef Mains
{Diameter ir iMillimeters)        SICRAG  ANK                              si
*        *       E:'  Storage Taks -
(Cpaocity in Cobkc Meters) -   |-J
*        0        2.:   Woi~s      ;       -       /                 C N                  f
Present Service Area                 ' -boSJA   \/
Water District Servie                                                      /
Area Boundrary          \.z
Mknicipat Boundasies
*-l00-..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-40                                                           :
; _l00_  0Con2our0                         . 0                                                                 oOO      300    100
__-  Rivers      S  Fenad
?S X  t            $ ;  feRy  iVggUR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ gry0O
IOPO   2~~~~~~~~OD   3000   4000  an Juan                               San Gc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Th bcridn,sovlonhsmpd o
!t1~~~~~~~~~A (1501
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oic  \ netcenn  0, opOepbto,e  by" * mi m  
Li/NGA Y. N  GULF                 2 ;   0oT <  fW
X \ <     t100 >  f sz SS                        .                 ARE;   V~~~~~~~10
SA .fER   SanuerangdoS  t  2 ..Q: .....-)
('65~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
~~~~~~~~~~To ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~T
'~~Dagops,n                                                                    I I
ZING rE       ; GUL           2     oQo                                  .                                 .e           h






IBRD 12548
i                                                                    To Boguio                                                   JANUARY 1977
L U Z ON
0     500    1000   150O   2000
/0     t            ;   IMETERS
AREA
OF MAP
-1t g 'AIF  C                                                                                                                  t          
-14'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
Thet boundenes thnownon this map do not
Imply  endoremetif or aceeptanee by the
We,d Bank and i,, -ffihte-c-
Blossomil     '~o 
MEAR PRQ~ROVNCALCIIE
HCSPIT                                       N~~~~~ITYO FTRA
J  )F  H   Gordle ns                            P
C /   70                                          2                    0        (3    Wells
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rsn Seric AreaJ\ o</j        '-
X    0\<bost on\ tS    1   Rofoef {\ 0  />/                                        4        /~~~WterDisric Sevic
so~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~od
~~~~"E ~     ~ T A nRFELes
_ i,   <                      X            j   |                             ~~~~~~~~~~          ~       ~ ~~PHILIPPINES 
> /6g   >         <               ttwo&d  / /                                PROVINCIAL CITIES
$  ig    tvo\\ 5s4Xt ' [)WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
l S X C l r ~~~~~~~~CITY OF TARLAC
0   -2                 /    \         \2l 1       t         ~~~~~~~~~EXISTING AND PROPOSED WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM
{/z)f/ /C) /  <s    (9 11  HL           ~~Project   Project
-)   \F)/  y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(i-;l JDjatmret\eArin Millijmeters)
/        /   a     a    y    a   t~~~~~~~~~ | /        *        *        '~~~~~~~~' ~ Storage Tcanks
/                            / ___ ~~~~200    r.      -    |(capacity in Cubic Meters)
/ <s _-- - =tq _. . f | * * 5' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wells
VC            t   /     r               \\\\    ......       .    .-                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Present Service Area
\              Yy                         , _ /  \\         - -                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Water District Service
Aj)   /   =   /                         '>                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Area Boundary
\   /                                  *              _==_=_                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pressure Zone Boundary
0  1/  X                                                  <-*                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Roads
j;    /t                                            I               i~~~~~~~-5-             Contours
gj(                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~To Angeles_



