CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1415 PH
Loan Agreement
(Provincial Cities Water Supply Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 13, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 13, 1977, between REPUBLIC OF THE
PHILIPPINES (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
FHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the Loan as
hereinafter provided;
(B) Parts A and B of the Project will be carried out by
Local Water Utilities Administration (hereinafter called LWUA)
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to LWUA part of the proceeds of
the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(C) Part C of the Project will be carried out by Metro-
politan Waterworks and Sewerage System (hereinafter called MWSS)
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to MWSS part of the proceeds of
the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project
agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and LWUA;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and LWUA of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project
Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b) "LWUA Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and LWUA pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to t'Ae, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and


﻿- 3 -
(c) "MWSS Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and MWSS pursuant to
Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(d) "Water District" means a water district established
pursuant to the provisions of Title II of the Borrower's
Presidential Decree No. 198 as amended by Presidential Decree
No. 768, in the cities of Baguio, Cabanatuan, Lipa,
Lucena-Pagbilao-Tayabas, San Fernando and Tarlac.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-three
million dollars ($23,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
in respect of interest and other charges on the Loan.
(b) On each of the semi-annual interest payment dates
specified in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay, on such date, interest and
other charges on the Loan accrued and payable on or before the
date set forth, and up to the amount allocated, in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time
by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.


﻿- 5 -
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1982
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and two-tenths per cent (8.20%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on June 1 and December 1, in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿- 6 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause LWUA to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations therein
set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable LWUA to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan
required to carry out Parts A and B of the Project to LWUA under a
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and LWUA, under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Bank.
(c) The Borrower shall cause 4WSS to carry out Part C of
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public
utility practices and shall cause MWSS to provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.


﻿- 7 -
(d) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan
required to carry out Part C of the Project to MWSS under a
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and MWSS under terms and conditions which shall have been approved
by the Bank.
(e) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the LWUA
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the MWSS Subsidiary Loan Agreement
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor
amend, abrogate or waive the LWUA Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the
MWSS Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(f) The Borrower shall carry out Part D of the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in co-nformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, training and engineering
practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist MWSS in carrying out Part
C of the Project, the Borrower shall cause MWSS to employ
engineering consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank.


﻿- 8 -
Section 3.03. (a) In carrying out Part D of the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out the said Part D under a
training program acceptable to the Bank.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards iizCdent
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loans to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall, and shall cause MWSS to
furnish to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans
and reports for Parts D and C, respectively, the Project and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail
as the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿(b) The Borrower shall, and shall cause MWSS to: (i) maintain
records adequate to record the progress of Parts D and C
respectively, of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii)
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c) of this
Section, enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities
included in the said Parts of the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) furnish to the Bank all such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the said Parts of
the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall cause MWSS to enable the Bank's
representatives to examine all plants, installations, sites,
works, buildings, property and equipment of MWSS and any relevant
records and documents.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Borrower
and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority
over the Loan by way of a lien on governmental assets.
(b) To that end the Borrower: (i) represents that at the
date of this Agreement no lien exists on any governmental assets
as security for any external debt except as otherwise disclosed
in writing by the Borrower to the Bank; and (ii) undertakes that,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such lien shall
be created, it will ipso facto equally and ratably, and at no cost
to the Bank, secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan and in the creation of any such
lien express provision will made to that effect. The Borrower
shall promptly inform the Bank of the creation of any such lien.
(c) The foregoing representation and undertaking shall not
apply to: (i) any lien created on property, at the time of
purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the purchase
price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary
course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not
more than one year after its date.


﻿- 11 -
(d) As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets"
means assets of the Borrower or of any agency of the Borrower
including the Central Bank of the Philippines or any institution
performing the functions of a central bank for the Borrower.
(e) The Borrower further undertakes that, within the
limits of the laws in force in its territories, it will make the
foregoing undertaking effective with respect to liens on the
assets of its political subdivisions and their agencies, and to
the extent that the Borrower is unable within the limits of
the laws in force in its territories to make this undertaking
effective, the Borrower will give to the Bank an equivalent
lien satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) LWUA shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or obligation of LWUA under the Project Agreement or
the LWUA Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(b) MWSS shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or obligation of MWSS under the MWSS Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
(c) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that LWUA will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d) Presidential Decree No. 198 of the Borrower, as amended
to the date of this Agreement shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and
adversely affect the ability of LWUA to carry out the covenants,
agreements and obligations set forth in the Project Agreement.
(e) The Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of LWUA or MWSS or for the suspension of the
operations of LWUA or MWSS.


﻿- 13 -
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraphs (h) thereof:
(a) the events specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Bank to the Borrower; and
(b) the events specified in paragraphs (d) or (e) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 14 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
(a) the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf
of LWUA has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
corporate and governmental action;
(b) the execution of the LWUA Subsidiary Loan Agreement
on behalf of the Borrower and LWUA, respectively, has been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action; and
(c) the execution of the MWSS Subsidiary Loan Agreement
on behalf of the Borrower and MWSS, respectively, has been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as
additional matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of
the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions
to be furnished to the Bank:


﻿- 15 -
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by LWUA, and is legally binding upon LWUA in accordance
with its terms;
(b) that the LWUA Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and LWUA, respectively, and
is legally binding upon the Borrower and LWUA in accordance with
its terms; and
(c) that the MWSS Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and MWSS, respectively, and
is legally binding upon the Borrower and MWSS in accordance with
its terms.
Section 6.03. The date August 12, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE VII
Represcentative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary of Finance
Department of Finance
Manila, Philippines
Cable address:                     Telex:
SECFINANCE                         7550 CBP-PH
Manila                             0268 CBCONF
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 17 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /s/ Eduardo Z. Romualdez
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works                  1,400,000         15% of local
expenditures or
100% of foreign
expenditures
(2) Equipment and                7,900,000
materials
(a) directly                                 100% of foreign
imported                                 expenditures
(b) locally manu-                            100% of local
factured                                 expenditures
ex-factory
(c) imported but                             65%
locally pro-
cured
(3) Consultants'                 6,000,000         100% of foreign
services                                      expenditures
(a) under Parts
A and B of
the Project
(b) under Part C
of the Project


﻿- 19 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(4) Training                        200,000       100% of foreign
expenditures
(5) Interest and other            3,300,000       Amounts due
charges on the
Loan accrued on or
before November 30,
1981
(6) Unallocated                   4,200,000
TOTAL        23,000,000


﻿- 20 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.


﻿- 21 -
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $200,000 may be made in respect of Category (3) on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
January 1, 1977.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 22 -
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such i    shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Water Supply
The provision of improved water supply through
rehabilitation and construction works in six provincial
water systems and through the development of efficient
public utility organizations to operate the said systems
as follows:
(1) For all Water Districts included in the Project
Immediate minor improvement works to provide better
service, leak detection surveys; replacement of
leaking service connections, provision of new
service connections, meters and hydrants, provision
of vehicles for operation and maintenance, and
construction and equipment of office accommodations,
meter shops, laboratories and stores; and boring of
test wells as needed for field investigations.
(2) For Baguio Water District
Rehabilitation of Buyog Spring and Santo
Thomas Reservoir, construction of a well field
to produce about 130 1/sec with booster


﻿- 24 -
pumping system, construction of about 13 km of
transmission pipelines and of two storage tanks
of about 3,800 m3 capacity at Baguio Hospital
(with booster pumping station) and at Camp Allen,
construction of about 110 km of distribution
pipelines and rehabilitation of Kilometer 8 storage
tank.
(3) For Cabanatuan Water District
Rehabilitation of two wells and construction of a
new well field to produce about 180 1/sec and of
one well to produce about 12 1/sec, construction
of two storage tanks of a capacity of about
1,200 m3 each or of additional wells to meet peak
demand and construction of about 50 km of
distribution pipelines.
(4) For Lipa Water District
Rehabilitation of two wells and one storage
tank, construction of a well field to produce
about 100 1/sec and construction of about 30 km
of distribution pipelines.


﻿- 25 -
(5) For Lucena-Pagbilao-Tayabas Water District
Expansion of, and improvements to, the May-it
Spring intake works, construction of about 8 km
of transmission pipelines and of two storage
tanks of capacity of about 500 m3 and 700 m3
respectively, the rehabilitation of the Tongko
storage tanks and construction of about 50 km of
distribution pipelines.
(6) For San Fernando (La Union) Water District
Construction of six wells of a total capacity of
about 100 1/sec in the banks of the Bauang and
Baroro Rivers, of about 35 km of transmission
and distribution pipelines.
(7) For Tarlac Water District
Rehabilitation of two wells and construction
of a new well field to produce about 180 1/sec,
construction of two storage tanks of a capacity
of about 2,100 m3 and 600 m3 respectively and
of about 24 km of distribution pipelines.


﻿- 26 -
Part B:   Provincial water systems studies
Feasibility studies for about 10 provincial water
systems.
Part C:   Manila Sewerage Studies
Review and evaluation of the 1967-1969 feasibility
study, and of on-going studies, of the Metro-Manila Sewerage
Master Plan, a sanitation program, additional economic and
tariff studies, project construction phasing, final design,
contract documentation and other studies and long term
advisory services to MWSS.
Part D:   Training
Training of staff of the Borrower's Department of
Health and the Bureau of Public Works in the Borrower's
Department of Public Works, Transportation and Communications,
the Borrower's Department of Local Government and Community
Development, LWUA and MWSS and such other agencies of the
Borrower as the Borrower and the Bank shall agree, in the
design and construction of water supply systems for small
communities (including the provision of equipment related
thereto).
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1981.


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (express,ed in dollars)*
On each June 1 and December 1
beginning June 1, 1982
through   December 1, 1996                   740,000
On June 1, 1997                                   800,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 28 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as th- premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                         1.25%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                          2.45%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                          4.50%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                    6.55%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                    7.40%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                         8.20%


