DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Roert No. PE-49a
APPRAISAL OF A
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
September 29, 1972
Education Projects Department
IThis report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVAIENTS
1 US Dollar - TT$ 1.84
1 TT Dollar = US$ 0.54
Since July 3, 1972 the TT$ is floating with the
British Pound Sterling
MEASURES
1 sq. yard = 0.84 m2
1 sq. foot = 0.09 m2
1 sq. mile = 2.590 hm2
I acre     = °405 ha.
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
GLOSSARY
BASIC DATA
SUUIfIARY AND CONCLUSIONS ......................   i
I.   INTRODUCTION ....................
II.   ECONOMIIC DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCES ..........    1
Physical Environment and Population                    1
Economic Growth During the 1960's                      2
Problems of Employment Generation                      3
Economic Development Strategy                          4
Manpower Requirements                                  4
III.   THE EDUCATIONAL SECTOR AND ITS REFORM ..............        6
The Traditional Education and Training System ....   6
Plans for Reform         ............... ..            7
Strategy for Implementation                            9
Financial Implications                                 9
External Aid ......                                   10
IV.  THE PROJECT              .....................              11
General                       ...........................,11
Junior Secondary Schools                              12
Senior Comprehensive Schools     .     ..........   13
Combined Junior/Senior Secondary Schools              13
Teacher Training College                              14
Technical Institute                                   14
Farmer Training Center and tiobile Units              15
Technical Assistance    ...16
Cost of the Project                                   17
V.   IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT ....................   19
Administration ......... ..*..........      ....   19
Professional Services                                 20
Sites                      ...                        20
Procurement                                     ...  20
Disbursement         ...................  21
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ................  21
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Trinidad and Tobago in January/February 1972. The mission consisted of
Messrs. A. de Capitani (economist), J. Scearce (architect), J. Crosnier,
(agricultural educator, consultant), R. Hemingway (technical educator, ILO)
and D. Ward (general educator, consultant).






TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
APPENDICES
I.   The Education and Training System and its Reform
II.   Technical Assistance
ANNEXES
1.   Comparative Education Indicators
2.   Basic Economic Indicators
3.   Educational Attainment of the Labor Force, 1969
4.   GDP, Employment and Productivity by Sector, 1960-1983
5.   Projected Manpower Requirements, 1972-1983
6.   Enrollments, Graduates and Teachers by Level and Type of
Education, 1969/70
7.   Actual and Projected Enrollments in Public Schools, 1960-1983
8.   Projection of Teacher Requirements for Selected Types of
Education, 1971-1983
9.   Public Expenditure on Education, 1960-1971
10.   Public Expenditure on Education by Levels
11.   Projection of Public Expenditure on Education, 1971-1983
12.   Enrollment, Output, Accommodations in Project Schools
13.   San Fernando Technical Institute:  Planned Intake, Enrollment
and Output by Specialization
14.   Project Cost by Type of Expenditure
15.   Contingency Allowances
16.   Unit Capital Costs in New Project Institutions
17.   Project Implementation and Expenditure Schedule
18.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
CHARTS
1.   Educational Pyramid (WB-6801)
2.   Structure of the Traditional Education and Training System (WB-6802)
3.   Reformed Structure of the Educational and Training System (WB-6803)
4.   Organization of the Ministry of Education and Culture 1972 (WB-6804)
5.   Implementation of the Educational Reform 1968-1983 (WB-6805)
MAPS
Maps of Trinidad and Tobago (Showing Project Schools).






GLOSSARY
Junior Secondary School: A coeducational lower-cycle secondary school extend-
ing over grades 6-8 (Form 1 through 3).
Senior Comprehensive School: A coeducational upper-cycle secondary school
extending over grades 9-12 (Form 4 through 6) and combining academic
and pre-vocational programs in one facility.
Combined Junior/Senior Secondary School: A coeducational secondary school
comprising both lower and upper cycle (up to grade 10).
Farmer Training Center: An institution providing short intensive courses for
adult farmers and extension officers.
Double-Shift System: Use of the same educational facility by two groups of
students, one group in the morning and the other in the afternoon.
Sandwich Courses (Block Release Programs): A cooperative part-time training
under which trainees are released from employment to attend formal in-
struction for a period (block) of weeks.
Government School: A school owned and operated by the Government.
Assisted School: A school owned and operated by denominational groups but
financed by the Government.
Public School: Includes both government and assisted schools.
Private School: A school owned and operated by private organizations or
individuals, without any financial support from the Government.
General Certificate of Education, "O" Level: Certificate awarded at the
completion of grade 10 (Form 5) after an examination set and graded by
the Cambridge Board of Examiners.
General Certificate of Education, "A" Level: Certificate awarded at the com-
pletion of grade 12 (Form 6) after an examination set and graded by the
Cambridge Board of Examiners.
Assistant Craftsman's Certificate, Craftsman's Certificate, Technician's
Certificate: Certificates awarded at the completion of accelerated training
courses, vocational training courses and technical courses, respectively,
after an examination set and graded by the National Examination Council
for Vocational and Technical Education.
National Training Board: An advisory body composed of members drawn from the
public and private sectors, and responsible for advising the government
on matters related to technical and vocational education and for coordi-
nating craft training carried out in institutions and industrial enter-
prises.






TRINIDAD AND TOBAOD
BASIC DATA 1970 V
-  Pbpulation                                      1.03 million
Annual Growth Rate 1960-1970                 2.2% p.a.
-  Labor Force                                     0.36 mlli.on
Annual Growth Rate 1960-1970                 2.0% p.a.
-  GDP Growth Rate at Constant Prices 1960-1970   4.0% p.a.
- Primary School Enrollment as a percentage
of age group (Ages 7 -11) g/                95.7
- Secondary School Enrollment as a percentage
of age group (Ages 12-18)y                   26.0%
- Third Level &irollment as a percentage
of age group (Ages 19-23)  /                  1.1
-  Public Expenditure on Education as
a percentage of Total Public
Expenditure                                  16.4%
- Public Expenditure on Education as
a percentage of GDP                           3.6%
j  See Annex 1 for comparative educational data.
g  Including overaged students.






TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        In 1967, the government of Trinidad and Tobago approved the guide-
lines of a 15 year educational development plan, 1968-1983. The plan repre-
sents an ambitious attempt to reform the traditional educational structure
of the country, improve the relevance and the efficiency of the educational
system and provide a better distribution of educational opportunities. The
plan is consistent with the country development strategy which aims at
building a more egalitarian and self-reliant society. By correcting academic
bias built into the education and training system and re-orienting it in
line with the evolution of modern science and technology, the reform will
help provide the economy with the skills required to achieve the targets
of economic diversification, employment generation and better national con-
trol of economic decisions.
ii.       The main objectives of the reform are:  (i) provision of general
education for all children up to the age 14; (ii) reform and consolidation
of junior secondary schools, by phasing out the obsolete and socially dis-
criminating post-primary schools; (iii) introduction of the concept of com-
prehensive education at the senior secondary level; (iv) reform and expan-
sion of vocational and agricultural education to accommodate the majority of
students who do not proceed to the upper cycles of secondary education, and
to cater for adult training and retraining; (v) expansion of higher level
technician training; (vi) improvement in the preparation of teachers at all
levels, and (vii) reform of the administrative structure and processes at
the Ministry of Education. The reform is expected to be implemented in three
phases, 1968-72, 1973-77 and 1978-83.
iii.      A Bank loan of US$9.4 million was made in 1968 to support the first
phase of the reform, which focusses on general secondary education and teacher
training. The project consisted of sixteen junior secondary schools, three
senior comprehensive schools, one teacher training college for primary and
junior secondary school teachers, and alterations and equipment for the con-
version of three general secondary schools into senior comprehensive schools.
After some initial difficulties caused by delays in the selection of archi-
tectural consultants, adverse weather conditions and labor problems, the
execution of this project is progressing smoothly. A second loan of US$9.3
million is now proposed to help complete the implementation of the first
phase and to extend the reform to technical education and informal training
of adult farmers. The proposed project would complement - within the frame-
work of the educational development strategy of the country - a US$6.0 million
loan by the Inter American Development Bank in the field of vocational and
agricultural education.



- ii -
iv.       The proposed Bank project would include:
(a)  6 junior secondary schools (grades 6-8)
3 senior comprehensive schools (grades 9-12)
4 combined junior/senior secondary schools (grades 6-10)
1 teacher training college (grades 11-12)
1 technical institute (grades 11-13)
1 farmer training center
(b)  three farmer training mobile units; and
(c)  related technical assistance.
v.        The project secondary schools would offer new improved curricula
including practical subjects at the junior level and pre-vocational training
at the senior level, the objective being to make the educational system more
responsive to the needs of students who are unable to continue formal educa-
tion and of employers who need adaptable workers with practical background
for further on-the-job training. The reform of secondary school curricula
would be integrated by new teacher training programs in the proposed Teacher
Training College, which would be equipped to offer courses such as industrial
arts, agriculture, general science and home economics - courses which cannot
be provided by the institutions that would be replaced. The Technical Insti-
tute in San Fernando would be relocated, reorganized and expanded to produce
the technicians required for the development of the Trinidadian economy. The
reinforcement of the Extension Service through the proposed Farmer Training
Center and the Mobile Units would help upgrade the level of skills of adult
farmers, promote the introduction of better technologies in small farms and
support the strategy of agricultural diversification and development.
vi.       The proposed program of technical assistance (18 man years of expert
services and 11 man years of fellowships) would (a) support the ongoing re-
organization and coordination of vocational and technical education, (b)
ensure that the proposed San Fernando Technical Institute is well established
and organized, and the quality of instruction upgraded, and (c) help in
training staff of the Farmer Training Center.
vii.      The proposed project would cost US$18.1 million equivalent, including
contingencies; in addition, US$1.6 million would be for interest during construc-
tion.  Cost estimates are based on detailed schedules of accommodation and con-
tracts for similar work. Contracts would be awarded on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding. The foreign exchange component is estimated at
US$7.8 million (including US$0.1 million to be financed by CIDA).
viii.     The project is suitable as a basis for a Bank loan of $9.3 million
equivalent, for a term of 22 years, including a grace period of 7 years. The
loan would cover approximately 47% of total project cost, equal to the estimated
foreign exchange component (net of CIDA participation) and interest during
construction.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In March 1967, the Government of Trinidad and Tobago approved the
guidelines of a long term educational development plan to restructure the
education system, lessen its academic bias and dependence upon foreign stand-
ards, and improve the distribution of educational opportunities. A Bank loan
(564-TR, October 1968) is helping to finance the first phase of the reform,
which focusses on general secondary education and teacher training. The pro-
ject consists of 16 junior secondary schools, 6 senior comprehensive schools
and 1 teacher training college for primary and junior secondary school teach-
ers. After some initial difficulties caused by delays in the selection of
architectural consultants, adverse weather conditions and labor problems,
project implementation is now progressing smoothly: construction is expected
to be completed by December 31, 1973, the Closing Date, and projected cost
overrun is estimated at about 2% of total project cost.
1.02      Following an IBRD reconnaissance mission in August 1971, a Unesco
project preparation mission assisted the government in November/December 1971
in preparing a second education project for submission to the Bank. An IBRD
mission, consisting of Messrs. A. de Capitani (economist), J. Scearce (archi-
tect), J. Crosnier (agricultural educator, consultant), R. Hemingway (technical
educator, ILO) and D. Ward (general educator, consultant), appraised the pro-
posed project in January/February 1972.
1.03      The project was modified during the appraisal.  The sizes of a Com-
bined Junior/Senior Secondary School and of the Teacher Training College were
reduced in accordance with revised projections of enrollments and teacher
requirements. The proposed San Fernando Technical Institute was changed into
an institution for the training of technicians only, and its capacity was
increased to meet projected manpower requirements. Technical assistance was
added to support the establishment of the National Training Board and to help
organize the new Technical Institute in San Fernando.
II. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND HMIAN RESOURCES
Physical Environment and Population
2.01      Historically, favorable environmental conditions have supported
economic development and human settlements in Trinidad and Tobago. Situated
in the southern part of the Caribbean Sea close to the Venezuela Coast, the
two islands - which extend over 1,980 square miles - are endowed with suitable
ecological and climatic conditions for tropical agriculture. Petroleum has
provided the country in recent years with a substantial inflow of foreign ex-
change, which has stimulated and sustained industrialization.
2.02      Between 1861 and 1971, the total population of Trinidad and Tobago
increased by more than 10 times, from 99,800 to 1,030,000. Massive importa-
tion of slaves from Africa and of indentured labor from Asia during the 18th



and 19th century, as well as immigration from Europe and from Caribbean
islands, account for the multi-racial, multi-religious structure of the
Trinidadian society. Net immigration, which explains most of the earlier
population increase, declined steadily during the last three decades and
turned into net emigration of more than 10,000 persons a year since the mid
1960's. Due to the steady decline in death rates and a rapid increase in
birth rate$ during the 1950's, the rate of natural growth of population ac-
celerated dramatically to reach a peak of about 3% p.a. in the mid 1960's.
Since then, birth rates have consistently been decreasing, partly due to
urbanization and to successful family planning programs. As a result of
these trends, the overall rate of growth of population declined from more
than 3% p.a. in the earlier 1960's to less than 1% p.a. in recent years.
If the decline in birth rates continues, population in the mid 1980's should
be about 1.2 - 1.3 million (Annex 2).
2.03      Because of the period of high birth rates, the population of
Trinidad and Tobago is characterized by a very young age structure: in 1970
over 41% of total population was under age 15. The percentage of population
aged 65 and over is rather low (just under 4% in 1970), but is increasing
with the steady improvement in life expectancy. As a result, the ratio of
those in the dependent age group (0-14, 65 and over) to those in the active
age group (15-64) is quite unfavorable (45%), which represents a serious
constraint on economic development.
2.04      The urban population is concentrated in Port of Spain (68,000 in-
habitants in 1970) and San Fernando (37,000), which are surrounded by two
urban regions with a total population of some 400,000 persons. The rural
population is widely scattered over a number of small village settlement
areas, each with a population which seldom exceeds 1,000 persons.
2.05      The high dependency rate and the dispersion of rural population
make it difficult to provide adequate educational facilities for the entire
population. As a result, the average educational attainment of the labor
force (Annex 3) is still rather low: in 1969, only 7.1% of workers had com-
pleted secondary education and less than 1% had completed third level education.
Economic Growth During the 1960's
2.06      Throughout the 1960's, the Trinidadian economy was characterized
by heavy dependence on the oil sector, rapid growth of the manufacturing
sector, stagnation of agriculture and high unemployment rates coupled with
acute shortages of skilled manpower. GDP increased at the average rate of
about 4% p.a. in real terms, and per capita output (at factor cost) grew at
about 2% p.a. to reach US$880 in 1971.
2.07      The petroleum sector is still the back-bone of the economy, contrib-
uting about one fifth of GDP, two thirds of net exports and close to one third
of Central Government revenues, The steady decline in output in recent years
due to depletion of some wells was only partially compensated by price in-
creases, and accounted for the deceleration in GDP growth that has occurred



-3-
since 1968. Recent discoveries of important oil and gas deposits off the
east coast of Trinidad and the recent favorable evolution of export prices
will probably reverse this trend by the mid 1970's.
2.08      The manufacturing sector has been growing at 7.8% p.a. since 1960
and accounts now for about 18% of GDP and 10% of total net exports. The bulk
of manufacturing output - except for sugar processing - has been for the do-
mestic market, although a beginning has been made in producing for the larger
CARIFTA area (Caribbean Free Trade Association). Severe shortages of local
entrepreneurial, managerial and technical skills are the major immediate
problems.
2.09      The stagnation of agriculture during the 1960's was partly due to
an unfortunate combination of bad weather, plant diseases and low prices in
the international markets. An attempt is now being made to encourage produc-
tion for the home market. Shortages of rural wage labor and the low level of
agricultural technology in small farms are the limiting factors. Agriculture
produces only 7% of GDP, while employing more than one fifth of the labor
force.
2.10      After some initial reluctance, the government has moved toward pro-
motion of tourism, with the result that between 1966 and 1969 gross tourist
receipts increased sharply, from about TT$ 23 million to about TT$ 40 million.
In spite of some recent set-backs, the tourism potential for employment genera-
tion and diversification of the economy appears favorable.
Problems of Employment Generation
2.11      Inflated by the rapid demographic growth of the late 1940's and
early 1950's and by increasing participation rates of women, the Trinidadian
labor force grew at about 2.5% p.a. between 1960 and 1971. Employment in-
creased fairly fast in the early 1960's and then virtually stagnated, in
spite of the rapid growth of the manufacturing sector. As a result, the
rate of unemployment remained fairly constant at the high level of 13-14%.
Unless current trends are reversed, the unemployment rate may climb further
by the late 1970's, when those born in the late 1950's and early 1960's
(para 2.02) will enter the labor market. Because of its highly capital in-
tensive nature, the projected expansion of the petroleum sector will have
little direct impact on employment.
2.12      Together with the demographic trends mentioned above, several inter-
related socio-economic factors contribute to the structural unemployment in
Trinidad and Tobago. A major factor has been the sluggish growth of the econ-
omy coupled with the rapid productivity increases in sectors such as manufac-
turing which are potentially good employment generators. Secondly, techno-
logies currently in use are designed for countries where technical skills and
capital are plentiful and labor is scarce (which is exactly the reverse of the
situation in Trinidad and Tobago). A third factor - which is a reflection of
the second - is the wrong blend of skills and expectations created by an old-



- 4 -
fashioned and academically-biased educational system. A fourth is the distor-
tion in the structure of relative prices and wages, brought about by rigidi-
ties in the supply of scarce factors and by the "demonstration effect" exerted
by high wages in the petroleum sector and other modern "enclaves" of the
economy.
2.13      The result of these forces is a paradoxical combination of unemploy-
ment and labor shortages, slow growth of GDP and wage push inflation. Un-
skilled labor being costly in relation to its marginal productivity, it is
carefully screened; the youngest and the less qualified are left out. In
1969, 30% of the labor force in the age group 15 - 19, and 22% of the age
group 15 - 24 were unemployed. In the same year, the unemployment rate
among workers who had not completed secondary schools was 20%, while it was
only 5% among workers with completed secondary education and zero percent
among university graduates (Annex 3).
Economic Development Strategy
2.14      The main objectives of the economic development strategy in
Trinidad and Tobago are:
(1) Diversification of the economy through expansion of agri-
culture, manufacturing and tourism, to start an internally-
generated and self-sustained process of growth.
(2)  Reduction of structural unemployment through employment
generating programs, training and retraining schemes and
better adaptation of foreign technology to local conditions.
(3)  Gradual transfer of economic decision making from foreign-
based to locally-controlled institutions.
2.15      Achievement of these objectives - and in particular of the goal of
full employment - is not expected until the late 1980's, given the magnitude
of public and private investments required. An essential feature of the de-
velopment strategy will be the reform of the educational system to lessen its
academic bias and heavy dependence upon foreign models, as well as the expan-
sion and improvement of technical, vocational and agricultural training to
provide the skills required for diversification of industry, agricultural
development and increased national control of economic activities.
2.16      Over the period 1971-1983, GDP is expected to grow at about 5.0%
p.a., as a result of an increase of 7.0% p,a. in industry, 4.5% p.a. in
services, 4.0% p.a. in the oil sector and about 3.3% p.a. in agriculture.
By 1983, industry is expected to produce about 27% of GDP and employ about
22% of the labor force. By that date, per capita output in real terms is
projected to reach about US$1,500.
Manpower Requirements
2.17      Projections of manpower requirements and training needs in Trinidad
and Tobago are made difficult by the lack of data and by the uneven quality of



available information. 1/ Moreover, structural changes in production processes
and the small size of the economy add to the instability of occupational co-
efficients.  Finally, the future amount and skill composition of outward mi-
gration is uncertain. With these limitations, manpower projections can indi-
cate only broad orders of magnitude, and should be interpreted with caution.
2.18      Net manpower requirements during 1972-1983 in Trinidad and Tobago
were estimated at 185,000, comprising 4,000 professionals, 12,000 technicians,
31,000 craftsmen and 138,000 semi-skilled and unskilled workers (Annexes 4
and 5). These four occupational categories correspond roughly to workers
having, respectively, university education, technical education, craft train-
ing or some form of accelerated vocational training. The projected annual
training needs during the period 1972-1983 are given below together with the
present capacity of the educational system.
Projected Average 1971 Estimated Output
Annual Training   from the Educational
Needs 1972 - 1983          System
1.   Professionals                     300                 300 /1
2.   Technicians                     1,000                  80
3.   Craftsmen                       2,600                 250 /2
4.   Semi-skilled                   11,500               4,000 /3
/1   Including students trained abroad.
/2   Data on private vocational schools are not available, but output is
considered negligible.
/3   Including informal training in industry.
2.19      The above comparison indicates the need for a substantial expansion
in the supply of both technicians and craftsmen. The supply of university
graduates (including those trained abroad) is roughly in balance with expected
growth in demand. The results obtained for semi-skilled and unskilled workers
are more difficult to interpret, given the very broad range of activities and
skills covered and the possibility of substitution of capital for labor and
vice-versa.
2.20      Nevertheless it is clear that the existing educational system in
Trinidad and Tobago cannot be expected to cope with the requirements of econo-
mic development and industrial diversification in the 1970's. A major re-
orientation is required with greater emphasis on vocational and technical
training. In turn, this implies the need for a more relevant - i.e. more
scientifically and practically oriented - general education. In addition,
1/   1970 Census returns are still being processed and were not available to
the appraisal mission.



-6-
continuous upgrading of the level of farmers education will be needed to im-
prove agricultural technology and farming efficiency. The traditional re-
liance on on-the-job training of workers with inadequate professional back-
ground will be insufficient in the 1970's, given the more exacting require-
ments of technological progress and the economic development strategy of the
country (which is realistically based on the development of small scale enter-
prises, unable to afford expensive training schemes).
III. THE EDUCATIONAL SECTOR AND ITS REFORM
The Traditional Education and Training System
(Appendix I and Charts WB-6801 and 6802)
3.01      The structure of the education and training system in Trinidad and
Tobago is largely patterned after the traditional British model (Chart
WB-6802). The education system consists of: (i) a five-year primary course
normally beginning at the age of seven, (ii) a two-year course in post-primary
schools or a five-year course in intermediate schools for those unable to gain
admission to secondary schools; (iii) a secondary course comprising a five-
year cycle leading to the Cambridge General Certificate of Education (CGE),
"0" level, followed by a two-year cycle leading to the G.C.E., "A" level,
(iv) third level courses of three to seven years duration at the University
of the West Indies. Education is free and compulsory between the ages of
6 - 12.
3.02      Primary education is quantitatively well developed.  Total enroll-
ment in 1969/70 was about 140,000 or 96% of the age group, evenly distributed
between boys and girls in both rural and urban areas (Annex 6). About 62,000
were enrolled in kindergarten classes for the age group 5-6 and 33,000 in
post-primary courses. About 96% were enrolled in public schools. Up to
grade 5, promotion is largely automatic, and very few students drop out;
accelerated promotion is common. Of about 5,500 teachers in public schools
in 1970, only 55% were qualified. Untrained teachers are being assigned for
a two-year full-time course in teacher training colleges, about 250 completing
training each year.
3.03      The Common Entrance Examination (CEE) at grade 5 determines which
students are admitted to public secondary schools. The percentage of admis-
sion, which is a function of the number of student places available in the
first year of secondary schools, was about 16% in 1969/70. HIost students who
are not admitted to secondary school enroll in a two year post-primary course
and follow a curriculum which is basically a repetition of what was taught in
earlier grades. A small number of students enroll in intermediate schools.
Both post-primary and intermediate schools are generally ill-equipped, over-
crowded and understaffed.
3.04      General secondary education is still relatively under-developed.
Total enrollment in public schools was about 32,000 or 18% of the age group
12-18 in 1969/70. Because of the limited capacity of the public system in



- 7 -
relation to the rapid growth of demand, private secondary schools operated
for financial profit have increased in number in recent years: in 1969/70
about 14,000 students were enrolled in 79 small and generally inadequate
schools. Curriculum in Forms 1 through 5 consists of a group of ten required
courses and one or two electives, mainly in arts subjects; all courses are
of academic type. Form 6 is a two-year program in preparation for university
education; admission is highly selective. In 1970, of the 1,300 teachers in
public secondary schools only 53% were university graduates and two-thirds of
them did not have any pedagogical training. A crash program for retraining
150 secondary teachers a year is being financed by the Organization of Ameri-
can States.
3.05      Vocational and technical education is provided in two Technical
Institutes, one in Port of Spain and the other in San Fernando. Craft
courses are also offered in a Vocational training center at Point Fortin.
Courses are of 2-3 years duration for both craftsmen and technicians. Total
enrollment in 1969/70 was about 2,500 in craft courses (including apprentices)
and 900 in technician courses. Educational efficiency is extremely low, due
to the lack of qualified teaching staff, poor quality of intake and heavy
reliance on part-time courses: in recent years, the output of technicians
and certified craftsmen has averaged 50 and 200-220, respectively.
3.06      Two-year full time courses for agricultural technicians are offered
at the Eastern Caribbean Farm Institute of Agriculture and Forestry (ECIAF).
The Institute can accommodate a maximum of 128 students, 100 in agriculture
and 28 in forestry. Output averaged about 45 in recent years. Below the
technician level, no organized scheme exists for training adult farmers.
3.07      Higher education is carried on by the University of the West Indies,
a regional institution serving several countries of the Caribbean area. At
the St. Augustine campus in Trinidad, three-year degree courses are offered
in agriculture, arts, social sciences, engineering and natural sciences.
In 1970/71 total enrollment in the University of the West Indies was about
5,500, roughly one fourth of students being from Trinidad and Tobago.
3.08      In an attempt to make provision for the problem of the unemployed,
several programs in the field of informal vocational education have been set
up since 1966 (Youth Camps, Trade Centers, Youth Centers). Most of them have
met so far with limited success, partly due to lack of equipment and teaching
staff. In order to coordinate vocational and technical education carried out
in government institutions and private industry, a National Training Board
has been established. The National Training Board will investigate manpower
requirements of the economy, elaborate standard training programs, supervise
private training schemes, and, in general, advise the government in planning
and programming vocational and technical education policies.
Plans for Reform (Appendix I and Chart WB-6803)
3.09      The need for a radical reform of the educational and training
system was first emphasized by a UNESCO Educational Planning mission,



which visited the country in 1964. A Draft Plan for Educational Development
1968-1983 was subsequently prepared and approved by the government in 1967.
The plan represents an ambitious attempt to change the traditional educational
structure of the country, improve the relevance and efficiency of the educa-
tion system and provide a better distribution of educational opportunities.
3.10      The main objectives of the educational reform, as outlined in the
Plan and in other policy statements, are the following:
(1) provision of general education for all children up to age
14 in two cycles - namely, 5 years of primary education
followed by 3 years of junior secondary education;
(2) reform and consolidation of junior secondary education
by phasing out the obsolete post-primary and intermediate
schools, and developing new common programs including prac-
tical subjects;
(3) introduction of the concept of comprehensive education at
the senior secondary level, as well as expansion of student
places to cater for 25% of the relevant age group:
(4) reform and expansion of vocational education and agricultural
training to accommodate about 50% of the age group 14 plus, i.e.
the majority of graduates of junior secondary schools who do
not proceed to the upper cycles, and to cater for adult train-
ing and retraining; the objective being to train a better qual'-
ified and more adaptable labor force;
(5) expansion of higher level technicians training, as required
by the policy of economic diversification and industrial
growth;
(6) improvement in the preparation of teachers at all levels, in-
cluding technical and senior secondary teachers; and
(7) reform of the administrative structure and processes at the
Ministry of Education (Chart WB-6804), reinforcement of cur-
riculum development and supervisory services, establishment
of an educational testing unit and reinforcement of the Publi-
cations Branch to improve the supply of standardized basic
textbooks and other learning materials. 1/
1/   While progress has been made in the field of educational broadcasting,
extensive use of instructional television is considered unfeasible at
this time, mainly because of its cost.



- 9 -
3.11      The reform, which is expected to be fully implemented by 1983, will
provide a better integrated system of general education and will correct the
traditional bias against vocational and technical education. New curricula
are being developed for general secondary education, with emphasis on local
environment, culture and socio-economic conditions of the country. Together
with the introduction of comprehensive programs at the senior level, this
will make the system more responsive to the needs of students unable to pro-
ceed to higher level of academic education and of employers who need adapta-
ble workers with ability to learn on the job. It is expected that the post-
ponement of early vocational choices, the provision of better general educa-
tion for all children and the new emphasis on technical and practical subjects
will help improve social mobility, modify unrealistic social attitudes and
expectations, and increase the educational efficiency of vocational and tech-
nical training.
Strategy for Implementation (Chart WB-6805)
3.12      The reform is expected to be implemented in three phases, 1968-72,
1973-77 and 1978-82. The first phase, now under implementation, is concen-
trating upon Junior Secondary Schools, Senior Comprehensive Schools and
Teacher Training. The second phase will extend the reform to Primary Schools,
Vocational and Agricultural Training and Technical Education. The third
phase will complete the reform of Primary and Technical Education.
3.13      The first Bank project is assisting in the implementation of the
first phase of the reform. Sixteen new Junior Secondary Schools will provide
about 50% of projected total expansion at that level during the period 1970-83
(Annex 7). Six Senior Secondary Schools will add about 30% of the new student
places required during the same period. The new Teacher Training College in
San Fernando will provide 440 student places, which represents 100% of the
estimated increase in capacity required by the expansion of the educational
sys tem (Annex 8).
3.14      The proposed second project is designed to help complete the imple-
mentation of the first phase and to extend the reform to agricultural and
technical education. In the field of general secondary education the project
would help maintain the momentum gained by the reform during the first phase
and would meet requirements for educational facilities in industrial and rural
areas of high population growth not served under the first project. The pro-
ject would also support - directly through the proposed Technical Institute
and the agricultural education items, and indirectly through the project second-
ary schools - the modernization and expansion of technical education and farmer
training, thus furthering the objectives of the second and third phase of the
reform.
Financial Implications (Annexes 9, 10 and 11)
3.15      Public expenditures on education have grown at the relatively high
average rate of about 10.5% p.a. (7.5% in real terms) between 1960 and 1970 -
faster than GDP (4.0% p.a.) and total public expenditure (5.8% p.a.). In



- 10 -
1970 recurrent expenditure on education absorbed about 17% of current reve-
nues, which is reasonable given the amount and composition of total enroll-
ments (Annex 7). Capital expenditures on education averaged about 11% of
total capital expenditures in recent years, reflecting the shifting of public
investment priorities brought about by the plans for educational reform.
Total public expenditure on education amounted to 3.6% of GDP in 1970, which
is relatively low, compared with the effort made by other countries at the
same stage of economic development.
3.16      The distribution of recurrent expenditures by levels of education
(Annex 10) reflects the structural imbalances of the educational system that
the reform tries to correct. In 1970, more than 52% of recurrent expenditure
on education was spent on primary education, about 21X on secondary general
education and only 3.3% and 0.4% on vocational and technical, and adult edu-
cation, respectively. Recurrent expenditure on university education (exclud-
ing fellowships) absorbed about 12% of total recurrent expenditure in 1970,
which is reasonable.
3.17      Capital requirements to implement the educational reform were
probably underestimated when preparing the Draft Educational Plan 1968-1983.
Unexpected increases in construction costs and the recent decision to expand
further the vocational education system to cater for 50% of the age group
14 plus are likely to increase substantially the financial requirements of
phase II and III of the reform. The Bank staff projection for the period
1971-1983 (Annex 11) indicates a need for more than US$100 million for capital
expenditure, to be distributed about evenly between the two phases. External
assistance (para. 3.19) is expected to cover about one-third of the capital
costs of phase II. The projected growth in public revenues (Annex 2) should
be sufficient to finance the balance and to meet the expected increase in re-
current educational expenditure from TT$ 67 million in 1971 to TT$ 161 million
in 1983.
3.18      By 1983, public expenditure on education is expected to reach about
TT$ 180 million or 5.5% of GDP, which should be feasible. Recurrent expendi-
tures are projected to increase to about 25% of current revenues, a reasonable
ratio. The projected distribution of recurrent expenditure by levels of educa-
tion (Annex 11) reflects the emphasis on reform and consolidation of general
education and on expansion of vocational and technical training: by 1983 primary
education is expected to absorb about one-third of recurrent expenditure while
general secondary education and technical training will absorb about 34% and
14%, respectively; the percentage of funds allocated to university education
is expected to remain approximately constant at the 1970 level.
External Aid
3.19      External assistance to the education sector has been provided by
several bilateral and multilateral agencies, mainly in form of technical as-
sistance. Five teacher trainers and specialists in curriculum development
were provided during 1969-1971 by the Canadian International Development
Agency (CIDA). The Organization of American States (OAS) is providing grants



- 11 -
($40,000 in 1971) to finance a crash program for retraining 150 secondary
teachers a year. UNDP has provided 5 specialists in primary teacher train-
ing methods and primary school curriculum for the Institute of Education at
the University of the West Indies. Fellowships abroad - mainly for univer-
sity students - are offered by the governments of Canada, USA and UK. In
1971, a preliminary agreement was reached with the Inter American Development
Bank (IDB) for two loans totalling $9.0 million, which will support the estab-
lishment of a Student Loan Fund and finance the construction of 6 vocational
training centers, 1 technical teacher training unit, 3 farm schools and ex-
tension to an existing vocational center. On the whole, external aid is ex-
pected to finance about one-third of the capital cost of phase II of the
educational reform. (para. 3.17).
IV. THE PROJECr
General
4.01      The proposed project would assist the government in achieving the
objectives of the education reform by (i) expanding the coverage of the reform
in general secondary education to urban and rural areas insufficiently provid-
ed with educational facilities, and ensuring an adequate foundation of pre-
vocational education for vocational and technical training; (ii) extending
the reform to technical education and informal training of adult farmers to
meet manpower requirements and the need to improve farming productivity
and standards of living in rural areas. The project would promote and ex-
pand the pattern of secondary education being financed under the Bank's first
education project, and would complement and reinforce the reform of vocational
and agricultural education, which is being supported by the Inter American
Development Bank (para 3.19).
4.02      The proposed project would include:  (a) construction and equipment
of the new institutions listed below; (b) three Farmer Training Mobile Units;
(c) 29 man-years of expert services and fellowships.



- 12 -
Annual            Teachers'
Type of                                  Student   Enroll-   Annual  Require-
Institution               Grades   No.    Places      ment      Output   ments
Junior Secondary Schools  6 - 8    6        5,280    10,560 /1  3,520    340
Combined Junior/Senior
Secondary Schools        6 -10    4       2,740     2,740      1,010 /2 102
Senior Comprehensive
Schools                  9 -12    3       3,600     3,600      1,800 /3 171
Teacher Training
College                 11 -12    1         440       440        200     22
Technical Institute       11 -13    1         840      1,690 /4    490      55
Farmer Training Center               1         30       960        960      3
/1   Double Shift.
/2   720 from junior cycle and 290 from the senior cycle (Form V).
/3   1,470 from Form 5 and 330 from Form 6.
/4   Including part-time courses.
Junior Secondary Schools
4.03      The project would provide facilities and equipment for six new
junior secondary schools located in areas of high population growth (see
Map 10006R). The schools would be of two different sizes - 960 and 720
student places - and would operate on two shifts of 6 periods per day each.
The project schools would provide about 21% of the projected increase of
student capacity between 1970 and 1983 (Annexes 7 and 12).
4.04      Until sufficient junior secondary schools are constructed to accom-
modate the entire output from the primary school system, as envisaged in the
Educational Plan, admission to the junior secondary schools would continue to
be determined by the applicant's performance in the National Common Entrance
Examination. The proposed project - together with the first one - will help
provide accommodation for 95% of primary school leavers by 1977. By then, an
examination procedure may be retained only for educational guidance, research
and standardization. The obsolete post-primary courses would be progressively
phased out between 1972 and 1977, thereby relieving the pressure on overcrowded
primary school facilities.
4.05      New improved curricula including practical subjects have been de-
veloped for the junior secondary level, and will be introduced in all new
schools (including those being built under the first project) as they receive
enrollments. All students will spend 17 periods per week in English, Spanish,
social studies, science and mathematics; agriculture will be studied two



- 13 -
periods each week; arts and crafts, industrial arts and home economics will
receive a total of five periods per week. Recently appointed supervisors
in social studies, science, mathematics and English are preparing materials
for teachers and will conduct intensive teacher training courses on the new
curricula in selected schools.
4.06      The increase in total enrollment following the progressive reduction
in selectivity of the Common Entrance Examination, the reform of curricula and
the introduction of the double shift system are likely to pose major problems
of adaptation in terms of teaching effectiveness and school administration.
The government has therefore provided assurances that a special section staffed
with personnel working full time on matters of teacher selection and training
will be established in the Ministry of Education before the end of 1973 and
that the expansion of the Division of Supervision, undertaken under the first
Bank project, will continue as required to permit a supervision visit in each
public secondary school at least once a year.
Senior Comprehensive Schools
4.07      The proposed senior comprehensive schools would provide about 26%
of the additional student places required by 1983, and would be located in
areas of actual or potential industrial growth, not served by institutions to
be built under the first project. (Maps 2246R2 and 10006R).
4.08      Admission to senior comprehensive schools is planned to be controlled
by an examination (referred to as "the 14 plus") to be administered at the end
of the junior cycle. The new examination should be developed before 1975, when
increased output from the junior secondary schools will make selection neces-
sary. The government has provided assurances that the preparation of the 14
plus exam will be completed by the end of 1974.
4.09      The proposed schools would offer in Form 4 and 5 a broad curricu-
lum incorporating pre-vocational training with academic options, the objec-
tive being to provide students with an adequate practical and theoretical
background for further training in industry or in higher technical education.
About 35% of the time would be allocated to practical options, including
technology, agriculture, commerce and home economics. On the completion of
the two-year course students would sit for the General Certificate of Educa-
tion, "O" level. Form 6 would continue to be highly selective, the emphasis
being on preparation for university studies; a common core of 2 subjects would
be taken by all students, with additional 3 subjects as electives either in
arts or in sciences.
Combined Junior/Senior Secondary Schools
4.10      The proposed four Combined Junior/Senior Secondary Schools are de-
signed for rural areas where the density of population would not justify
separate junior and senior schools. The schools would be of two sizes - 608



- 14 -
and 912 student places. Each school will consist of a junior section at
Forms 1 to 3 and a senior section at Forms 4 to 5. There would be no Form 6.
The schools would offer the same broad range of academic and practical sub-
jects as the new junior and senior schools.
Teacher Training College
4.11      The new Teacher Training College would replace four small, under-
equipped and under-staffed public teacher training colleges. The college
would produce about 110 junior secondary and 90 primary teachers annually.
Selection of trainees would be made on a nation-wide basis but neither boarding
facilities nor staff housing would be required because of available accommo-
dation in Port of Spain.
4.12      Courses would be of two year duration for both primary and Junior
secondary teachers, the first year being common to all students.  Training
for all types of junior secondary teachers would be offered including home
economics, industrial arts, general science and agriculture. Because of in-
adequate facilities, these practical courses cannot be provided by the insti-
tutions which would be replaced. The proposed timetable requires fifty per-
cent of the program to be spent in professional studies including practice
teaching, forty percent in general education and teaching fields, and the
balance in electives. New syllabi, prepared for the Bank financed Teacher
Training College in San Fernando with the help of specialists provided under
the Canadian External Aid Program, would be utilized in the proposed insti-
tution.
4.13      The outputs of the proposed College plus those of San Fernando and
Mausica Teacher Training Colleges would be about 550 after 1978, which would
meet projected needs for both pre-service and in-service training of primary
and junior secondary teachers through 1985. When the teaching force is fully
qualified by the mid 1980's and the growth of primary and junior secondary
enrollment levels off due to demographic trends (para 2.02), pre-service
courses for junior secondary teachers could be lengthened from two to thiree
years so as to improve further the quality of training.
Technical Institute
4.14      The proposed project includes the relocation and expansion of the
San Fernando Technical Institute and its development as an institution for
the training of higher technicians only. Enrollment of technicians would be
increased from the present 305 following part-time courses to a total of
approximately 1,700, divided about equally between full-time and part-time
students (Annex 13). Overall output would be about 490, which should fill
the gap between capacity output from the John Donaldson Technical Institute
(about 500 per year) and projected manpower requirements (para 2.18 and
Annex 5). Existing facilities, which were originally built for a secondary
technical school, and part of the equipment would be utilized for a senior
comprehensive school.



- 15 -
4.15      Candidates for admission to the courses would mostly be selected
from senior comprehensive school graduates with General Certificate of Edu-
cation (GCE), "o" level.  The government has provided an assurance that
entrance requirements 1/ for the proposed Institute would be the possession
of G.C.E. "0" level or an equivalent qualification, with passes in English,
Mathematics and one other subject - Physics in the case of technology courses.
Improved quality of intake would help reduce the failure rate.
4.16      Courses of either two or three year duration would be offered in
mechanical engineering, electrical engineering, electronics, drafting, build-
ing construction, clothing and textiles, foods and nutrition, laboratory tech-
nology, business management and secretarial work. The curriculum would be
based on 35 teaching hours per week for full-time courses and 12 hours per
week for part-time courses. For the technology courses, the third year would
be organized so as to give students a six months period of industrial training
before graduation (sandwich courses). Course content would be revised follow-
ing an analysis of technician occupations to be carried out by the National
Training Board (para 3.08). The results of this study would be incorporated
into new curricula to be developed by the Course Advisory Committee in coop-
eration with the National Examinations Council. The government has provided
an assurance that the new curricula would be developed and presented to the
Bank for comments within two years of the Loan Agreement signing and that a
comprehensive curriculum review would take place thereafter every three years
in accordance with sound technical educational practices.
4.17      As qualified technical teachers are in short supply and difficulties
have been experienced in the past in filling existing vacancies, the government
has provided assurances that it will take such action as may be required to
recruit and retain an adequate number of qualified technical teachers and that
appropriate adjustments in terms and conditions of service will be introduced
to compensate for the comparative lack of promotional opportunities in the
technical teaching profession. In order to improve overall planning and
programming of technical education and ensure appropriate coordination with
the National Training Board, the government has also provided an assurance
that the existing position of Director of Technical Education in the Ministry
of Education will be filled as soon as possible, but not later than 1973.
Farmer Training Center and Mobile Units
4.18      The project would include:
(i) a residential 30 place Farmer Training Center adjacent
to the Eastern Caribbean Institute of Agriculture and
Forestry (E.C.I.A.F.), which would train about 900 farm-
ers a year in 30 courses of one week duration and 60
extension officers in 6 courses of two week duration,
and,
1/   Current entry requirements are:  (i) G.C.E., "0" level in English and
one other subject, or (ii) passing of an entrance examination, or
(iii) possession of a National Craftsman's Certificate.



- 16 -
(ii)  three Farmer Training Mobile Units with portable equipment
and audio-visual aids, which would carry out demonstrations
on selected farms in cooperation with rural associations
such as "4H" clubs, nutrition units and cooperatives.
4.19      These two items are complementary, the commonI objective being to
upgrade the level of skills of adult farmers, promote the introduction of
better technologies in small farms and support the government policy of agri-
cultural diversification and rural development. Both residential courses
and demonstrations through mobile units would be production-oriented, the
emphasis being on topics such as land preparation, plant protection and pre-
paration, vegetable growing and marketing, animal husbandry, poultry and farm
management. Practical work would represent 70% of the time-schedule. Short
courses are also envisaged for farmers' wives in gardening, poultry produc-
tion, and selection, marketing and simple processing of farm products.
4.20      The Farmer Training Center would be under the responsibility of the
Director of E.C.I.A.F., with a Coordinator in charge of the selection of
trainees and part-time teachers, programming of activities and liaison with
the Ministry of Agriculture. The teaching staff would consist of two full-
time teachers recruited from the Extension Service. The government has
provided assurances that trainees and teachers from the Farmer Training Center
would be allowed to make adequate use of the E.C.I.A.F. farm and equipment.
Three six-month fellowships abroad to train the Coordinator of the Center and
the two teachers in new extension methods and techniques, use of small farming
machinery and audio-visual aids are included within the project, but are
expected to be financed by bilateral sources (para 4.22 and Appendix 2).
4.21      Each Farmer Training Mobile Unit would consist of an agricultural
workshop van with portable equipment for practical demonstrations and a micro-
bus equipped with audio-visual aids and a power generating set. Each, unit
would require a driver-operator, an instructor and an extension tecnnician,
all provided by the Extension Division in the Ministry of Agriculture. One
unit would serve Tobago, one the four counties of Southern Trinidad and the
third one the northern areas. On the basis of this program and taking into
account the response of farmers to similar experiments in the past, it is
estimated that the total number of farmers attending demonstrations would be
about 18,000 a year. The development of an acceptable extension program for
the Mobile Units and satisfactory arrangements for their staffing and main-
tenance would be a condition of disbursement for this project item.
Technical Assistance
4.22      A program of technical assistance (18 man-years of expert services
and 11 man-years of fellowship) is proposed to:



- 17 -
(i) support the operation of the National Training Board
through the provision of experts not readily available
in the country in training management, manpower planning
and job analysis;
(ii) ensure that the proposed San Fernando Technical Institute
is well established and organized, and the quality of
instruction upgraded; and
(iii)  help in training staff of the Farmer Training Center.
The phasing of the proposed program is summarized in Appendix 2. During loan
negotiations, a CIDA representative informed the government and the Bank that
CIDA would be willing to finance 5 man years of specialist services and 3-1/2
man years of fellowships (Appendix 2).  The cost of the proposed program to
be financed by the Bank was therefore reduced accordingly.
Cost of the Project
4.23      The estimated construction costs for the proposed project have been
derived from recent school building costs in Trinidad and from experience with
the first project. Costs of construction reflect the requirements of the new
curricula and the introduction and use of modern education technology. Space
requirements are based on detailed schedules of accommodation for each insti-
tution. Use factors for project schools would be economical (Annex 12).
4.24      The estimated ccsts and foreign exchange component of the items in
the proposed project are summarized below. 1/
1/   Estimated costs by type of expenditure are presented in Annex 14.



- 18 -
Construction, Furniture       TT$ (Millions)         USA (Millions)      % of Base
and Equipment         Local Foreign Total  Local roreign Total  Line Costs
1. Junior Secondary
Schools               5.11   3.46   8.57   2.76   1.87   4.63          31%
2. Combined Junior/Senior
Secondary Schools    2.68   1.90   4.58   1.45   1.03   2.48           17%
3. Senior Comprehensive
Schools               3.81   2.76   6.57   2.06   1.49   3.55          24%
4. Teacher Training
College               0.47   0.43   0.90   0.26   0.23   0.49           3%
5.  Technical Institute    1.61   1.63   3.24   0.87   0.88   1.75            12%
6. Farmer Training
Center                0.13   0.11   0.24   0.07   0.06   0.13           1%
7. Farmer Training
Mobile Units          0.03   0.11   0.14   0.01   0.06   0.07           -
Sub-Total            13.84  10.40  24.24   7.48   5.62  13.10          88%
Services
1. Professional
Services              1.16   0.77   1.93   0.62   0.42   1.04           7%
2.  Technical Assistance   0.25   1.05   1.30   0.13   0.57   0.70 /1    5%
Base Line Costs      15.25  12.22  27.47   8.23   6.61  14.84         100%
Contingencies
1.  Physical                 2.04   1.35   3.39   1.10   0.73   1.83         12%
2.  Price Increase           1.84   0.93   2.77   1.00   0.50   1.50          10%
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS         19.13  14.50  33.63  10.33   7.84  18.17
Interest During Con-
struction              -      2.88   2.88    -       1.56   1.56
TOTAL                19.13  17.38  36.51  10.33   9.40  19.73 /1
proposed Bank loan    9.30
/1   Includes technical assistance to be provided by CIDA (US$0.20 million,
of which US$0.16 represents the estimated foreign exchange component).
This accounts for the difference between the total foreign exchange cost
of the project and the proposed Bank loan.



- 19 -
4.25      lhle project cost includes a contingency allowance for unforeseen
physical additions equal to 15% of the estimated construction cost and 10%
of furniture and equipment costs. The allowance for construction is slight-
ly higher than usual due to site development problems caused by difficult
soil conditions. Total contingencies would represent 22% of the base line
costs, 12% for unforeseen physical additions and 10% for price increases, or
18% of the total costs including contingencies (Annex 15).
4.26      The foreign exchange component has been calculated on the basis of
(i) 33% for site development and buildings, (ii) 50% for furniture, (iii) 95%
for equipment, (iv) 40% for professional services, (v) 75% for specialists,
(vi) 100% for fellowships, and (vii) 100% for interest during construction.
The estimated foreign exchiange component totals US$9.30 million equivalent,
or about 47%/ of total project cost of US$19.73.
4.27      Unit capital costs per place, US$878 for Junior Secondary Schools,
US$905 for Combined Junior/Senior Secondary Schools, US$986 for Senior Com-
prehensive Schools, US$1,108 for the Teacher Training College, US$2,096 for
the Technical Institute and US$2,963 for the Farmer Training Center, compare
favorablv with similar Bank/IDA financed institutions (Annex 16).
4.28      At full capacity, the project institutions would require about
TT$ 9 million a year in operating costs, corresponding to about 6% of pro-
jected recurrent expenditure on education by 1983. The Government attaches
high priority to the proposed project, and should be able to meet these
expenditures, as well as its share of the capital costs.
V.  IHPLEIENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT
5.01      The project would be implemented over a period of six years after
signing the Loan Agreement. An additional six months would be required for
completion of payments and withdrawals. Construction works would be phased
over a period of about 4-1/2 years comprising four phases (Annex 17). Phase
I would include the construction of the Teacher Training College, the Farmer
Training Center and two Junior Secondary Schools. The Technical Institute
and three additional Junior Secondary Schools would be built during Phase II.
The three Senior Comprehensive Schools and the remaining junior/Senior Secondary
Schools would be completed in Phase III and IV, respectively. Project con-
struction work per year would correspond to about 7-12% of the value of ex-
pected annual building activity in the country.
Administration
5.02      The Project Unit establislhed within the Ministry of Works for the
implementation of the First Education Project would also be responsible for
the financial and administrative control of the second project. Its responsi-
bilities would remain the same, namely: (i) supervision of project implementa-
tion; (ii) coordination with the Mlinistries involved in the project, particu-
larly the Ministries of Agriculture, Education and Works; and (iii) liaison



- 20 -
with the Bank. Due to new responsibilities assigned to the Project Unit in
relation to other projects 1/, additional supporting staff would be required.
During negotiations the government presented an organizational chart acceptable
by the Bank describing the positions within the expanded Unit and duties and
responsibilities of each officer with regard to the various projects supervised
by the Unit. Agreement was reached with the government that a condition of
effectiveness of the loan agreement would be the appointment for the Project
Unit of an engineering assistant, a structural engineer, an administrative
officer and three draftsmen. In addition, the government provided an assur-
ance that additional supporting staff for the Unit (including at least three
clerical officers and one accounting assistant) would be appointed within
six months after the date of the Loan Agreement. The government also provided
an assurance that any new appointment to the positions of Project Unit Director,
Architect, Accountant and Procurement Officer, as may be required during project
implementation, would be acceptable to the Bank.
Professional Services
5.03      The project institutions would be designed by consultant architects
agreeable to the Bank and commissioned on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank. A sufficient supply of qualified architects is available in
Trinidad and Tobago. Resident clerks of works, provided without cost to the
project by the Ministry of Works, would assist in the supervision of construc-
tion.
Sites
5.04      Of the 16 sites required for the project institutions, 11 have al-
ready been selected. Two of the selected sites will require a feasibility
study by the consultants regarding suitability for construction. During nego-
tiations, the government provided assurances that all required sites,
agreeable to the Bank, would be legally acquired prior to the scheduled start
of construction. All land required for the project would be provided without
cost to the project. No difficulty is anticipated in acquiring the required
sites.
Procurement
5.05      Construction, furniture and equipment contracts would be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement. Items would be grouped to the extent
practicable to form sizable packages to permit bulk procurement. Detailed
master lists of furniture and instructional equipment would be submitted
for Bank review prior to procurement. It is expected that all equipment
and about 30% of the furniture will be procured from foreign sources. It
is unlikely that foreign firms will submit bids for civil works, since
Trinidad has a well developed and competitive construction industry.
1/   IBRD Population Project Loan No. 743-TR and the Inter-American Develop-
ment Bank Projects mentioned above (para. 3.19).



- 21 -
5.06      Agreements regarding preferential treatment with respect to import
duties are not applicable, since furniture and equipment for education pur-
poses are exempt from import duties. During negotiations, reconfirmation of
such exemptions was obtained from the government.
Disbursement
5.07      Disbursement (Annex 18) would be on the basis of (i) 100% of the
c.i.f. cost of imported equipment; (ii) 100% of the c.i.f. cost or ex-factory
price of furniture; (iii) 34% of the cost of civil works and professional
services; and (iv) 81% of total expenditures for specialists' services and
fellowships. The percentages for civil works, professional fees and tech-
nical assistance would be adjusted as necessary to distribute disbursements
over the implementation period. Undisbursed funds would be available for
cancellation.
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(i) a special section staffed with personnel working full time
on matters of teacher selection and training will be
established in the Ministry of Education before the end
of 1973 (para 4.06);
(ii)  the expansion of the staff of the Division of Supervision,
undertaken under the first Bank project, will continue as
required to permit a supervision visit in each public
secondary school at least once a year (para 4.06);
(iii)  the position of Director of Technical Education in the
Ministry of Education will be filled as soon as possible,
but not later than 1973 (para 4.17);
(iv) new curricula for the San Fernando Technical Institute
will be developed and presented to the Bank for comments
within two years of the Loan Agreement signing, and a com-
prehensive curriculum review will take place thereafter
every three years (para 4.16);
(v) action will be taken to recruit and retain an adequate
number of qualified technical teachers and appropriate
adjustments in terms and condition of service will be
introduced to compensate technical teachers for the
comparative lack of promotional opportunities (para 4.17);



- 22 -
6.02      A condition of effectiveness of the Loan Agreement would be the ap-
pointment of adequate supporting staff for the Project Unit (para 5.02).
6.03      A condition of disbursement would be the development of an acceptable
extension program for the Farmer Training Mobile Units and satisfactory arrange-
ments for their staffing and maintenance (para 4.21).
6.04      The project is suitable as a basis for a Bank loan of US$9.3 million
to Trinidad and Tobago for a term of 22 years, including a grace period of
7 years.



APPENDIX 1
Page 1
THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM AND ITS REFORM
1.   General  (Chart WB-6801)
1.0       The education and training system in Trinidad and Tobago is still
largely patterned after the traditional British system (Chart WB-6802). Edu-
cation is free and compulsory between the ages of 6 and 12. The education sys-
tem consists of (i) a five-year primary course normally beginning at the age of
seven (standards 1-5); (ii) a secondary course comprising a five-year cycle
(forms 1 - 5) leading to the Cambridge General Certificate of Education, "O"
level, followed by a two-year cycle (form 6) leading to the Cambridge General
Certificate of Education, "A" level;  (iii) third level courses of three to
seven years duration at the University of the West Indies. Post-prtmary
courses (standards 6 and 7) and Intermediate courses (forms 1 - 5) are pro-
vided for those who fail to qualify for general secondary education. Craft
training of 2 - 3 year duration follows the completion of post-primary courses.
Technician training and primary teacher training courses are also offered,
upon the completion of general secondary education, first cycle. Education is
mainly public at the primary level (96% of enrollments in government or gov-
ernment assisted schools). Private education is still important (about 30%
of enrollment) at the secondary level. Third level education is entirely
public.
2.   Administration  (Chart WB-6804)
2.0       The Ministry of Education and Culture is responsible for the overall
planning and development of primary and secondary schools, for their staffing, 1/
for programs of studies, examinations and supervision. The Ministry of Tobago
Affairs is responsible for school administration in Tobago. Agricultural train-
ing below the university level is largely the responsibility of the Ministry
of Agriculture. The Office of the Prime Minister handles the relationships
with the University of the West Indies, and is responsible for fellowship pro-
grams and for informal education schemes (Community Development Program).
2.1       Administration within the Ministry of Education is highly centralized
(Chart WB-6804). The Permanent Secretary is the chief administrative officer
and is assisted by a Chief Education officer, under whom are three Directors
of Division responsible for Planning and Development, School Supervision and
Central Services, respectively. Educational planning is related to overall
1/   Financial control and authorization of the filling of vacancies lie with
the Ministry of Finance. The Prime Minister's Office is responsible for
the classification of posta and for negotiations with recognized associa-
tions of teachers.



APPENDIX 1
Page 2
socio-economic planning, and it is functioning properly. The personnel for
supervision of secondary education is highly qualified, but it is still in-
sufficient in view of the projected expansion in enrollments. The position
of Director of Technical Education is still vacant.
2,2       The Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Tobago Affairs ad-
minister directly and supervise the government schools. Assisted private
schools are owned and managed by voluntary agencies, in most cases denomina-
tional groups. Their autonomy is however limited by their financial dependence
on the government for recurrent and most of capital expenditures, and by statu-
tory provisions about students' admission and teachers' appointment. The re-
maining private schools are neither financed not supervised by the government.
3.   Primary Education
3.0       Primary education consists of five years of primary school, leading
to the Common Entrance Examination (CEE), which qualifies for secondary educa-
tion. Two years of post-primary education leading to the Primary School
Leaving Certificate (PSLC) are provided for those who fail to pass the CEE.
The Primary School Leaving Certificate is a prerequisite for admission to
vocational schools.
3.1       Total enrollment in primary schools was about 140,000 or 96% of the
age group in 1969/70. About 96% were enrolled in public schools. Enrollment
in post-primary classes was about 33,000. Enrollment is equally distributed
between boys and girls in both rural and urban areas. Up to standard 5 pro-
motion to the next grade is largely automatic, and very few students drop out.
Accelerated promotion is common, in order to increase children's chances of
passinig the CEE. Together with repetition, this accounts for inflated enroll-
menc in Standard 5 (Chart WB-6501).
3.2       Curricula and syllabi are being revised to improve their relevance
for local environnent anzd culture. However, instruction is distorted by the
selectivity of the CLE, which results in undue emphasis on rote learning.
School facilities are often old and inadequate, with overcrowded classes.  The
number of teachers in public primary schools was about 5,500 in 1970, and of
these 45% were considered unqualified. Untrained teachers are now being as-
signed for a twc-  -Ar full time course in teacher training colleges, about
250 completing training each vear. (Para. 7.0.)
3.3       Post-primary education (standards 6 and 7) is in fact a mere con-
tinuation of primarv schooling in the same buildings, with the same teachers
and with a curriculum which is b6.sically a repetition of what was taught in
earlier grades.  Post-primary schools are ill-equipped, overcrowded and under
staffed. In these circumstances, pupils receive only limited benefits from
the program, which in turn reduces substantially the educational efficiency
of vocational schools.



APPENDIX 1
Page 3
3.4       Because the secondary school system is under-sized in proportion to
the primary school system, the Common Entrance Examination constitutes the
most severe screening within the educational system. In 1969/70 only 16% of
Standard 5 enrollment was admitted to Form 1, 59% continued to Standard 6 and
7 and the balance either repeated Standard 5 or enrolled in intermediate or
private secondary schools. The existing system forces 11 year old children to
make vocational choices two years before vocational training is actually im-
parted, which represents a source of social discrimination and of potential
misallocation of human resources.
4.   General Secondary Education
4.0       General secondary education is provided in 44 government or govern-
ment-aided schools and 79 private schools. Total enrollment in 1969/70 was
about 45,000 (26% of the age group 12-18), including 3,500 enrolled in Inter-
mediate Schools. About 68% of students were enrolled in public schools.
4.1       Intermediate schools were developed in recent years as extension to
primary schools, to provide some form of secondary education for a small num-
ber of students who cannot gain places in secondary schools. They offer a
five-year secondary course following grade six. Intermediate schools are ex-
pected to be phased out over the next five years.
4.2       For most pupils, secondary general education consists of academic
studies in Forms 1 through 5, leading to the Cambridge General Certificate of
Education (GCE) examination at "0" level. Enrollment in these forms in public
schools was about 30,000 in 1969/70. The curriculum consists of a group of
ten required courses and one or two elective, mainly in arts subject.
4.3       Admission to Form 6, a two-year program in preparation for the GCE
examination at "A" level and for admission to university, is highly selective
and is based upon performance in the GCE examination at "0" level and the re-
commendation of the school principal. In 1969/70 total enrollment in Form 6
was about 1,600, and the crude progression rate from Form 5 was about 15%.
4.4       In 1970, about 52% of the 1,293 secondary teachers in public schools
were university graduates, two third of them being without any pedagogical
training. Of the remaining 48%, 241 were trained for primary schools and 350
were secondary school graduates ("0" level in five subjects) without any spe-
cial training. The overall student/teacher ratio was about 21:1.
4.5       Because of the limited capacity of the public secondary school system,
private secondary schools, operated for financial profit, have increased in
number in recent years. In 1969/70 about 14,000 students were enrolled in 79
registered schools. Private secondary schools are generally too poorly housed
and equipped, and too inadequately staffed to provide acceptable standards of
education.



APPENDIX 1
Page 4
4.6       General secondary education in Trinidad and Tobago is mainly geared
to the needs of the small minority of students (about 10% of intake in 1969/70),
who continue to university education. Its academic bias and dependence upon
foreign models severely limit the relevance of curricula for the majority of
school graduates, who either enter the labor market or continue to technical
education upon completion of secondary studies.
5.   Vocational and Technical Education
5.0       Vocational and technical education is carried out in three institu-
tions under the control of the Ministry of Education, at Youth Camps and Trade
Centers of the Community Development Division of the Prime Minister's Office
and through in-plant training in industry, either by formal apprenticeship under
the Board of Industrial Training or informally outside the official schemes.
Commercial courses are provided in private schools. Total enrollment in
1969/70 was about 6,000.
5.1       Craft courses are offered at the John Donaldson Technical Institute,
the San Fernando Technical Institute and the Point Fortin Vocational Training
Center. Courses are of 2-3 year duration and are offered on a full time basis
(25-30 hours per week) or on a part time basis (9-12 hours per week). Entry
requirement is the Primary School Leaving Certificate. Total enrollment in
1969/70 was about 2,50U, one sixth being represented by apprentices registered
with the Board of Industrial Training. Very high repetition and dropout rates
(40% and 10Z respectively in recent years) account for the consistently low
output, which averaged about 200-220 certificated craftsmen a year in the re-
cent past.  The relevance of curricula in terms of the functional contents of
occupations in Trinidad and Tobago is criticized by industrialists.  No system
exists for periodic re-alignment of course contents with industrial needs.
5.2       Technician coursps are provided at the two Technical Institutes,
Courses are of tlhree vears duration for the technology subjects and two years
for Business Managemnet, Draftsmanship and Home Economics, and are offered
full time or part time. Entry requirements are (i) GCE "0" level in English
and one other subject, or (J) passing of an entrance examination, or (iii)
possession of a National Craftsman's Certificate. Total enrollment was about
900 in 1969/70. Repetition and drop out rates are about the same as for craft
courses. Output of cer:ificated technicians averages between 50 and 60 per
year, at least two t.irds uf these being products of the full time courses.
The main reason for the extremely low level of educational efficiency are:
(a) difficulty in filling existing vacancies for qualified technical teachers;
(b) academic 4nadequacy cf students who enter with only the minimum entry
qualification and (c) concentration on part time courses where the wastage
rate is always high. No!u curricula for the technician courses were recently
developed by Advisory Committees composed of representatives from industry
and from government technical departments. Graduates experience no difficulty
in finding jobs; in fact, even those who fail the final examination or who drop
out often find work as technicians. No placement service or tracer system is
available in the Technical Institutes.



APPENDIX 1
Page 5
5.3       Following a Unesco recommendation, the Government established in 1965
a "National Examination Council for Vocational and Technical Education". This
body is authorized to conduct examinations and award the National Technician's
Certificate and the National Craftsman's Certificate. Consideration is being
given to associating the work of the Council to the City and Guilds of London
Institute.
5.4       In an attempt to make provision for the problem of the unemployed
and underemployed, several programs have been set up in the field of informal
vocational education since 1966. Four residential Youth Camps with total ac-
commodation for about 720 are in operation and one is being constructed; craft
courses of 2 year duration are offered in motor mechanics, welding, plumbing,
carpentry and electrical installation, leading to the Assistant Craftsman's
Certificate. Of the four planned Trade Centers, only one got into operation,
and trains about 25 welders in one year course. Ten non-residential Youth
Centers have been established, offering part time training in a variety of
simple crafts. All centers - with the exception of the Trade Center at Point
Fortin, which is financed by Shell Trinidad - are badly underequipped and un-
derstaffed.
5.5       A survey carried out in 1971 by the Ministry of Planning and Develop-
ment showed that about 90 firms were offering in-plant training to about 3,400
employees. The duration of courses varied from several days to 3 years and
ranged from management training to semi-skilled operators' training.
5.6       As a result of a study made by a Cabinet Tripartite Committee in
1969, a National Training Board has been set up, composed of 22 members drawn
from the public sector, trade unions, associations of employers and profession-
al societies. The purpose of the Board is to advise the government on matters
related to technical and vocational education and to coordinate and standardize
craft training carried out in institutions and industrial enterprises. The
Board held its inaugural meeting in February 1972.
6.   Agricultural Education
6.0       Agricultural education and training in Trinidad is provided at the
Faculty of Agriculture, University of the West Indies, at the Eastern Caribbean
Institute of Agriculture and Forestry (ECIAF) and in connection with the settle-
ment program under the Crown Lands Development Project. Extension work is un-
dertaken by the Crop and Livestock Extension Division of the Ministry of Agri-
culture, most extension officers being technicians graduated from ECIAF. No
facilities are available and no systematic arrangements have been made so far
for the training of adult farmers.
6.1       The Crown Lands Development Project - partially financed by the Bank
(Loan 486-TR) - consists of settling selected unemployed laborers on government
lands known as "Crown Lands" and providing them with the necessary infrastruc-
tures and capital to start farming operations. Before farmers are settled,
they receive basic agricultural training and are thereafter given technical
supervision. To date a total of about 1,000 families have been settled.



APPENDIX 1
Page 6
6.2       The Eastern Caribbean Farm Institute of Agriculture and Forestry
(ECIAF) offers two-year full time courses at the technician level. Require-
ment for admissior, is the possession of the General Certificate of Education
at "O" level in at least 5 subjects. The Institute can accommodate a maximum
of 128 students, 100 in agriculture and 28 in forestry. Output in recent years
averaged about 45, most graduates being employed by the Ministry of Agriculture.
Curriculum is presently being revised with a view to making it more production-
oriented and less academically biased.
6.3       Agricultural educationi at university level is dealt with in para. 8.0.
7.   Teacher Training
7.0       Primary teaciher training is offered in a two-year course following
the completion of secondary education (GCE at "0" level in at least 5 subjects).
Students are selected for in-service training courses at four of the five
colleges from the group of untrained primary school teachers (para. 3.2). The
fifth school - Mausica Teacher Training College - offers pre-service courses.
Total enrollment in 1969/70 was about 700, yielding an annual output of 350.
Output will be increased by 220 after the completion of the new Teacher Train-
ing College, which is beiing built unider the first IBRD loan. All colleges
utilize a new syllabus published in 1970, which requires 50 percent of class
time to be spent in professional studies including practice teaching, 40 per-
cent in general education anmd teaching fields, and the balance in elective
subjects. With the exception of Mausica College, all existing colleges have
inadequate facilities for training teachers in industrial arts, agriculture,
home economics, arts and crafts and general science.
7.1       No institution for training secondary school teachers is in operation
in Trinidad at present. A crasli prugram for retraining secondary teachers has
been financed by the Urs...zization of American States, in cooperation with the
Inistitute of Educarion of the University of the West Indies. Nearly 300 teach-
ers were retrained in 1969/70 and 1970/71, and the program has been extended
to 1974. Plans of thie establishmuntr of a Faculty of Education at the U.W.I.,
St. Augustine. are well advanced.
7.2       At th.- moment, technical anid vocational teachers are trained abroad.
A Technical Teacher Tr.: iring UVit is being established at the John Donaldson
Technical Institute, under atn Inter American Development Bank loan. Trainees
will have either graduate or other equivalent qualifications and will be given
a one-year course of pedagogical training.
8.   Higher Education
8.0       Higher education is carried on by the University of the West Indies,
St. Augustine, which operates within the framework of a regional university
serving several countries of the Caribbean area. Three-year degree programs in
agriculture, arts, engineering, natural sciences and social sciences are offered.



APPENDIX 1
Page 7
An Institute of Educatior. has been functioning at the university since 1963,
studying primary teacher training methods and primary school curriculum. In
1970/71, total enrollment in the University of the West Indies was about 5,500,
roughly one fourth of students being from Trinidad and Tobago. The ratio of
arts (Arts, Social Sciences, Education, Law) to science (Natural Sciences,
Medicine, Agriculture, Eng4ineering) was 1:0.94. Output of agricultural grad-
uates was 45 and the output of graduate engineers about 90, 40% being
Trinidadian citizens.
9.   Educational Reform
9.0       Following a UNESCO Educational Planning Mission in 1964 and the
establishment of an Educational Planning UTnit in the Ministry of Education,
an "Outline of a Plan for Educational Development in Trinidad and Tobago
1967-1983" was prepared and submitted to the Government in 1967. The plan
represents an ambitious attempt to change the traditional educational struc-
ture of the country, improve the relevance and efficiency of the education
system and provide a better distribution of educational opportunities.
9.1       The refom is expected to be implemented in three phases, 1968-72,
1973-77 and 1978-83. The following "strategy of emphasis" was envisaged in
the Plan:
1968-72: Junior Secondary Schools, Senior Comprehensive Schools,
Teacher Training, Central Services and Administration;
1973-77: Primary Schools, Senior Comprehensive Schools, Vocational
Education, Library Services and Educational Broadcasting;
1978-83: Primary Schools, Technical Institutes.
A first IBRD project (Loan 564-TR, 1968), consisting of 16 junior
secondary schools, 6 senior comprehensive schools and 1 teacher training
college, is helping to finance the first phase of the reform.
9.2       A major aspect of the reform will be the introduction of junior
secondary education for all children in the age group 12-14. This will pro-
vide a fully integrated system of general education from age 5 upward and
will postpone vocational choices to age 14 plus, when identification of in-
terests, aptitudes and abilities is more feasible and less socially discrim-
inating. New common curricula with emphasis on local environment and culture
have been developed. Recently appointed supervisors in social studies, science,
mathematics and English are preparing materials for teachers and will conduct
intensive teacher training courses on the new curricula in selected schools.
All students will spend 17 periods per week in English, Spanish, social studies,
science and mathematics. Agriculture will be studies two periods each week by
all students, boys and girls. Arts and crafts, industrial arts and home eco-
nomics will be taught five periods per week, in each grade.



APPENDIX 1
Page 8
9.3       Senior comprehensive schools will incorporate pre-vocational training
with academic courses in a broad curriculum better adapted to the needs of those
who seek employment after completion of secondary education and more suitable
as a background for further technical education. Specialized options in tech-
nology (including construction, mechanics and technical drawing), agriculture,
commercial subjects and home economics will be offered in Form 4 and 5; Form 6
will continue to provide academic programs in preparation for university
studies. Each new Senior Secondary School will be located so as to accommodate
students from three Junior Secondary Schools. The planned distribution of new
schools aims at correcting the present concentration of secondary schools in
or near the two main towns of Port of Spain and San Fernando. Ten new senior
comprehensive schools are expected to be built before 1976, and 26 existing
secondary schools will be converted.
9.4       Six new vocational training centers and three farm schools are to be
built under a loan agreement with the Inter-American Development Bank. The
government plans to construct an additional seven vocational training centers.
A total of about 6,000 additional training places will be provided, with an
enrollment of about 19,000 divided between full time and part time courses
and output of about 7,000 annually. The centers will offer courses of 2-3
year duration leading to the National Craftman's Certificate, course of 6-18
months duration leading to the Assistant Craftsman's Certificate, apprenticeship
courses (3-4 years) supplementary to on-the-job training, and accelerated
training and retraining courses of varied duration for adult workers.
9.5       The two Technical Institutes will be upgraded into institutions for
the training of higher technicians only. The relocation and expansion of the
Technical Institute in San Fernando is included in the proposed Bank project.
Both Institutes will offer courses in electrical and mechanical engineering,
laboratory technolugy, and business management. Course contents will be re-
vised as a result of an atualysis of technician occupations to be carried out
by the National Training Board. Total enrollment in the two institutions
will be around 3,500, yieldino an annual output of about 1,000 technicians.



APPENDIX 2
5ihedule of Technical Assistance
Total
Man
Experts                    Months  1973 1974 1975 1976 1977 1978
1.  Expert in Traianing                                                   )
Management 1                   24      12  12                       )
2.  Expert in Manpower                                                    ) National
Analysis   1/                  12      12                           ) Training
3.  Expert in Job Analysis                                                )  Board
Standards and Trade                                                 )
Testing    1/                  24     12  12                        )
4.  Expert BEuipment Procure-
ment and Coordinator           45           9    12   12  12         )
(Mechanical Engineer)                                               )
5.  Expert in Electrical                                                  ) San Fernando
Engineering                    33                      9  12   12  )  Technical
6.  Expert in Electronics            24                      6  12    6  )   Institute2/
7.  Expert in Building                                                    )
Construction                   33                      9  12   12  )
8.  Expert in Basic Eng.                                                  )
Science                        24                      6  12    6  )
Sub-Total Experts              219
Fellowships
1.  Training Management _/                                                )
(2 x 6)                        12       6    6                      ) National Training
2.  Manpower (I x 6)    1/            6      6                            )  Board
3.  Job Analysis (1 x 6) 1/           6           6                       )
4.  Mechanical Eng. (2 x 12)         24                 6    12  6       )
5.  Electrical Eng. (2 x 12)         24                 6    12  6       )
6.  Electronics (1 x 12)             12                         12       )  San Fernando
7.  Building    (1 x 12)             12                 6     6          )    Technical
8.  Basic Eng. Science (1 x 12)    12                   6     6          )    Institute
9.  Coordinator 1/                    6      6                            )
10.  Farm Machinery Specialist 1/    6        6                            )  Farmer Training
11.  Communication Specialist 1/    6         6                            )   Center
Sub-Total  Fellowships    126
1/ To be financed by CIDA.
2/ Design of buildings to commence in March 1974 with classes to begin in September
1976.






0000-000000 0'0. 000<0-0<000
"000..o   00-o                  ooo  00      o-.o     oo.o.       0.
'.000.0     0.0.    ....o.o       0-0.00000                     '00   - 00oo000000000.-....o
00 0000                  0gg. 0000000000000-0000000000.000- 0000.0.
0000   000000    0               00.0-0000   0
   -
2.3c80-                     0000.000
0000                                    ..'                                                              00o00-00000000.. . 00000000000
00    t>?½0-?0s"yt-yr0 0.  000-00000>0000  0000000-0000000000000000000-
2                                                            0        00  00.0000000000.
0-0.000.000.000.o   00000000  000-  000-00o0.00 0-   000000-000-00-0-00Z0fl 00 000000000    0-0.0000  0.000000000-00-
000     00000000000 00-0.000000-.- 0>   0.0000   0                      00000-00000000000-0-00   00              0.00             000
0000   00000.00000.0        000      00-00.00 oO   0.00000.000   0000. OOo0-0000000 00   000                     000        0..   00
0  00    0.00000            ,.  0    000   0.  00  0.0    0040           0       00         0    000   00                  0.         0.
0'o.000               0  00         0                 0                     0        00000      0        0          0
00                         00000000000000000000..00000000000-000000       000000-000-    0-0000000-000-0000000-0-000-0-0000000000    000000   00000000000000000000        0
000000000000000000000000    0000-.00.. 0.000   0-000000000000   0'   0000000000000000000000000'.00       000000    0-0000-000000000
00     000-0.00  o-0-0 00-0000000000000-000000       0000>000000    000-0000000.000.000000 00000000000.00000000    000-..   00> 00000000000000    0.
000.  000000             00o>00 00-0-000000000-0.   0000000000000    00>0-00000000    000000000000 000000000-.0000000 0-0000000>0-00    0-0-00 0-0000-0000
00       0          00           0                 0-0-0      0  00  0-     00000000000-
0 0. 0. 0  0.                                                                                                                0. 0 000.00000    0000000000000000 00 00
0000   0                    00      0000000 0-0-0-0000000.00    00000000000000    00000000000000000000.0-000000' o000- 0-000000000000    0000000
000000000-                                                                                                                                                                  0-
00000                                                                                     00
00     00000000000-00000000-00000    0-0-00000-0-    000-000000-0-    0-0  000000  000000000000000000.0-000000    000000    00000000000000000000
00  '.0-      000000      00      0000000000-00000000000-000-    00000000-00    0000000000..0    000-000000..000000>0000000>>000000000>-    000000    00-00000000000-0000    0
0000   000.  00     0000       0000               00  00      0000000000.                   0  00                    00  00  00
0       0000000000000000000000000000    0000000000>0000000.0000000000>>0000>000000000000000000000000000-00>000000    00
00      00000000000000000..0-..o00    0000000-000000000-00000-000-    0-00000-00000000-000000000-00000000.>0-00    000000    000-0-00000-0-00>  0
0.       000-0       00                                00  00
00     00 00>0.00-00>000000000000    00000.0000000    0.0000>  000   00           0.   0. 0      00  00          00 00 00   000000000 00 00 000- 00
0  0-000-     00       0000000000000000000000000-0000.. 0-0-000000    00000-000-000000-00>000000000-0000000-000-000000000-00    00>..   000-00000-0-000000    00
000     00  0000    0000       000                    00          00  0.  00   0                00        00           00      00>
0s0
0-     00 00 00  '00 0.     000.0000000              000000            00  0.       00.            0000000000 00.0000. 00 00 0' 0-
0000000-0 0000000000000-00    00000000000000    000-..0000000000000000-0000o 000-000-0-0-000-00000-0-000    000000    0 000.0. 00000-00 00  00
>0        0000             00>  00          00  00  000                            00        00  00       00
0-      00000000000000000000000000000000000000 .00000000000  00   000000000000000000000000000.000000000000000000000    0000000000000000    00000  0. 0
.00    00 0- 00 00 00 00 0- 0- 0- 00 0- 0-000    0000-00000.  0000 00 0- . 0-   0000000-0000-0 0 0- '0 00 00 0- 00 0- 000000000000    00 0-00000-0- 0000 .' 00   0.
*00                                                                                                                  0      0''                                          00000000-0
0.      000-0000.000000000000    0000000000000-    000000'000000        000000000000000000.0000'0               '.00      0000000-00000000    000000000-
0-  00   0-000-      00     00000-0.000.00000000-0000    0-00  00000-0-    00000000000    0000000000000000000000000000'' 0000    000000000-000-0000000-0.00
000         0000.00      000.   00              0-   00  00  00                     0-00
000-                                                00
00        00
0-      >000-000 000000>0-000 0000   0000. 0000>00    0000000   00            00             ' 00'  0 00
000  00>00       00      0000000' 0000>0-000000000    00000000000    000000000-000-0000000000 00000-00000000.00'> 00.0000000000000-0>0000-00000                  0.
0    0  0.       0.  000-0.00        0.  >00      00      000000>0.00>   o                  00>       00 00          00        0    000



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO: BASIC ECONOMIC INDICATORS
(TT $ million)
Average Growth Rates p.a,
1960        1965        1966        1967        1968        1969        1970        1971        1983         1960-1970   1970-1983
(prov.)   (proj.)
1.   Population (thousands)/          831.2       973.9       994.8    1,010.1       1,020.6    1,027.8    1,026.7    1,030           1,200             2.2          1.2
2.   GDP (current factor cost)!/   866.0    1,176.0    1,285.0    1,378.0            1,523.0    1,618,6    1,705.0    1,810                             7.0
3.   GDP (constant 1390
factor cost) 1             1,160.4    1,420.6    1,490.6    1,565.4         1,599.1    1,657.4    1,705.0    1,762           3,240             4.0           5.0
4.   GDP per capita in US $ 4/        609         706         755         798          746         787         830         879        1,460 5/          3.2           4.4
5.   Labor Force (thousands)6/        297.9       353.8       351.5       368.2        363.8       368.4       362.0        353         430             2.0           1.6
of which: Employed            260.9       304.8       304.8       317.0         311.1       318.3       316.8       308         390              2.0          1.6
Unemployed          37.0        49.0        46.7         51.2         52.7        50.1        45.2        45          40              2.0           -
6.   Employment By Sectors
(percentages):
Agriculture                     21.2        25.4        22.3        21.8         23.1        23.9        25.6        22.0        22
Mining, Refining and
Manufacturing                20.6         19.1        18.9        20.2         17.8        17.8        20.8        21.0        22
Construction and Power         13.4        10.7         11.2        11.0         11.9        12.3        11.9        14.4        13
Commerce                       13.3        15.9         16.3        15.5         16.2        14.7        13.7        13.7        14
Transport and
Communication                 6.2         7.8         7.7         7.6           6.8         7.0         6.8         6.4         6
Services                       25.3        21.1        23.6         23.9         24.2        24.3        21.2        22.5        23
7.   Unemployment Rate                 12.4        13.8        13.3        13.9          14.5        13.6        12.5        12.7         9
8.   Net Emigration (thousands)         0.2         3.1         5.2         8.9           9.1        15.6        17.0        15.0         7.0
9.   Government Current Revenues:
Absolute amount               148.7       206.2        214.3       226.8        268.0       303.6       310.1       348          650 8/          4.6 9/       5.8
% of GDP                        17.2        17,5        16.7        16.5         17.6        18.8        18.2        19           20
10.  Government Expenditure:          156.4       247.2       263.9       258.6        286.6       295,7       363,3        447.8       850 8/          5.8 9/        6.5
of which: Recurrent            117.8      189.3       203.6        203.7        219.8       235.7       265.3       333.2       650              5.4 .        7.0
Capital 71          38.6        57.9         60.3        54.9         66.8        60.0        98,0       114.6       200              6.8 2J       5.0
Sources:  Third Five-Year Plan (1969-1973); Annual Statistical Digest (1969); Quarterly Economic Reports (1969-1971); International
Travel Report (1969); Continuous Sample Survey of Population (1963-1971); Budget documents; Locally available data; Staff Estimates.
1/   Mid-year estimate, revised series.  The projection is based on the assumption of a continuous decline in the rate of natural
growth (from about 19.5% in 1970 to about 8.5% in 1983) and on an average rate of net emigration of about 7,000 persons a year
throughout the period.
2/   National income data are being revised by the C.S.O.  Estimates should therefore be considered provisional.
3/   The official retail price index was used to deflate GDP.
4/   The current exchange rate (US$1 = TT$ 1.85) was used for projection.
5/   1970 prices.
6/   Mid-year Estimate.
7/   Development Expenditure only (excluding amortization and other loan repayments), .
8/   Assuming the same elasticity with respect to GDP as in the period 1960-70.                                                                                               N
9/   In real terms.



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO: EDUCATIONAL ATTAINMENT OF THE LABOR FORCE (1969)
(percentages)
Attended                                     Attended   Educated
nliterate   or Completed        Attended      Oompleted  or Completed   in a               TOTAL
Primary         Secondary     Secondary  University  Foreign Country 2
1.  Labor Force:               7.6            68.2            15.4           7.1         1.1          o.6              100.0
Men                      5.1            72.2             14.8          6.2         1.2           0.5             100.0
Women                   12.9             60.0            16.8          8.8         0.8           0.7             100.0
2.  Employed:                  8.4            67.7            14.2           7.7         1.3          0.7              100.0
Men                      5.6            71.8             13.8          6.8         1.4           0.6             100.0
Women                   14.7            58.6             15.0          9.9         1.0           0.8             100.0
3.  Unemployed:                2.8            72.1             22.8          2.6          -             -              100.0
Men                      2.2            74.6             21.0          2.2           -            -              100.0
Women                    3.7             67.6            25.5          3.2           -            -              100.0
4. Unemployment Rate by
Level of Education:      5.0            14.4            20.0           5.0          -            -                13.6
Men                      5.5            13.0             17.9          4.5          -             -               12.6
Women                    4.5             17.8            24.0          5.7           -            -               15.7
Source: Central Statistical Office, Continuous Sample Survey of Population (1971).
2   Various levels.



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO:  GDP, EMPLOYMENT AND PRODUCTIVITY
BY SECTOR 1960-1970 WITH PROJECTIONS TO 1983
A.  Actual and Projected                    (%)                                              (M)
Growth Rates p.a.                 1960-1970                                        1970-1983
GDP   Productivity  Employment                  GDP   Productivity   Employment
1.  Agriculture         (-) 1.1    (-) 5.0           3.9                    3.3         3.0             0.3
2.  Mining,             (-) 0.1         0.1      (-) 0.2                    4.0         3.0             1.0
3.  Industry                7.1         5.2          1.9                    7.0         5.0             2.0
4.  Services                6.0         4.8          1.2                    4.5          2.5            2.0
5.  Economy                 4.0         2.0          2.0                    5.0          3.4            1.6
B. Employment by Sectors 1/
(thousands)
1960      1967        1968        1969        1970        1971          1983
(proj.)
1.  Agriculture, Forestry
and Fishing                    55.2       68.9       72.0        76.0         81.2        67.7            85
2.  Mining and Quarrying              12.8       12.7       11.8        11.1        12.6        11.5             15
3.  Industry:                         75.6       86.3       80.6        84.4        91.0        97.6            120
of which: Manufacturing           40.6       51.4       43.7        45.4        53.3        53.1             70
Construction           29.9       21.6       23.5        31.1        30.5        36.4             40
Electricity,
Gas and Water        5.1       13.3        13.4         7.9         7.2         8.1             10
4.  Services:                        117.3      149.1      146.7       146.8       132.0        131.1           170
of which: Commerce               34.8       49.1        50.4        46.9        43.3        42.1             55
Transport
and Communication  16.2        24.2       21.0         22.4        21.4        19.6            25
Others                 66.3       75.8       75.3        77.5        67.3        69.4             90
5.  Total Employment                 260.9      317.0      311.1       318.3       316.8       307.9            390
Sources:  1960 Census; Continuous Sample Survey of Population (various years); III Plan; Staff Estimates                       CD
1/ Mid-year Estimate



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO: PROJECTED MANPOWER REQUIREMENTS 1972 - 1983
A.  Projected Manpower Requirements 1972-1983
Net Demand 1972-1983
1971 Manpower    1971 Manpower Stock          1983 Manpower                         (rounded figures)
Sector of Economic Activity            Stock           Surviving to 1983  _/       Requirements   Replacement         Expansion      Total
1.  Agriculture, Forestry and
Fishing                          67,700                  45,000                   85,000          23,000           17,000        40,000
2.  Mining and Quarrying                11,500                   7,500                   15,000          4,000             3,500         7,500
3.  Manufacturing                       53,100                  35,000                   70,000         18,000            17,000        35,000
4.  Construction                        36,400                  24,000                   40,000         12,500             3,500        16,000
5.  Electricity, Gas and Water           8,100                   5,500                   10,000          2,500             2,000         4,500
6.  Commerce                            42,100                  28,000                   55,000         14,000            13,000        27,000
7.  Transport and Communication         19,600                  13,000                   25,000          6,500             5,500        12,000
8.  Other Services                      69,400                  47,000                   90,000         22,500            20,500        43,000
9.  Economy                            307,900                 205,000                  390,000        103,000            82,000       185,000
1/  Survival factors 3,57/p.a.. allowing for mortality, retirements and net emigration) were applied to the Trinidadian
occupational structure for 1971. Because of lack of data the coefficients used are not occupationally specific,
and no allowance was made for inter-occupational mobility.
B. Projected Skill Distribution and Training Needs 1972-1983 2/
1.              2.           3.               4.              5.               6.         7.                8.          NET DEMAND   AVERAGE ANNUAL
Agriculture,      Mining       Manufacturing   Construction  Electricity         Commerce  Transport          Other        1972-83      DEMAND 1972-83
Forestry and       and                                          Gas and Water                   and           Services                 (rounded figures)
Fishing         Quarrying                                                                 Communication
1.  Professionals              0.003           0.050           0.010            0.010         0.010             0.010       0.050           0.050         4,000               300
2.  Technicians                0.007            0.100          0.030            0.030         0.040             0.030       0.150           0.150        12,000            1,000
3.  Craftmen, Foremen          0.020            0.200          0.100            0.460         0.250             0.200       0.300            0.250       31,000            2,600
4. Semi-Skilled and
uinskilled workers       0.970           0.650          0.860             0.500         0.700             0.760       0.500           0.550      138,000            11,500
5.  Total                      1.000            1.000          1.000            1.000          1.000            1.000       1.000            1.000
NET DEMAND 1972-83            40,000            7,500         35,000           16,000          4,500           27,000      12,000           43,000      185,000
AVERAGE ANNUAL DEMAND
1972-83 (rounded figures   3,300               650           2,900            1,350           350             2,250       1,000           3,600                         15,400
2/  The occupational matrix used for projection was derived from 1970 Manpower Survey, taking into account also the results of 1960 Census.  Given the small size and
limited coverage of that survey, and the need for projecting the coefficients to 1983, adjustments had to be introduced, in most cases based on international
comparisons. It should be noticed that the matrix is meant to express marginal requirements(i.e. the skill distribution of the additional manpower required in
each sector during the period 1972-1983)and, therefore, it does not allow for the need for upgrading the level of the existing labor force. Given the uneven
quality of statistical data and the rigidity of this approach, results should be interpreted with caution.



Annex 6
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
ENROLLMENTS, GRADUATES AND TEACHERS
BY LEVEL AND TYPE OF EDUCATION 1969-1970
E N R O L L M E N T S2                      T E A C H E R S
(Full-Time)
TOTAL    % IN PUBi,TC %       GRADUATES
SCHOOLS_/ FEMALES
Pre-Primary
Kindergarten               62,000      97.5      48.o       -              1,770
First Level
Primary (Standards 1-5)  139,515       95.7      49.8      21,800         3,990
Post-Primary
(Standards 6-7)         32,91l4      93.9      50.5     13,400            940
Total First Level         172,429      95.4      50.0      45,200         4,930
Second-Level General
Intermediate (Forms I-V    3,583      100.0      48.o         400             80
Secondary General
(Forms I-VI)            41,693       66.3      49.0     10,500          1,900
Primary Teacher
Training (Grades 11-12)   714       100.0      52.0         322             65
Total Second-Level
General                 45,990       68.0      49.0      11,222         2,045
Second-Level Vocation-
al and Technical
Vocational                  2,469     100.0      n.a.         220            )135
Technical                     927     100.0      n.a.          50            )
Commercial                  2,500       -        n.a.         n.a.           n.a.
Agriculture                    74     100.0      n.a.          31              11
Total Second-Level Vocation-
al and Technical          5,970      54.0      n.a.         301             146
Third-Level               I
Total                      1,060      100.0      28.0         14o           n.a.
Source:  Compiled from data provided by the Ministry of Education.
j   Enrollment, graduates and teachers in private (non-aided) schools were estimated.
j   Includes government schools and private aided schools.



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO: ACTUAL AND PROJECTED ENROLLMENTS IN PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Actual                                   Estimated      Projection      Increase 1960-1970       Increase 1970-1982
1960      1966/67       1967/68       1968/69       1969/70        1970/71        1982/83        Absolute    % p.a.       Absolute    % p.a.
A.  FIRST LEVEL (Total)                      178.823   216,100        219,609      222,327        224,899        224,200        178,000          46,076       2.3    (-) 47,000   (-) 1.9
1.  Pre-Primary (Infant I-Il)            52,273    59,946          59,880       59,831         60,470         58,800         50,000          8,197       1.5    (-) 10,500   (-) 1.5
2.  Primary (Standards I-V)             107,930   126,516         129,255      132,209        133,515        134,000        128,000         25,585       2.2    (-)  5,500   (-) 0.4
3.  Post-Primary (Standards VI-VII)       18,620    29,638         30,474       30,287         30,914         31,400           -            12,294       5.2    (-) 31,000
B.  SECOND LEVEL GENERAL (Total)              14.616    29,774          31,351      35.130         35,880         36.120        109,000          21,264       9.4        73,100         9.7
1.  Intermediate (Forms I-V)              2,922      3,579          3,555        3,489          3,583          3,500           -               661       2.0    (-)  3,600
2.  Junior Secondary (Forms I-III)        6,101    14,925          16,137       18,049         18,116         18,200         78,000         12,015      11.5         59,900       13.0
3.  Senior Secondary (Forms IV-VI)        5,157    10,586          10,957       12,878         13,467         13,700         30,000          8,310      10.0         16,500         6.9
4.  Teacher Training (Grades 11-12)         436        684            702          714            714            720          1,000             278      5.1            300        3.7
C.  SECOND LEVEL VOCATIONAL AND
TECHNICAL (Total)                        n.a.      3,013          3,006        3,587          3,470          4,339         22,000          1,326 5/   9.6          18,500       16.5
1.  Vocational 2!                          n.a.    )2 973          )2 955       )3,526          2,469            3 59/       18,400         )1,290 5/  )9.4          16,000       12
2.  Technical   2                          n.a. 4/) 40             ) I                            927            734 3/       3,500              36-   )              2,500       12.0
3.  Agriculture 2-                            15  _/    40 4/          51           61             74             76             100             36/  17.0               ...        ...
D,  THIRD LEVEL (Total)                         n.a.        678            688          904         1.060           1,200          3,000            522 5/  15.0           2,000        9.0
E.  ALL LEVELS (Grand Total)                 193,454   249,565        254,654      261,948        265,309          265,859      312,000          71,855       3.2        47,000         1.4
Sources:   C.S.O., A Digest of Statistics on Education 1967-68; Draft Plan for Educational Development in Trinidad and Tobago
1968-1983; locally available data; Staff Estimates.
1/ Including Farm Schools.
2/  Trinidadian technicians only.
3/  1971/72.
4/  Estimated.
5/ 1966-1971.



TRINIDAD AlSD TOBAGO
PROJECTION OF TEACihER REQUIRA:IIENTS 1DR SELECTEI TYPES OF EDUCATION 1971-1983
JECTION OF TEACHER
XQUIREKENTS BY LEVEL
jF EDUCATION  If                                               Estimiated                                               Projected
1970/71                                                  1982/83
Enrollments   Teachers  Student/Teacher Ratio             enrollments   Teachers  Student/Teacher Ratio
Primary SchoolsJ                            227,700        6,510            35:1                        178,000      5,500             33:1
Junior Secondary Schools                      18,200        1                 7                           78,000      2,700             29:1
Senior Secondary Schools                      13,700 3             3.                                     30,000      1,500             20:1
s.  Vocational and Technical Schools               2,700 V/       225 2/        12:1                          22,000      1,100             20:1
5,    Total                                      262,300        7,909            33:1                        307,000    10,800              28:1
Source:  Compiled from data provided by the Ministry of Education.
11  Government and private aided schools.
2/ Including Intermediate Schools.
3/ Estimated Full-Time Equivalency.
PROJECTION OF TEACHER
TRAINING NEEDS BY QUALIFICATI0NS              1970-71 Stock of         1970-71 Stock         Stock of Qualified                  Teacher Training Needs
Qualified Teachers       Surviving  o          Teachers Required                           1971-1983
(Estimated)             1982-83 0             in 1982-83                Total Requirementa   Average Annual Requirements
(rounded figures)         (rounded figures)
1.  Teachers I (Diploma)                            3,600                   2,500                6,200                          5,700                      475
2.  Teachers I1 (Degree)                              200                      150               1,100                            950                        s0
3.  Technical Teachers (Degree)                         50                      30                 450 2/                         400                        35
4,  Instructors (Technician Level)                    170                      100               1,050 2/                         950                        80
5.    Total                                         4,020                   2,780               10,800                          8,000                       670
Source;  Compiled from data supplied by the Ministry of Education.
I/  Statistics on wastage of teachers are incomplete and are distarted by the effects of a revision of teachers' salaries in 1966/67.  For the                                     i
purpose of the projection, wastage rates of 3% p.s. for teachers I and II and 4% p.a. for technical teachers and instructors were used.                                        ca
2/ Including technical teachers and instructors for comprehensive schools.



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
PUBLIC EXPENDITURE ON EDUCATION 1960-71
(TT $ millions)
1960     1965      1966      1967     1968      1969      1970      1971      1983
(prov.)  (proj.)
1.  Public Expenditure on Education:        23.3      36.2     45.1      48.8      56.2      55.2     62.1      83.6       179
of which - Recurrent                    18.9     32.5      40.1      43.8     46.3      49.9      53.3      66.7       161
- Capital 1/                   4.4      3.7       5.0       5.0       9.9      5.3       8.8      16.9        18
2.  Public Expenditure on Education
by Ministries:
- Ministry of Education              21.0      29.9      37.7     39.2      44.9      43.9      50.7     n.a.       n.a.
- Ministry of Tobago Affairs          0.8       1.4       1.3      1.6       1.8       1.7       2.2     n.a.       n.a.
-  Prime Minister  2/                 0.7       4.7       5.8       6.7      7.1       7.4       8.8     n.a.       n.a.
- Ministry of Agriculture             ...       0.2       0.3      0.3       0.3       0.4       0.4     n.a.       n.a.
-  Others                             0.8       ...       ...       1.0      1.2       1.8       ...     n.a.       n.a.
3. Recurrent Expenditure on Education
as a percentage of Current
Revenues                             12.7      15.8      18.7      19.3     17.3      16.4      17.2      19.2       24.7
4. Capital Expenditure on Education
as a percentage of Capital
Expenditure                          n.a.       6.4       8.3     10.4      16.0       8.8       8.2      15.8        9.0
5. Public Expenditure on Education
as a percentage of GDP                2.7       3.0       3.4       3.5      3.7       3.3       3.6       4.6        5.5
Source: Ministry of Education, Budget Documents, Staff Estimates.
1/ Includes scholarships.
2/ Includes expenditures administered by the Division of Community Development.
3/ Projected annual average for the period 1971-1983.



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
PUBLIC EXPENDITURE ON EDUCATION BY LEVELS
(TT $ thousands and percentages)
1967                       1968                       1969                       17
Amount   % of Total       Amount   % of Total         Amount   % of Total        Amount   % of Total
A. RECURRENT EXPENDITURE
1.  Primary                   24,779       56.6          26,320       56.9           27,155       54.3         27,996       52.5
2.  Secondary General           8,058      18.4           8,711       18.9           10,063        20.1        11,355       21.3
3.  Vocational and Technical  1,402         3.2           1,631        3.5            1,991         4.0          1,777       3.3
4.  Teacher Training              836       1.9             889        1.9              977         2.0          1,005        1.9
5.  University                  5,963      13.6           5,702       12.3            5,693        11.4          6,427      12.0
6.  Adult Education               120       0.3             207        0.4              179        0.4             193       0.4
7. Administration and
other expenses            2,612        6.0           2,820        6.1           3,921         7.8          4,582        8.6
8.  TOTAL RECURRENT           43,770      100.0          46,280      100.0           49,979       100.0        53,335      100.0
B. CAPITAL EXPENDITURE
1.  Primary                   1,158       23.0           1,209       12.2              999       19.0          2,270       25.8
2.  Secondary General           565       11.2             616        6.2              668       12.7          3,315       37.6
3.  Vocational and Technical   211         4.2              18        0.2               78        1.5             40        0.5
4.  Teacher Training             163       3.2             914        9.2               43        0.8             270       3.1
5.  University                2,904       57.6           6,961       70.1           3,390        64.4          2,466       28.0
6.  Adult Education               -        -                -          -                -           -            -
7. Administration and
other expenses              39        0.8             210       2.1                84        1.6            447        5.0
8.  TOTAL CAPITAL             5,040      100.0           9,928      100.0            5,262      100.0           8,808     100.0
C.  TOTAL PUBLIC EXPENDITURE
ON EDUCATION
1.   Primary                  25,937       53.1          27,529       49.0           28,154       51.0         30,266       48.7
2.   Secondary General          8,623      17.7           9,327       16.6           10,731        19.4         14,670      23.6
3.   Vocational and Technical 1,613         3.3           1,649        2.9            2,069         3.7          1,817       2.9
4.   Teacher Training             999       2.0           1,803        3.2            1,020         1.8          1,275       2.1
5.   University                8,867       18.2          12,663       22.5            9,083        16.5          8,893      14.3
6.   Adult Education              120       0.2             207        0.4              179         0.3            193       0.3
7.   Administration and
other expenses           2,651        5.5           3,030        5.4           4,005         7.3          5,029        8.1
8.   TOTAL PUBLIC EXPENDITURE                                                                                                             X
ON EDUCATION           48,810      100.0          56,208      100.0          55,241       100.0         62,143      100.0
Source: Ministry of Education.



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
PROJECTTON OF PUBLIC EXPENDITURE ON EDUCATION. 1971-1983
(TT $ millions, 1971 prices)
Student Places Required          Estimated Unit Cost        Total Investment in    Conversion, Rebuilt         Public Capital Expenditure             Public Recurrent Expenditure
1971-1983                 per Student Place           New student Places         and eeainS            on Education by Levels 1971-19983       on Education by Levels in 1983 2
New   Converoion    Total               (11$)1
(a)      (b)        (c)=(a)+(b)            (d)                 (e)- (a) x (d)               (f)                      (E) = (e) + (f)                                 (h)
1.  Primary           55,000    91,000       146,000            1.000                       55.0                     20,0                            75.0                                       55
2.  Junior Secondary 30,000    t3,640         43,640            1,650                       49.5                     16,6                            66.1                                       28
3.  Senior Secondary 10,300    19,700         30,000            1,850                       19.1                     19.3                            38.4                                       26
4.  Teacher Training    880        -             880            2,050                         i.8                     _                               1.8                                         2
5.  Vocational          6,000       -          6,000            3,400                       20,4                      -                              20.4                                        20
6.  Technical             836     1,700        2,536            3,900                         3.3                     0,5                             3.8                                         3
7.  University           n.a.     n.8.          n.a.             n.a.                       n.a.                     n.a.                            n.a.                                        17
8.  Administration                                                                            8.3                     _                               8.3                                        10
and other
expenses
9.  Total            103,000   126,000       229,000                                       157.4                     56.4                           213.8                                      161
(rounded figures)
-  Annual Average 19714-3   17.8
- X of Projected Total
Government Capital
Expenditure -1971-83       10.5%
Source: Locally available data; Staff Eslimates.
1/ Incloding furniture and equipment.
2/ Assuming average salary increase of 3% p.a. and 5% p... .fr academic
and technical teachers, respectively.



TRINIDAD & TOBAGO
ENROLIMENT, OUTPUT. ACCOMMODATIONS IN PROJECT SCHOOLS
Use Factors
Course                                               Gross Area                                  Number
Length        Total       Annual    Pupil:Teacher        per                          Practical  Weekly
Institutions                Number      Level    (Years)    Enrollments   Output            Ratio       Student Place      Classrooms    Rooms    Periods
1. Junior Secondary Schools    6         Secondary       3           10,560      3,520          31:1               65 1/            82           75        60
(Grades 6-8)
;.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
2.  Combined Junior/Senior   4           Secondary       5            2,740      1,010         l 27:1              59               89           67        30
Secondary Schools                (Grades 6-10)
3.  Senior Comprehensive          3      Secondary       4            3,600      1,8oC4/        21:1               67               90           84        35
Schools                           (Grades 9-12)
4. Teacher Training College    1         Secondary       2              h40        200          20:1               78               87           78        35
(Grades 11-12)
5. Technical Institute                   Post-Secondary
1    (Grades 11-13)  2 -3          1,690        490           15:1             112                72           61       35
6. Farmer Training Center         1          Adult      1-2 weeks       960        960           8:1              298
1/ In square feet.
2/ As a percentage of maximum utilization (weighted averages).
3/ 720 from junior cycle and 290 from senior cycle (Form V)0
4   1470 from V and 330 from Form VI.



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
SAN FERNANDO TECHNICAL INSTITUTE
PLANNED INTAKE, ENROLLMENT AND OUTPUT BY SPECIALIZATION
Course           Intake                        Enrollment                           Output 1
Length
Courses        (Years)   Full-Time  Part-Time  Total    Full-Time  Part-Time  Total         Full-Time  Part-Time  Total
Mechanical       3           60           60      120       150          14o       290          40         30        70
Electrical       3           30          30        60        75           70       145         20          15        35
Building         3           60           60      120        150         14o       290          40         30        70
Draftsman        2           60           60      120        110         105       215          42         34        76
Business
Management     2           30          30        60         55          52       107          21         17        38
Food and
Nutrition      2           15           15       30         27          26        53          10          8        18
Clothing and
Textile        2           15          15        30         27          26        53          110         8        18
Laboratory
Technician     3            -          30        30         -           70        70           -         15        15
Electronics      3           30          30        60         75          70       145           20        15        35
Secretarial      2           90           90      180       165          157       322           65        50       115
Total                     390         420       810        8314        856      1690          268       222       490
jd/ Estimated wastage: 15% per year full-time courses; 25% per year part time courses.
x



Annex 14
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
PROJECT OOSTS BY TYPE OF EXPENDITURE
TT$ (millions)           US$ (millions)       X of
Local  foreign   Iotal  Local Foreign  Total   Total
1.  Construction
Academic and
Connunal Facilities   11.20   5.51      16.71    6.05   2.98    9.03      50
Boarding Facilities      0.03   0.02       0.05    0.02   0.01    0.03
Staff Housing             -       -         -       -      -        -       -
Site Development         1.68   0.83       2.51    0.91   0.45    1.36       7
Professional Services    1.16   0.77       1.93    o.62   0.42    1.04       6
Sub-Total             14.07   7.13      21.20    7.60   3.86   11.46      63
2.  Furniture                0.76   0.76       1.52    0.41   0.41    0.82       5
Equipment                0.17   3.28       3.45    0.09   1.77    1.86      10
Technical Assistance!/   0.25   1.05       1.30    0.13   0.57    0.70       4
Sub-Total              1.18   5.og       6.27    0.63   2.75    3.38      19
3.  Contingencies             3.88   2.28      6.16    2.10   1.23    3.33      18
TOTAL PROJECT COST      19.13  14.50      33.63   10.33   7.8L   18.17    100
4.  Interest during
Construction                  2.88       2.88           1.56    1.56
GRAND TOTAL             19.13  17.3b      36.51   10.33   9.40   19.73
1/  Includes technical assistance to be provided by CIDA (US$0.20 million,
of which U3$0.16 million represents the estimated foreign exchange
component).



TRINIDAD & TOBAGO - CONTINGENCY ALLWANCES
(Us$ 000's)
Site                                                              Professional      Technical
Development        Buildings       Furniture         Equipment         Services         Assistance    TOTAL
Local Foreign  Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign
Allowances for
Physical Increases         15%     15%      15%     15%       10%     10%      10%      10%    _        _        _
Allowances for                                                  %       %
Price Increases            13%      8%      13%      8%        8%      6%       5%       6%      6%       8%      11%     11%     
ToT.al                     28%     23%      28%     23%       18%     16%      15%      16%      6%       8%      11%     11%      -
Total Cost Before
Contingencies              910     448   6,068   2,989        409     410       93  1,772       625      417      127     568   14,836
Contingencies
Physical
Increases -             137       67      910     448        41      41        9     177                                        l _  _  _  1,830
Price
Increases -             118       36      789     239        33       25       5      106      38       33       14       63    1,499
Total                   255      103   1,699      687        74      66       14      283       38      33       14       63    3,329
TOTAL                    1,165     551   7,767   3,676        483      476      107   2,055      663      450     141      631   18,165
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
UNIT CAPITAL COSTS IN NEW PROJECT INSTITUTIONS .
Previous Bank Projects
Gross       Per Student Place (in US $)                 Medi        Cost medin Construct-
Area                                                      (US3           ion area per
type of Facilities   _                2      Construction Furniture Eauipment  Total                          Stuo  at Place
I.   ACADEMIC AND COMMUNAL
Junior Seconuary Schools        6.o         729         60         89       878      -
Combined Junior/Senior
Secondary Schools             5.5         741         54        110       905      3       648             5.8
Senior Comprehensive Schools   6.2          800         61        125       986
Teacher Training College        7.2         822         72       2a4     1,108             1,047            7.2
Technical Institute            10.4       1,439        109       548     2,096             2,416           11.8
Farmer Training Center         18.4       2,090        182        691     2,963            2,318           12.7
II. BOARDING
Farmer Training Center          9.3       1,057        234         -      1,291              652            8.4
III. FARMER TRAINING MOBILE UNITS                                   24,000    24,000 21         24,930 W
1/ Professional Services, cost of land and contingencies not included.
/ 1970 prices.
2   Cost per Training Unit.
4/ Average unit cost in three projects (Somalia 247-So; Kenya 185-KE; Chile 666-CH).



TRINIDAD & TOBAGO - PROJECT IMPLEMENDTATION AND EXPLNDITORE SCHiEDULE I
(U"5 MILLEU-O)
YEARS                      1                          3                           3                          4                           5                          6
TMIPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
QUARTERS         1I            3      4      5    6        7      0     9  jo               1 2    13  [  4       5    16    17    18    19  {20    I1    22    231-    24
CONSqTRUCTION                            Us$ milli.n..
J-ior Se-odary SeAvois                       3.85
Ph se   0 (104 & 121)                                        E*             +$  0$X    XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   021    VEP   0V   EVE   PG
Phase 11 (#103, 110 & 123)                            .cv                                      *+ +0         =X XX XX XX XX XV VR EE EE V
Ph.se IC (1(113)                                      .5 **                                                                                     R    +00    -X    XXX   ARiD   XXX   XXX   XXX!   PUP   PP
Jr/Sr. Snconiary Schools                     2.03
Ph."e TV (0501, 502, 003 4 504)                                                                                              .     U     o      cc     (5  ~=0       R XXX   X XX 2I302 XXX XXX               VC   OX!
S  Cnor ,asprnh-ni-eOhO                  2.88
Phat  TlG (0203, 206 & 2509)                                                                                 SP       YV+         0       XX   XXX   XXX   XKX   XXX   VPU   VVV   VPU   PVCV
T-ocAR  Training Co1lege                     0.36
Ph-s  T (#401)                                               #     ''    -0 3X XXX   XXX   xxx   11212   ARE   PEP   EVE   EVE   C
CechoiRal 1nstitote                          1.20
PhaSe 01 (#601)                                                                   p#*c,*-4   v.x    XX   XXXI  XXX   XXX   XXX   XXV   EVEV  EVE   CUE   OX
Fa-me  Trani.ig CenL-                        0.10
Phase I (#801)                      ~                         C      45 $X        XXX   XX    01CC   V%E   ECU   PEE   VP
Total            10.42
TERTDCEAL. ASSISTANCE 2
Spe-ia,liot (219  -a :oths)                             -            1     10      0      0     U      9      3      3      3      3     10    10    00    12    15    15    15    15            9      9     9       9
Fellawships (126  anrsontho)                           -             5    15       3      3      3     3      6      6      6      6      9      9      9     9      6      6      6      6      -      -      -      -
EXPENDITURE SCHEDULE
Ros tr-ctiOn                                10.42                       -              0.02  0.19  0.28  0.40  0.40  0.67  0.50  0.72  1.03  1.12  0.94  0.72  0.92  0.46  0.53  0.56  0.44  0.46  0.01  0.05
F-rnt-r                                      0.02-          --                  -      -     0.01    -   0.07  3.0 6    -         -   0.06  0.09  0.10  0.07  0.06  0.03    -            -   0.15  0.05    -        -       -
Eq.ipa...t                                   1.86                        0.04  0.03           0.02    -   0.13  7.12    -         -   0.23  0.23  0.24  0.15  0.15  0.15    -                 0.27  0.10    -        -      -
Profe-io...l Servi-e                         1.04            - 0.01  0.02  0.03  0.06  0.03  0.05  0.07  0.07  0.06  0.04  0.07  0.09  0.10  0.08  0.07  0.03  0.05  0,02  0.02  0.01  0.04  0.01  0.01
T-ohaical Assiotanne                         0.70                -       0.06  3.06  0.02  0.03  0.02  0.03  0.01  0.01  0.01  0.02  0.03  0.03  0.04  0.04  0.04  0.05  0.04  0.05  0.02  0.03  0.93  0.03
lab-Tota1           14.84            -      .01  0.12  2.12  0.10  0.29   0.35  0.70  0.66  0.74  0.55   1.12   1.46  1.59  1.28  1.06  1.21  0.56  0.59  1.05  0.62  0.53  0.05  0.09
U.a.11ctetd p"4.89                                            . 0.02  0.02  3.072  0.02  0.02  0.03  0.05  0.03  0.03  0.04  0.Q5  0.06  0.07  0.09  0.09   5.1.0. 0.2O  i. 66  9.69  0.69  0.69  0.91  0.64
PROJECT TOTAL                                1 9 .273             0.03  0.14  0.14  0.12  0.30  0.35  0.73  0.69  0.7705 .7    1.52  1.66  1.34  1.15  1.3L  0.76  1.25  1.74  1.31  1.22  0.66  0.73
PROJECT TOTAL (ROUNDED)                      19.27                0.03  0.13  (J.14  0.12  0.30  0.38  0.73  0.69  0.35  0.591 1.07  1.52  1.66  1.36  1.15  1.31  0.76  1.25  1.74  1.31  1.22  0.66  0.73
LOCAL FINANCING;                   1 0.3             -    .01  0.06  0.07  0.04  0.16  0.20  0.40  0.39  0.50   0.31  0.64  0.82  0.90  0.72  060  0.70  l3 0.35§   0.93  0.6~  0.62  0.29  0.32
IBR1  FcNANCING (47%/)              9.3                  D .02  0.06  0.06  0.06  0.13  0.10  0.3   031  0.34  0.20  0.51  0.70  0.75  0.,60  0).54  0.60  01.36  0.60  0.01  0.43  0.60  0.37  0.41
1/   nplneoatl   tarts at dote of effecti--es..
2/  T'ncltdes technical assitstance to be proided by CODA (0000.20 mi          fon,o  which 1050.16  iEllio-  -p-esent  the notinaod foreign  -nhange  -ep-net.
This  -ccnoto foe th  diff-stnc  hbtoL-   tSr toLa]  fo-ige e-hange  -os  of te project and the  rp-p-d Bank Loan.
/C-stingnn..ioo intla~des interest doting  ontructio..
LEGEND:
Selection and appeinMent of con-otaots                   $  Gendering ci bids
O  Barny Bof sites                                         =  Review of bids and awartd oP contracts
*Design and -oastruttle  denu-et phase                     X  C-ntraction phase
+  Review af design and  -stration de-nmeen                  U  Guaratee phasex



ANNEX 18
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO - ESTIKATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US $ Millions)
Accumulated          Undisbursed
Quarter         Disbursements         Disbursements           Balance
1                                                          9.30
2                _                      -                  9.30
3                0.02                  0.02                9.28
4                0.06                  0.08                9.22
5               0.06                   0.14                9.16
6                0.06                  0.20                9.10
7                0.13                  0.33                8.97
8                0.18                  0.51                8.79
9                0.32                  o.83                8.47
10                0.31                  1.14                8.16
11                0.34                  1.48                7.82
12                0.28                  1.76                7.54
13                0.51                  2.27                7.03
14                0.70                  2.97                6.33
15                0.75                  3.72                5.58
16                o.64                  4.36                4.94
17                0.54                  4.90                4.40
18                0.60                  5.50                3.80
19                0.38                  5.88                3.42
20                0.60                  6.48                2.82
21                0.81                  7.29                2.01
22                0.63                  7.92                1.38
23                o.60                  8.52                0.78
24                0.37                  8.89                0.41
25                0.41                  9.30
1/ Starting from date of effectiveness.



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO: EDUCATIONAL PYRAMID 1970
BY AGE AND LEVEL OF EDUCATION Ll
AGE GRADE
22 16
21    15                                                                   E........1
_ _ , 1' '''' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....'''':.::.                                                                      .....''''''
20    14                                                            i.-                                                           --                                                    .....
_  _                                              ::                                  ::::::::::~~~~~~~~~~....... .................:  :::   :    ::..1.::.:  .. ........
19 13
18       2                                                       .......1....                                                                                                                                 ....
17    1 1                                                                                                                                                                                     ......
_ _ .. '::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: .-...........               .............................,                         _ __ !  . * . .............. .......................
16 10 ....... .. :] ...~~~~~~~..................                                                                                                             ........  -.- s........... 
16    10
_ - l ~~~~~~~..                                 . .  .. .  .  . ..  .  . . . .  . .  ..                                                        ...  ............................i. . -.............. _I
15      9
_  _  ..... ,.1 -' '--''''---'''''. '                           ' - - - - ' - --. ... ....  ...  ........                                               . ..  ....  ...  ....   ....  ...  ....   ...
14     8
1 3     7
_                                                                                                                                                         _  ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . . . . . . . . . . . . ,   . _-==
12      6
10      4                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ....
8 2
7     1
5                                                                          -
BOYS                                                                                                     GIRLS
15o000                            10o000                               5,000                                  0                              5ooot 10,000                                                           15o000
I               .   I                                                                                    I                                                                                       . I  I
Total Population                               I/!i///ASecondary                                                                                                                                   Higher
...E.=J  in Age Group                                              /             Primary                                         |               Generaf                                                           Education
Pre-School                             ~                        Post-Primary and                            }                   Vocational,
1;'  Pre-School                                          m ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ITechnical and
LLL    Intermediate                            '       e        Teacher Training
/1  Public Schools only,                                                                                                                                                                                                                     World Bank-6801






TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO: STRUCTURE OF THE TRADITIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM
UNIVERSITY OF WEST INDIES
TECHNICAL INSITITES
PrelimninarY
SECONDARY                            SIXTH FORM       l
PRIMARY TEACHER
TRAINING COLLEGES
EAST CARIBBEAN
INFANT                       PRIMARY                    POST-PRIMARY                                       FARM INSTITUTE
TECHNICAL INSTITUTES
*CERTIFICATE, DIPLOMA OR DEGREE AWARDED                                        CRAFT TRAINING                  TECHNICIAN TRAINING
AGE  5       67                 8      9      1 0     1 1        1 2     13         14      15     16              1 7        18          19     20      21
GR A DE                           2      3       4       l                  7          8       9      1 0            1 1         1 2        1 3     14      1 5
World Bank-6802






TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO: REFORMED STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATIONAL AND TRAINING SYSTEM
SENIOR SECONDARY OR SENIORLAOFRC
COMPREHENSIVE           SIXTH FORM        UNIVERSITYOF WEST INDIES                          PROFESSIONALS
*   Common Entrance Examination-                                                                 E                      3' ' '                                         - -        -'''>         _
0    14+ E.a-.t-                                                                                                 PRIMARY AND JUNIOR SECONDAFYTEACHER TRAINING
*    General Certificate of Education at "O" Level
El   General Certificote of Education at 'A' Leve
O    Degree                                                                                                                                      TRANING
,   Diplo ma                                                                                                                                                                           .. 
<    Ctaftsman's Crtifiate                                                                                             TECHNICA             ES
,> Assistant Craftiman's Cart ficate.
t     Sandwich Coarse                                                                                               r 
E=ml                                                                                   : ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OF AGRICULTURE AND FORESTRY (E C.l A.F.) 
On  the Job Training
J| Institutions Included in the Proposed Second Prolect                                                              ... .  .
ANDOTATOENCENTERSIIN
[ | j ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......... ... .........................                                                                      .      ...*S*nw......  SKILLED) WORKERS
JUNIOR{ 3                          -      -     -          r     @n                              .
INFANT                           PRIMARY                               SECONDARY                   ACEEAE
_    L                    V                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OC AT IO NA L                                                                        .
'1      2        1        4        5            6        7        8                9       111                   12           13        14      15
GRADE                        if                                                       ii 7    9    11  12   13   14   15   160       17   18               19                 21
1  8  9  10  11         12       13      14                15       16           11       18..............  ....  19  20.   21.......
SEM-rKLdEDAND-80






TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
ORGANIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND CULTURE 1972
MINISTER
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
PERMANENT SECRETARY
CHIEF EDUCATION OFFICER
|    DIRECTOR PLANNING                                       l         DIRECTOR                       .R|
F  AND DEVELOPMENT                                                SCHOOL SUPERVISION                                                  CENTRAL SERVICES
SUPERVISION                 CURRICULUM                  SUPERVISION
TRINIDAD                  DEVELOPMENT                    TOBAGO
COMMITTLEE
AND
COMMNISS |-  ;   PUBLICATIONS                                                 l
World Bank-6804






TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
STRATEGYOF IMPLEMENTATION OF THE EDUCATIONAL REFORM 1968-1983 /1
-. ~ == =ACADEMIC  |                      PHASE I-         *  *PHASE II                     4PHASE III
LEVEL OF           - -       YEARS       1968/11969/ 1970/ 1971/ 1972/1973/|19741 1975/f 19761  19 19 1978/ 1979/1 1980/ 1981/ 1982/
EDUCATION                                                                                  77 =      1 F,979i 980   l  1982  1983
1. PRIMARYSCHOOLS
2. JUNIOR SECONDARYSCHOOLS         _  __                     __                            )
3. SENIOR COMPREHENSIVE SCHOOLS             Om
4. VOCATIONAL EDUCATION                                                   (D     __                      _     _ - -- 
5. TEACHER TRAINING                                                                                0 _  _
6. TECHNICAL EDUCATION                                                    0_           -     -_-                     -
7. ADULT EDUCATION (ACCELERATED                                                                                                m -  -
TRAINING AND RETRAINING)
8. CULTURE, LIBRARYSERVICES AND                                                                  Mo r - _
EDUCATIONAL BROADCASTING
9. CENTRAL SERVICES AND ADMINISTRATION
/AS OUTLINED IN THE DRAFT EDUCATIONAL PLAN 1968-1983
IMPLEMENTATION STARTS                  _       O       IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETED
World Bank-6805






TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
I. F'-
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
A A. ,Jimi   ",5w   5pIO
tO4 $g6WfLwS O~ao
-S                                                   n Jan 4-p
502 T00~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~U3Tp
t0~~~r4- c~~~nO ~auLY Of PAR/A
504 Co*f/sAhs
WccuM -Vt patrk1cu
2fwcroomsh
0  5  OMiles~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ceVilg
Sp-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






TRINIDAD and TOBAGO
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
Crov ihom
Crown Pn,n  i,fi.l..drpo                                                     AN-'UNAUN                   AIM
POReT junior s ecodar  noooNs
* ~~             ~           ~         ~C Fe/ seio  seonar  NcoEA renhensieschoo                                                                                     .
urep~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
TOBAGO       ~         ~          ,>                                 ra ei9    chn(z/ 
TO B A G O : XArcngu $ wSo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ngre Grande \
^° j ; ); t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A T L A N/ TI C
* New J.nlor secondary schools                                                                               ob  |luite { j
* New senior secondary co.prenhensive schools t \, %/6
O3   Converted senior secondary comcprenhensive schools i9JJ\'L
N ew teacher training college                                     Pointe-;-Pier're  0j/
SAN FER                     NN                     D-NiIroNDO.vile1
Point For        //         Fzat              PenalJ          I                 
_ /2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ k ~~~~~~~~~~Guoyqguoyare
% g \ < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SIPARIA ~   
rn                                                                                                                                                                                            ED1 Jrto     _\-r
r°   .   _   =  :  -  !1:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
rd  th   .  -  . -                  :  -             -                                                                                          rs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o



