Document of
FILE COpy                         The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No -2091-K
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR AN
IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
May 25, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. |



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Kenya               US$0.12
US$1.00      =      KSh8.35
(As the Kenya Shilling is officially
valued at a fixed rate of 9.66 KSh to
the SDR, the U. S. Dollar/Kenya Shilling
exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in this report were made
at US$1.00 to KSh8.35 which is close to
the short-term average exchange rate.)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1st - June 30th
ABBREVIATIONS
CDC   -  Commonwealth Development Corporation
CLSMB -  Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board
NIB   - National Irrigation Board
NYS   - National Youth Service
TRDA  -  Tana River Development Authority



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Page 1 of 3
KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
LOAN/CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:                Republic of Kenya
AMOUNT:                  Loan:   US$34 million
Credit: US$6 million
TERMS:                   Loan:   Terms of 20 years including 4-1/2 years grace with
interest at 8.2% per annum.
Credit: Standard terms.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:     Bura Irrigation Settlement Project: The project would be
implemented over a 5-1/2 year period and would provide for:
the construction of an irrigation system to service 6,700 ha;
the settlement of 5,150 families (36,000 people) on this
land with the necessary social, educational and administra-
tive services; the agricultural management of the scheme;
the establishment of research facilities;and feasibility studies
of a possible future site for irrigation and settlement
and food producing opportunities in the Bura area. The
project would have an impact on 65,000 people by 1985.
COST ESTIMATES:          The estimated total cost of the project is about US$91.7
million, including local taxes and duties estimated at
US$9.2 million. Foreign exchange costs would be equivalent
to about US$49.3 million (54%). The cost estimates are
detailed below:
US$ Million (Equivalent)
Local     Foreign      Total
Irrigation Works                      8.9        10.9        19.8
Wildlife Conservation Works           0.1         0.1        0.2
Roads and Airfields                   0.9         0.9        1.8
Buildings and Village Infrastructure 10.5         5.2       15.7
Public Health                         0.3         0.4        0.7
Afforestation                         2.6         0.6        3.2
Plant, Machinery, Vehicles and
Equipment                           0.6         3.0        3.6
Ginnery                               0.9         4.0        4.9
Operation and Maintenance
- NIB                               2.7         2.8        5.5
-  Other                            0.8         0.1        0.9
Incremental Farm Inputs               0.2         1.6        1.8
Training                                -         0.5        0.5
Consultancy Services                   0.8        3.4        4.2
Agricultural Management                0.7        1.1        1.8
Total Base Cost                    30.0        34.6       64.6
Physical Contingencies                 4.0        4.8        8.8
Price Contingencies                    8.4        9.9       18.3
Total Project Cost                  42.4       49.3       91.7
Interest During Construction            -         6.7        6.7
TOTAL                             42.4       56.0       98.4
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorinzation.



Page 2 of 3
FINANCING PLAN:          The project costs, including taxes and duties of $9.2
million, would be financed as follows:
US$ Million
IDA Credit                                6.0
World Bank Loan                          34.0
European Development Fund                12.0
Government of the Netherlands             8.8
Government of the U.K.                    8.5
Commonwealth Development Corporation      8.5
Total External Financing               77.8
Government of Kenya
Contribution to Project Costs       13.9
Interest during construction on
CDC and IBRD Loans                  6.7
20.6
Total Financing Requirements                   $98.4
The terms of non-Bank Gro.up financing would be as
follows:
Grace       Repayment
Interest       Period        Period
EDF               equivalent to 90% grant
Netherlands   3.75%                        30 years
UK                           Grant
CDC           6-8.5%        5 years        20 years
DISBURSEMENTS:
Bank/IDA Fiscal Year          Disbursements
Bank                    IDA
For Year  Cumulative   For Year   Cumulative
1977/78             -          -           5.2         5.2
1978/79            9.3        9.3          0.8         6.0
1979/80           11.8       21.1           -          6.0
1980/81            7.4       28.5           -          6.0
1981/82            5.5       34.0           -          6.0
PROCUREMENT:              On the Bank/IDA financed components procurement through
international competitive bidding would be for goods and
services valued at about $35 million including contingencies.
It would include civil works for the major irrigation
structures, the excavation of the supply canal and part-
of the main canal, land levelling,buildings and ginnery.   The
construction of the Project's internal roads, civil
works for part of the main canal and irrigation and
drainage network, and bush clearing (total value about



Page 3 of 3
US$6.5 million) would be undertaken on a force account
basis by the National Youth Service (NYS), a Kenya
Government agency. Contracts for traditional building
materials for settlers' houses (US$2 million) would be
awarded after competitive bidding,advertised locally and
in accordance with normal Government procurement procedures.
Contracts for the purchase of goods would be bulked as far
as possible and orders for goods of US$100,000 or more would
be procured through international competitive bidding, in
accordance with Bank Group guidelines. In the evaluation
of bids, local manufacturers would be allowed a preference
of 15% or the existing rate of duty, whichever is lower.
Civil works (other than for the construction of tenants'
and teachers' housing,, primary schools, social halls, roads,
afforestation, land clearing and minor irrigation works,
or contracts costing less than US$200,000) would be carried
out by contractors selected following international com-
petitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines.
In the evaluation of bids for civil works, local con-
tractors would have a 7-1/2% preference margin. Civil
works with contracts or items costing less than US$200,000
would be done by contractors selected in accordance with
Government procedures. Draft tender documents for all
contracts expected to cost in excess of US$300,000 would
be submitted to the Bank Group for approval before invi-
tations are issued, and bid analysis for comment, before
contracts are awarded. The construction of tenants' and
teachers' housing, primary schools and social halls would
be done by the NIB under force account and the plantation
of forests would be carried out by the Forest Department
under force account. For project components financed on
a parallel basis by the other cofinancing organizations,
procurement would be in accordance with their guidelines.
MANAGEMENT               An experienced agricultural management firm or organization,
AND                   expected to be the Commonwealth Development Corporation, would
CONSULTANTS:             provide agricultural management services for the project.   A
consortium of consultants, headed by Sir M. MacDonald and
Partnerp, including Hunting Technical Services, Ltd. and
East African Engineering Consultants (Kenya), prepared the
Project Planning Report, reviewed project designs and will
prepare tender documents and supervise Project implementation.
The consultants for the feasibility study for the development
of the Tana River East Bank have not yet been hired. Some
50 man-months is required for this study. Also, a sociologist
or team of sociologists would be required to assist NIB during
a 5-year period (36 man-months at the minimum).
RATE OF RETURN:          13.0%.
APPRAISAL REPORT:        Report No. 1446-KE, dated May 24, 1977, entitled "Kenya-
Bura Irrigation Settlement Project".
MAP:                     Bank Map Nos. 12225R and 12226R1.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
FOR A PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA -
FOR AN IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Loan
to the Republic of Kenya for the equivalent of US$34.0 million, and a proposed
Credit of US$6.0 million on standard IDA terms, to help finance the Bura Irri-
gation Settlement Project. The Loan would have a term of 20 years including
4-1/2 years grace at an annual interest rate of 8.2%. The grant element of the
combined IDA Credit and Bank Loan is about 13%. In addition, the Republic of
Kenya has obtained a loan from the Netherlands of US$8.8 million equivalent and
is negotiating a "special loan" from the Commission of European Communities of
US$12.0 million equivalent, a loan from the Commonwealth Development Corporation
(UK) of US$8.5 million equivalent and a grant from the United Kingdom of US$8.5
million equivalent to be applied towards the project.
PART I -   THE ECONOMY-/
Background
2.        A report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects"
(Report No. 1284a-KE, dated October 15, 1976) was distributed to the Executive
Directors in October 1976. The report provided background documentation for
the Consultative Group Meeting on Kenya,held in November 1976.
3.        With an average per capita income of $220 in 1975, Kenya still
belongs among the poorest countries in the world, despite an excellent
rate of growth of 6.6% per year from Independence until 1973. But growth
slowed down in 1974 and was brought to a near standstill in 1975, as
accelerating world inflation (including rising oil prices) coupled with
persistent drought reduced Kenya's import capacity and economic activity.
The country now faces two basic challenges in its development strategy:
how to resume rapid growth,and secondly, how to ensure at the same time
that the lowest-income earners share in economic and social progress.
Weather conditions improved in 1976 briiBging growth back to about 5% and
unusually high coffee prices as well as depressed import growth helped to
reduce the deficit on the current account of the balance of payments, thus
providing some temporary relief. However, this does not eliminate the problem
of a structural balance of payments constraint.
1/ This section is the same as that of the President's Report on the Kenya
Third IDB Loan dated May 18,1977.



- 2 -
4.         Economic development will have to follow a different path in the
future in order to combine rapid growth including progress for the lower income
groups with a lower import dependency. Promotion of rapid growth was the major
instrument through which the Government sought to achieve economic as well as
social objectives in the first decade. More investment was to create better
employment opportunities and higher production was to widen the tax basis thus
allowing more public outlays for educational and health facilities. However,
Kenya's Third Development Plan FY74-78 already recognized that past economic
performance had brought significant benefits to the lower-income groups, but
the poor had not yet benefitted as much as desired. The slowdown in economic
growth in 1974-75 made it difficult for the Government to promote equity because
maintaining production required its full attention. Kenya's development strategy
should balance the reliance on high growth rates to bring about improved employ-
ment and income-earning opportunities to lower-income groups with a more direct
approach to enhance the productivity of the poor. The Bank intends to give
particular attention to this question in its future economic work.
5.         The Government is now restructuring its development strategy and
implementing the restructuring program. The restructuring will have to be brought
about first and foremost in agriculture, the largest sector in Kenya's economy.
In the past, agriculture contributed in significant ways to rapid growth,
increases in productivity of lower-income earners and distribution of development
benefits; not only did the sector grow at an average annual rate of 4.7% in total
and 6% in monetary agriculture, the Government also brought several hundred
thousand small farmers into the market economy through special programs in coffee,
tea, pyrethrum and dairy production. Nevertheless, this still left the majority
of the rural population (those living in areas with lower agricultural potential)
in poverty. To assist effectively many of these people in raising farm produc-
tivity and incomes, agricultural support services have to be progressively
extended from high and medium to low and marginal potential agriculture.
The Economic Crisis of 1974 and 1975 and Recovery in 1976
6.         In 1974, Kenya experienced with many other countries a serious setback
to its development efforts when soaring world inflation, increasing oil prices
and stagnating export demand coupled with adverse weather resulted in a large
balance of payments deficit and growth slowed down to around 4%. The terms of
trade dropped sharply, the widening trade gap led to an overall deficit and Kenya
had to use part of its foreign exchange reserves, notwithstanding IMF assistance.
At the same time, domestic inflation rose to 15%. In 1975, GDP hardly grew at
all (0.7%) due mainly to disappointing performance in the agricultural sector
where the incentives of higher producer prices were frustrated by adverse weather
for all crops except maize. Employment in the modern sector declined while
inflation continued at a high level of 19%. The terms of trade deteriorated
further but due to low levels of economic activity, imports declined and the
current account deficit as well as the overall deficit were considerably smaller
than in 1974. Economic activity resumed with a 5% growth of GDP in 1976, thanks
to an 8% growth in agriculture following fair weather and higher prices for
several major crops. Also, manufacturing growth improved to 7%. Employment
grew by 4%, while inflation slowed down considerably. Imports grew only slowly,
while exports increased sharply thanks to exceptionally high coffee prices.   The
deficit on current account decreased and Kenya's overall balance of payments
showed a surplus in 1976.



-3-
7.         Throughout the period 1974-1976, the Government has managed to
maintain Kenya's relatively high investments and savings levels, by containing
in particular private consumption growth. Public consumption has, however,
increased as government tasks are expanding steadily. Kenya's budget policy
had traditionally been conservative. Until the early 1970's, Kenya managed
to boost public savings, thus allowing public investments to increase with a
relatively small supplement from foreign financing and very little short-term
credit. The effort to maintain the same investment momentum in the face of
high inflation led to a change in this favorable situation. The overall budget
deficit increased from $101 million in FY74 to $249 million in FY76 and even
somewhat higher in FY77. Larger financing by short-term credit and increasing
recourse to foreign sources became necessary.
Restructuring Program
8.         The Government responded to the economic crisis in 1974, first, by
introducing measures which minimized the loss of reserves and controlled
domestic demand, including sales taxes, credit restrictions, passing on the
increases in oil prices to users and a freeze in government recruitment.
Secondly, since the Development Plan had been overtaken by events, it formulatec
a medium-term Restructuring Program with more modest growth and equity tar2ets.
Achieving these targets requires restraining consumption in favor of investments
lowering Kenya's high import-dependence and making the economy more export-
oriented. For the manufacturing sector, this means reorientation of industrial
growth towards greater use of domestic instead of imported resources and promot-
ing efficiency in production for the local market and, increasingly, for export:
9.         The Government has begun to implement the Restructuring Program.
With regard to budgetary policies; procedures to ensure proper controls on
expenditure have been strengthened. In order to enhance the production and
employment impact of public investments, the Government has shifted resources
from infrastructure outlays which increase production only gradually to more
directly productive sectors, such as agriculture and manufacturing. The latter
sector's share in the development budget increased from 29% in FY74 to 45% in
FY76. Simultaneously, in highway construction which so far has been highly
capital-intensive, projects have now been started using more labor-intensive
technology. In its efforts to influence private sector development, in
particular agricultural production and incomes, the Government has introduced
substantial farmgate price increases in 1975 and 1976. A continuing and
systematic review of these prices is now being mounted. These higher prices
benefitting the farmers are in most cases passed on to the domestic consumers.
This has helped to correct the adverse rural-urban terms of trade and avoid
subsidies to be carried by the Treasury. The Government has also introduced
duties on hitherto duty-free imports of intermediate and capital goods to
encourage a more rational protective system; it has increased the sales tax on
luxury goods and is paying an export subsidy of 10% to stimulate manufactured
exports. Last but not least, the Government -- in conjunction with Tanzania
and Uganda -- devalued the Kenya shilling by 14% in October 1975.



- 4 -
10.       Despite these efforts more vigorous Government action remains to be
taken in some areas. Future industrial growth will depend on the promotion of
efficient industries, some of which may produce import-substitutes but most of
which will be required to compete in export markets outside the East African
Community. At the present time, the manufacturing sector is almost completely
dependent on imported capital equipment and spare parts, and heavily dependent
on imported raw materials and intermediate products. The linkages between
manufacturing and agriculture have not yet been fully exploited. There is also
a need to change trade policies and incentives which presently favor the import-
substitution industries at the expense of others. The Government is starting to
encourage small-and medium-scale industries which are more likely to utilize
domestic resources and are less dependent on imported capital equipment than
large-scale enterprises; the International Finance Corporation has signed an
agreement with a commercial bank to promote medium-scale enterprises and a Bank
project to finance small-scale enterprises is presently under preparation. The
Government is preparing a comprehensive industrial program and intends to under-
take in-depth studies of special industrial issues such as promotion of appro-
priate technology and resource-based industries.
11.       The Government continues to make efforts to mobilize additional
resources for the public sector but in view of the already high tax effort it
may prove difficult to keep up with rapidly rising demand for both Government
services and investments. Special pressures on the budget at this time derive
from the Government's intentions to bring more services to the rural areas as
well as cost escalation on many development projects. The Government will,
therefore, require more external assistance. Moreover, after having held down
wages and salaries in the public sector for several years, the Government is
likely to experience difficulties in devising wages and incomes policies which
effectively hold domestic inflation below world inflation.
External Debt
12.       The current low overall debt service ratio of about 6% (including a
notional 50% share of the debt of the East African Community Corporations) is
expected to rise to about 10% by 1985. Including the notional share of EAC debt,
the IBRD is presently holding 31% of Kenya's outstanding external debt and IDA
14%; the IBRD share is expected to rise to 38% and the IDA share to 15%. Debt
service payments to the Bank are about 30% of total debt service payments; IDA's
share is less than 1%. These two figures are projected to increase to 39% and
1%, respectively, by 1985. These reflect the gradual switch by other donors
from loans to straight grants or to loans on very concessional terms in recent
years as well as the Government's conservative commercial borrowing policy.
Despite the considerable efforts of the Government to improve domestic resource
mobilization, limitations on domestic resources are such that it must finance
from external sources a substantial part of the costs of the development program,
including local costs.



-5-
East African Community
13.       The 1967 Treaty for East African Cooperation made provisions for
far-reaching and comprehensive economic cooperation arrangements among Kenya,
Tanzania and Uganda. In its initial years the EAC had set up institutions,
policies, and procedures for operating the common market and the large infra-
structure services, and encouraging progress was achieved. It has been
followed, however, by a period of tension and mutual suspicion concerning the
distribution of net benefits derived from the Community. The infrastructure
services were hampered by restrictive tariff policies; services declined, and
Partner States subventions were required for the Railways from time to time to
keep the services running. The poor performance of the common services in
transport and communications also impaired trade and general movement of goods
within the countries, affecting the general economic development program.
These difficulties were aggravated by the severe budgetary and balance of pay-
ments constraints faced by all three Partner States in the past few years. As
a consequence, there has been a continuous diminution in the authority of the
Community institutions. Failure to agree on arrangements for transfer of funds
between the Regional Offices and the service Headquarters have often paralyzed
the operation of the Headquarters, affected their morale and on a number of
occasions led to delays in meeting their external obligations.
14.       In 1975 the Partner States recognized that their fundamental political
and economic differences had so affected the working of the Community, that a
review of the 1967 Treaty was called for. A Commission was appointed for this
purpose in November 1975 but adjourned sine die in November 1976 without being
able to make agreed recommendations regarding the future structure of the EAC.
Meanwhile,although no de jure action has been taken, further deterioration in
Community relationships has led to a further dismantling of the Corporations.
The Railway Headquarters has in effect been disbanded and the nationals working
in the Headquarters have joined their respective Regional Offices. Recently,
the East African Airways Corporation (EAA) collapsed in part due to the lack of an
effective mechanism for interstate transfer of funds. The Headquarters of the
East African Harbours has existed in name only for at least a year with the
Ports authorities in Mombasa and Dar es Salaam functioning autonomously. The
East African Posts and Telecommunications Corporation has so far functioned with
a semblance of Headquarters responsibilities but is now fast delegating its
headquarters functions to its regional offices. The respective regional branches
provide the services,and domestic development programs in this sector are not
likely to be impaired.
15.       The difficulties facing the EAC and the common services have affected
the Bank's lending to the Community. Because of failure to meet debt service
obligations, the Bank suspended disbursements last year for about a month.
Except for a second line of credit to the EADB in March 1976, the other corpora-
tions have received no-new loans from the Bank since 1973. A presentation of
the recent development of EAC was made to the Executive Directors in a meeting
on March 15, 1977,and subsequently a report was distributed to the Executive
Directors on March 18, 1977.   The Bank has continued to disburse on its 5 ongoing
loans to the Corporations and as of April 30, 1977, $36.9 million remain to be
disbursed.



- 6 -
PART II - BANK GROUPtS OPERATIONS IN KENYA"
16.       Hitherto, Kenya has received 24 Bank loans and 21 IDA credits
amounting to $393.9 million and $179.7 million, respectively, supporting
39 operations. In addition, Kenya has been one of the beneficiaries of
10 loans totalling $244.8 million which have been extended for the develop-
ment of common services (railways, ports, telecommunications and finance
for industry), operated regionally for the three Partner States of the
East African Community. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans
and IDA credits to Kenya and East African Corporations, a summary of IFC
investments in Kenya, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
17.       The Bank has assisted the Government in its efforts to restructure
the economy. In connection with loan and credit negotiations, the Government
has taken a number of steps to implement its Restructuring Program. On the
institutional side, the planning and implementation capacity of the Ministry
of Agriculture has been strengthened, the Cotton Board has been reorganized,
a Land Use Committee has been set up and the National Committee on Educational
Objectives and Priorities, established in connection with the Third Education
Project, has now completed its work. However, progress in shifting the focus
of the Government's industrial policies from import-substitution to domestic
resource-based production capable of competing in export markets is slow.
18.       Significant progress has also been made in restructuring the
Bank's lending program towards the directly productive sectors, in giving
it a rural focus, and in concentrating on employment and income distribution
objectives. The first Integrated Agricultural Development Project (IADP),
approved in July 1976, is aimed directly at small and subsistence farmers.
The Rural Access Roads Project, approved at the same time as the IADP, is
financing labor-intensive infrastructural developments. During this fiscal
year, a Sugar Project and a Third Agricultural Credit Project were approved.
This year the Bank also supported the tourism sector in Kenya for the
first time - an effort which is intended to help Kenya further exploit its
considerable foreign exchange earning potential. The industrial lending
program is now also progressing well. A small-scale industry project,
prepared with substantial Bank staff assistance, has been appraised and
identification of a large-scale industrial project is now under way.
Assistance is also being given in the preparation of high priority infra-
structural projects, among which are the Nairobi Water Supply Extension and
the Rural Water Supply Project, and for additional housing in Nairobi,
Mombasa and Kisumu through the upgrading and sites and services approach.
1/ This section is the same as that of the President's Report on the
Kenya Third IDB Loan dated May 18, 1977.



-7-
19.       Overall, project implementation performance is satisfactory.   One
major exception is the Second Livestock Project which is suffering from
inadequate producer prices as well as organizational difficulties reflecting
in part the complexity of the project. Progress on the Group Farms Rehabili-
tation Project has also been slow due to administrative difficulties and
reluctance of group owners to participate, but this has now improved. Finally,
Kenya has experienced serious cost overruns, most notably on the Nairobi
Airport Project.
International Finance Corporation (IFC)
20.       IFC has committed a total of $36.8 million for four companies in.
Kenya: Pan African Paper Mills   Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties Ltd.; Tourism
Promotion Services (Kenya) Ltd.; and Rift Valley Textiles (Ltd.). A credit
line for medium- and small-scale industries was extended to the Commercial
Bank of Kenya.   As of April 30, 1977, IFC held for its own account $28.7
million comprising $20.7 million of loans and $8.0 million of equity.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
21.       Agriculture remains the most important sector of Kenya's economy.
It provides the livelihood of some 11 million people (about 90% of the total
population), generates over 60% of foreign exchange earnings and comprises
over 30% of GDP. At the time of independence, agricultural production in
Kenya was dominated by large-scale holdings operated mainly by Europeans,and
Government emphasis was on the development of large-scale farmers. Since
then, the Government has placed greater priority on small-scale farmers to
maintain production especially for exports. Accordingly most of the large
farmholdings were transferred to Africans either intact or subdivided. Today
there are more than 1.2 million farmholdings with an area of 20 hectares or
less; 50% of these holdings are less than 2 hectares each, barely adequate
to meet subsistence needs of the average rural families. The majority of the
holdings are farmed by their owners, many of whom are women. About 20% of the
rural population remains landless with no formal means of support.
22.       Subsistence produce, consumed directly by farmers and their families,
makes up over 50% of total agricultural output. Maize is the major subsistence
crop, although it is produced on a commercial basis as well. Other subsistence
crops include millet, cassava, potatoes, plantains and bananas. Commercial
production for export focuses on coffee, tea, sisal, pyrethrum and wattle. However,
cashewnuts, pineapples, castor beans, coconuts and wool are becoming increasingly
important. Wheat, rice, sugar and cotton are produced largely as cash crops, but
are almost totally consumed within the country. While meat and dairy products
continue to be significant in subsistence agriculture, a growing proportion of the
livestock produced is marketed domestically or exported.



-8.-
23.       Agricultural development is controlled by an elaborate network of
government organizations and semi-public bodies. The Ministry of Agriculture is
primarily concerned with setting overall policy including pricing policy, and
providing general support services (such as research, extension and training).
It also exercises control over a wide range of specialized production and market-
ing boards and agencies. Other Ministries, including Lands and Settlement,
Cooperatives and Social Services, Tourism and Wildlife, Natural Resources and
Works, are responsible for other services in the agricultural sector.
Agricultural Development Strategy
24.       In view of the importance of agriculture to the Kenyan economy, the
Government is relying heavily on this sector to aid in ameliorating many of the
country's most critical economic and social problems. The Government is adopting
policies which should enable the agricultural sector to play an important role
in providing employment for a labor force which is growing at the rate of 4 percent
per annum (faster than jobs become available in the modern sector); to contribute
towards a reduction in the high rate of migration into urban areas (which are
growing at about 6 percent a year vs. a 3.5 percent growth rate for the popu-
lation as a whole); and to allay the poverty of some of the neediest areas in
the country. Average rural income is estimated at $70 per capita, vs. $220
per capita for the country as a whole. Besides attempting to reduce the
rural-urban income differentials, the Government is pursuing policies that
aim at reducing the inequities of income and wealth in the agricultural sector,
increasing exports and reducing agricultural imports. The mix of crops used
in agricultural development schemes is now being oriented towards supplying
an increasing share of domestic food requirements (maize, sorghum, millet,
pulses, meat, dairy products), while continuing to support the growth of the
country's exports (coffee, tea, sisal, pyrethrum, dairy products, meat, cotton).
Reduction of the country's imports of raw materials of agricultural origin
(oilseeds, sugar), or products manufactured from these materials is also
receiving priority. In trying to achieve these goals, the Government's agri-
cultural development strategy is focusing primarily on ways to increase the
productive potential of the 1.2 million smallholders (farmers with a holding
of under 20 ha) and on ways of assisting rural families without access to land.
25.       The Bank Group has responded to the Government's efforts in agriculture
by providing support for a number of projects designed to improve rural infra-
structure and increase productivity (see para 18). Through the development of
these projects a dialogue is being maintained with the Government on such crucial
matters as institution building, establishment of agricultural support services,
marketing and delivery systems and pricing policies.



-9-
Irrigation in Kenya
26.       There is tremendous population pressure on agricultural land in Kenya.
Only 18% of the total land area of 57.7 million ha is of high or medium
agricultural potential. Given current population growth trends, this agri-
cultural land per rural inhabitant (88 percent of the total population in
1977) would decrease from about .84 ha in 1977 to around .47 ha in twenty
years' time -- an alarming decrease of 44 percent. This fundamental decline
underlies the Government's attempts to create new agricultural areas through
irrigation schemes, and to relocate landless farmers to these areas.
27.       The Government's decision to invest in irrigation schemes at this
juncture stems fromthe recognition of the population pressures on good agri-
cultural land, and of the gradual reduction of this fertile agricultural
area by soil erosion. In some cases, lack of land is forcing small farmers
to cultivate river banks, steep hills and very marginal areas. This results
in severe soil erosion and water pollution, which the Government is attempting
to reduce. Studies of new dryland farming techniques are under way, and pilot
projects to try out the new conservation measures have been initiated.
However, the development and application of these techniques will require
time, and there is no likely immediate solution. Concurrently with these
efforts, the Government is looking into the possibility of cultivating hitherto
unproductive areas under irrigation schemes.
28.       Several irrigation schemes have been carried out already, and currently
involve some 4,600 families over a total of 8,500 ha (or 1.8 ha per family). Rice
is by far the major crop being produced, with total production in 1974 valued at
about US$2,380,000. The largest and most successful scheme, at Mwea, involves
some 3,000 families on 5,700 ha, and is devoted mainly to rice production. Admin-
istrative and technical difficulties have been overcome, and the project is now
self supporting. Average annual income per family on the project was about US$580
in 1976. The Hola Pilot Irrigation Scheme, with some 580 families on 850 ha,
located some 20 km south of the Bura project area is important because of its
similarity with the proposed project, i.e. soils are similar, holdings cover about 1.5
ha, and cotton and maize are the main crops as is the case in the proposed pro-
ject. The Hola project, which requires financial support from the Government in
order to continue to function due to very high overhead costs in relation to pro-
ject size, has undergone some managerial and implementation difficulties which
have lowered total output. Cotton and maize yields have been good, however, with
average farm incomes rising from $130 in 1966 to about US$620 in 1975. Increased
managerial and technical efficiency in the proposed Bura project is expected to
produce comparable or higher yields.
29.       The Government has also been involved in various resettlement schemes,
carried out in an effort to reduce the population pressure on the more fertile
agricultural lands. The most important settlement project in the last twenty
years was the Million Acre Settlement Program (1962) which involved relocating
about 35,000 families on smallholder plots covering 670,000 ha of land. Other
settlement programs accounted for the relocation of 16,400 families on small-
holder farms covering 167,500 ha. Later schemes such as the one started in
1971 in Shirika involved the takeover and management of large expatriate-owned
farms as integral units. Although the success of these efforts has been limited
by inefficiencies in project management and the inadequate provision of the
necessary social and agricultural support services, the Government has gained
valuable experience in the mobilization and settling of large numbers of people.



- 10 -
Institutional Framework
30.       Irrigation and settlement schemes are carried out by the Ministry of
Agriculture in cooperation with various semi-autonomous statutory boards. One
of these, the National Irrigation Board (NIB), established in 1966, is respon-
sible for the planning, construction, settlement and management of irrigation and
settlement projects. Membership of the NIB includes the directors of the
Government agencies that would be involved in irrigation schemes: the Ministry
of Agriculture (with the chairmanship of the Board), the Ministry of Water
Development, the Ministry of Finance and Development Planning and the
Water Apportionment Board. An advisory committee is appointed by the Board to
oversee each project. The Board now manages five irrigation and settlement
projects.
31.       The NIB's overall performance since its inception has been uneven in
quality. Two of the schemes can be considered successful, with the problems
in the other projects still being overcome. The main problems appeared to stem
from factors such as weak management, lack of seasonal credit for farmers, in-
efficient extension services, poor roads, inadequate water supplies and poor
health and social facilities. Specific steps have been taken in subsequent pro-
jects,including the proposed project,to develop adequate managerial capacity
and social services to overcome these problems.
32.       In planning the proposed project, the NIB has been supported by the
Tana River Development Authority (TRDA) which was established in 1972. The
TRDA has carried out comprehensive studies 6f the hydro-electric, agricultural
and irrigation potential for this basin and has, in addition, assisted the NIB
in the planning of the proposed project.
33.       The Government has a number of pricing and marketing boards which
intervene in the markets for agricultural products such as maize, cotton, wheat,
sisal, meat and others. Those agencies likely to be of importance to irrigation
and settlement schemes include: (i) the Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board
(CLSMB) with responsibility for purchasing seed cotton, marketing lint and seed,
fixing prices and regulating general aspects of the cotton industry, and (ii)
the Maize and Produce Board (MPB) which is the sole legal purchaser of maize
sold across district boundaries and an agent for other crops such as pulses
and oilseeds.
34.       The CLSMB has had problems in effectively carrying nut its allotted
functions, due to ineffective management. Steps have been taken under the
Integrated Agricultural Development Project,approved by the Executive Directors
earlier this year,to improve management and streamline the Board's operations.
By December 31, 1977, the CLSMB is also to submit to the Association for
approval its detailed plans and proposed program for: (i) providing security
of adequate returns to cotton farmers including guaranteed minimum prices to
be published annually before January 1,which would provide an incentive to grow
cotton, especially of the higher grades; (ii) implementing a system for returning
to NIB for distribution to farmers any profits from sales above certain levels;
(iii) adopting adequate accounting procedures; and (iv) introducing an improved
cotton lint grading system including provision for grading cotton produced
under irrigation.  In addition, the Government has agreed to offer a premium



- 11 -
price to farmers for higher grades of cotton (Section 3.08(a) and (b) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). 1/
35.       Credit is mainly provided by the Agricultural Finance Corporation
and the Cooperative Bank,which channels its lending through cooperatives. The
short-term financial requirements of farmers on irrigation schemes are met by
the NIB. Agricultural research is dispersed among a large number of organi-
zations. Crop research is largely on a commodity basis, with a major emphasis
on maize, wheat, sugar, coffee, tea and pyrethrum. Field trials on irrigated
crops such as cotton have been carried out by the NIB on the Hola Pilot Irri-
gation Scheme since 1966. The Ministry of Agriculture has a large extension
service but its effectiveness could be improved. On irrigation schemes the NIB
operates its own extension services.
Government Strategy for Settlement and Irrigation Schemes
36.       The Government has given increasing priority to investments designed
to produce additional farmland through irrigation, and to settle these lands
with landless, rural people. Irrigation settlement projects, however, are
typically more costly on a per-hectare or per-tenant basis then other agricultural
projects, due to the need to construct an irrigation system, develop infrastructure
in the project area, and utilize highly productive cultivation methods in order
to maximize yields. Nevertheless, the Government considers that the hieh invest-
ment requirements are justified by improved crop yields and the steady incomes
provided to previously landless farmers. Also, due to the increasing severity
of the population pressure on good agricultural land in Kenya, and the fact
that irrigation projects are one of the more immediate ways of increasing agri-
cultural production, absorbing labor and increasing rural incomes, the Govern-
ment has decided to go ahead with a large-scale irrigation program. Over 50%
of the land identified as potentially suitable for new large-scale irrigation
development lies in the basin of the Tana River. The remaining irrigable land
is in the Lake Victoria Basin and the Rift Valley. The Government is, however,
giving priority to the irrigation development in the Tana River Basin where com-
prehensive studies have been undertaken and a long-term development strategy
outlined. Projects envisaged for the area include: (i) a reservoir in the Upper
Tana River to generate hydroelectric power, provide water for small-scale irri-
gation in the Upper Basin, and regulate the flow of water to the Lower Basin;
(ii) the irrigation of 6,700 ha on the West bank under the proposed Bura scheme,
with possible expansion to 12,000 ha; and (iii) the possible irrigation of 50,000 ha
on the East Bank of the river. Further studies will be carried out to determine
whether the most economic alternative for future development is large-scale
intensive development of the lower Tana River Basin, or partial development of
the lower Tana Basin combined with supplementary irrigation upstream.
1/ All references to the draft Development Credit Agreement are also obli-
gations under the draft Loan Agreement.



-12-
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.        The proposed project was initially studied by consultants for the
Government of Kenya, under Dutch bilateral technical assistance. A project
covering 14,000 ha was appraised in November 1975. Additional soil studies
requested during the appraisal indicated, however, that soil conditions were
not as favorable as originally assessed, and the project was reappraised to
cover 6,700 ha in October/November 1976. An appraisal report entitled "Bura
Irrigation Settlement Project", No. 1446-KE, dated May 24,1977, is being cir-
culated separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in Nairobi,
Kenya in April/May 1977. The Kenya Delegation was headed by Mr. S. Gathiuni,
Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture. A Project Summary is pre-
sented at the beginning of this report.
38.        The proposed project, to be implemented over five and a half years, would
provide for the construction of an irrigation system to sustain the cultivation
of cotton, maize, groundnuts and cowpeas, on 6,700 ha; the settlement of
5,150 families (36,000 people) on this land; the agricultural management of
the scheme; the establishment of research facilities; and feasibility studies
of a possible future area for irrigation and settlement. The project would
provide a livelihood for some 65,000 people by 1985. It comprises:
(a) the construction of a diversion structure on the Tana
River, supply, main and subsidiary irrigation canals,
a surface drainage system, land clearing and levelling,
and a temporary pumping station;
(b) the improvement of main roads and the construction of
internal project roads;
(c) town and village infrastructure facilities;
(d) the construction of scheme buildings, administrative
and governmental facilities, and public health facilities,
and provision of materials for houses for the tenant
families, 25 schools, teachers' houses and social halls,
to be built by the tenants, adequate for an estimated
total population of 65,000 people;
(e) the selection and settlement of about 5,150 tenant fami-
lies on holdings of 1.30 ha each;
(f) provision for agricultural inputs and marketing facilities
for project crops, a cotton ginning factory with storage
facilities, extension services to local inhabitants, and
an agricultural research station;
(g) provision for the protection of local wildlife and existing
riverine forest, and the establishment of afforestation
plantations under partial irrigation; and



- 13 -
(h) the provision of agricultural management services and con-
sultancy services for project planning and implementation,
the strengthening of the Government institutions involved in
settlement and irrigation projects, provision for continuous
evaluation and monitoring of the project and the preparation
of feasibility studies for a future irrigation project on the
East Bank of the Lower Tana River and other studies aimed at developing
livestock, fisheries and vegetable production in the Bura area.
Project Area
39.       Land to be irrigated under the project lies on the West Bank of the
Lower Tana River, in the northeastern part of the country. Access is by means
of a fair-weather road, with Nairobi 445 km to the West and Mombasa 380 km to
the South. The area has an arid, desert-type climate, with sparse vegetation
except for the riverine forests. The river meanders through a narrow flood-
plain in the project area, but is subject to sudden peak flows during rainy
seasons. Low season flows are regulated by reservoirs upriver. The project
area is at present populated by the Pokomo/Malekote tribes, who cultivate the
riverine margins, and the Orma, nomadic pastoralists. Vector-borne and para-
sitic diseases, principally schistosomiasis and malaria, are prevalent in the
local population. The land in the project area is state-owned or trust
land and most of it has traditionally been used by the Orma, who graze their
cattle there. The project area is also inhabited by wildlife (including ele-
phants and other large mammals).
40.       The quality of the Tana River water is excellent for irrigation.
Peak demand for water for the project, including irrigation, livestock and
domestic requirements would occur in May and totals 8 m3/sec. The mean flow
of the river is 164 m5/sec. Adequate minimum flows would be guaranteed for
the Bura Project, as well as for down-stream water requirements (Section 6.02
of draft Development Credit Agreement).
Irrigation Works
41.       The 6,700 ha of project land would be supplied with water drawn from
the Tana River by means of a diversion structure and an intake structure capable
of accommodating possible future irrigation requirements for the area. Pro-
vision would be made to deal with possible floods, and the discharge of accumulated
sediment. Water would be diverted by gravity, except in the first two years of
operation when temporary pumping facilities would be installed to provide the
first settlers with water,and carried to the project area by a Supply Canal
about 45 km long. A Main Canal (about 20 km) would feed a distribution system
of branch and feeder canals. A surface drainage system would carry off excess
water from the fields, using existing stream beds. Bush clearing and land
levelling would be done by bulldozers, with the canals being excavated by ditchers.
Roads aiO Village Infrastructure
42.       Improvements would be made to the Garissa-Garsen trunk road connect-
ing the project area to Nairobi and Mombasa. An access road to the diversion



- 14 -
site and internal project roads would also be constructed. Maintenance of
these roads, especially the Garissa-Garsen route,would be critical to the
successful implementation of the project. The Government would reconstruct
the Garissa-Garsen road to standards acceptable to the Association and would
maintain it adequately (Section 3.07 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
Population centers would be constructed on non-irrigable land and would
include a principal town containing the project headquarters and 23 villages in
which tenants would live. The proposed standards of design and construction
would have to be acceptable to the Association (Section 3.06(b) of draft
Development Cred't Agreement). All population centers would be provided with
roads, potable water supplies, and sewage disposal. Buildings such as social
halls, primary schools, teacher housing and settlers' dwellings would be built
by the tenants themselves with materials provided under the project. All
other buildings would be erected by contractors.
Public Health Aspects
43.       Intensive public health measures would be needed in the project
area, as endemic vector-borne and parasitic diseases could seriously weaken
non-immune immigrant tenant families and construction workers; the incoming
population might bring with them new diseases, and the introduction of irrigation
could aggravate water-borne diseases. Public health measures would include
comprehensive health screening of incoming personnel, the establishment of a
disease surveillance unit, control programs for malaria, schistosomiasis and
other vector-borne communicable diseases, and a cost-effective health care
d&elivery system responsive to the needs of the very diverse tenant population.
Recreation ponds would be constructed in the villages to divert the children
from swimming in schistosomiasis-infected canals.
Settlement Program
44.       In order to accommodate as many settlers as possible in the project
area, tenants would be allocated a relatively small holding of 1.25 ha each
for cash crops, plus an additional 0.05 ha each as a garden area producing
for family consumption.
45.       About 5,150 landless farmer families selected from all parts of
Kenya would be brought in,in groups over a three and a half-year period starting in
1979. Priority would be given to the inclusion of members of local tribes
(the Orma, the Pokomo and Malekote) in the scheme, while the rest would be
drawn from areas in Kenya with high population density coupled with low
carrying capacity of the land. Eligible candidates would be healthy, landless,
under-employed or unemployed with a sufficiently large family to provide the
necessary family labor for the holding, and with experience in agriculture.



-15-
Settlement Committees in each district would propose potential candidates. NIB
would have ultimate responsibility for the final selection of settlers. In order
to mitigate the potential difficulties arising from the uprooting, relocation
and juxtaposition of families of varying backgrounds from all over the country,
consultants would be engaged to study this issue, and determine appropriate
policies. As misallocation of family income has resulted in family malnourishment
and reduced productivity on previous irrigation projects, the Government has also
agreed to pay directly to the household member responsible for raising of children
(usually the wife) a portion of the income to ensure proper feeding and raising
of children (draft Development Credit Agreement and Schedule 4 of draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement). Transportation to be arranged by Settlement Committees
would be provided by the Government. Heads of families would precede their
dependents by a few months and would occupy these holdings under the license as
is Government practice in irrigation projects. The license is issued by the NIB
initially for 15 years with automatic renewal annually thereafter.
46.       About 750 families of project and Government staff and 2,500 families
of people providing retail and other services are also expected to settle in
the project area, bringing the 1985 project population to about 65,000. This
level of supporting population is considered realistic based on experience in
other irrigation projects.
47.       Rights to the project land would be held by the National Irrigation Board.
It is a condition of loan/credit effectiveness that the Project area be gazetted
to include the Nanigi area and the area to be inundated upstream, together with
its riverine margins, and a suitable area around the irrigated area and the
Supply Canal (Section 6.01 (a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Assur-
ances were received that adequate compensation would be given to those having custo-
mary rights to land and access to water taken over for the project. This would
apply especially to the Orma pastoralists (Section 3.05 (e) of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement).
Training, Monitoring and Evaluation
48.        The project would strengthen the Government's capability to plan and
administer large-scale irrigation and settlement projects by providing for
overseas study for NIB personnel, as well as in-service training. The NIB
would be responsible for preparing and implementing a training program satis-
factory to the Association (Section 3.06 (d) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
49.       The Borrower would continuously monitor and evaluate the progress
of the project, in order to maximize the institutional impact of the project
and make sure that lessons learned in this project are applied to future projects.
Environmental Aspects and Afforestation
50.       The project would have profound effects on the ecology of the area.
Measures would be taken in order to minimize the unavoidable cost in wildlife,



- 16 -
fish and flora. Animal crossings over the canals and drinking ponds would be
constructed. The ribbon of riverine forest along the Tana River would
stabilize the river banks, and serve as a habitat for wildlife. The Government would
gazette as a Forest Reserve the riverine forest in the area of Bura (Section
3.05(c) of draft Development Credit Agreement). Game patrols would be inten-
sified in the area adjacent to Bura to protect the wildlife from poachers
(Section 3.05(d) of draft Development Credit Agreement).
51.       Plantation of forests is considered the most economic way of satis-
fying the requirements of the project population for fuel and building poles.
Consumption is estimated at the equivalent of the yield of about 4000 ha of
managed fast growing forest. For this reason the project provides for planta-
tion of forests. Users would be required to pay for their fuel requirements
without subsidy.
Studies
52.       Because of indications of good soils on the East Bank. the Govern-
ment, with the assistance of consultants, would undertake a feasibility study
of an area initially of about 30,000 ha on the east bank of the Tana River,
to determine its potential for agricultural development under future irri-
gation-settlement schemes. The project also provides for addi-
tional studies to be carried out to determine the feasibility of implementing
schemes for growing vegetables and fruits* and to encourage the production of fish
and livestock and other food products to support the Bura population while at
the same time involving the rural population in income-generating opportunities.
Project Implementation
53.       The NIB would have overall responsibility for carrying out the
project which is expected to be fully implemented by 1983. It would execute
most of the project works, coordinate the implementation activities of other
agencies, disburse all construction funds and oversee all of the settlement
and agricultural development activities. The Board includes representatives
from the principal ministries involved in settlement and irrigation schemes
(see para. 30). Other Government agencies responsible for implementation of
parts of the project include the Ministries of Education, Health, Local
Government, Natural Resources, Tourism and Wildlife, Water, Lands and Settle-
ment, Housing and Social Services, and Cooperatives. The Tana River Develop-
ment Authority (TRDA), responsible for the overall planning and monitoring
of the resources of the Tana River Basin, would be closely associated with
the NIB. Coordination among the various Ministries and agencies would be
ensured by the appointment of a Bura Project Coordinator's Office (BPCO),located
within the NIB, and a Bura Project Steering Committee with representatives from



- 17 -
all the agencies involved (Section 3.01(c) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). The Project Coordinator, whose appointment is a condition of
loan/credit effectiveness, would be responsible for the preparation and sub-
mission of an annual work program, detailing activities and works to be
implemented, to the Association for review and comment by March 31 of each
year (Sections 6.01(c) and 3.04(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
54.        NIB would be responsible for supervision of project construction and im-
plementation. While NIB has had a history of rather weak management, it would now
be strengthened by the appointment of additional staff and the employment of con-
sultants to assist in completing the design and implementing the project. These
appointments would speed implementation, and provide for the training of existing NIB
staff. A consortium of consultants has been hired to complete a Project Planning Report
outlining specific policies on settlement, health, family planning, town and village
planning, administration and social services. The major recommendations of the Report
have been discussed with the Government and the Bank. In addition, the consultants
have updated cost estimates and provided for detailed engineering and construction
plans. The consultants would also supervise procurement and construction, pro-
vide assistance to NIB in project coordination, and, with the assistance of a
sociologist, develop policies to promote the social integration of the various
groups of settlers (Section 3.02 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
55.       Construction, earthmoving and roadbuilding would be carried out by
private contractors and the National Youth Service. Construction of the diver-
sion structure, part of the land levelling operation, and scheme buildings
such as offices for the NIB and other Government agencies, stores, warehouses,
secondary schools, health centers, and housing for NIB and Government staff
would be contracted out to construction firms, which would be supervised by the
NIB and the project consultants. Responsibility for the construction of
internal project roads, and part of the main canal and the irrigation and
drainage network, for bush clearing, on-farm development works, and the improve-
ment of Garissa-Garsen highway,would lie with the National Youth Service (NYS). The
NYS provides training for unskilled youths to help relieve the unemployment
problem. It has previously successfully carried out the construction of road
works financed by the Bank and IDA. With some additional equipment, spare
parts, supervisory staff and technical and managerial assistance, NYS would be
capable of undertaking the proposed tasks. The Ministry of Works would maintain
the Garissa-Garsen highway.
56.       Afforestation and wildlife facilities would be undertaken by the
Forest Department of the Ministry of Natural Resources, which would define the
area to be declared a forest reserve, and would establish and, maintain an
afforested area to provide firewood and building poles for the project area's
population, and by the Ministry of Wildlife and Tourism, which would over-
see the wildlife conservation efforts in the project area (Section 3.05(d) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
57.       The operation of an integrated health program would be the res-
ponsibility of the Ministry of Health, and education programs would be ad-
ministered by the Ministry of Education. The settlers would be assisted with
other problems arising from the settlement and readjustment process by the
Ministry of Housing and Social Services.



- 18 -
58.       Agricultural research for the Lower Tana area would be done by the
NIB at a new agricultural research station to be established in the Project
area. Research would focus on the agricultural and soil problems facing the
implementation of irrigation projects in the Bura area.
Agricultural Management
59.       Agricultural management of the tenants' 1.25 ha holdings, which would
be planted to cotton every year, with maize, cowpeas and possibly groundnuts
planted in the off season, would be carried out by the NIB with assistance from
a management firm or institution for a period of six years. NIB is currently
seeking this assistance from the Commonwealth Development Corporation, The NIB
would provide agricultural inputs such as fertilizers, pesticides, spraying
services and seeds on short-term credit (at 11% per annum). Extension services
for the Project farmers would also be provided by NIB. The seed cotton would
be ginned at a project ginnery. NIB does not intend to delegate the ownership
or operatin of the ginnery to a farmer's cooperative for the time being
(Section 3.06(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). NIB would market
the tenants' produce with the assistance of the Cotton Seed and Lint Marketing
Board and the Maize and Produce Board and would deduct from the proceeds of the
sale charges for the use of land and water, management services and the cost of
farm inputs. The tenants would be required to maintain their holdings in good
condition and to observe rules of good crop husbandry. The legal basis of
management/tenant relationships is the Irrigation (National Irrigation Schemes)
Regulations and the Trust Land Rules which set out the rights and obligations of
both management and tenant to provide safeguards against arbitrary action by the
management. Should the tenant fail to carry out his obligations, the NIB would
indicate its dissatisfaction with the performance and give the tenant a grace
period to improve it. If no improvement is noted, the NIB would issue a written
notice requesting the tenant to explain his non-compliance.   If the tenant fails
to explain his non-compliance and takes no action to correct the situation, the
NIB has the right to recommend his eviction to an Irrigation Committee composed
of government officials and members of the local community.   With the approval
of this committee, the NIB imay revoke the tenant's license. If the tenant
objects, he may appeal to the Minister of Agriculture for a final decision. It
appears that this system is adequate to safeguard the tenants' interests and
rights as evidenced by the low rate of evictions in previous irrigation and
settlement schemes in Kenya and their long waiting lists of applicants. It was
agreed that the Irrigation Committ&e be established with representation of
tenants, and that the Government would review Trust Land Rules by January 1, 1980
(Section 3.09(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
60.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$91.7 million (including
US$9.2 million in taxes and customs duties), with a foreign exchange component
of US$49.3 million, or 54%; physical contingencies total about 14% of base costs
(US$8.8 million) and price contingencies some 28% (US$18.3 million) of base
costs. Details of Project Costs are given in the Loan/Credit and Project Summary.



- 19 -
61.       The proposed Bank Loan of US$34.0 million and IDA Credit of US$6.0
million would finance 48% of project cost net of taxes. The Loan and Credit
would meet US$21.4 million of expenditures in foreign exchange and US$18.6 million
in local costs. The other co-financing agencies are contributing from 11 to 55% of
their share to the local costs of the project. The financing of local costs is
Justified in the light of considerations discussed in para 12 above. The Loan
and Credit would be made to the Government who would pass on the proceeds to the
NIB on a grant basis. An additional US$37.8 million external financing is being
arranged, as shown in the following table, to provide a total of US$77.8 million
from foreign sources:
Bank/IDA                         40.0
European Development Fund (EDF) 12.0
Netherlands                       8.8
United Kingdom (ODM)              8.5
Commonwealth Development
Corporation (CDC)               8.5
It would be a condition of effectiveness. that this external financing had been
arranged (Section 6.01 of draft Development Credit Agreement). The balance of
US$13.9 million excluding taxes and duties would be financed by the Government
of Kenya which would also meet interest during construction of some US$ 6.7 million.
62.       The Bank/IDA and EDF would jointly finance irrigation works and wildlife
conservation works and all buildings. The Netherlands would finance on a parallel
basis the roads and airfields, village infrastructure and some machinery,with pro-
curement confined to the Netherlands and/or certain developing countries. The UK's
support would be on a parallel basis, financing consultancy services, vehicles and
equipment including health equipment. CDC would finance on-farm development work,
incremental farm inputs and agricultural management. The terms of financing by the
cofinancing agencies are described in the Loan/Credit and Project Summary. In
addition, the Bank/IDA would finance afforestation, the ginnery with auxiliary
facilities, feasibility studies, training, and most of the operation and maintenance
expenditures.
Cost Recovery
63.       Water and management charges and the Government's profit margin on ex-
ports of cotton lint would be the principal source of cost recovery for the project.
Agreement has been reached on a water and management charge of about KSh2,800 or
US$330 per ha at full development(which would absorb about 32% of net farmer in-
come including the value of subsistence consumption before charges) and would re-
cover about 40% of the cost of irrigation works and operating and maintenance
costs, without interest. The Government's profits-on cotton exports are expected
to be sufficient to recover the balance of irrigation costs. A charge on settlers
for the repayment of personal housing costs, and other small items such as school
fees would partially recover the cost of the social infrastructure components. The
Government cash flow is negative for the first twenty years of the scheme as the
project loans are being repaid. The value of the Government contribution, dis-
counted at 10% is about US$18 million, representing a 20% subsidy to the scheme.
While the outlay by the Government is relatively high, an increase in Government
charges would reduce farmers' annual incomes below an acceptable level. To
ensure the farmers an acceptable net income while recovering as much as possible of
the cost of the project, the Government has agreed to adjust charges annually taking
into account incentives to the farmer to produce at optimum levels (Section 3.06(f)
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 20 -
Procurement
64.       For the Bank/IDA financed portion, procurement through international competi-
tive bidding would total US$35 million including contingencies. It would include
civil works, the supply canal and buildings valued at $200,000 or more and operation
and maintenance equipment in orders exceeding US$100,000. Orders would be bulked
wherever possible.  For contracts above US$300,000, documents would be subitted to
Bank for review before tendering. For civil works a 7-1/2% margin of preference for
domestic contractors would be granted in the evaluation of bids. For equip-
ment, materials and other goods a preference equal to 15% of the c.i.f. cost
of Imported goods or the customs'duty, whichever is lower, would be
extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. The ginnery
contract would be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding
as A turn key contract. Works implemented by the National Youth Service (NYS) vhirh
include the construction of internal project roads, civil works'for the main canal
and irrigation and drainage network and bush clearing (total value US$6.5 million)
would be carried out on a force account basis. This is justified in view of the pro-
longed nature of the work and the NYS being able to carry out the work at a lower
cost than outside contractors (para 56). Likewise, the afforestation.component
would be carried out by the Forest Department which has a large labor force carrying
out its planting program. Contracts for building materials (mainly building poles,
sand, gravel and roofing materials) for tenants' houses (US$2 million) and all of the
shelf items costing less than US$50,000 each and limited to a total of US$500,000 are
not suitable for international bidding, and would be procured through normal Govern-
ment procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank and IDA.
Disbursement
65.       A schedule of estimated disbursementB is included in the Loan/Credit and
Project Summary.  The IDA/Bank would finance 65% of total costs of the civil works and
contracts for the irrigation works, 60% of the total costs of buildings and afforesta-
on, 100% of foreign expenditure and 80% of local expenditures of studies and staff
lV0% of foreign expenditure and 80% of local expenditures of studies and staff
training. While disbursements by other cofinancing institutions and agencies
would be administered directly by them, it is expected that disbursement for the
irrigation works and buildings would be on a pro-rata basis of 2:1 between
IDA/Bank and EDF. The IDA Credit would be disbursed before the Bank Loan.
66.       Disbursements would be fully documented and certified by the
project consultants with the exception that expenditures for the National
Youth Service, the Forest Department and operations and maintenance for NIB
would be made against certification of expenditures signed by the NIB and
the Ministry of Finance, the documentation for which would not be submitted
to the Association but be retained by the Borrower for inspection by super-
vision missions. Expenditures for these items are likely to amount to
US$22.0 million equivalent of which US$14.0 million would be eligible for
reimbursement by IDA/Bank.



-21-
Audit
67.       Separate project accounts would be kept by NIB, NYS and the Forest
Department. Assurances have been obtained that the NIB would continue to
employ independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and send audited accounts,
together with the auditors' report to the Bank within six months of the end of
the NIB's fiscal year. The National Youth Service's and Forest Department's
accounts would also be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Assoc-
iation and submitted to the Association within six months of the end of their
fiscal years (Section 4.01 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
Economic Benefits and Risks
68.        Due to the population pressures on land in Kenya (only 18% of the total
land area is of high-and medium-agricultural potential), the Government is giving
high priority to creating new agricultural areas while at the same time encouraging
increased production of existing land areas. The latter approach is less costly
and has yielded higher rates of return. However, it is becoming apparent that
there are institutional limitations to the latter approach. While dryland farm-
ing is still receiving the highest priority and by far the largest portion of
capital investments, creation of new land through irrigation has now been accorded
priority as well. Therefore, this project represents an important departure in
Kenya's agricultural development strategy. It is an essential first step towards
utilizing the full land and water resources of the Lower Tana River Basin for
the ultimate benefit of landless peasants to be drawn from all parts of Kenya.
The experience gained in the project is expected to be utilized within the next
decade or so in further irrigation development in the Basin leading to the
eventual settlement of up to 50,000 additional ha., providing a livelihood
for up to half a million people.
.69.      The primary direct benefits from the project would come from the pro-
duction of cotton and food crops from irrigated farmland that was formerly un-
productive semi-arid land. It would increase the income of some 36,000 presently
landless members of settler families to an average of about $90 per capita which
is well above the average rural per capita income. It would also provide employ-
ment for about 750 project and Government staff and about 2,500 traders and others
who are expected to settle in the Project area. The total population deriving
a livelihood from the project would be about 65,000 by 1985. The total base
cost per farm family (about US$13,000) in the project is high. However, this
cost per farm family includes expenditures such as annual operating expenditures
for extension and health, afforestation, services to a satellite population of
some 2,500 additional families and irrigation works which would also serve a
future project on the East Bank of the Tana River. Taking into account these
factors, the cost per farm family of investments apportionable to them will be
reduced to US$9,000 equivalent.
70.      The economic rate of return would be about 13.0%.   Included in this
analysis were all expenditures for infrastructure, operation and maintenance
costs directly related to the irrigation scheme, and part of expenditures for
village construction, administrative services, social services and public health.
Foreign exchange was shadow-priced at a value of KShll.0/US$1.0 (compared with
the current rate of KSh8.35/US$1.0) and salaries were costed at actual wage
prices. The only benefits included in the calculation were those from



-22-
the projected agricultural production and afforestation. Prices of cotton and
groundnuts were based on Kenya's export prices, and cowpeas and garden crops were
valued at market prices.
71.       In the event that expected future development utilized part of the pro-
Ject works (as has been planned) and that costs of such works were prorated between
the Project and the future development in relation to their respective areas, with
other assumptions remaining the same, the economic rate of return would be about
14.5%.The basic economic rate of return of 13.0 was tested against variations in
costs and benefits. An increase in overall costs of 10% would lower it by 1.5%;
a 10% reduction of future crops prices or yields would reduce it by 1.5%. If the
project benefits lagged by one year, with project costs as programmed, the economic
rate of return would be reduced by 1.5% from 13.0% to 11.5%. Indirect benefits
of the project would include the training of Kenyan staff to undertake the manage-
ment of future large scale irrigation schemes. Stage II feasibility studies would
permit the Government to make detailed plans for full development of the poten-
tial of the Lower Tana River Basin.
72.       The main risks associated with the project are managerial in nature,
and arise out of its complexity, the delicacy with which the various project com-
ponents relate to one another, and the sensitivity of the whole fabric to the
failure of one of its parts, resulting from incorrect or untimely implementation.
Potentially harmful health problems have to be dealt with. The social tensions
ensuing from the juxtaposition of people from many different tribes in an un-
familiar environment, under constant pressure to work, have to be alleviated.
The above-mentioned risks have been recognized and specific steps have been taken
to deal with them. With sufficient management expertise and dedication, the pro-
Ject has the prospect of being successful in achieving its settlement, production
and income objectives.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
73.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Kenya
and the Association and the draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Kenya and
the Bank are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Also being
distributed separately are the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association; the Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank and the draft resolutions approving the proposed Credit and
the proposed Loan.
74.      Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
Special conditions of effectiveness include the gazetting of the area to be inun-
dated by the diversion structure, and a reasonable margin surrounding such areas, and
the appointment of a Project Coordinator to the NIB. In addition',the legal opinion
will state that the NIB had been granted the right to withdraw the water necessary
for the Project from the Tana River, and that the availability of this amount of
water for use in the Project was guaranteed.
75.      I am satisfied that the proposed Credit and Loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Association.



-23-
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
76.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit
and Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D. C.
May 25, 1977






Is  a,
.8~~~~~~~~~~~Z
ii~~~~~~0i
r-   A.                                          . S
Z   s aS1                4   f 
_  Z s    cc .  . o c'. .  ..  .  ...  ..  ..  .*.  r  c o  0   c  .  o  o 0  o  o  o  o 00008
c   *   a-  e_on, v-c m a  -  mart  a-  an  cN  o  a- a a-a  ;r  r c  flUe  r .   ov  a.  SW  c  c  -  aSWNO OG fl 
, r  a 
S i a m                                           -                         -  f
5 0.  05 
to  t0*      a.  -0,:o                                 *                       U
' . S  S 
o  a
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ta  s so,  a  cc o   .  *o . oo v . _   _ ta  _C  o  o   .   .   cc oc o oc  0 o  o o  o  o oOS  5 ou
8 i h   . me   a  a -  e n  . n e   c  SWa   cc  cvi  cc   C a .C.  8  5.- o  a__ _  tos-e 
a 0 --               S-
hi ~ r  o  eoew  _    o  - -    o^w SW         v,oo       
;          ;
a S~ ~ ^ o -   so  m c cOcZ ^'. ..e   c. .  O  c c   O  ,O .  e c  .  0  -   O 0  
5~~- e Zo 5.   ^ _ e   r    *   e-__.. .   r  . .r.. _
*  S 450:   N  Omi  .o r  nU0  I t  C:  @flSWt  0:  It.  Iitl  tIt  It  ar t a ItcW   ..i ..c  5
as xv-                a              vtCa-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ l  o 5; 
o   _e.                    i.             Z
*5~~ ~ s                                                                      v .o e5 
b-S                                                                  S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b
_  _*~tw<_0                                                                     5J 
_S  jl                                                                         5 S`
mm ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  00                                      S -  7
SW  a i  as  I6~ l   -S  i                                     -'-j            5 
So c m     -  -0 -. 0o -- a,a.  cc   .-  - S  . SW                w - w c. * 0   0 c   .   OI" ,
a-~c  ,a  mc-"  am   5 
a-SN  a  - 5~~~~~~~~~~~~~dy  SW!   ww .
a-C SN  ~~~~OM-  .4       a   c`
:Wozua  0  a  P. ..  2  ..  7  ~~~~:  ca  ..  - e      '
-s aviv                         vtk.wS         5~ f - f           M O - tm M
C  0  5~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z  0 Zr o - l   w y
*  Os                                                           S~~~~~-ws: 
W a   SC S   0  e ..c c i * cc   - -  ca.aa    00  cc,c W   cc 0e-   00  .w   S  00  005Z
Msoa mcsa  0 .-Ie,  ta Z o-E na-O Zn . 09  C  --  a   cc  am,. Oc Z. C  aot-Sco o
Ca  a  -   -  e..~~~~~~~~~~S   a  a  ce  aim   -  -vii,.~~~~~~~~~~  ~ ft   caSW a  - ,  =as  0  
@5  -          CCrt                      cc,.  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D:z 9S  "   Z M1
W       O5a,               W                   Z - 5' a aI         On 
*  0   a s   , c o v a   c a   , e o t ' . c . . ....  . 9Sd   Scc cO   .cccS  .  0  . Z.  .  00 C '



Page 2 of Is papes
Valase othercie. noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1963., for 1970 between 1968 aud 1970, end for goat Recent. Netimata batsman
1973 and 1975.
C  Ivory Coast has ben "elooted a. tAt. saecnd ocme.rlon country becus     of It- egnd3nai-ti.. in eanni      oIie.LS
so gonea hee been aelected as a country with soun Industrialsaetinn and export prcntion oliclas.
mm       ~    ~  ~~~1f~1962;        &   keed on comlete enuenration of non-African           in,adof uban African popuLation, and on a
10 percent maple of rorel African pop atinoc        alt 1        nd 60 mdover rempectiveat        1ff0 -    of
population nide? 15 and 60 and over to total      r fcrce;     1fg Regiaterad, not alI practicing inthe c09tA7,
onreing pereoonel includes ulddives and assistant aidwivee;      IS  Total secandary i1noludem teacher trainind at
the third level.
&LO2    1   Ratio ofpplaioude          15 and 65 and over to labor force age 15-59 yeares     4? Labor force AVe 15-59 years;
j~Urban;     fRgi      rd    nout eLl practicing in the country, including sidwivedl    La~ Total secondary includes
teacher trainin  at the tbird level.
MMS  MGMU? RSTDhTs       /a   19711    a   19721    Li Fagieterod, not ell practicing ia the countr7l       JA  Including mid-
wiweg7 L      1969-n1 averages     ZL  Total seonadary includes teacher trainisng at the third
TAI1hIA&              12Z     La    einlend Tansanlaj    /b 19671     /n  Inluding aesietant medical officers)       La  Inmcludift midmivas and asaistant
nurese;    /a  1965;     Z   MUnba  oil
rMl OUST         U197        DogTe to imigration popualation grmth rate in higher than the rate of natural increame;      A   1965-705    Z& Ratio
of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;      1fd  Government only, Including aidAalvs     /a~ 196b-
66.
O   RM C OF     9       n  Oovennent estimtot la 38.03          An percentage of employment;     /o  Registered, not all practicing in the
country;    1fd  Water ppdiae
20.0, Key 3, 1977
0WnrMTI Of SOCIAL InDIACAI
Tad   ret (ho  h2                                                                   PoPu1ation, car curino M-so   - Popultica divided by canker of practicing
Ttl- Tot.l eurf.ce are  canprielag lend ares and inland watrn.                     nle and focale randueet   urc   "treind" or "certified" ounes, and
Asric. - most recant .atiaste of agricultural ers. acod tanpororily or pensa-         acili.ry peracnosl with training -r experianon.
neetdy for crops, pserures, erkat 6& kitchen gardens or to lies tf.lo.             Poculatiou car hospital bed - Population divided by enumer of boepitel bad,
eveiloble in  ublic cud privat gewner  and epcielisad hospital and
GNP Mr casit4         GNPl is?Par capits aei tte   cc cront arkat prices*             rehabilitation ceters; ...cludes nui.9 han end aanablialaent. for
cIlclacd by          _-1cnvrao  athod as World Bank Atl.. (1973-75 b.sis);          oustodia1 and pr-ttncIv .o.a.
19610;l19t70 end 1975 data.                                                       Per -acit. coccI? of caoi.Il of Caucnetl          -Caputed fr- energy
equivalent of net food supplies available in, country per cepit per day;
PPo,ul.tion end vital ectistic!                                                       ovsilsble supplies eanpriss dtosetic Production, inporta less enprte, and
Poon1etion (aid-1ear nillion) ~As of July first: if cat evallable, wveregs            changes ic etock; net supplies exclude ganil feed, seeds, quantities uaad
of two and-year est1tiate; 15160, 1970 and 1975 data,                                in fond processing sod los.. In dietribution; requirmeoct. ear  etimsted
PIP'1111-   Ity  per  -r. 1. - Mid-y-  P                       ~~~~by FAOb ....d an phyutolgicel ned, for n--I activity and heoltb c  id-
Ponustin dcei,  cr seter lo -  ld-csrpopultion Per squar  kiboanter        aring oovirt.1 tonperetu, body usigbh, ace end         en dietrihutil  of
(100 ht:re) of toteI are.                                                           population', ed sl11ntng 10X for ante at howoahold level.
Poecletion deceit,  pa nec ocrs . of egric. Leaud - Ccaputed a. shoe for             Per cscit. supply of procein (ornum Per day) - Protein content of per capite
egiutue  ed only.                                                             net suPply of food per day; net 8upply of food i0 defined es shov; rquirs-
Vit'l retutt.,                                                   - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nete for all cottries estebliehad by tSDA Economic Researcb Sar_ices
Cital baiethiMM                                                                        provida for o niniu  alboeno   of 60 groms of total protein par day. cod
Crud bith  ece  ec hooend  "'Irac  - Annua live birtha per thouaad of          20 grna of aninsl sod poles protein, of which 10 ginas shold b. anima
eid-yesr populltan ten-year arithmtic -ve-ege    ending in 1960 end 1970,            protein; these etandarde oret lnt then those of 75 grens of total protein
end five-year avergeg ending in 1975 f or noat ecant estinat.                        and 23 greas of animeI protein en an average for the world, proposeed by FAO
Crud. d-sth rat.enor thou  d    avrg I-Ana deatho Per thousand of aid-year            in the Third World Food Survey.
population; ten-year nritiatic veragoa on-ding ic 1960 and 1970 sod five-          Par -Pcit. cr.tsin sunoly fran anima end onies - Protnin eupply of food
yer toag: nigin17       o ns     eet    aiao                                     derived fran eninas and pu1... in gren  per day.
Ina mnotlt rare I/thou) - Annua dsstho of infaots coder mes year of ego       Dosch reto i/thou) aces 1-4 - Ano-Ia dootha per thousand in-9 age rop 1-4
per thou,sand live births.                                                           yeors, tc children in thie sge group; suggested as so indicstor of
Life ..P.. teocy at birth (yr.) - Averge nnber of years of life Mca nsin  at          co1-trition.
birth; -usually five-year v.-Sres ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing csntriea.                                                                      Education,
Groea reoroduction, rate - ura-ge nobar of live dough tere a c-an will hear          Adluatsd.- enrllot ratio-otr sc-hool - ZOnr1imat Of allag         as pr-
in her normal r-productive period if she  nperiencos Present age-specific            caneso     dayeho-g           ouaion; icludes childre     aged 6-11 years
fertility rates; oscoly fiv.-yur g"everg   ending in 1960, 1970 sod 1975             but adjusted for different longthe of primary eduction; for countri-s with
forItl deeopn   coatie'uiversal                                                                 ducation, enrolloant may oxteed 1001 si,ce ens Pupils are hale
Psu Oineon, rote (1) - totol - CanpoIcd annua gronth rates of ad-year           o   bove the official ochoot ags.
population for. 1950-60, 196-70 and 1970-75.                                        Adiusted enrollnont rattio - eoda,sh:Ol - Conputed as abov; escondary
pnlta  rwet rte (1) -6 urb  - Coopoted like gronth rats of total                 education requires atIest.  orer      of approved primary instruction;
PoPulation; different definitions of urban sra  coy effect comparability of          provides genril, v-ntional or tether training icot_ution     for pupils
Urken onoult"o (1 of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different          Years1 tof 1 echonl of argied (oirestposeondnt  leveS). In  Totrallyearsof
definitions Of urban arsa  y7 affect comparability of data gm"n tctra,,a.             chololig   tscnaylvl,vctoa               ccato     Tcay heatillf    o
sipetely excluded.ly o
A"s struotture fooeenat) - Childre  (0-14 yer),wrkiog-.sg (13-64 years),              oca1tionl erletC        fecnay          oainlioiuin            nld
An:ddretird (65 years an   ovr) ae Peroentagcs of nid-yar population.                 technical, indostri.  or other prograne whicb opeate independently or a
Aedndscry ratio - Rati 10Of POPulation, coder 15 end 61 end ovr to those         d.psrccents of sec-ondry inett.tiuttna
ofegs     0 hrug d  64.                                                             Adult lit.r.cy rate (1  - Literate adults (able to reed and writs) as Pe--
coonnic sc.nancvreti  - Iato of poplstion andor 15 snd 65 end over to          . cetege of total odut pop~ultion agsd 15 yer- andovr
faII, Cloio-eccos cn             tv.to)       - 1Cuati-c nbhr of accoptors         Hoo.sIna
of birth-control devices under acopicc  of national finily pI.len g progre         Person ne -ra    (urban) - Average owmb-r of persona per roan in occupied
since PInception.         oc-rionvcstotloonaarld                     -   o                       Idvellinga in ubnareas; dwellings extlude non-pensoet
tanil clanina- cors ( of ornedeanel -  eroatece  of orne  wanrio of    srctprsd andig un  houpie 1peru.,,(
child-ho-Istn  age (5-44 years) who use birth-control devices to 01cre             Occupied duldoc without iPedwtrru.            cuid    ovnina          ig
wanen in ens age croup.                       '                ~~~~~~in urban and rural -rs  without inside or ontstds piped water fecilltties
(th.-..d)  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~   ~   ~   ~   ~~a       eretsg8o all occpied deellings.
MEL-M--t                                                        I            N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Acee oelcrici  (I of all dwellinxs) -Conventional dwellings with
fotal eo tarts (housad)b      -conai"ally activ- Person., including  rnad             electricity in living quarters as percent, of total dwelling. in urban  od
forece  nd unanloyed bt exclding housesio.s, stdecto, etc.; definitions        rual-rSe.
Lbr for  16ssicltrs     ) - Agricultural labor f-o-se (in fening, forestry,        delng      ny
bucti1ng ,and hiein) as Paracmotge of total lobor fone.
Snnvdi  f labor forgo) - Ouhnploed are usually dotfined as perens who         Conawootion,
teable and willing to take a Job, ant of s Job on a given day, rnained out      'Radio rsc..Ivanr(erfn  thou pop) - All type of rsceiv-r  for redin broodc..act
of   Job, sod sekIng work tot e p.pecfiad .nicinco  period not excoding one          to general public per thousad of Population; exCludes onlineeled receivers
week; may not he canp.rable b htwee tcouttriea dos to different defiticins           in countries and in yesrs  h".c Mgcit.ratio o  radio aetcss wnIn affet;
Of onnployed and enurc   of date, e.g., NoplOynent office st.attni.s, e-PI.          date fo r recen  yer  a t    b  cnprtl     sic'cf      cutre     hlc
surveye, canpuleory unoploYnet insurance,                                            licensing.      Y-      y-tb      Om  Mb.Jc..          ou,re     bliv
Income di.ttibti                                              ~      ~    ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~P"san   crs par theu pop) - P ....S--g cars canprlee motor care aSoting
Inaedarbton - Peroatags Of Private itons (both In cuh and kind)               lsthnegt prerons; exclodas mbulantcs, hearses and military
received by rinbeet 51, richest 201, pOoor-t 201, end Pooret 401 of house-           vebicls..
bold,.                                                         c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lecriit (bob/vr per ted  - AnnalI cnsanPtion of industrial, ceaerci.1,
Di-t,ib.tion of land conerehip - poroa.t                         Z~pbItlan  piat electricity in kilonett heure per capita, generally
Diatriutmon  f lan  nersbc  Perontege  Of lend onn-d by veslthisst 101%      bsed on Pruduciondt,wtotaloac                o  ossingisbteb
snd poorest 101 of land onners.                                tug ~~~for Imports end expots of electricity.
geslth and Nutrition                                                                    otinat      r fra   do i  production plus net Imports of nseeprict.
pouaio  e  hyician - POPulation divided by o,ber of practicing                P   "-f       ,d;            w"i.       .      muPt-i        iorm
pbysicins qua!'"lified fran a oadical school at aJ_itesiy leve.



page 3 of 4
ReaCO5Ric DMEVEW9K DATA
1972
Actual                             Fal.        1967      -1972     Share of
it 97          1972       173       1974      1975       1970      1975         O
M     IU c17  Price.
GOP'                                    1257.3         1527.        2044.0    2200.2     2333.2    2333.4     6.7      4.5         100.0
Gets. from TT                              3.4           12.1          -        10.6     - 74.2    - 79.2      -         --
GMT                                     1261.3        .1540.0       2044.0    2210.8     2261.8    2254.2     6.9       3.2        100.0
Import.                                  380.1         483.4         650.8     644.0     672.8      572.4     8.3     -3.4          31.8
Exports Vo1lie                           371.0          442.2        580.8     580.0      615.7     585.5     6.0       0.2         28.4
facports Total Adj.                      374.4         454.3         580.8     600.9      541.5     506.3     6.7      -4.1         28.4
R-source Gap                               5.7          29.1          70.0      44.0      131.3      66.1      -         -3.4
Total C ... pttom                       1012.2         1228.1       1638.7    1759.0     2004.8    1936.6     6.7       7.3         80.2
InVetnent                                254.2          340.9        448.4     495.9      383.6     383.6    10.2      -4.2         22.0
Nationl Savings                          211.9          300.2        368.5     384.2      193.5     267.4    12.3      -2.1         18.0
Somectic Savings                         249.0          311.8        405.0     451.9      252.3     317.5     7.8      -4.1         19.8
MERCRANDISE TRADE                                          Anua   Data at Current Prices                                   As Percent of Total
1j6         1970         19 72      1973      1974      1975               1967    1970     1975
I.p.rts
Capital Coods                            105.5          122.4        174.7      187.1     265.2     277.5             31.4    27.7    29.7
I.Ce.mdiate Coods (exol.fuele)           118.3          173.2        184.8     240.7      407.0     268.6             35.2    39.2    28.7
Fuels cod  elated materials               35.0           41.3         57.4      65.6      225.6     251.1             10.4     9.3    26.9
of b.icb: petroleum                    (34.3)         (40.2)       (56.6)     (64.4)   (224.3)   (24.8.)           (10.2)   (9.1)  (16.7)
C.   !.-PtionGods                         77.4          105.5        117.9      128.9     164.7     137.2             23.0    23.8    14.7
Total March. Imports (elf)               336.0          44.           34.8     622.3    .1062.5     13  r             00.0   100.0   100.0
Eaports
Primary Product. (cccl. fuel.)           111.2          144.2        178.4     245.3     276.8      259.4             49.8    50.0    45.2
Fuel. end releted natarials               32.1           40.3         54.9      60;7     127.7      156.4             14.4    14.0    27.2
of bich: petroleum                     (32.1)         (40.3)       (54.9)     (60.7)  (127.7)    (156.4)           (14.4)  (14.0)  (27.2)
Manoufactured Goods                       79.8          104.1        113.4      157.0    172.7      158.2             35.8    36.1     27.6
Total March. Exorts (fob)                225.1          288.6        346. 7     W3 5077.-2-         37-4.0           10-0.0  100.0   100.0
Touriom Receipt.                          41.2           51.7         74.3       69.3     75.6       89.4
Merchandise Trade Indices                                               1972       1973      1974      1975
Export Price Index                                                  100       114-       154       177
Import Price Index                                                  100       114        179       212
Tern  of Trod. Inde"                                               '100       100         86        83
Exports Volume Index                                                100       115        111        98
Average Annual Cr-nth Rate.        percent of Total
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                                            Annua R-at at 1972 Pricec and REch.Ane Rate.         1972-73  1973-74    1974-75       1-972       1975
Agriculture                                                             602   ~    608       618       617             1.0      1.6        -0.2         -32-         30
Industry cod Mining                                                     230       270        284       295            17.4      3.2         3.9          12          14
Services                                                               1033       10-9-1    1148      1152             5.6      5.2         0.3          56j.        56
Total                                                                  1895       1969      2050      2064             5.6      4.1         0.7         100         Too
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                     InCretPiesadRcag                Rates
(Central Governoset)                                           71/72     7273     7374      74/5     75/76
Current Rece ipts                                               396      417       532      633      696
Current Expenditure.                                            360      391.      458      580      630
Budgetary Savings                                               *..6               7-4       53      -69
Other public Sector                                              ..        .         .       .         .DETAIL ON CENTRAL. GOVT,                               us$ Million
Eapenditure in Development Budget                               145      173       186      264      349                  :NVEIMTPROGRAM4                    At 1976 Price.
(Reie 31-YeaPovran                                     7.f
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                                                                                              Budgt       ar7PY9 Forardand Rae                       Totf
(7. of Total Current Rependiture)Bdt Y7Y9)EcagRte                                                                                                                              Tol
iDirectlY productive Sectors              462          46.2
Education                                                       24.2     26.7      26.2     27.2     27.8               Econonic Inrastructure                    280          28.0
Other Social iSovices                                           15.6     16.0      16.0     16.1     15.6               Social Infras tructure                    216          21.6
Agriculture                                                      7.4      7.3       7.3      6.5      7.3               Other                                      41           4.1
Other Economic Services                                          7.9       7.6      6.8      6.9      6.9                 Total Requirenents                      999          1007.
Adnin. cod Defense                                              37.1      33.6     34.0     33.0     31.2
Other (Ln.. interest on debt)                                    7.7      8.7       9.7     10.2     11.1               Public Sector Savings                     363          36.5
Total Current Expenditure                                       100o     100-6    100-o     100o     100                F-reR   Finaning (net)                    346          34.6
So-otie Finaning (nat)                    2-86          28.8
Total                                  999            00
SELECTED INDICAMORS                          1965-70        1973-74      1975-80
ICOR                                            3.0           3.3           3.2
Import Elasticity                               1.0           0.5          0.93
Av. Nat. Savig Rate                             18.7         12.3          13.0
Marg. Nat. SavIng Rate                           0.22        -1.56          0.12
Importn/CDP                                    29.8          29.1         24.5
LABOR FORCE AND                                  lLber Foce                                          Value Added Per Worker (1971 -t Prc.edEc.Rates)
OUTPUT PER WORXER                    In Milion                Thta                                       In US RLailr,                   .o    vrg
1971                1971                                            1971197
Agriculture                            46786                                                                 -109                             26
Induatry                                141                   3                                              1426                            475
Servic                                  301                   6                                              1286                            429
Total                                  5377                 t00                                               300o                           100o
sot available
1/ I  Constant 1967-69 $.                                                                                                                               RC1
-Nil or negligible.                                                                                                                                     KtchP.I    97



Pao 4 of 4
IZNYA
A       OF PAYMiNTS.       A  AIST     EAND
(eounts in millions of U.S. dollars at cmrrent pries)
Actual                 Ratio.                                                                    1Atual
1972      1973      17        1951972                                                                            1973      1974      1975
SUMMAiRY BALANCE OP PAYtdNTS                                                        MEDroN AND LONG TEM DENT (DISBURSED ONLY)
Exports (incl. NFS)                  560        697       953        975            Total Debt Ot.t. DOD SWd Period                         348.4     405.4     475.0      520.4
I-Port. (i.cl. NPS)                  605        751      1192      1104             Public Debt Service                                      24.9      28.7      30.6       31.4
Resource Balance                     -45        -56      -238      -129               Iterest                                                14.5      16.3      18.0       19.4
Otber N & L Tamn Debt Service                            25.0      25.0       25.0      35.0
Net Factor Service Inctne            -34       -103       -101       -99            Total Debt Service                                       49.9      53.7      55.6       66.4
Current Transfers (Net)              +39        +23       +17       +21         DEBt BWWDN
Balnce on Current Account            -40       -131      -322       -207            Debt Service Ratio j                                      4.4       4.1        3.2       3.2
I   Debt Service Ratio 6/                                    12.3      19.9       14.5      11.7
Private Direct Inve-stnot             21         45        46         43
TEEIS
Offici-l Capital Grests               ..         ..         11        17                                                                      4.7       4.9       4.6        4.2
Interest on Totai DOD/Total DOD4.                                   49         46        42
public h & L Tern Loans                                                             Total Debt Service/Total DOD                              8.1       8.5        7.8       6.9
Disburameants                         48         65         89       110
Asortiestion                          -6         -17       -17       -17        EXPOSURE
Net Disbursenents o                              48         72        93.
IBRD Di0b/ross Total Disb.                               30.4      18.3       12.2      35.0
otber M & L Tern Loans                                                              Rook Group  Disb./Grosa Total Diob.                      38.9      33.8       3Z.5      40.3
Disburs.ecnts                         30         53         81        32            IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                        9.4      13.3       14.3      20.4
Anortiation                           -11        -10       -10       -10            Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                                 21.9      30.3       31.4      35.9
Net Dinbursonents                     19          43        71       1!             IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service                      5.6      10.1       14.1      20.4
Use of nlU Rsources 1/                 -          -         39        59            Bank Group Debt ServiCe/Total D.S.                        6.9      11.8       15.7      22.3
Short Tern Capital Transactions        6          15        29       -11
Capital Transctions. NEI              24          -    -     -        -                                                                         Outtanding Oc. 31. 1975
Change In Reserves                    -24        -20       +54       -19        EXTRNAL DEBT (DISBURSED ONLY)                                 AMount                 Percent
(- Increse) 2/
Foreign Exchange Reserven            202        233        193       174            IBRD                                                      106.0                   20.4
End of Period 3/                                                                Bnnk Group                                                187.2                   36.0
Other Multilateral                                          2.8                    0.5
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS                                                                -re'tofhicbten                                          277.7                   53s4
of tich Cancrally Plannd Zc-oonio                        - 
Official Grants                      ..          *-         11        17            Suppliers                                                  10.5                    2.0
Total Public M & L Tern Loans         97        101        161       369            Financial Institutions                                     18.3                    3.5
tBRO (TW)                         29         34         10       194            Sends                                                      22.0                    4.2
IDA                               28          -         34        26            Public Debt, NRI                                            2.0                    0.4
Other Mn=tilater1                  -           1        -          4            Total Public M & L Term Debt                              520.4                  100.0
Goveronets.t                      23          66       120        74            Other Public MI & L Torn Debt 
of which Cant. pleaned     4    -           -         -         -             Other M & L Teon Debt                                     300.0                   57.7
Suppliers                         -           -         -         48            Total Public Debt -(incl. Undisbursed)                   1071.0                  206.0
Financial Institutions            17           2        _         23            Total M & L Tern Debt (incl. UIdieburssd)                1371.0                  263.7
Rondo                                        -                    -
Public Loans NRE
Other M & L Tern Loans (private)  -
Not available.                                                   2/ Excludes net use of SEP Resources which are            5/ Debt Service on public debt only.
Nil or negligible.                                                  shout separately.                                      6/ Debt Service on public debt other nedion-
T/ Net of "Drawings' and "Repaynent of Purchase    as reported in    3/ 'International Reserves   u Dsnary Table in IFS.          and long-tern debt (private), nd net
th- IFS Smsiary Tablss on EHchang- Transactions.                 4/ Include  CMtEA Countries. PNoplen Republic of Ching,       direct anvest-nt    o-ons.
North Korea, Nnrth-;Vietna.'
EACPlA
March 16. 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 10
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as at April 30, 1977
Loan or
Credit #   Year   Borrower       Purpose                    Amount (Less Cancellations)
Bank    IDA 1/ Undisbursed
Seven (7) loans and ten (10) credits fully disbursed.       96.0    46.0
185        1970   Kenya          Education                           6.1       .6
224        1970   Kenya         Road Maintenance                    12.6      2.0
276        1972   Kenya          Highways                           22.0      2.4
826        1972   Kenya          Nairobi Airport            29.0              2.9
932        1973   Kenya          Highways                   29.0             15.4
946        1973   IDB           DFC                          5.0               .6
468        1974   Kenya          Population                         12.0      8.3
477        1974   Kenya          Livestock                           21.5    20.0
993        1974   Kenya          Tea Factories              10.4              7.4
1093       1975   Kenya          Group Farm Credit           7.5              7.5
537        1975   Kenya          Group Farm Credit                    7.5     7.3
1105       1975   Kenya          Site and Service            8.0              8.00
543        1975   Kenya          Site and Service                    8.0      6.5
565        1975   Kenya         Agriculture-Forestry                10.0      8.2
1132       1975   Kenya         Agriculture-Forestry        10.0              7.5 2/
1133       1975   Kenya          Transportation-Pipeline    20.0              7.3
1147       1975   TRDC           Hydroelectric Development  63.0             34.6
1148       1975   IDB            DFC                        10.0              6.2
1167       1975   Kenya         Mombasa & Coastal
Water Supply               35.0            34.6
1184       1975   Kenya          Education III              10.0              9.9
650        1976   Kenya          Integrated Agricultural
Development                        10.0    10.00
1303       1976   Kenya          Integrated Agricultural
Development                10.0            10.00
1304       1976   Kenya          Wildlife & Tourism         17.0             17.00
651        1976   Kenya          Rural Access Roads                   4.0     4.00
1305       1976   Kenya          Rural Access Roads          4.0              4.00
1389       1977   Kenya          South Nyanza Sugar         25.0             25.0
692        1977   Kenya         Agricultural Credit III              20.0    20.0
1390       1977   Kenya         Agricultural Credit III      5.0              5.0
TOTAL                              393.9   179.7   292.2
of which has been repaid           11.6     0.4
TOTAL now outstanding              382.3   179.3
Amount sold                 5.1
of which has been repaid   4.5       .6      .0
TOTAL now held by Bank
& IDA                  381.7   179.3
TOTAL undisbursed                  202.9    89.3   292.2
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
2/ Includes $4.2 undisbursed grant participation.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10
B.   Statement of IFC Investments in Kenya as at April 30, 1977
Fiscal                                                      Amount in US$ Million
Year       Obligor                    Type of Business      Loan    Equity    Total
1967, 1968
& 1973   Kenya Hotel Properties         Hotels             5.2      0.7      5.9
1970, 1974
& 1977   Pan African Paper Mills        Pulp and Paper    13.1      6.3     19.4
1972       Tourism Promotion Services     Hotels             2.4       -       2.4
1976       Rift Valley Textiles, Ltd.     Textiles           6.3       2.8     9.1
1977       Kenya Commercial Bank, Ltd. . Capital Market      2.0        -      2.0
TOTAL Gross Commitments                   29.0      9.8    38.8
less cancellations,
terminations, repayments
and sales                                8.3      1.8     10.1
TOTAL Commitments
now held by IFC                         20.7      8.0     28.7
TOTAL Undisbursed                          3.9      1.3      5.2



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10
C.   Projects in Execution  1/
Credift No. 185-KE - Education:.$6.1 million Credit of May 20, 1970;
EVfeetive Date:  August 5, 19.70;; Closing Date:  December 31, 1977.
The project is about two years behind schedule, but is expected to
be completed by December 1977. Delays have been mainly due to problems of
appointing technical assistance specialists and the inability of the Ministry of
Works to provide architectural engineering services. Latest estimates indicate
an increase of 9% in cost overruns in terms of Kenyan shillings. Educational
objectives are, however, being met.
Loan No. 224-KE - Road Maintenance: $12.6 million Credit of
December 28, 1970; Effective Date: March 18, 1971; Closing Date:
June 30, 1977.
Although the project is 18 months behind schedule, it is well
advanced and completion is expected in October 1977. The delay is mainly due to
a slow start in construction of regional workshops on account of unforeseen
difficulties experienced in acquisition of sites and procurement of steel. These
difficulties have now been resolved and no further major problems are anticipated
on this project. The Closing Date was postponed from June 30, 1975 to
June 30, 1977. Postponement of the Closing Date to December 31, 1977 is under
consideration.
Credit No. 276-KE - Highways: $22.0 million Credit of January 5, 1972;
Effective Date: March 22, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The project, although behind schedule, is now well advanced in terms
of the improvement of the Ulu-Sultan Hamud section of the Nairobi-Mombasa road and
the construction of tea roads in the Mount Kenya and Meru areas. However, slow
progress is being made on construction of the settlement roads in the Eldoret area.
The vehicle weighbridges at Nairobi and Mombasa are ready to go into operation as
the problems of adequate housing and the equipping of the stations have now been
resolved, but there is still a staffing problem which is now under consideration
and is expected to be resolved shortly. Full operation of the weighbridge stations
is expected by June 1977. The final estimates of the project in terms of Kenya
shillings are expected to exceed appraisal estimates by 41%.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
pro-gress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do
not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10
Loan No. 826-KE - Nairobi Airport: $29 million Loan of June 2, 1972;
Effective Date: July 7, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Because of high escalation in the contract between the Government
and the coitractor, a dispute arose between the two parties. The major contractor
threatened to withdraw, but the problems have now been resolved.   The contractor
is continuing with the project and work is scheduled for completion in September
1977. A serious problem that remains to be solved is the recruitment and training
of technicians in the various skills required to operate the new facilities.
Another problem is the management of financial and accounting systems.
Credit No. 477-KE - Livestock: $21.5 million Credit of June 5, 1974;
Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project implementation has been slow and there are substantive
problems in organization, cost overruns and pricing. The Government requested a
detailed review of the project, and a joint IDA/other donors mission undertook an
in-depth review. Their report is presently under discussion with the Government.
Loan No. 932-KE - Highways: $29.0 million Loan of September 6, 1973;
Effective Date: November 9, 1973; Closing Date: December-31, 1977.
The project has suffered heavily from recent inflation, with an
estimated cost overruns amounting to 63%. To alleviate this situation, the
Government is endeavoring to obtain additional funds to finance the local costs
of all road improvements provided for under the loan. In the event it is
unsuccessful, the Government will submit to the Bank a formal request to exclude
from the project the proposed improvements to the Thuchi-Nkubu and Kissi-Mogonga
trunk roads, and use the funds thus released to meet the foreign cost overruns
included in the project. Although the other works included in the project met
with earlier delays, work is now progressing satisfactorily. The expected
completion date is March 31, 1979. The Closing Date is expected to be postponed.
Loan No. 993-KE - Tea Factories: $10.4 million Loan of June 5, 1974;
Effective Date: September 23, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The first four factories should have been completed by March 1975,
but due to delays in original planning and by the contractors, they went into
production in November 1975, January 1976, March 1976 and June 1976, respectively.
Two more factories are now under construction and should be in operation by mid-1977.
Three more factories are scheduled to commence operation in 1977 for completion
early in 1978. By June 30, 1978, KTDA will have built nine factories against the
appraisal target of 14. Because of high construction costs and operating costs,
KTDA is studying the possibility of extending existing factories instead of build-
ing new ones and designing future factories to handle more than 1,200 tons/annum.
Yields of green leaf are lower than envisaged at appraisal but with the application
of fertilizer from a Commonwealth Development Corporation loan, improvements are
expected.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10
Credit No. 537-KE/Loan No. 1093-KE - Group Farm Rehabilitation:   $7.5 million
Credit and $7.5 million Loan of'March 27, 1975; Effective Date:   September
30, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Thelinitial reluctance of groups of farmers to participate in the
rehabilitation program has been largely overcome; due partly to the example set
by the first group farms participating in the projec't and partly to the active
campaign for the program by politicians-and high-ranking Government officials.
The Ministry of Agriculture has now appointed the Project Coordinator and other
staff as stipulated in the Development:Credit Agreement, and it is expected that
the momentum will be maintained. A draft study prepared by consultants on the
large farm-sector is presently being reviewed by the Government.
Credit No. 543-KE/Loan No. 1105-KE-- Site and Service Project:   $8.0 million
Credit-and $8.0 million Loan of'May 6, 1975; Effective Date:   September 25,
1975;'.Closing Date:  June 30, 1980-
This project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.   The construction
works for the first 1,000 site and service plots have been substantially completed.
All plots have been allocated and the-first occupants moved on to their plots in
November 1976. Design and engineering;for the remaining areas of the project are
being comple'ted by consultants.  The'four studies financed under this project are
progressing satisfactorily. -
Loan No. 1133-KE - Mombasa-Nairobi-Oil Product Pipeline Project: $20 million
Loan of June 27, 1975; Effective Date:   December 3, 1975; Closing Date:
February 1, 1979
Completion of construction is targeted for October 1977; commercial
operations are scheduled to commence January 1978 as originally planned. The oil
industry, the Railways and KPC have agreed to install central railroad loading
facilities at- KPC's Nairobi terminal. Financing of the US$1.54 million cost is
being arranged. KPC has updated project cost and financial forecast. The project
is now estimated to have a cost overrun of 17%. The increase is primarily due to
escalation in construction costs. KPC's financial prospects cannot yet be fully
evaluated because the Government must still establish a tariff structure. Indica-
tions are, however, that although the long-term outlook is quite satisfactory,
there could be cash flow problems in the initial few years.
Loan No. 1132-KE/Credit No. 565-KE - Second Forestry Plantation Project:
$10.0 million Credit and $10.0 million Loan of June 27, 1975; Effective Date:
September 25, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The main problems of the project have been drought conditions slowing
down the planting program, inadequate Government budgetary allocations as well as
rising costs. It is expected that conditions will improve in 1977.
Loan No. 1147-KE - Gitaru Hydroelectric Project: $63.0 million Loan of
July 25, 1975; Effective Date: January 29, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
Construction of the project is proceeding satisfactorily. The actual
expenditure for the project amounted to 26% of the total estimated completion cost
as of June 1976. As a result of the devaluation of the Kenya currency in October
1975, the project cost to the Borrower, in Kenyan pounds, is expected to be about
3% higher than the appraisal estimates. It has been agreed that the project
description'be amended to include the financing of geothermal development, trans-
mission and national power development studies; the estimated cost of these studies
is US$350,000.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10
Loan No. 1148-KE - Second Industrial Development Bank Project: $10.0 million
Loan of July 25, 1975; Effective Date: October 7, 1975; Closing Date:
July 1, 1979
Project commitments are well under way. About two-thirds of the loan is
expected to be committed by June 1977. As of April 30, 1977, disbursements
totalled $3.8 million.
Loan No. 1167-KE - Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply: $35 million Loan of
October 15, 1975; Effective Date: January 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Progress is slower than anticipated. The initial equipment supply contracts
have been awarded, but the award of the major pipe supply and pipeline construction
contracts only recently took place and the project is now some 6-8 months behind
schedule.
Loan No. 1184-KE - Third Education Project: $10 million Loan of December 31,
1975; Effective Date: March 17, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is off to a good start. The Project Unit is fully staffed; a
survey of the physical facilities to be extended of the 17 primary teachers
colleges has been conducted. Consulting architects for the Educational Broadcast-
ing and Multi Media Service Station design and construction supervision are being
established. The National Committee on Educational Objectives and Priorities
(NCEOP) has now completed its report. A Bank/UNESCO meeting to review the NCEOP
report took place in January 1977.
Loan No. 1303T-KE/Credit No. 650-KE - Integrated Agricultural Development
Project: $10 million Loan and $10 million Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective
Date: M4arch 15, 1977: Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The Annual Work Plan for FY77 has been prepared on time and the first group
of smallholders is receiving assistance this fiscal year. The Annual Work Plan for
FY78 is about to be submitted to the Association and BADEA for approval.
Loan No. 1304T-KE - Wildlife and Tourism Project: $17 million Loan of
July 9, 1976; Effective Date: November 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Following the signing of the Loan Agreement on July 9, 1976, the Loan was
declared effective on November 10, 1976. Preparation for project implementation
started somewhat slower than expected. The Project Manager and the Assistant
Project Manager have taken up their positions, and it is hoped that project imple-
mentation will be accelerated when the remaining posts in the Project Management
Unit have been filled. In compliance with the condition for disbursements the
Government has submitted its proposal for the establishment and operation of anti-
poaching units to be financed from the Loan. This proposal is under consideration
within ,he Bank.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10
Loan No. 1305-KE/Credit No. 651-KE - Rural Access Roads Project: $4 million
Loan and $4 million Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: October 7, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The Loan/Credit became effective in early October 1976, but no funds have
yet been disbursed. The Rural Access Roads Program, part of which is being
financed under the project, is behind schedule, but progress is improving.
Since loan negotiations, a few changes in evaluation and working methods have
been adopted in the light of experience and these appear to be beneficial to the
Program. The Government has submitted the evaluations for 6 districts for
financing under the project; construction units have already started in 2 of the
districts.
Loan No. 1389-KE - South Nyanza Sugar Project: $25.0 million Loan of
April 15, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
This loan has not yet been declared effective.
Credit No. 692-KE/Loan No. 1390-KE - Third Agricultural Credit Project:
$20.0 million Credit and $5.0 million Loan of April 15, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
This credit and loan have not yet been declared effective.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10
D. East African Community
There are currently five projects under execution in the EAC.
Loan 674 EA - Third Railways Project: $42.4 million
Loan of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness -
October 30, 1970; Closing Date - June 30, 1977
The physical execution of the original project has been seriously
delayed due to administrative and political problems within the Community
and the East African Railways Corporation's unsatisfactory procedures for
procurement, investment planning and coordination. In November 1974, the
Executive Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of
the Loan to be used for consultant services and emergency investments in
track material. Agreement was reached in July 1975 for the hiring of con-
sultants to assist EARC with outstanding organizational and financial issues.
Coopers and Lybrand (financial consultants hired by ODM) completed their
asset studies in early 1976 and CANAC (technical consultants) have submitted
a report on decentralization of the railways.
Loan No. 638 EA - Second Harbours Project: $35.0 million
Loan of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness -
December 16, 1969; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865 EA - T,hird H4rbours Project:   $26.5 million
oanP of Pecember 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness -
Apr-il 16, 1973; Closing Date.- June 30, 1977
C,qn.d,4er-able delays have ogeurred in implementing the project
fina,nce  partly by Loan 638-EA.  However, construction is now more than 95%
complete.  The Closing Da,te   has been postponed from December 31, 1976 to
DePembeTr 3X, 1977!  The mAjqr civil w9rks financed partly by Loan 865-EA
w,ere coqp4PeJtd i,n S,eptem,er- 1975, Rix mQnths behind schedule.  All Loan
fpR4 ,s ,ecm4.tOe u,tder Qgntraqts, wl4o,h have been awarded.    Some smaller
pr,oject e1entA intended to be financed under Loan 865-EA, will have to be
d,elete4.  Cst ,o,errn   o, for qargo handling equipments tugs and lighters
finqnoed by CIDA have qccurred, and the credit has been increased accordingly
from Qa,n, $2,6.  illion to Can. $33.5 million.   Port labor productivity has
stagnated in Hombasa where general cargo through-put-has declined considerably.
General cargo, through-put has increaeed above appraisal forecasts for
D,a,r-es,-8a\aa, where the three berths financed under Loan 865-EA have been
omp,le,ted  d are kbe,ig used.  Cargo, handling productivity here has improved
with in,cre g4qn$ through-p,ut.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: $15.0
million Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
June 7, 1976; Closing Date - March 31, 1980
This Loan was declared effective on June 7, 1976. Six sub-
projects have so far been received from the EADB of which four have
already been approved for a commitment of $4 million against this
Loan; the remaining projects are under review.
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project: $32.5
million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 19, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
All major works other than microwave and UHF/VHF systems
construction have now been completed despite initial delays caused by
staffing and other problems associated with the relocation of the
headquarters. Delivery and installation of the UHF/VHF have now
commenced and bids have been received for the microwave. Because of
the long time lead required for the microwave equipment, the project
is expected to be fully completed by mid-1979. The Closing Date has
accordingly been postponed to December 31, 1979.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10
B. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES
GUARANTEED BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA
AS AT APRIL 30, 1977
(US$ Million)
Amount Less Cancellation
No.     Year   Borrower   Purpose                Bank         Undisbursed
Six loans fully disbursed.                       93.4
638-EA   1969   EAHC      Harbours               35.0            1.6
674-EA   1970   EARC      Railways               42.4            9.2
865-EA   1972   EAHC      Harbours               26.5            4.6
914-EA   1973   EAPTC     Telecommunications     32.5            6.7
1204-EA  1976   EADB      Development Finance    15.0           14.8
Total                                      244.8           36.9
of which has been repaid                  37.1
Total now outstanding                      207.7
Amount sold                     24.4
of which has been repaid      24.4         0
Total now held by Bank 1/                  207.7
Total Undisbursed                           38.0           36.9
1/ Net of exchange adjustments.



ANNEX III
Page 1
KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
I Timetable of Key Events:
(a) Time taken to prepare project:        About five years.
(b) Preparation by:                        ILACO (International Land
Development Consultants,
Netherlands)
(c) Initial discussion with Bank/IDA:      1974
(d) Appraisal Mission Departure:           November 1975
(e) Reappraisal Mission:                   October-November 1976
(f) Negotiation:                           April 27 - May 4, 1977
(g) Planned date of effectiveness:         September 1, 1977
II  Special Bank Implementation Action
None
III  Special Conditions
1. The following would be conditions of effectiveness:
a) evidence satisfactory to the Association of the availability of
external financing in the amount of $37.8 million equivalent (para 61);
b) that the NIB has been granted the right to withdraw the amount
of water necessary for the project (which shall not be less than
8 m3 ) from the Tana River at Nanigi and that the Borrower has
defined quantitatively by categories of use the water require-
ments downstream of the diversion structure (para 40 );
c) that the area occupied by the irrigation works, the cultivation
and settlement area, and a reasonable margin surrounding such
areas has been designated as a national irrigation scheme in
accordance with the necessary legal provision, and so much of the
area as is trust land under the Trust Land Act has been set apart
or leased to NIB from the appropriate Council (para 47); and
d) that the NIB had employed a Project Coordinator (para 53) and
consultants for project supervision.



ANNEX III
Page 2
2. Other covenants of particular interest include:
a) that the Government grant as license to the tenants for at
least 15 years to be renewed annually thereafter (para 45);
b) that the Government has agreed to criteria and procedures
for selecting tenants to be settled in the project Area (para 45);
c) that the Government establishes a guaranteed minimum seed
cotton price annually and publish them not later than January 1
and that such prices shall be set at levels adequate to maintain
incentives to farmers to grow cotton including a system of
premiums taking into account higher grades of cotton and varieties
produced (para 34 );
d) that the Government would levy a charge of KSh 2,800 per hectare
at full development to recover part of the cost of developing
this scheme. This level of charges should be adjusted periodically
based on costs and tenant's ability to pay having regard to main-
tenance of adequate incentives to agricultural production by
the tenant (para 63);
e) that the NIB be strengthened through the support of an agri-
cultural management team which also would assist NIB in staff
development and training (para 59 );
f) that the Government engage a sociologist to help plan the
selection and settlement program and subsequently monitor
progress in assimilation and cooperation among settlers (para 45);
g) that in order to ensure proper nourishment of the settler family,
a portion of the proceeds be paid directly to the household
member (usually the wife) responsible for feeding and raising
the children (para 45 ).



S U DAN              060                                 KENYA
;  -27  \ /       sAre,As,r  BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
LOCATION AND COMMUNICATIONS
. 7:                 I F.
_,.,/ St,              / Forob:           N.   E T H I O   PIA        .- 
r~~~~~~~~,,.- G.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.---
.4' / >1 $)   '   6  /    v.
TUKN      E.ye Sp,,gb  :o  
!                                 /  ) 9 - ,~~~~7 
MAR54B.'T(
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
V  t X \1        X                                   1 5 O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ M A LI
5   X      j    - S ~~~~~~~~~~~~E A S T E R N    W A jll
tf -<t -         \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/-)   * ~~~~~~N  O A     |R E P U B L I C
/N\ ; MAROKtX " C 0 t <
f~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                   poll 0100
XV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IA                                 GA =vRIO'-
*.'V             X       .~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARI .i  -:0,0 lOnol inpont
.  T    N .                    1 ,06 0,....
NAR  NAF _ | s M -  ~+,e,  _   ?        =f  Pr6000 odO
- A>5-  Tl 1    1_N                 #lF  }       PoeecTCqC
0 A FRIC  . 63  00= 13  100            Don    E-.s-inR  hyoroely rc oS   so
-'                  |   \   jr            .      .       )  izMOMb'ASA   O  Clties ond towns 1000  _
I .                           --,L' W A  nOMOMEASA   Prlm ory roods
O,,., .r.r,r,   0  2 0 00             / 00  00  -  RAilw:ys T0 _00.
6.1,3,,  ,,,. ;;}f'S t1 ..o.q... 334. Mur ;R/   a,   2a   IES {a  100  \  /\P W  -=Inte  noUlon  boundory.d .d
,.   o3A'0  S                  ToCl.e SA olo  00     0 1 bEoundry  p .t






CSTATE                     ~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 12226R1
,/             r S~~~~~~~~~~TATE  =  /       '-Rf-VE p M/97R
KENYA                                                                                   L /  AND  (-_   N           _
BURA IRRIGATION      SETTLEMENT PROJECT                              /1 IN-1QiL P LOM                                                  TE
PRQ ET  FEATURES   EXS-ING  FEATURES                                                                                         S     7/_>
sNati"on  IrrigationAxihGFAUERUT                                                                           LN   S   *  41 
- Scheme Boundary  -  --  State Lond / Trust Land Boundoary                        /c                                             *"C.,
Irrig.ated Area  --  Roads with Bridge                             :r                                             76 2      AiND& MQOMBASA
-     Irr garion Canals  Irrigtion Cnals                                                         .   . - 
-' a-  Siphons    - -  -  Seosonal Wotercourses
Protection Dikes   Old River Bed _
Culverts          ;  Rivers              "I          U:
Road Realignment  -u4 3-  Contours in Meters  A
1.t7rt lv , Irrigated Afforestation  Riverin e Forest 
Forest Reserves
--0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- C                                                                                       -; 
/  ,            '    JP                          1'      y ' W fi  /  /  ..C.b......... -  O'
.   .,   r/        524            /    / ... . .             S
_~~~~~~~~~~~ _t                    -                      I   >    (  ;       7s v  \ /u 'iv eSme n e,rceo r<0A5  6 *i
~~~s5  f   r   I                    inN  4~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~R,UST         f.MAr
Po                                             L 'AOk,diAND,r
/   /           /      (     I                     MILES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f1



