Report No. 1446-KE                                                                     FILE  COPY
Kenya: Bura Irrigation Settlement Project
Appraisal Report
May 24, 1977
Eastern Africa Region
Agricultural Credit and Livestock Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS /1
SDR 1.00              =  Kenya Shillings (Ksh) 9.66
SDR 1.00              =  US$1.20
US$1.00               =  Kenya Shillings (Ksh) 8.35
Ksh 1.00              =  US$0.12
GOVERNMENT AND PROJECT FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (m)     3=    39.37 in
1 cebic meter (m )3              =    35.31 cubic feet
I m  per second (m /sec)              35.31 cu4ic feet per second (cusec)
1 hectare (ha)                        10,000 m  - 2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)  2                    0.62 miles
1 sq kilometer (km )                   0.39 sq miles = 100 ha
I liter (1)                            0.26 US gallons
1 kilogram (kg)                  =     2.204 pounds (lb)
1,000 kg = I metric ton          =     2,204 lb (0.98 long tons)
/1 As the Kenya Shilling is officially valued at a fixed rate of 9.66 KSh to
the SDR, the U.S. Dollar/Kenya Shilling exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in this report were made at US$1.00 to KSh 8.35 which is close
to the short-term average exchange rate.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONVERSION FACTORS
Ginning out-turn of seed cotton
-      38% lint
61% seed
1% scarto
Shelled groundnuts  -      65% nuts in shell
ABBREVIATIONS
AFC         -    Agricultural Finance Corporation
BPCO        -    Bura Project Coordinator's Office
CDC         -    Commonwealth Development Corporation
CLSMB       -    Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board
EDF         -    European Development Fund
MOA         -   Ministry of Agriculture
MPB         -   Maize and Produce Board
NIB         -   National Irrigation Board
NYS         -   National Youth Service
PPR         -    Project Planning Report
TRDA        -    Tana River Development Authority
USDA        -    United States Government, Department of Agriculture
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanc*
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizatior .






KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .............................           i-iii
I.   INTRODUCTION ........................................               1
II.   BACKGROUND ..........................................               2
A.   General ........     .........................                2
B.   Rural Sector ......      ........................             2
C.   Settlement and Irrigation Schemes
in Kenya    .....................................          6
D.   Hola Scheme Results .....       .....................         7
E.   Rural Development Strategy .....................              8
III.   THE PROJECT AREA ....................................               8
IV.   THE PROJECT .........................................              11
A.   General ...............................                      11
B.   Detailed Features ......        ........................     12
C.   Cost Estimates ......        ...........................     26
D.   Financing .......       ...............................      28
E.   Procurement            ..................                    28
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .........................              32
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES,
TENANTS' INCOME AND GOVERNMENT REVENUES  .... ......           39
VII.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .................              41
VIII.   RECOMMENDATIONS .....................................              43
ANNEXES
1.   National Irrigation Board
* Appendix 1: The Irrigation Act, 1966
* Appendix 2: The Trust Land (Irrigation Areas) Rules
* Appendix 3: The Irrigation Act (National Irrigation Schemes)
Regulations, 1977
2.   Agriculture
Table 1:      Bura Meteorological Data
Table 2:      Summary of Yields 1975 Hola Crop Trials



ANNEXES - (Cont'd
3.   Project Works
Chart, World Bank 16059; Standard Field Layout
4.   Itemized Cost Summaries of Project Works, Buildings,
Equipment and Vehicles
Table 1:    Itemized Cost Summary of Project Works
Table 2:    Itemized Cost Summary of Buildings and Village
Infrastructure
Table 3:    Itemized Cost Summary of Plant, Machinery, Equipment
and Vehicles
Table 4:    Itemized Cost Summary of Ginnery arid Electrical Supply
5.   Public Health, Education, Institutions and Services
6.   Tenant Selection, Settlement and Housing
Table 1:    Allocations of Tenants by Province
Chart, World Bank 17461: Program of Tenant Selection and Induction
Chart, World Bank 17462: Outline of Settlement of a Typical Village
7.   Water Quality, Demand and Supply
Table 1:    Crop Calendar and Water Requirements
Table 2:    Tana River Monthly Average Flows at Garissa
Table 3:    Tana River Regulated Dry Season Discharges at
Garissa
Table 4:    Tana River Minimum Monthly Mean Discharges at
Nanigi and Garsen Once in Five Years
Table 5:    Tana River Minimum Monthly Mean Discharges at
Nanigi and Garsen Once in Ten Years
8.   Cropping Patterns, Production and Farm Revenues
9.   Forest Conservation and Afforestation
Appendix 1: Preservation of Indigenous Forests
10.   Wildlife, Fisheries and Ecology
11.   The Cotton Industry and the Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board
* Appendix 1: Schedule 6 of Development Credit Agreement for Kenya:
Integrated Agricultural Development Project;
Credit No. 650-KE
12.   Feasibility Studies for Stage II Irrigation Project on the Lower
Tana River



-3-
ANNEXES - (Cont'd)
13. Project Costs
Table 1:  Summary of Project Costs
Table 2:  Cost of Settlers' Dwellings, Village Infrastructure,
Education and Social Services Buildings
Table 3:  Administration Buildings
Table 4:  National Irrigation Board Building Costs
Table 5:  Health Care Delivery:  Capital Costs
Table 6:  Health Care Delivery:  Operating Costs
Table 7:  Vehicles and Equipment:  Capital Costs
Table 8:  Vehicles and Equipment:  Operating Costs
Table 9:  NIB Staff Salaries
Table 10: Salaries for Administration Services, Education
and Social Services
Table 11: Cost of Farm Inputs
Table 12: Consultancy Services
Table 13: Agricultural Management Services
14.  Financing Plan
15. National Youth Service
Appendix 1: List of Equipment Allocated to Works
16. Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
17. Consultancy Services
18. Project Organization and Management
Chart, World Bank 17463: Organization for Construction
Chart, World Bank 17464: Organization for Operation
19. Farm Budget
Table 1: Tenant's Income from a 1.25 ha Holding at Full Development
Table 2: Labor Requirements for a 1.25 ha Tenancy
20. Cost Recovery
21. Monitoring and Evaluation
22. Government Cash Flow
23. NIB Cash Flow



-4-
ANNEXES - (Cont'd)
24.  Economic Rate of Return
Table 1:   Project Rate of Return Calculation
Table 2:   Economic Value of Project Production
Table 3:   Economic Prices
CHART
World Bank 17274 - Implementation Schedule
MAPS
World Bank 12225R - Location and Communications
World Bank 12226R1 - The Project Area
* These Appendices are available in the Project File



KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Kenya is a relatively poor country with a per capita income of
US$220. Land is her main resource. However, good agricultural land comprises
less than 20% of the total land area. Population pressures are mounting and
it is expected that within the next twenty years the average small scale
farmer will have to eke a living out of I ha of land instead of the 2 ha he
cultivates today. The Kenya Government is pursuing a two-pronged approach in
dealing with this problem. It is attempting to raise productivity levels of
existing land under cultivation while at the same time bringing additional
land into productive use. Irrigation is an important tool in achieving
this objective.
ii.       The proposed Project, which would be the first step in an expected
eventual large scale development in the area, would provide for the construc-
tion of an irrigation system and the settlement on smallholdings of about
5,150 presently landless families (36,000 persons) selected from all parts of
Kenya. A net area of about 6,700 ha would be brought into production for
cotton and food crops, thus providing employment possibilities, expanded
production and improved foreign exchange earnings in one of the least de-
veloped parts of the country. Physical and social infrastructure would be
provided to support the settler and satellite population, expected to reach a
total of 65,000 by 1985.
iii.      The Project would include the establishment of an agricultural
research station, the training of Kenyan staff to manage the Project and
future irrigation projects and the preparation of a Stage II feasibility
study; these activities would contribute to future development and strengthen
Kenya's capacity to undertake it.
iv.       Water would be diverted by a diversion weir in the Tana River
into a 46 km supply canal from which an irrigation distribution system would
deliver it to the farms. Construction, which would take five years, would
include: the weir and river protection works, the supply canal, a 19 km
main canal, the irrigation distribution and drainage, land clearing and
levelling, roads, staff housing and offices, a town and 23 villages with
public health, education, social and administrative facilities for a total
population of 65,000, and crop processing and marketing facilities. Provision
would be included for the protection of an existing riverine forest along the
Tana River and the establishment of afforestation plantations for building
poles and firewood, the protection of wildlife, the strengthening of agri-
cultural extension services to the population of the area surrounding the
irrigated area and the provision of consultancy services for project imple-
mentation and training and of agricultural management services. Project
implementation would be the responsibility of the National Irrigation Board



- ii -
(NIB), assisted and strengthened by consultants and by an experienced man-
agement firm or organization, expected to be the Commonwealth Development
Corporation, which would manage the Project's agricultural production phase on
behalf of the NIB for a period of at least six years. The NIB would purchase
equipment and vehicles and provide mechanized cultivation, pest control and
all other services and agricultural inputs needed, as well as granting sea-
sonal credit to its tenants. Tenancies, of 1.30 ha including 0.05 ha of
gardens at village sites, would not be mortgageable and tenants would under-
take to follow a cropping pattern (cotton, groundnuts, maize and cowpeas) laid
down by the NIB, and to sell their produce to the NIB.
v.        Total Project costs, including taxes and duties (US$9.2 million)
and excluding interest on the Bank and CDC loans during construction (US$6.7
million), are estimated at US$91.7 million, the foreign exchange component
of which is about US$49 million or 54%. The proposed Bank loan of US$34
million and IDA credit of US$6 million would finance 48% of Project cost net
of taxes. An additional US$37.8 million of external financing is being ar-
ranged from: the European Development Fund US$12 million; the Netherlands
US$8.8 million; the United Kingdom US$8.5 million; and the Commonwealth
Development Corporation (UK) US$8.5 million. The balance of US$20.6 million
would be financed by the Government of Kenya.
vi.       For the Bank/IDA-financed portion, procurement through international
competitive bidding would be about US$35 million including contingencies.
It would include civil works for the major irrigation structures, the ex-
cavation of the supply canal and part of the main canal, land levelling, the
ginnery and buildings. The NYS would enter into arrangements with the NYS (a
department of the Ministry of Labor) for the construction of canals, land
clearing and minor irrigation works (total value about US$6.5 million includ-
ing contingencies) provided such arrangements were acceptable to the Bank/IDA.
Contracts for traditional building materials for settlers' houses (US$2 mil-
lion) would be awarded after competitive bidding advertised locally and in
accordance with normal Government procurement procedures.
vii.      Engineering and agricultural consultants would have responsibility
for detailed Project planning, design, the preparation of tender documents and
evaluation of tenders for construction and supply, the provision of technical
and coordination assistance to NIB and NYS and the preparation of the Stage II
feasibility study.
viii.     The cost of inputs and services supplied by the NIB's management
agency would be charged to tenants' individual accounts. The Government would
levy a "land and water charge" equivalent to not less than Ksh 2,800 per ha in
1977 constant terms. This would represent a payment of Ksh 3,640 per farmer,
or 32% of his net income, before Project charges and including the value of
subsistence crops consumed, at full development. Net farm income in 1977
constant terms, excluding the value of subsistence crops consumed, would be
about Ksh 5,220.



- iii -
ix.       The Project would produce cotton lint for export and groundnuts,
maize, cowpeas and vegetables for domestic and subsistence use. Annual
net foreign exchange earnings would reach US$8 million (in 1977 prices)
by Year 20. The economic rate of return would be about 13%. If future
stages of development were constructed utilizing parts of the Project works
and the costs of such works were prorated between the Project and the future
development, the economic rate of return of the Project would be about 14.5%.
x.        Irrigation and settlement of this tract of semi-desert would entail
many ecological changes. In particular irrigation would encourage the spread
of the vectors of two serious endemic diseases, malaria and schistosomiasis.
There would be possibilities of conflict in the interaction between the
Project and a large wildlife population and the riverine forest along the
Tana River would be at risk from cutters of firewood. The Project would
include a comprehensive public health program and provision would be made
to mitigate the adverse impact of the Project on the wildlife, to preserve
the riverine forest and to establish plantations to meet timber and fuelwood
needs.
xi.       The Project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$34 million and an
IDA credit of US$6 million. The Republic of Kenya would be the borrower.






KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Kenya has requested assistance from the Bank
and other agencies to finance an irrigation and settlement project in the
Lower Tana River Basin, an undeveloped and sparsely populated region in
the east of the country. The project's primary objective would be to open up
new areas for production and to raise income and standards of living of some
36,000 presently landless people (5,150 families) by developing a net area of
about 6,700 hectares for irrigated cropping of cotton and food crops.
1.02      The proposed Project was prepared under Dutch bilateral tech-
nical assistance by consultants for the Government of Kenya; this prepara-
tion was supplemented by additional studies undertaken in 1976 by the con-
sultants and by Government agencies. The project proposal is based on
detailed studies commenced in 1972 and reviewed during a series of Bank
preparation missions. Soils studies were reviewed by Mr. J.K. Coulter
(initially Consultant, later Bank staff member) in two visits to Kenya during
1974 and a third in 1976. The wildlife aspects were reviewed in the field by
Mr. L.H. Blankenship (Consultant) in July/August 1975. A project covering a
larger area (14,000 ha) was submitted to the Bank in October- 1975, and apprai-
sed in November 1975 by a mission consisting of Messrs. E.M. Sicely, F-M.
Patorni and Y. Pret (Bank), and Miss M. Burns, Mrs. M. Elmendorf and Mr. D.G.
Gardiner (Consultants). Dr. R. Kool of the Government of the Netherlands
accompanied the mission part-time as an observer. The Project was reappraised
at its reduced size in October/November 1976 by a mission consisting of
Messrs. Sicely and Pret, after a report by the consultants (October 1976) had
shown that the soils of the Project area were less suitable than they had
originally reported. Miss J. Maguire and Messrs D.B. Argyle, F. Golladay and
R.F. McMahon participated with the mission members in the preparation of the
report. Discussions on financing the project were held with the Kenya Govern-
ment and co-financing agencies in Europe and/or Kenya in July and November
1967 and March 1977. The Project Planning Report (PPR) for the Project (para
4.48) was reviewed in draft with the consultants in England in April 1977.
1.03      Nineteen World Bank Loans and 12 IDA Credits, totaling nearly
US$181 million have been approved so far to assist in the financing of 15
projects in Kenya's agriculture sector. These include projects concerned
with livestock development, afforestation, tea development, settlement,
smallholder credit, rehabilitation of group farms, integrated agricultural
development and sugar cane production. Implementation of these projects has
generally been satisfactory, except in livestock projects where it has been
slow.



II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Lying astride the equdtor on the eastern coast of Africa, Kenya,
with a total area of 583,000 km , is a country of striking topographical and
climatic variety. Conditions range from a limited Afro-Alpine zone in the
center south to the tropical coastal strip, and from near desert in the north
to high rainfall forest in the southwestern highlands.
2.02      The population, now estimated at 13 million, is growing at a rate
of about 3.3% per year. About 90% of the population lives in rural areas and
is dependent on agriculture for its livelihood. There are, however, extreme
variations in population densities, which range from several hundred persons2
per km in some districts in Nyanza and Western province to 7 persons per km
in Narok District.
2.03      GDP growth has been averaging 6.3% annually in real terms between
1964 and 1973 but has slowed down in recent years following accelerated world
inflation including oil price increases. Per capita income is currently about
US$220. The country's economy has been based mainly on agriculture (now
representing about 30% of GDP) but manufacturing has grown rapidly and now
accounts for about 12% of GDP. Tourism is an important foreign exchange earner.
The Government's Action Program adopted in early 1975 aims at restructuring the
economy by decreasing import dependency and promoting production for exports.
The agricultural sector is to play an important role in this process.
2.04      Average rural income per capita is well below urban earnings,
probably less than US$70, and moreover rural incomes show wide divergencies
among themselves according to farm size and location. These income disparities
account in part for rural-urban migration (urban centers are growing at about
7% per year) as well as migration between rural areas.
B. Rural Sector
2.05      The agricultural sector is of great importance to the economy and
is now contributing about 30% of GDP. The overall rate of growth in the
sector between 1964 and 1973 was about 4.3% in real terms (and 6% in the
monetary segment), a little above population growth. Agriculture accounts
for about 70% of total exports; the latter increased from Ksh 2,020 million to
Ksh 4,540 million in the period 1965-1975. The main export crops are coffee
and tea followed by sisal, pyrethrum, dairy products, meat, cotton, wool, nuts
and animal feed. Subsistence cultivation accounts for over half of total



- 3 -
agricultural production, the major subsistence foodcrops being maize, bananas,
sorghum, millet and pulses.
2.06      About 18% of Kenya's total land area of 58 million ha is of high
or medium potential for crops or livestock including the highlands and the
coastal belt. A further 10% is suitable for subsistence dry-land farming and
cattle ranching, while the rest is suitable only for extensive production of
livestock for both commercial and subsistence needs. Of 160,000 ha identified
as potentially suitable for new large scale irrigation development in Kenya,
115,000 ha are located in the Tana River Basin and 35,000 ha in the Lake
Victoria Basin. The Tana River Basin has been the subject of comprehensive
studies by the Tana River Development Authority (TRDA), established in 1972.
Its hydro-electric potential is being developed through a number of schemes
financed by the Bank and other external financing agencies.
2.07      The Government's ability to promote an improvement in farmer per-
formance over the already good past record will largely determine Kenya's
success in adjusting to the more stringent balance of payments situation
in future years. It will be necessary in particular for the agricultural
sector to increase domestic food production, to make a major contribution to
import substitution, both directly and through resource-based industry, to
open up new export opportunities for raw materials and processed products and
to play a larger role in absorbing labor and maintaining incomes and consump-
tion. The Government is undertaking several actions to provide support to
farmers; more public investment is being channelled into agriculture, the
Ministry of Agriculture's planning capacity has been strengthened and prices
are being kept under regular review to ensure that they provide adequate
incentives to farmers.
2.08      Irrigation schemes have been developed in the past but until
recently the Government's efforts to develop agriculture have been mainly
directed towards promoting rainfed agriculture (both for export crops and
food crops), with increasing attention to the needs of small farmers. In
order to improve foreign currency earnings, provide settlement and employ-
ment opportunities for the increasing number of rural population who find
themselves landless and without means of subsistence, and increase production
and incomes in the Lower Tana region, the Government has now decided to
develop the country's irrigation potential in a systematic fashion. This
project is a first step towards expected future large scale irrigation
development in the Lower Tana River Basin.
The Cotton Subsector
2.09      Cotton was introduced into Kenya at the beginning of the century,
but its commercial development has been relatively unsuccessful, mainly
because producer prices have not been attractive to the farmer relative to
competitive crops such as maize and beans. With the exception of one irrigated
850 ha project in the Lower Tana basin, the Hola Pilot Irrigation Scheme, the



- 4 -
crop is all rainfed. Total installed ginning capacity is about 38,000 tons
of seed cot-.  -er year corresponding to 68,000 bales of cotton lint, and
output was aboat 30,000 bales of cotton lint in 1972-74.
2.10      The domestic textile industry used to import lower grade cotton
lint from Uganda and Tanzania while higher grade Kenya cotton lint was expor-
ted. However, supplies from these sources are declining and the Kenya textile
industry is expanding. Hence, the Kenyan industry is becoming more dependent
on other sources of supply, mainly of short-staple cottons.
2.11      The present market for vegetable oils in Kenya is about 32,000 tons
per annum, of which 22,000 tons are imported and 10,000 tons are domestically
produced and processed. Oilseed processing capacity in Kenya is about 75,000
tons, well above present consumption. Present sources of locally produced
vegetable oil are coconuts, groundnuts and sunflowers, while vegetable oils,
oilseeds and animal fats and oils together form the country's main food
import category for which import substitution appears feasible.
The Maize Subsector
2.12      The Kenyan national diet is based primarily on cereals, dominated
by maize. It is estimated that about 2 million tons of maize are produced
annually. The national average yield may now well exceed 2 metric tons
per ha thanks to a rapid spread of hybrid maize. In terms of area planted
and total value, maize is Kenya's most important crop. About 90% of the
total maize crop is grown by small-scale farmers who market any excess
available after meeting subsistence needs. The balance is grown by commer-
cial large-scale farmers who sell the bulk of their production to the Maize
and Produce Board (MPB).
Institutions
2.13      Government services to agriculture are delivered through four
ministries and 15 statutory boards. The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) has
the responsibility for agricultural development.
2.14      The National Irrigation Board (NIB) is a semi-autonomous body
responsible for planning, construction, settling and managing national
irrigation schemes. It is answerable to the Minister of Agriculture. At
present it operates five schemes, the largest of which, the Mwea scheme,
covers about 5,500 ha. The NIB is described in Annex 1.
2.15      The Tana River Development Authority is responsible for carrying
out and coordinating studies for development projects utilizing the re-
sources of the Tana River Basin (including power generation, irrigation,
wildlife and land) and for monitoring design, execution and performance
of planned projects.
2.16      The Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board (CLSMB) is a statutory
corporation with wide-ranging powers for regulating and servicing the cotton
industry in Kenya including: purchase and sale of cotton, lint and seed;



- 5 -
fixing of prices; prescription of cotton seed and ginnery standards; licensing
and inspection of cotton stores, markets and factories; financing ownership
and operation of ginneries, etc.
2.17      The Maize and Produce Board (MPB), a parastatal marketing agency,
is the sole legal purchaser of maize sold across district boundaries. The MPB
also buys other crops (especially pulses and oilseeds) either as an agent for
processors or for direct export.
2.18      The National Youth Service (NYS) is a government agency under the
Ministry of Labour which provides training for young citizen volunteers in a
variety of manual skills. It has been employed as a construction agency on
Bank-financed road projects.
2.19      Credit:  Institutions providing agricultural credit include the
Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) which provides credit to both large
and small commercially oriented farmers, and the Cooperative Bank which
channels credit through cooperatives to mainly medium and small farmers. On
irrigation schemes for which the NIB is responsible, short-term financial
requirements are met by the NIB and repaid by farmers after the harvest. The
private banking sector also provides credit to farmers for agricultural
purposes as well as loans to cooperatives for farmers to build houses.
Research and Extension Services
2.20      The research effort is dispersed among a large number of organiza-
tions. Crop research is largely on a commodity basis. Emphasis has been
mainly on maize, wheat, coffee, tea and pyrethrum, but sugar and cotton
have received some attention. Field trials on irrigated crops have been
carried out by the NIB on the Hola Pilot Irrigation Scheme since 1966.
The Ministry of Agriculture has a large extension service for agriculture
but its effectiveness is variable. On irrigation schemes the NIB operates
its own extension services.
2.21      Training of Staff and Farmers is provided by a large network of
colleges and training institutions. Senior agricultural staff have usually
been trained to university degree level, intermediate level staff are trained
at the Egerton and Embu agricultural colleges, while junior staff obtain
their training either at Embu or at Farmer Training Centers.
2.22      Supply of Fertilizers, Pesticides, and Seeds has been undertaken
in the past mainly by private firms and organizations, the largest single
distributor being the Kenya Farmers Association (KFA) through a national
network of branches and stockists.  While practically all artificial fertili-
zers have to be imported, the Kenya Seed Company (KSC), a commercial organiza-
tion, undertakes the multiplication of maize, sunflower and pasture seed.
I1OA seed inspection services certify that seed offered for sale meets legally
prescribed purity and germination standards. Planting materials for tea,
coffee and pyrethrum are supplied by the respective development agencies
through nurseries located in the main production areas. Cotton seed is



supplied by the Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board through the ginnery
network. The NIB coordinates the supply of inputs to farmers on its irri-
gation schemes.
2.23      Marketing of smallholder produce has traditionally been under-
taken by traders, stockists and cooperatives. Some specific crops are
marketed through statutory monopolies, i.e. the Cotton Lint and Seed
Marketing Board and the Maize and Produce Board (paras 2.16 and 2.17).
C. Settlement and Irrigation Schemes in Kenya
2.24      Rural and urban unemployment, and the continued slow rate of
employment generation in the two sectors have led the Government of Kenya
to a search for land suitable for settlement.
2.25      During the past decade major investments have been made in land
settlement schemes. The most important of these was the Million-Acre Settle-
ment Program which involved settling about 35,000 families on 470,000 hectares
of land. A much smaller but similar scheme was the Harambee Settlement
Program which entailed settling more than 400 families on about 6,500 hectares
of land. Another major program has been the Haraka Settlement Program through
which about 14,000 families have been settled on 105,000 hectares of land.
Another scheme involved settling 2,000 families at 01 Kalou where 86 large-
scale farms covering a total of 56,000 hectares were taken over.
2.26      With the exception of a few cooperatively-run largescale ranches
included in the Million-Acre Program and the 01 Kalou Scheme, all of the
above schemes have been based on settlement of families on individual small-
scale farms. Beginning in 1971, a new settlement program - the Shirika
Program - was started which involved the takeover of expatriate-owned large-
scale farms. These were not sub-divided into small plots, but instead each
farmer was allocated a small plot of about one hectare for food production
while the greater part of the farm was run as a large scale unit under a
manager appointed by the Department of Settlement.
2.27      The development and success of these settlement schemes have
been limited by a number of constraints, the major ones being lack of
seasonal credit to farmers, insufficient extension services, poor roads,
inadequate water supplies, poor health and social facilities and in general
inefficient management.
2.28      Irrigation schemes coupled with settlement programs have sought
to achieve the dual purpose of bringing land into more productive use and
providing settlement for landless persons.
2.29      At present there are 5 major irrigation schemes in Kenya, under
the National Irrigation Board: Mwea in Kirinyanga District (rice; 5,500 ha),
Ahero in Central Nyanza (rice; 1,500 ha), Hola in Tana River (cotton, maize
and groundnuts; 850 ha),



- 7 -
Bunyala in Busia and Siaya Districts (rice; 340 ha) and Perkerra in Baringo
(onions and chillies; 260 ha). Mwea, Perkerra and Hola were initiated in the
later years of the colonial regime, employing Mau Mau detainees as laborers.
Ahero and Bunyala were started later as pilot projects. A feature common to
all these schemes, resulting from Government policy, is the small size of
individual holdings (about 1.6 ha).
2.30      Only Mwea, the largest scheme, is financially self-supporting.
However, the Hola Scheme has been successful in terms of agricultural results
and tenants' incomes have increased significantly over the past few years.
Hola is not yet financially viable, being too small to cover high over-
head costs including pumped water for irrigation. The other schemes have
suffered from diseases on rice (Bunyala, Ahero) or adverse market conditions
(Perkerra) and until now have been unsuccessful.
D. Hola Scheme Results
2.31      The Hola Pilot Irrigation Scheme (850 ha) is located some
20 km south of the Bura project area on soils generally similar to those
of Bura. Tenants' holdings are 1.2 to 1.6 ha, growing cotton as a main
crop alternated with maize and groundnuts during the off-season.
2.32      Part of the scheme (about 600 ha) has been in production since
1956. In 1972, the scheme was enlarged to 850 ha. During its first 8 years
of operation, the scheme had little success. In 1964, however, consultants
(ILACO, the Netherlands) were employed under a UNDP-financed project to
carry out research into agronomic and water management techniques. In 1966
ILACO's services were retained for Hola under a Kenyan-Dutch technical assis-
tance agreement, under which the firm also provided assistance to the National
Irrigation Board in project management and staff training. The arrangement has
continued from 1966 until the present time. As a result of this technical and
management assistance, cotton yields increased from an average of 1,200 kg of
seed cotton per ha in 1966 to the present level of about 2,800 kg/ha, of which
98% have been graded AR (top grade) during the past 4 years.
2.33      Average farm incomes, excluding the value of subsistence crops,
have risen from US$130 in 1966 to about US$620 in 1975. Farm incomes, how-
ever, have varied greatly in relation to the farmers' management skill and
application.
2.34      Maize is also a successful crop on the scheme, grown during the
off-season on about 400 ha. Best yields are over 3,500 kg/ha. There is
again a large difference in yields between farms, because many farmers
appear to look only for subsistence requirements and are satisfied with
low yields.



- 8 -
2.35      Grol:ndnuts are grown during the off-season on less than one-
tenth of ti, ssheme area.  Yields average 1,500 kg/ha of unshelled nuts,
with best yields above 2,800 kg.
2.36      The Hola Experimental Station has carried out variety trials
on cotton, maize, cowpeas, groundnuts and sugarcane. It also studies soil
productivity in relation to fertilizer application, soil structure and
long-term rotation trials.
E. Rural Development Strategy
2.37      Government's development objectives for agriculture are to
(a) increase both the output and productivity of export commodities so
as to increase foreign exchange earnings and maintain their competitive
position in export markets; (b) diversify output to spread the risks of
price fluctuations; (c) increase production of food crops to meet growing
demand resulting from population growth; and (d) develop physical and social
infrastructure in regional programs for both cash and food crops, raise
incomes and living standards in the poorer parts of the country and reduce
income disparities and population-land imbalance among regions.
2.38      To attain these objectives, Government strategy consists of (a)
implementing programs centering on the smallholder sector; (b) helping
and integrating parastatals, cooperatives and private entrepreneurs to
contribute more to smallholder development; (c) taking measures to reduce
the population-land imbalance and the associated under-use of land and
labor; (d) stressing subsistence crop production; (e) executing large-scale
diversification projects and (f) developing the country's irrigation potential.
III.   THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      The Project area (Maps IBRD 12225R and 12226R1) is situated just
south of the equator in the Lower Tana Basin. It lies on the west bank of the
Tana River and falls within the administrative area of the Tana River District
in Kenya's Coast Region.
3.02      Access is by means of a road running from Garissa (75 km north of the
area) to Garsen (150 km south of the area). A 370 km long all weather road
connects Garissa with Nairobi and similarly Garsen is served by an all weather
road via Malindi to Mombasa (230 km). The road Garissa-Garsen is frequently
impassable to motor vehicles during the rainy seasons. The nearest railhead
is at Mombasa.



-9-
Climate
3.03      Rainfall is low (about 400 mm) and erratic, with large variations
from place to place and year to year. It falls mainly in two rainy seasons,
March-May and October-December, the latter season being slightly the wetter.
Temperatures are high year-round with little seasonal variation. Mean
maximum temperatures do not fall much below 32 C in any month (Annex 2) and
average minimum monthly temperatures are above 20 0C.  Winds are rather strong
during most of the year.
Topography and Soils
3.04      The area lies on an old alluvial terrace of the Tana River which
flows in a north-south direction across a vast plain stretching from the
foothills of Mt. Kenya to the Indian Ocean. The plain, with a regular west-
east slope towards the river in the project area, is cut by a few major
depressions formed by seasonally-flowing tributaries to the river. The land
surface is generally even except near these watercourses.
3.05      The soils (Annex 2) of the old alluvial terrace are of two main
types - sandy clay loam (or sandy loam) and heavy cracking clays. They occur
in a complex, scattered pattern. In the area selected for development about
50% of the soils are Class I, about 20% are Class II, about 10% Class III
and the remainder (20%) are Class IV. The Class II and Class III soils have
saline-alkali subsoils but it has been shown at the Hola Pilot Irrigation
Scheme that they sustain irrigated production satisfactorily. Investiga-
tions show that salts are being leached adequately and there is no build-up
of salinity in the root zone. Sodium levels have also decreased under irri-
gation and it has been concluded that soil amendments will not be required.
The Class IV soils, which have a shallow topsoil, have been included in the
project area in order to gain practical management experience with them before
deciding whether to extend the Project on to large areas of similar soils in a
second phase of development.
The Tana River
3.06      The Tana River is the only year-round source of irrigation water
in the area. Between Garissa and Garsen it meanders through a flood plain
about 3 km wide at a gentle gradient of about 1:2,200. The river is subject
to sudden peak flows accompanied by heavy sediment loads from rainfall run-
off, followed by flow recessions during which it is fed mainly by groundwater
seepage. Its low season flows depend at present primarily on releases for
hydro-electric generation routed through a series of reservoirs (Kamburu,
Gtaru, Kindaruma) in its middle reaches. Regulation will be improved when
the Upper Tana Reservoir is completed (1981). The reservoir will also permit
further irrigation development to take place on the Lower Tana River, supplied
from stored water in the low-flow season.
Population
3.07      The population density in the Project area is about 1 person per sq.
km. The main tribes are the Orma (nomadic pastoralists) and the Pokomo/Malekote



- 10 -
(cultivators of the riverine margins). The Orma frequent the area mainly
during and after the rainy seasons, living in temporary huts. The Pokomo/
Malekote live in permanent villages along the Tana River.   The total popula-
tion of the Tana River District is about 60,000 people, of whom about 35,000
are Pokomo/ Malekote, 19,000 are Orma and 6,000 are from other tribes.
Public Health
3.08      The Project area population shows a high prevalence of vector-borne
and parasitic diseases. Infection rates by schistosomiasis are high (over
70% in the 5-9 years age group); malaria is endemic with high parasite and
enlarged spleen rates (36% and 30% respectively) in riverine villages, and
lower parasite rates in scrubland villages (16%) as well as in the Hola Pilot
Irrigation Scheme villages (14%) where a voluntary prophylaxis scheme has been
operating for some years.
3.09      There is a District Hospital at Hola (50 beds and active outpatient
department at present, but about to be enlarged to 150 beds under Dutch
bilateral assistance) and several dispensaries in the Project area. Most
of the latter are staffed by visits from Hola hospital and only two have
resident dispensers.
Land Tenure
3.10      All land in the Project area is state-owned.  The titles to land
are vested in two different authorities: (a) the Tana River County Council,
on behalf of the local population, which is entrusted with the administration
of "Trust Land", comprising the riverine zone on both sides of the Tana River
and the northern two-thirds of the Project area; and (b) the District Commis-
sioner, on behalf of the Ministry of Lands and Settlement, who administers
the "State Land" of the District, i.e. all the lands outside the Trust Land
zone for which no title deeds have been established. No titles to land in
or adjacent to the project area have been registered to date. The Project
lands are at present used by the Orma, who traditionally graze their cattle
there.
Agricultural Production
3.11      Under the semi-arid conditions prevailing in the area, the only
agricultural production is derived from cattle grazing, the annual net
production value of which amounts to about US$2,000 from the total area
(10,000 ha) within which the 6,700 ha irrigable area lies.
Ecology
3.12      The ecosystem of the Project area is characterized mainly by the
Tana River; its riverine forest; a sparse open bushland away from the river;
the nomadic and riverine population; and considerable numbers of wildlife,
including elephants and other large mammals.



- 11 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General
4.01      The Project would over a 5-1/2-year period develop about 6,700 net
irrigated ha on the West Bank of the Lower Tana River and settle on small-
holdings about 5,150 landless poor families selected from all parts of Kenya.
Physical and social infrastructure would be provided to support the settler
and satellite population, expected to reach a total of 65,000 by 1985. The
farms would contribute to Kenya's foreign exchange earnings as well as produc-
ing food crops for subsistence. The Project would have a special development
significance because it would develop, through technical assistance and
training, Kenyan capacity to manage future major irrigation projects projected
for implementation within the next ten years, in particular an expected large
development on the East Bank of the Lower Tana River. The Project would include:
(a)  the construction of a diversion structure on the Tana River,
a temporary pumping station, a 46 km supply canal, a 19 km
main canal, secondary, tertiary and quaternary irrigation
canals and a surface drainage system;
(b)  the improvement of main roads and the construction of
internal Project roads;
(c)  land clearing and levelling;
(d)  the construction of scheme buildings and satellite facilities
including an electrical generating station and distribution
system;
(e)  the construction of towns and villages for about 5,150 families
together with educational, social and administrative facilities
for an estimated total population of 65,000;
(f)  provision for agricultural inputs and marketing facilities
for crops (cotton, groundnuts, maize, cowpeas), and for a
cotton ginning factory;
(g)  the selection and settlement of about 5,150 families on holdings
of 1.30 ha each (1.25 ha farm holding, plus 0.05 ha irrigated
garden);
(h)  public health facilities and operations;
(i)  the protection of existing riverine forest along
the Tana River and the establishment of afforestation
plantations for building poles and firewood;



- 12 -
(j)  the protection of wildlife in the area;
(k)  the strengthening of agricultural extension services to
the existing population of the area engaged in riverine
cultivation and nomadic pastoralism;
(1)  the establishment of an agricultural research station;
(m)  the provision of consultancy services for Project planning,
strengthening and coordination of existing institutions,
Project implementation and staff training;
(n)  the provision of agricultural management services; and
(o)  the preparation of feasibility studies for a possible future
irrigation project on the East Bank of the Lower Tana River.
The Project would be implemented by the National Irrigation Board (NIB),
assisted and strengthened by project consultants and by an experienced agri-
cultural management firm or organization, expected to be the Commonwealth
Development Corporation.
B. Detailed Features
4.02      The Project works are described in full detail in Annex 3.  A sum-
mary of their main features is given below:
Irrigation System
4.03      The Project (see Map IBRD 12226R) would irrigate an undeveloped area
of 6,700 ha net by long-furrow irrigation. The water would be diverted
by gravity from the Lower Tana River by means of a diversion structure
located north of Nanigi. The structure would be sited and designed also
to supply a possible future canal on the east bank of the river to serve a
future Lower Tana East Bank Irrigation Development. A future expansion of the
present Project, on about 6,000 additional hectares of adjacent soils cur-
rently classified as Class IV, would also be contemplated after experience had
been obtained on the management and productivity of similar soils to be
irrigated under the Project (see Annex 2). In order to permit this expansion
to be undertaken with the minimum of disruption of water supplies to the
Project, the diversion structure and the structures on the Supply and Main
canals would be constructed initially to the ultimate capacity required to
serve the expanded project area. However, the canals would be excavated
initially only to a size sufficient to supply 6,700 ha.
4.04      Field irrigation would take place only during daylight hours.
However, the intake on the Tana River and the major irrigation canals (primary
and secondary canal systems) would operate on a continuous 24-hour basis.
Night-storage reservoirs would feed the minor (tertiary) canals which would
operate only during the day.



- 13 -
4.05      The diversion structure would consist of an 80 m long concrete fixed
crest spillway equipped with 3 sluice gates. It would incorporate a bridge
and an Xndersluice to flush sediments. The spilling capacity would be
3,500 m /sec. The structure would be built in the dry, the river to be diverted
through it on completion. The intake structure would have eight openings
controllable by stop logs. Four of these would be available for future
irrigation on the east bank (Stage II), with the water being conveyed through
two tunnels in the spillway body. The design of this structure and its
associated river works (para 4.06) is under review by new project consultants
(para 4.46). The possibility of modifications being made to the designs has
been provided for in the cost estimates (para 4.59).
4.06      Flood dikes adjoining the concrete spillway would be constructed
across the flood plain on both sides of the river and a third dike would
protect the first 5 km of the Supply Canal. The flood dike on the east bank
would incluie a 1,300 m long, masonry-lined overflow section capable of pass-
ing 2,450 m /sec. The total flood discharge capacity (overflow and concrete
spillway) would amount to 3,500 m /sSc which corresponds to an estimated 1,000
year flood. A sand trap of 40,000 m capacity for sediment deposits would
be located at the head of the Supply Canal; it would be cleaned mechanically
by continuous dredging.
4.07      In order to provide an irrigation supply in years 3 and 4 before
the diverion structure and other 5iver works would be completed, a temporary
pumpingiinstallation of four 1.0 m /sec pumps would be constructed to deliver
water in6o.tfhe Supply Canal near the site of the diversion structure.
4.0q      The 46 km long Supply Canal would carry a maximum discharge of
8 m /sec to the north-western corner of the area to be irrigated. Crossings
at lagas 1/ would be by inverted siphon or culvert. The canal cross section
and slope have been selected to avoid erosion but to transport the finer silt
particles which would pass the sand trap. The maximum water level in the
canal would be slightly below the land surface to avoid theft of water.
Escape structures would protect the canal against the consequences of faulty
operation and other emergencies.
4.09      The Main Canal would be 19 km long.  Offtake regulators along it
would feed each branch canal with measured flow. Night-storage reservoirs
would be located adjacent to the branch canals at the head of block feeders;
these in turn would supply up to 10 unit feeders, each providing supply to
24 tenants' holdings. Field irrigation would be by siphon tubes serving
285 m furrows; 50 furrows spaced 0.90 m would constitute a tenant's holding
(1.25 ha).
4.10      The topography is suitable for furrow irrigation down slopes rang-
ing from 0.5 to 1.5 m per km. A tenant's holding would be irrigated in
about 5 hours, repeated in 12-day cycles. Pre-planting water application
would require about 8 hours.
1/   Seasonal watercourses.



- 14 -
Drainage System
4.11      The drainage system for the scheme would be designed for the dis-
charge of excess surface water comprising rainfall runoff, operational
losses and waste of irrigation water. The design criterion for drainage
capacity is the discharge within a 24-hour period of the maximum 24-hour
rainfall runoff occurring once in 2 years.
4.12      Excess water in the canal system would be discharged into the
drainage system through escape structures and spillways planned at inter-
vals along the Supply and Main Canals and at the tail ends of the branch
canals and block feeders. Wherever possible, the existing lagas have been
planned as main drains. These lagas usually also drain a considerable area
of land west of the main canal, and water from the irrigated area east of
the main canal would add only slightly to the peak discharges. All main
drains would discharge into the flood plain of the Tana River, where they
would link up with one of the natural drainage outlets.
4.13      From the scarce data available, it has been concluded that ground-
water occurs in the project area only at great depths. The subsoil strata
have a very low permeability and therefore deep percolation and groundwater
recharge are expected to be small. Natural subsurface flows towards the
nearby Tana River are likely to cope adequately with the recharge resulting
from irrigation.  Nevertheless, the possibility of a future rise of the
groundwater level would be kept in mind and continuous systematic observations
carried out.  The NIB would undertake continuous observations in accordance
with a program to be agreed with the Bank/IDA. It is unlikely that the
construction of a deep drainage system would be required. However, if it
should become necessary, it is not expected that the cost of such works would
influence the present economics significantly because they would not be needed
until after a long period of irrigation (10-30 years).
On-Farm Development Works
4.14      Bush clearing would be done by bulldozers; manual clearing was
considered, but it would be more expensive and too slow. To the extent
possible, felled timber would be saved for fuelwood. Provision has been made
in the cost estimates for precision land levelling over 20% of the area for
the introduction of long furrow irrigation. This is an acceptable estimate
pending the completion of detailed topographical surveys. Any land levelling
undertaken on the shallow soils would have to be done with care to avoid
reducing the depth of top soil to an unacceptable extent by excessive cutting.
Surveys for land levelling would therefore by done by the Project consultants
with this contraint in view, and land levelling operations would be carried
out by experienced contractors under strict engineering supervision
exercised by the Project consultants. Land smoothing to correct local irreg-
ularities of slope would normally follow the natural slope in the direc-
tion of the furrows.



- 15 -
Wildlife Conservation Works
4.15      Eleven drinking pools for wildlife would be built along the Supply
and Main Canals, from which they would be supplied through buried pipes. The
canal designs provide for inverted siphons to carry the canal across all major
natural cross-drainage lines. These will provide an opportunity for wildlife
to cross the Supply Canal along the beds of the lagas. Additional wildlife
crossings of the Supply Canal would be required and it is proposed to provide
initially three fords through the canal for this purpose. Allowance has been
made in the estimates for a further four ford crossings which may be built
after the canal has been constructed, if additional sites of high challenge
are noted.
Road System
4.16      Improvements would be made to the Garissa-Garsen trunk road (Map
IBRD 12225R) and an access road to the Nanigi diversion site and internal
Project roads would be constructed. The 224 km long Garissa-Garsen road,
non-surfaced and poorly maintained, which connects the Project area with
Mombasa and Nairobi, becomes impassable for up to several weeks during the
rainy season. Improvement of 188 km and realignment of 36 km around the area
to be irrigated would be required in order to ensure year-round access during
the project period as well as for eventual agricultural production.
4.17      The cement industry has recently intensified its mining of gypsum
in the Nanigi area for transport in heavy trucks to factories in Mombasa and
Nairobi. Heavy traffic loads would cause rapid deterioration of the road,
possibly to the point of paralyzing the Project, unless the road reconstruc-
tion is done to appropriate standards and it is properly maintained. It
was agreed at negotiations that maintenance would be adequate and that the
Government would make sufficient budgetary provision for this purpose.
4.18      The main roads along the branch canals would form the principal
transport axis within a section, with all block roads connecting to them.
They would run in an east-west direction, and connect with the Garissa-
Garsen trunk road outside the area to be irrigated. This road provides
the main north-south connection between the sections. The main roads would
have a width of 6 m, of which 4.5 m would be surfaced. 1/ All the other block
roads as well as all the unit roads and inspection roads would be 4.5 m wide
and non-surfaced.
Sites and Services for Towns and Villages
4.19      Population centers would include a principal town (in which the
Project headquarters would be located), and 23 villages of which 4 would be
1/   Surfacing materials (murram, sand or possibly a sand/clay/lime mix)
would vary in relation to soil conditions and the local availability
of materials.



- 16 -
market centers. They would be provided with roads, potable water supplies and
sewage dis:-_-J  facilities. Electric power supplies would be available in the
town by locai generation. Sites would be located sufficiently distant from
irrigation canals and major drains to provide a deterrent to the use of
irrigation and drainage water for domestic purposes and bathing. This, to-
gether with the provision of communal clothes-washing facilities and re-
creational ponds, would limit the exposure of the population to water-borne
diseases (para 4.26). The towns and villages would be planned, designed and
constructed to standards acceptable to the Bank and IDA.
Buildings
4.20      Buildings (Annex 4) would fall into two categories - those to be
constructed by contractors and those to be constructed by tenants guided and
assisted by NIB. Buildings in the first category would include offices,
workshops, storage warehouses, secondary schools, health centers, dispen-
saries, and houses for NIB staff and other Government employees. Those in
the second category (see paras 4.22 and 4.23) would include primary schools,
social halls and houses for school teachers. The designs for buildings have
been prepared initially by NIB and the Government departments with responsi-
bilities in this field. The designs are being reviewed by the Project con-
sultants in relation to the particular environmental and health considera-
tions applicable to the Project area and with a view to optimal cost savings
in construction.
Administrative Services
4.21      The towns and villages of the Project area would include local
government offices, police stations and post offices together with staff
houses.
Education and Community Development (Annex 5)
4.22      Primary schools and teachers' houses in rural areas in Kenya are
normally built by "harambee". 1/ The Ministry of Education neither finances
nor constructs them. In the case of the Project, where new communities would
be made up of strangers coming from all parts of Kenya without financial re-
sources, it would be difficult for harambee to function in the normal manner,
unless aided by technical and financial assistance. The Government has there-
fore decided that though these buildings would be constructed by the tenants,
NIB would supply building materials and technical supervision. The same would
apply to social halls which would provide centers for community activities
1/   Cooperative community effort.



- 17 -
during the early years after settlement and until such time as the communi-
ties provide more extensive facilities from their own resources. A secondary
school would be constructed under conventional contracting procedures.
Tenants' Houses
4.23      Tenants would build their own houses under NIB supervision (Annex
6), using materials procured by Project funds. NIB would recover the cost of
materials from the tenants over 15 years without interest.
Public Health Aspects
4.24      Stringently-applied intensive public health measures would be needed
in the Project area because:
(a) non-immune tenant families and construction workers
coming from other parts of Kenya (para. 4.29) would be
at high risk from vector-borne and parasitic diseases
endemic in the area;
(b) the immigrant population could bring with them serious
diseases new to the area (intestinal schistosomiasis
and yellow fever); and
(c) unless adequate control measures were applied, the
introduction of irrigation would aggravate water-
borne diseases.
4.25      A British Medical Research Council team assisting the Kenya Ministry
of Health, which has undertaken epidemiological studies in the Project area,
has reported that in the absence of control measures a high mortality and
morbidity may be expected from seasonal outbreaks of malaria amongst a non-
immune population. The team has advised the Government that, quite apart
from humanitarian aspects, unless adequate surveillance and control measures
are instituted from the outset of population immigration to the area, such
mortality and morbidity could occur on such a scale as to lead to desertion of
tenants and considerable difficulties for the Project. The requirement for the
Public Health program would arise with the arrival of the first construction
workers and would be intensified with the subsequent immigration of tenants
and their families.
4.26      The public health requirements (Annex 5) would include, as a minimum,
the following public health measures:
(a) comprehensive health screening of settler candidates
and their families as part of the process of settler
selection;
(b) the establishment of a disease surveillance unit;



- 18 -
(c) disease-specific control programs for malaria, schistoso-
miasis and other vector-borne communicable diseases; and
(d) a cost-effective health care delivery system particularly
designed to serve a re-settled, largely non-immune, popu-
lation of diverse ethnic origin.
4.27      The Government has agreed to establish by February 1, 1978 and main-
tain a public health and disease control program acceptable to the Bank and IDA.
Land Tenure
4.28      In accordance with the Irrigation Act of 1966 (Annex 1, Appendix
1) the Minister of Agriculture will acquire the rights to most of the lands
in the Project area and vest them in the National Irrigation Board. It
would be a condition of loan/credit effectiveness that the Minister had
gazetted the Irrigation Area to include: the Nanigi diversion structure site
and the area to be inundated upstream of it together with its riverine margins,
the Supply Canal, the area to be irrigated and the forest areas.  Tenants Iould
be allotted plots of 1.25 ha each (and garden areas near villages of 500 m
per family) by the NIB, under its standard terms of tenancy (Annex 1, Appendix
2). Persons having rights, to land or access to the river, taken over by the
NIB would receive adequate compensation.
Settlement Program
4.29      About 5,150 farmer families selected from all parts of Kenya would be
settled (Annex 6) in three and a half years, starting in FY1979 (year 2). About
750 families of Project and Government staff and 2,500 families of artisans and
traders are also expected to settle in the Project area by 1985, bringing the
total Project population, together with other satellite population, to about
65,000. Family heads would arrive throughout the year, except in the rainy
seasons; they would be joined about ten weeks after their arrival by the remain-
ing members of their families. The rate of settlement would be as follows:
Fiscal Year                       79/80             80/81             81/82       82/83
Tenants settling
during the year                  1,125              1,800              1,800        425
Tenants settled,
cumulative                        1,125             2,925             4,725       5,150
No. of towns and
villages (cumulative)              6                  14                22          24
Net area developed
(cumulative)(ha) /1              875              2,910             5,535       6,700
/1   Including gardens which, at 500 m  per family, would total 550 ha
by 1983.



- 19 -
Cropping
4.30      The tenants' 1.25 ha holdings would be planted to cotton every year.
In the off-season for cotton, maize and cowpeas would be planted as a mixed
crop on 0.6 ha; cropping intensity would thus be 148% from the first year on-
wards. From the fourth year of cultivation onwards, by which time yields of
a smaller area of maize and cowpeas would provide adequately for the family's
subsistence requirements, groundnuts would also be included in the cropping
pattern to improve cash returns. The area planted to maize and cowpeas would
be reduced as the groundnut area increased. By the eighth year of cultivation
the cropping pattern would stabilize at 1.25 ha cotton, 0.4 ha maize and
cowpeas and 0.2 ha groundnuts. The cropping calendar is shown in Annex
7, Table 1 and details of the buildup of acreages are given in Annex 8.
Agricultural Systems and Services (Annex 2)
4.31      All agricultural land would be cleared and levelled before settle-
ment. "Long-furrow" irrigation would be employed, using siphon tubes to
deliver water from "unit feeders" (field ditches) into furrows 285 m long.
The system, which facilitates mechanization and increases the efficiency
of both irrigation and drainage, has been applied successfully in the Hola
Pilot Irrigation Scheme.
4.32      In accordance with its established practice (which is satisfactory)
on other schemes, the NIB would provide a full range of mechanized cultivations
as well as aerial crop spraying, credit, advisory services and crop processing
and storage facilities. Farm inputs (mainly fertilizers and seeds) would
also be provided. The cost of all these inputs (and the cost of the opera-
tion and maintenance of the irrigation system) would be repaid by the farmer
after harvest.
4.33      Seed cotton would be delivered from the field by the tenants to
collection centers, from which it would be taken to the ginning factory by
tractors and trailers. Saw gins would be employed, instead of the roller-gins
used elsewhere in Kenya at present.



- 20 -
4.34      It has been Government policy in recent years to encourage coopera-
tive ownership of ginneries. However, coming from lowly rural backgrounds and
without previous experience of industrial enterprises, the tenants could not
be expected to be able to participate effectively in the ownership and manage-
ment of the Project's ginnery for many years. The NIB would therefore own and
operate it and would not delegate its ownership or operation to a farmers'
cooperative before 1987.
Extension Services
4.35      Extension services, provided by the NIB in accordance with their
experience at the Hola Pilot Irrigation Scheme, would be intensive in the
first years after settlement while the tenants are learning to farm under
irrigation (1979/80: 1 Field Assistant per 48 farmers). As the tenants
gain experience, the extension input would be diluted until in 1985/86 it
would stabilize at an average of 1 Field Assistant per 96 farmers. In addi-
tion to the extension staff, pest control assistants would assist the tenants
in identifying and controlling insect pests and diseases.
Forest Conservation and Afforestation (Annex 9)
4.36      The ribbon of riverine forest along the Tana River, which contains
a large number of prime native hardwoods, represents a significant ecological
resource not only for the stabilization of the river banks and as a habitat
for wildlife but also eventually for recreational purposes for the population
of the Project area. The Government has agreed under the Second Forestry
Project (Loan 1132-KE and Credit 656-KE) to gazette certain areas in Kenya as
protected reserves following studies to be undertaken.   Three blocks of the
riverine forest on both sides of the river between Garissa and Hola (Map World
Bank 12226R1), including the riverine margins of the land that would be
inundated behind the Nanigi diversion structure, would be so gazetted and
complete protection would be assured through an adequate staff of forest
guards to be stationed at agreed locations.
4.37      The requirements of the population of the Project area for fuel
and building poles would consume annually at full development the equivalent
of the yield of about 4,000 ha of managed fast growing forest. The Govern-
ment has made a study to determine how these requirements should best be met.
Alternatives under consideration included the use of fossil fuels, the impor-
tation of fuel wood or charcoal into the Project area from other parts of
Kenya, or the establishment of plantations in the Project area or elsewhere
to serve Project needs directly. The preferred alternative is the establish-
ment, at a total cost of US$5.4 million, of plantations in the Project area,
partially irrigated by utilizing spare capacity of the canal system in off-
peak seasons.



- 21 -
Wildlife Conservation
4.38      Conservation measures would be adopted to mitigate the adverse
effects of the Project upon the abundant wildlife (Annex 10). They would
include the provision of canal crossings and drinking ponds (para 4.15).
In addition, active efforts would be made to dissuade the larger and more
destructive animals from entering the irrigated area. The Government would
establish by July 1, 1979 a system of game patrols within the Project area
in accordance with staffing and equipment scales and schedules to be agreed
between the Government and the Bank/IDA.
Training
4.39      The Project would provide for: postgraduate, diploma and practical
training overseas and elsewhere in Africa (especially in the Sudan and
Swaziland); training to be undertaken by the Project consultants in their
home offices and elsewhere abroad where they have project works; and study
tours. In-service training would also be undertaken by the consultants and
the management agency(para 5.04) for NIB staff members seconded to them for
staff duties. It is assumed that about half of the staff trained would even-
tually find employment in future stages of irrigation development. The
training would thus yield benefits not only to the Project but to future
irrigation development generally. A training program would be designed by
December 31, 1978 and established after agreement with the Bank/IDA.
Marketing
4.40      All cotton lint is marketed in Kenya by the Cotton Lint and Seed
Marketing Board (CLSMB) (Annex 11). CLSMB and its operations have recently
been the subject of study by the Bank/IDA and the Government has given under-
takings to the Bank under the Integrated Agricultural Development Project
(Loan 1303T-KE and Credit 650-KE) to strengthen it and improve the cotton
industry (Schedule 6 of Credit Agreement 650-KE; see Annex 11, Appendix 1).
4.41      The Bank/IDA has reviewed the progress being made in the implementa-
tion of these undertakings. The CLSMB has agreed that by December 31, 1977 it
will:
(a) introduce a system of sales of lint and seed by public
auction satisfactory to the Bank/IDA;
(b) employ, after consultation with the Bank/IDA, a marketing
officer and a lint classifier, both of whom should possess
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank/IDA;



- 22 -
(c)  submit to the Bank/IDA for approval its proposed
standard contracts for sales of cotton lint and
seed; and
(d)  prepare and submit to the Bank/IDA for approval
a detailed program for:
(i) providing security of adequate returns to cotton
farmers, including a guaranteed minimum price to be
published not later than January 1 of every year,
and implementing a system for returning to NIB for
distribution to tenants any profits of CLSMB from cotton
lint and seed sales in excess of certain levels;
(ii) adopting adequate accounting procedures for CLSMB,
including a system of controls and accounts to
ensure that proper payments are promptly made to
NIB for deliveries of cotton lint and seed to CLSMB;
and
(iii)  introducing an improved cotton lint grading system,
including adequate provision for grading cotton
lint produced under irrigation.
4.42      While the Government has recently increased the price of seed cotton
to a level (Annex 8) sufficient to provide farmers with adequate production
incentive, the Government would continue to give farmers guaranteed minimum
prices for seed cotton and by 1980 would introduce a system of premium prices
taking into account the higher grades of cotton and varieties produced under
irrigation. Such prices would be published annually not later than January 1
of every year.
4.43      Maize, groundnuts and cowpeas would be grown mainly for local con-
sumption and therefore it is expected that no special marketing arrangements
would be needed. The NIB would keep the local market situation for these
crops under review and the Maize and Produce Board would make any necessary
arrangements for purchasing them upon request of the NIB.
Agricultural Research
4.44      Up to the present time all agricultural research for the Lower
Tana area has been undertaken at the Hola Pilot Irrigation Scheme (Annex 2).
The soils at Hola, however, do not include all of the soil types identified
in the Bura Project area. In particular, Hola has no Class I soils, which
are expected to be significant in permitting higher levels of yield to be
attained in the Bura Project than at Hola, as well as the possibility of
crop diversification. To enable future research to be undertaken under fully
representative conditions, assurances would be sought at negotiations that the
NIB would by July 1, 1981 establish and operate, as its principal agricultural



- 23 -
research facility in the Lower Tana area, a new research station in the Proj-
ect area at a location to be selected to include if possible all the major
soil types occurring in the Project area.
Stage II Feasibility Studies
4.45      An area of about 60,000 ha of soils suitable for irrigation has been
identified on the left bank of the Tana River east of the Project area as a
result of a preliminary reconnaissance soil study made by the Netherlands-
financed Kenya Soil Survey Project (Ministry of Agriculture). It is expected
that, after the completion of the Upper Tana Reservoir, an area of about
25,000 ha net could be irrigated by east-bank diversion at the Project's
diversion structure (para 4.03). To provide information required for final
design of the Nanigi diversion structure, which would serve the east bank
development as well as the Bura Project, a preliminary feasibility study for
this area (Annex 12) would be completed by the Government, with the assistance
of consultants, by October 31, 1978. The study would be updated later to full
feasibility standard before investment decisions were considered for a Stage
II development.
Status of Engineering
4.46      The design of the irrigation system and internal roads was done
by ILACO (the Netherlands) to feasibility standard, as part of a feasibility
study (June 1975) financed under Dutch bilateral assistance, for the 14,000 ha
project then under consideration. Prior to appraisal ILACO also largely
completed final designs for the river works (comprising a diversion weir,
intake structure and flood dikes), and the supply canal for the 14,000 ha
project, together with part of the irrigation and drainage network. However
subsequent to appraisal ILACO undertook further topographic and soil studies
requested by the Bank. These studies showed that the proposed project area
included a large proportion of shallow soils (Annex 2) which the Government,
with the Bank's agreement, decided to exclude from the present Project area,
except for representative sample areas to be included for purposes of research
and management experience. The smaller Project area required that the design
of the river works and supply canal be amended (Annex 3) and that the irriga-
tion and drainage systems be redesigned. This work has been done by ILACO,
together with tender documents and specifications. The work is being reviewed
by the newly-appointed Project consultants (Sir M. MacDonald and Partners and
associated firms-UK and Kenya) to whom NIB would assign responsibility for
supervision of construction of Project works after the loan and credit are
signed.
4.47      The final design of the Garissa-Garsen main road is being done
by consultants to the Roads Department, Ministry of Works (DHV Consulting
Engineers; the Netherlands), who completed reconnaissance and feasibility
studies in December 1975. The design of buildings, towns and villages and
their infrastructure including water supply systems is at the stage of re-
view by the consultants with the various Ministries and agencies.
4.48      A comprehensive planning study is being undertaken by the Project con-
sultants (Annex 17) to review and coordinate the planning and design of Project
components not being covered by ILACO (para 4.46) and provide any necessary addi-
tional engineering and planning input to reinforce the work of the Government



- 24 -
agencies. The results of the study will be reported in a Project Planning
Report (C"1?D. due to be completed in June 1977.
4.49      The original design work for the river works included subsoil
investigations and hydraulic model investigations for a weir at Nanigi; and
investigations, including a mathematical model, of the effects on the Tana
River of the construction of the weir. The studies of the weir and river
were done by the Delft Hydraulic Laboratory (the Netherlands). However the
new project consultants have identified a possible need for design changes
in the weir. Physical contingencies of 20% have therefore been included for
the river works to cover possible cost increases and the construction program
for the river works allows ample time before the start of construction for a
detailed review and redesign if necessary.
Water Quality (Annex 7)
4.50      The quality of the Tana River water for irrigation is excellent
(USDA Salinity Laboratory class CISI); it has low salinity and low sodium
content even at lowest flows. The river carries a sediment load, mainly
silt, in amounts varying from 200 ppm in the dry season to 8,000 ppm or
more during floods.
Water Demand (Annex 7)
4.51      The average monthly open-water evaporation fluctuates very little
around a mean value close to 7 mm per day. Crop water requirements, using
the Penman method modified for East Africa by McCulloch, consist of the
consumptive use and a pre-planting application of 150 mm. No need of water
for leaching is anticipated because of the high quality of the irrigation
water and adequate soil permeability to maintain salt balance. An end-of-
season depletion allowance of 50 mm was deducted from the demand as well
as effective rainfall, which is minimal. An overall Project irrigation
efficiency of 60%, including conveyance losses, was assumed to determine
the net irrigation demand.
4.52      The Project diversion requirement (Annex 7, Table 1) consists of
net irrigation demand for the proposed cropping pattern (6,700 net including
tenants' gardens), domestic water supply for 65,000 persons and wild game
and livestock requirements in 20 drinking pools.3 The peak monthly diversion
requirement would occur in May and amount to 8 m /sec which is the design
capacity for the Supply Canal.
Water Availability (Annex 7)
4.53      The discharges of the Tana at Garissa have been measured since
1933. Reliable recoSds over 31 years (see Annex 7, Table 2) indicate
a mean flow of 164 m /sec for that period, low flow seasons in February-
March and September-October and floods from April through June as well
as in November and December.



- 25 -
4.54      The low season flows available for the Project at the diversion
site depend primarily on the releases from the Kamburu reservoir located
in the upper reaches of the Tana River and operated by the East African
Power and Lighting Compiny Ltd, which plans to release minimum flows
of not less than 42.5 m /sec in the future. The discharges at the Nanigi
diversion site have been calculated on the basis of discharges at Garissa
partially regulated by releases from Kamburu and of water abstractions and
water losses in the riverbed downstream of Garissa. The calculated monthly
averages for available regulated discharges, Project diversion requirement
and residual flow in the riverbed at the Nanigi diversion site and at Garsen
are shown in Annex 7, Tables 4 and 5. Government is constructing a multi-
purpose project, the Upper Tana Reservoir, to provide seasonal regulation
for the generation of hydro-electric power, water supply and irrigation.
4.55      The Government has guaranteed dry-season flows downstream of the
Bura diversion site equal to the natural flow in the river without regula-
tion. Water allocations from the Tana, as from Kenya's other water resources,
are the responsibility of the Water Apportionment Board, an agency under the
Minister of Water Development. The Board issues licenses authorizing abstrac-
tions and has the power to attach conditions to licenses specifying such
matters as the seasons during which abstractions may be made. However the
Ministry is not equipped to ensure, through field supervision, that the
Board's conditions are observed and consequently there is not at present
an adequate control of the abstractions.
4.56      Assurances were obtained from Government at negotiations that ade-
quate minimum flows would be guaranteed in the Tana River not only for the
Bura Project but also for downstream water requirements and that effective
control of water abstractions from the Tana River and its tributaries would
be exercized by water bailiffs of the Ministry of Water Development. In
addition it would be a condition of loan/credit effectiveness that the down-
stream water requirements had been defined quantitatively by categories of
use.
Implementation Schedule
4.57      The implementation schedule for the Project is presented in Chart,
World Bank 17274. Project consultants were appointed in December 1976 under
terms of reference limited initially mainly to the preparation of the PPR.
Immediately after Board approval of the loan and credit their agreement
would be revised to include the engineering, procurement, contract super-
vision and technical assistance services required for Project implementa-
tion. Improvement of the Garissa-Garsen main road to provide all-weather
access to the project area commenced in 1976 and would be completed in
fifteen months. Construction of the access road to the Nanigi diversion site
by the National Youth Service (para 4.64) would be commenced at the end of
1978. The construction periods for the main river and irrigation works



- 26 -
would each be about two and one half years, the first works commencing in
January 1978. The secondary works comprising the main canal, irrigation
and drainage network, minor structures and on-farm development works would
be commenced in July 1978 and be completed in two and one half years, in
step with the settlement program (para 4.29). The ginnery would be completed
in two years and Project buildings in three years, with some advance require-
ments constructed beforehand in less than one year. Tenants' houses, primary
schools and social halls would be constructed over three years. Procurement
action for equipment and materials would commence in 1977 and continue through
four and a half years.
C. Cost Estimates
4.58      Total Project costs, including taxes and duties (US$9.2 million)
and excluding interest on the Bank and CDC loans during construction (US$6.7
million), are estimated at US$91.7 million, the foreign exchange component of
which is about US$49 million or about 54%.
4.59      All estimates are based on January 1977 prices.  Depending on the
status of investigations and preparation of the various components, physical
contingencies of 10% to 20% have been included. For those components for
which design is under review (river works, settlers' dwellings and afforesta-
tion - US$12.8 million, 20% of base cost), 20% has been allowed; for com-
ponents for which site contingencies or designs are not finalized (irrigation
works, wildlife conservation works, road and airfields, buildings and vehicles
for public health and for the ginnery - US$19.5 million, 30% of base cost),
15% has been allowed. For the remaining items, the components of which have
been defined and price estimates obtained from suppliers (US$32.4 million; 50%
of base cost), 10% has been allowed. Costs due to expected price increases
amount to 21% of the total Project cost; inflation was assumed at the rates
shown in the January 1977 Bank guidelines:
Annual Inflation Rate (%)
1977-1979      1980-1985
Civil Works                                   9            8
Equipment and services                        7.5          7
4.60      Details of the Project costs are presented in Annex 13 and are
summarized below:



- 27 -
Foreign   Base
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange  Cost
-   Ksh million ---US$ million                        (%)       (%)
Irrigation Works             74.6    91.1   165.7       8.9    10.9       19.8      55       29
Wildlife Conservation
Works                       0.7      0.8     1.5      0.1      0.1       0.2      55        1
Roads and Airfields           7.6      7.6    15.2      0.9      0.9       1.8       50       3
Buildings & Village
Infrastructure             87.6    43.2   130.8    10.5        5.2     15.7       33       22
Public Health                 2.9      3.1     6.0      0.3      0.4       0.7      52        2
Afforestation                21.4      5.4    26.8      2.6      0.6       3.2       20       8
Plant, Machinery,
Vehicles and Equipment       5.4    24.8    30.2       0.6      3.0       3.6      82        5
Ginnery                       7.3    33.3    40.6       0.9      4.0       4.9       82       6
Operation and Maintenance
-  NIB                     22.5    23.4    45.9       2.7      2.8       5.5      51        9
-  Other                    6.5      1.2     7.7      0.8      0.1      0.9       15        1
Incremental Farm Inputs       1.5    13.3    14.8       0.2      1.6       1.8      90        3
Training                        -      4.3      4.3       -      0.5       0.5      100       1
Consultancy Services          6.3    28.7    35.0       0.8      3.4       4.2       82       6
Agricultural Management       6.0      8.9    14.9      0.7      1.1       1.8       60       3
Total Base Cost             250.3   289.1   539.4    30.0    34.6         64.6       54     100
Physical Contingencies       34.0    39.8    73.8       4.0      4.8       8.8
Price Contingencies          70.1    82.3   152.4       8.4      9.9      18.3
Total Project Cost          354.4   411.2   765.6    42.4    49.3         91.7       54
Interest During
Construction                  -    55.9    55.9         -      6.7      6.7      100
Total                       354.4   467.1   821.5    42.4    56.0         98.4       57



- 28 -
D. Financing
4.61      The proposed Bank loan of US$34.0 million and IDA credit of US$6.0
million would finance 48% of Project cost net of taxes. The loan and credit
would meet 54% of expenditures in foreign exchange and 46% in local costs.
The other co-financing agencies are contributing from 11% to 55% of their
share to the local costs of the Project. The loan and credit would be made
to the Government who would pass on the proceeds to the NIB on a grant basis.
An additional US$37.8 million of external financing is being arranged, as
shown in the following table, to provide a total of US$77.8 million from
foreign sources:
US$ million
Bank                                           34.0
IDA                                             6.0
Bank/IDA                                                   40.0
European Development Fund (EDF)                            12.0
Netherlands                                                 8.8
United Kingdom (ODM)                                        8.5
Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC)                  8.5
The balance of US$20.6 million would be financed by the Government of Kenya.
4.62      The Bank/IDA and EDF would jointly finance irrigation works and
wildlife conservation works and all buildings. In addition, the Bank/IDA
would finance afforestation, the ginnery with auxiliary facilities,
feasibility studies, training, and most of the operation and maintenance
expenditures. The Netherlands would finance on a parallel basis the roads
and airfields, village infrastructure and some machinery, with procurement
confined to the Netherlands, and/or certain developing countries. The UK's
support would be on a parallel basis, financing consultancy services, vehicles
and equipment including health equipment. CDC would finance on-farm develop-
ment work, incremental farm inputs and agricultural management. The terms of
financing by the cofinancing agencies would be as follows:
Interest           Grace          Repayment
Period         Period
EDF                         equivalent to 90% grant
Holland              3.75%              8 yrs           30 yrs
UK                                      grant
CDC                6 - 8.5%             5 yrs          15 - 20 yrs.
E. Procurement
4.63      For the Bank/IDA-financed portion, procurement through international
competitive bidding would be about US$35 million including contingencies.



- 29 -
It would include civil works for the major irrigation structures, the ex-
cavation of the supply canal and part of the main canal, land levelling, the
ginnery and auxiliary facilities, and all buildings except tenants' and
teachers' housing, primary schools and social halls. The contract for the
ginnery would be a turnkey contract. Contracts for traditional building
materials for settlers' houses (US$2 million) would be awarded after competi-
tive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with normal Government
procurement procedures. Contracts for the purchase of goods would be bulked
as far as possible and orders for goods of US$100,000 or more would be pro-
cured through international competitive bidding, in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines. In the evaluation of bids, local manufacturers would be allowed a
preference of 15% or the existing rate of duty, whichever is lower. Orders
for less than $100,000, and contracts for fuels and lubricants would be
procured in accordance with existing Government procedures, which are satis-
factory. Civil works (other than for the construction of tenants' and
teachers' housing, primary schools, social halls, roads, land clearing and
minor irrigation works, or contracts costing less than US$200,000) would be
carried out by contractors selected following international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. In the evaluation of bids
for civil works, prequalified local contractors would have a 7-1/2% preference
margin. Civil works with contracts or items costing less than US$200,000
would be done by contractors selected in accordance with Government proce-
dures.  The construction of tenants' and teachers' housing, primary schools
and social halls would be done by the NIB under force account. The NIB would
enter into arrangements with the NYS (a department of the Ministry of Labour)
for the construction of roads, land clearing, canal excavation and minor
irrigation works (total value about US$6.5 million including contingencies),
provided such arrangements were acceptable to the Bank Group. Draft tender
documents for all contracts expected to cost in excess of US$300,000 would be
submitted to the Bank Group for approval before invitations are issued, and
bid analysis for comment, before contracts are awarded.  For project com-
ponents financed on a parallel basis by the other cofinancing organizations,
procurement would be in accordance with their guidelines.
4.64      The NYS (Annex 15) would employ about 200 persons in the execution
of its contract works. The Service exists to provide training for unskilled
youths and to relieve the unemployment problem mainly through earthmoving
construction works. It has been employed previously as a construction agency
on road works financed by the Bank and IDA (Third and Fourth Highway Projects,
Loan 639-KE and Credit 279-KE) where, after some initial administrative and
organizational difficulties had been overcome with the assistance of the
project consultants, performance was satisfactory. The cost of the works,
inclusive of the cost of technical assistance services provided by consultants,
was about 15% lower than the likely cost if the work had been done by a con-
tractor. With some supplementation of equipment, spare parts and supervisory
staff, NYS would be capable of undertaking the works proposed to be entrusted
to it, provided that it were closely supervised and provided with technical
and management assistance, where necessary, by consultants.
4.65      The works which would be entrusted to the NYS would be critical
to the timely implementation of the project. In order to minimize the risk



- 30 -
that NYS would not be able to fulfill its obligations in a timely manner,
the Government has agreed that:
(a) an arrangement would be made between NYS and NIB defining,
specifying and scheduling the works and incorporating an
undertaking by NYS to complete them in accordance with
specification and schedule;
(b) the Government would intervene to provide additional re-
sources to NYS in the event that NIB reported that NYS was
falling significantly behind schedule;
(c) NYS would maintain adequate stocks of spare parts for all
of its construction equipment and vehicles employed on the
Project works.
4.66      Primary schools, social centers, teachers' houses and tenants'
houses would be constructed by the NIB, employing tenants to provide
labor for this purpose. Work needing the services of skilled artisans
would be carried out by force account by NIB's project management.
4.67      The afforestation program would be carried out by force account by
the Forest Department.
Disbursements
4.68      The proceeds of the loan/credit would be disbursed to cover:
(a) 65% of the total costs of irrigation works;
(b)  60% of the total costs of buildings;
(c)  60% of the cost of afforestation;
(d)  80% of the total costs of NIB operation and maintenance
costs;
(e)  80% of the total costs of the ginnery and auxiliary
facilities; and
(f) 100% of foreign expenditures and 80% of local expenditures
for studies and staff training.
Disbursements would be against contracts, invoices and statements of expendi-
ture by the NIB. Expenditures under the latter category are likely to amount
to about US$23 million of which US$16 million would be eligible for reimburse-
ment by the Bank/IDA. Disbursement for force account work by NIB, NYS and the
Forest Department and operation and maintenance expenditures by N4IB would be
made against statements of expenditure, the documentation for which is not
submitted for review but is retained by the Government and made available for
inspection by the Bank/IDA during the course of Project supervision missions.



- 31 -
The Credit and the Loan would be disbursed over a period of five years, the
IDA Credit being disbursed before the Bank Loan. The disbursement schedule is
shown in Annex 16.
Environmental Effects
4.69      The Project would profoundly modify the ecology of the area.  Though
the transformation of the semi-arid open bush country through the introduction
of irrigation would permit a large population to obtain a livelihood, this
would be done only at a certain unavoidable cost to wildlife, fish and flora.
The Project would include provisions to mitigate these deleterious effects, as
well as those on man, as far as it is reasonably possible to foresee them.
The design of the irrigation system would provide canal crossings for wildlife
to obtain access to the Tana River should they so desire. Conservation of
wildlife would also be assisted by intensifying patrolling by game guards
including anti-poaching patrols.
4.70      It is not expected that fish migration in the Tana River would
be adversely affected by the Nanigi diversion structure. Adequate minimum
flows of the River Tana for downstream uses would be assured. The existing
riverine forests would be protected and alternative sources of supply of fuel
would be provided for the population.
4.71      The health of the human population would be provided for by in-
tensive health care measures to combat the serious diseases endemic in the
area, including malaria and schistosomiasis. Health requirements have been
taken fully into account in the design of houses, villages and towns.
The irrigation and drainage systems would incorporate engineering features
designed to reduce the incidence of schistosomiasis. The health services
and the provision of potable water supplies would lead to improved living
conditions for the present population of the area.
4.72      Chemical pesticides employed for the protection of crops would in-
clude DDT, carbaryl and dimethoate, the use of which is widely established
throughout Africa. They have been used for many years at the Hola Pilot
Irrigation Scheme where, since people are constantly reminded of the toxic
effect of pesticides on humans and domestic animals, no adverse effects
have been reported. As at Hola, the NIB would keep the use of pesticides
under tight control, applying them mainly by aerial spraying carried out
by experienced specialized contractors. However there would be a somewhat
greater risk to animals and birds than at Hola, because of the greater total
quantity of DDT that would be used over the larger area of the Bura Project.
Accounts and Audit
4.73      Although NIB produces audited financial statements regularly,
accounting practices at existing schemes are in some cases unsatisfactory.
It is expected that this situation would be remedied with the reinforce-
ment of NIB management to be undertaken under the project. For the Proj-
ect itself assurances would be obtained during loan/credit negotiations
that NIB would adopt accounting practices satisfactory to the Bank/IDA and



- 32 -
maintain separate accounts for the Project. The NIB accounts are presently
audited by independent auditors (Gill and Johnson, Nairobi). Assurances
would be obtained during negotiations that NIB would continue to employ
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and send the audited accounts,
together with the auditors' report, to the Bank within six months of the
end of NIB's fiscal year.
4.74      Force account works would be carried out by the Forest Department
and also by NYS under an arrangement with NIB; funds would be provided by NIB
to these agencies in the form of an Authority to Incur Expenditure, and
the agencies would administer and utilize such funds in accordance with normal
Government practice. The project accounts of the Forest Department and NYS
would be audited by auditors acceptable to the Bank/IDA and such audited
accounts, together with the auditors' reports, would be sent to the Bank/IDA
within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
5.01      The National Irrigation Board (NIB) would have overall responsi-
bility for carrying out the Project. It would execute most of the works,
act as coordinator of the implementation activities of other agencies, dis-
burse all construction funds and finally undertake the settlement and agri-
cultural development. The Board includes representatives of the Treasury,
the Ministries of Economic Planning and Development, Agriculture (Depart-
ments of Agriculture and Water Development) and the Water Resources Authority.
Other Government Ministries which would be responsible for components of the
Project would include the Office of the President and the Ministries of
Education, Health, Information, Local Government, Natural Resources, Tourism
and Wildlife, Works, Lands and Settlements, Housing and Social Services and
Cooperative Development. The Tana River Development Authority, responsible
for the overall planning and monitoring of the use of the resources of the
Tana River basin, would be closely associated with the NIB in detailed
Project planning.
5.02      In order to ensure coordination between the various Ministries
and agencies, a Bura Project Coordinator's Office (BPCO) would be estab-
lished within the NIB (Annex 18). The BPCO would be assisted by the Project
consultants (para. 5.05) and by a Bura Project Steering Committee which,
chaired by the General Manager of the NIB, would consist of the Project
Coordinator and senior officers of the participating agencies. In view of
the large number of agencies involved, an Executive Committee, chaired by the
Project Coordinator and consisting of not more than six members elected by
the Steering Committee, would act for the Steering Committee. The Project
Coordinator would be a senior NIB official. The appointment of a qualified
and experienced Government officer in consultation with the Bank and IDA
as Project Coordinator would be a condition of loan/credit effectiveness.
5.03      Annual Work Programs.  Annual programs, to be prepared by the
Project Coordinator assisted by the Project consultants, would detail the



- 33 -
activities and works to be implemented. Assurances would be obtained at
negotiations that these annual work programs - supported by maps, detailed
descriptions and cost estimates of the physical works to be executed - would
be sent to the Bank/IDA for review and comment by March 31 of each year.
The National Irrigation Board
5.04      The National Irrigation Board, established under the Irrigation
Act of 1966, has all powers necessary for the execution of the Project. How-
ever, since its experience and implementation capacity are limited (Annex 1),
it would have to be strengthened to undertake the Project. This strengthening
would consist of:
(a) the appointment of additional staff, including the
Project Coordinator, to be responsible during the
construction phase for the coordination of Project
planning and implementation;
(b) the employment of consultants to complete the design of
the Project, supervise its construction and assist the
Project Coordinator in coordinating its implementation; and
(c) the employment by December 31, 1978, under terms and
conditions of employment acceptable to the Bank/IDA, of an
experienced agricultural management firm or organization
acceptable to the Bank/IDA, expected to be the Commonwealth
Development Corporation (CDC), to manage the agricultural
production phase for a period of not less than six years.
Management by an experienced agency acting for NIB would be
essential because:
(i) no irrigation settlement project of the size and
complexity of the Bura Project has been implemented
previously in Kenya and personnel possessing the
necessary expertise to fill senior management posi-
tions are therefore not available to NIB;
(ii) the agricultural conditions are unusually demanding; and
(iii) the environmental problems, including health, would
require particularly skilled management attention.
However, all expatriate staff would have clearly defined responsibilities
for training Kenyan staff in the course of Project implementation. By the
end of the training period Kenyan staff would be qualified to assume respon-
sibility for the management of future major irrigation development projects.
Consultancy Services (Annexes 12 and 17)
5.05      Consultants (ILACO-the Netherlands), already serving the NIB and
financed under Netherlands technical assistance, will complete the final



- 34 -
design of the Project and the preparation of contract documents for the
irrigation works under an existing agreement. The NIB appointed in December
1976 a consortium of consulting firms (Sir M. MacDonald and Partners - UK;
Hunting Technical Services, Ltd.- UK; and East African Engineering Consul-
tants (Kenya) - Kenya) to provide consultancy services for the preparation
of the Project Planning Report (PPR) and the review of project designs and
tender documents prepared by ILACO. These consultants and the terms and
conditions of their employment are acceptable to the Bank/IDA. It would be a
condition of loan/credit effectiveness that the consultants' consortium
had been employed, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank and
IDA, to prepare final designs and tender documents, evaluate tenders, super-
vise construction and supply and provide assistance to the NIB for project
coordination and to the NYS for construction works (para 4.70). Consultants
satisfactory to the Bank/IDA would also be employed, under terms and con-
ditions satisfactory to the Bank/IDA, to undertake feasibility studies for
Tana River East Bank development.
Organization of Agricultural Production
5.06      The organization for the management of the agricultural production
phase of the Project is described in Annex 18. The NIB would purchase inputs
required by farmers, especially fertilizers, pesticides and spraying services.
It would purchase farmers' crops and deliver cotton lint to Mombasa; storage
and marketing, however, would be undertaken by the CLSMB.
Roads Component
5.07      The Ministry of Works would maintain the Garissa-Garsen highway.
Public Health and Disease Control Program
5.08      The Ministry of Health would be responsible for the integrated
health program (Annex 5).
Forest Conservation and Afforestation (Annex 9)
5.09      The Forest Department of the Ministry of Natural Resources would
be responsible for defining the areas to be declared forest areas reserve and
for establishing an effective system of protection. It would also establish
and maintain the afforested area to be utilized for building poles and fuel.
Wildlife Protection (Annex 10)
5.10      The Wildlife Conservation and Management Service of the Ministry of
Wildlife and Tourism would be responsible for the conservation of the wildlife
resources of the Project area. It would be strengthened and expanded to
undertake the additional responsibility for game surveillance and anti-
poaching patrolling necessary under the Project.



- 35 -
Agricultural Extension Services
5.11      Agricultural extension within the irrigation settlement area would
be provided by the NIB. The farmers cultivating the riverine margins and the
nomadic pastoralists would be provided with extension services by strengthen-
ing and expanding the existing organization of the Ministry of Agriculture in
the Tana River District (Annex 5).
Agricultural Research
5.12      The Scientific Research Division of the Ministry of Agriculture
has general responsibility for research on crops and livestock production in
Kenya. The Dutch Government has agreed to support by technical assistance
the expansion of the NIB's current program of adaptive production-oriented
research on crop production under irrigation at Hola and elsewhere. It
has also proposed that the responsibility of the NIB for research into the
establishment of irrigation schemes (Irrigation Act of 1966) should be expan-
ded to include research required for their implementation and operation.
This proposal is based on the proposition that this research should be an
integral part of NIB's work, given that no irrigation research is done at
present by the Ministry of Agriculture and also that in any case the special
soil and other agronomic conditions of the Bura and other NIB irrigation
schemes call for adaptive research to be very closely coordinated with farm
management aspects. The Bank and IDA support this view and accordingly
obtained assurances at loan/credit negotiations that the agronomic and water
management research required for the implementation and operation of NIB
irrigation schemes would be carried out by the NIB.
5.13      The NIB intends to expand its existing agricultural experimental
work at the Hola Pilot Irrigation Scheme and elsewhere in Kenya to include
research on land and water management and farm management. The Dutch Gov-
ernment has agreed to provide technical assistance for this purpose, sup-
plying six resident experts for a period of five years, supplemented by
short-term visits by visiting experts. Three of the resident staff will
be stationed at Hola/Bura to undertake a program of work oriented particu-
larly towards the problems of land and water management.
5.14      To provide for the intensified research needed on crop production,
particularly on cotton, groundnuts and maize (Annex 2), a senior research
officer, a cotton research officer and a pest and disease research officer
would be included in the Project's agricultural management team (para. 5.04).
Selection and Settlement of Tenants
5.15      NIB, in collaboration with the Ministry of Lands and Settlement,
would establish guidelines acceptable to the Bank/IDA for the selection of
tenants (Annex 6) under which NIB would have primary responsibility for the
final selection of settlers. The Government would employ an experienced
sociologist acceptable to the Bank/IDA to undertake a study of the problems
involved in the resettlement of peoples of widely diverse backgrounds, and



- 36 -
the problem of possible misallocation of family income by the head of the
family (Ancaex 6). The Government would consult with the Bank/IDA on the
findings of the study before taking any final policy decisions on these
matters. However, agreement was reached that part of the farm proceeds
would be paid directly to the wife to cover basic needs such as feeding
and clothing the family.
5.16      It is expected that, while priority would be given to local inhabi-
tants, tenants would be drawn from all the regions of Kenya; each region's
allocations would be based on criteria such as population density, employment
opportunities in the area, local land use potential, and the adaptability of
the local population to agricultural activities. Settlement Committees would
be established in each District; under the guidance of a Settlement Officer to
be recruited for NIB, these Committees would carry out the actual selection of
the tenants from volunteer candidates nominated by clan elders or other local
authorities. The basic requirements would be that the candidates should be:
heads of household aged 25-45 years; physically fit to do farm work; unem-
ployed or underemployed; able to provide four adult equivalents of labor;
and experienced in rural agriculture.
5.17      The process of migration of tenant families would be phased over a
3-1/2-year period (para 4.29); the final details as to the exact timing of the
operation and the regional mix of tenants to be included in each group would
be prepared by NIB. Transport of the tenants would be planned by the Settle-
ment Committees in cooperation with the NIB and the NYS, and the NYS would
furnish the transportation.
5.18      On arrival in the Project area, the heads of families (who would
precede their dependents by about 10 weeks) would be interviewed, medically
examined, and given temporary accommodations in housing previously con-
structed by NIB. They would then be organized into working groups which,
under the direction of the Project management, would be put to work on the
construction of houses, communal facilities or other designated tasks. Dur-
ing this period, they would also be instructed in cultivation techniques and
otherwise prepared to assume the responsibilities required of them in the
first cropping season.
Relationships between the National Irrigation Board and its Tenants (Annex 1)
5.19      The relationship between the NIB and its tenants involves a blend
of persuasion, discipline and legally-enforced sanctions. The legal basis
of management-tenant relationships are the Trust Land (Irrigation Areas)
Rules of the Trust Land Ordinance 1963 (Annex 1, Appendix 2) and the Irri-
gation (National Irrigation Schemes) Regulations of the Irrigation Act, 1966
(Annex 1, Appendix 3). These Regulations and Rules set out the rights and
obligations of both management and tenant and provide safeguards against
arbitrary action by the management. For existing NIB irrigation schemes
the main provisions are:



- 37 -
(a) the tenant occupies his holding under an annual licence
issued by the NIB which is automatically renewed from
year to year. It may not be mortgaged or assigned;
(b) the tenant is under an obligation to maintain his holding
and its irrigation and drainage system in good condition
and to observe rules of good crop and livestock husbandry;
(c) the management may market the produce of the tenant and
deduct from the proceeds of the sale any charges due to
the management for services rendered to the tenant, includ-
ing a fixed charge for water; and
(d) the management is empowered to take disciplinary action
against tenants who fail to carry out their obligations.
5.20      The disciplinary action open to the Board is, in the last resort,
termination of the licence.  In practice this discipline is mitigated by
the issue of warnings to tenants (progressing from verbal to written and
culminating in final written warnings) as a first step; after consultation
with a tenants' committee, this is followed if necessary by prosecution in
the courts and finally (and rarely) by termination of the licence.
5.21      The overall system of management is successful, as evidenced by
a low rate of eviction of tenants and waiting lists of applicants for the
schemes. However for the Project the Government has agreed to an initial
period of tenancy of not less than fifteen years, to improve tenants' confi-
dence that a long-term tenure can be expected. Other components of the sys-
tem would remain unchanged for the Project at present but the Government has
also agreed to review the Regulations and Rules by January 1, 1980 to take
account of their effect on existing irrigation schemes and also of the ex-
tension of the initial tenancy period to 15 years.
Operation and Maintenance
5.22      NIB would be responsible for operation and maintenance of all
Project works, though NYS would maintain the Project road system for the
first two years after the completion of its construction. NIB's maintenance
Division under a senior civil engineer would include three units: irrigation
works maintenance; road maintenance and buildings maintenance respectively.
Maintenance equipment (Annex 4, Table 3) would be supplied under the Project.
This equipment would be maintained in NIB's central Project workshops.
5.23      The maintenance unit for roads would take care of the 22 km-long
access road to the Nanigi diversion structure site and internal roads. The
Roads Department of the Ministry of Works would be responsible for maintain-
ing the 224 km Garissa-Garsen highway.
5.24      The operation and maintenance costs for the irrigation works and
roads (Annex 13) have been determined on the basis of hourly equipment rates
updated to January 1977, assuming that on average equipment would work about



- 38 -
520 hours per year, representing 40% of a normal 1,300-hours yearly working
time. It was assumed, however, that the cutter dredgers would clean the sand
trap and the canal system continuously except for one month of overhaul per
year. The annual maintenance costs for buildings have been estimated at
2% of capital costs. The cost of operation and maintenance of agricultural
equipment would be recovered from tenants as part of the unit costs of field
operations debited directly to their accounts. Notwithstanding the cost
recovery which would be made by NIB from tenants, the Government would make
sufficient funds available at all times to operate and maintain all facilities
in accordance with sound engineering and agricultural practices.
Recovery of Costs
5.25      Farmers in NIB irrigation schemes other than Ahero and Bunyala pay
water charges of about Ksh. 500 per ha and average income after water charges
is about Ksh 4,000/5,000 per family. In the Ahero and Bunyala schemes, the
water charge is about Ksh 1,500. The recovery of water charges in both
these schemes is limited by the farmers' ability to pay, subject to the
maintenance of incentives to produce.
5.26      For the Bura Project, the level of land and water charges would
similarly be limited by farmers' ability to pay. With a land and water
charge at full development of about Ksh 2,800 per ha in 1977 prices (32% of
net income, before Project charges and including the value of subsistence
crops consumed) net farm cash income in 1977 prices would be about Ksh 5,220
(Annex 19). A charge at this level, together with cash surpluses generated
from Government operations through the difference between the sale price of
lint and cash payments for seed cotton to farmers, would permit the recovery
of: (i) 100% of net project investment cost 1/ over a period of 16 years
(without interest); and (ii) 100% of the NIB's operation and maintenance
costs after year 10. In order to measure the subsidy element, investments and
operating costs chargeable to the project as well as revenues from land and
water charges and Government margin on cotton sales were discounted at 10%
over 50 years. The calculations (Annex 20) show that the present value of the
necessary Government subsidy to farmers at the proposed level of recovery of
land and water charges would amount to about US$18 million or about 20% of net
costs. Land and water charges should increase to reflect inflation in
order, together with an increased margin on cotton sales, to keep the Govern-
ment subsidy at about 20%.
1/   100% of the capital cost of irrigation works, wildlife conservation
works, settlers' dwellings, NIB buildings, vehicles, equipment and
consultancy services for implementation and agricultural management;
70% of capital cost of roads, village infrastructure, education, social
and public health services, 100% of NIB's operation and maintenance
costs, and of public health and other services operation and maintenance
costs, excluding the afforestation component.



- 39 -
5.27      The Government would levy a land and water charge of not less than
Ksh 2,800 per ha of irrigable land in 1977 prices, subject to annual adjust-
ment based on estimated net returns to tenants. Charges would also be levied
on non-farmers (including commercial enterprises) to recover part of the costs
of constructing the towns and villages. The Government would periodically
review the charges with the Bank and IDA.
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.28      The requirements for the monitoring and evaluation of the Project
and the means by which these requirements would be met are given in Annex 21.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES, SETTLERS' INCOME
AND GOVERNMENT REVENUES
Yields and Output
6.01      Settlers are expected to develop their crop yields (Annex 8) as
follows:
Yield (kg/ha)
Year 1       Year 4       Year 6       Year 9
Seed Cotton                      2,500         2,800        3,000        3,000
Maize                            2,000         3,100        3,700        3,700
Cowpeas                            500           800        1,000        1,000
Groundnuts (unshelled)             -           1,400        1,800        2,000
Yield estimates are based on the results of the Hola Scheme and are well below
potential yields for the Project area (Annex 2).  At full development, the
total annual production of the Project would be about 19,300 tons of seed
cotton, 1,340 tons of shelled groundnuts, 7,600 tons of maize, 2,100 tons
of cowpeas and 1,800 tons of garden crops (Annex 24).
Market Prospects and Prices
6.02      Cotton.  The Project's annual cotton lint production target of about
7,100 tons of lint represents less than 0.01 percent of world trade. The
quality of cotton anticipated from the Project would be readily acceptable in
the international market, and this cotton should be faced with favorable
market conditions. In constant January 1977 US dollar terms, the c.i.f. North
Europe price of cotton of similar quality (Mexican SM 1-1/16 inch quality) is
forecast by the Bank for 1979 onwards at 70 cents per pound (Annex 24,
Table 4).



- 40 -
6.03      Processed cotton lint would be sold to the Cotton Lint and Seed
Marketing Board (CLSMB), which markets all cotton lint in Kenya (Annex 11).
Other Crops
6.04      The incremental production of maize, groundnuts and cowpeas would
be very small in relation to Kenya's total output of these crops, and most of
it would be locally consumed. Consequently, Project production would have
an insignificant impact on the markets.
6.06      At present, these crops are marketed through the Maize and Produce
Board (MPB). It is vested with monopoly powers for marketing these commodities,
in the sense that all movements exceeding 2 bags (180 kg) of maize across
district boundaries or exceeding 10 bags (900 kg) within district boundaries
must be marketed through an agent of MPB. It is expected that at full produc-
tion the typical farmer would sell locally (Annex 8) about 260 kg of maize,
100 kg of cowpeas and 140 kg of groundnuts. No special arrangements are
expected therefore to be necessary for the marketing of these commodities.
The official farmgate prices were in March 1977 Ksh 890/ton for maize, Ksh
1,250 for cowpeas, and Ksh 2,220 for groundnuts.
Settlers' Income
6.07      A typical farm budget at full development is given in Annex 19,
Table 1. The farm labor requirements would be supplied entirely by the
tenants' family, without employing hired labor (Annex 19, Table 2). Net cash
revenue after private consumption, payment of water charges and repayment for
housing would be about Ksh 5,220 (US$625) per year. Total income including
consumption would be about Ksh 7,000 (US$840). This is equal to a per
capita income of US$120 which compares with an average national per capita
income of US$220 and with an average rural per capita income of US$70.
Government Revenues (Annex 22)
6.08      At full development, major Government sources of funds would derive
from the margin on sale of lint (about US$2.2 million per year in 1977 prices),
charges on non-farmers (para 5.28), small transfers from NIB surplus income
and general taxes and duties on goods and services. Government's net cash
flow (Annex 22) including debt service would have an average deficit of about
US$2 million per year in constant 1977 prices from full development until
major loan repayments are completed in about 15 years. It would then become
positive and when all debts are repaid in year 50 Government would have an
annual surplus of about US$1.5 million equivalent (in 1977 prices). Annual
net foreign exchange earnings would reach about US$4 million equivalent in
year 6 and about US$8 million equivalent (both amounts in 1977 prices)
when major loan repayments are completed.



- 41 -
NIB Revenues (Annex 23)
6.09      NIB sources of funds would derive from Government grants during the
project implementation period for the construction of the project and small
subsidies for 6 years thereafter, and from land and water charges and farmers'
repayments for dwellings. These funds would be used for the construction and
operation of the project components under NIB's responsibility. At full
development, NIB would derive a surplus of about Ksh 1.4 million per annum
(in 1977 prices), which would be transferred to Government.
VII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The Project is an important element in Kenya's agricultural devel-
opment strategy. It is an essential first step towards utilizing the full
land and water resources of the Lower Tana River Basin for the ultimate ben-
efit of landless peasants to be drawn from all parts of Kenya. The experi-
ence gained in the Project is expected to be utilized within the next decade
or so in further irrigated development in the Basin leading to the eventual
settlement of up to a further 50,000 ha, providing a livelihood for up to half
a million people.
7.02      Direct benefits from the Project would result from the value of
the cotton and food crops produced on the irrigated farmland, formerly a
semi-arid desert. This would increase the per capita incomes of the 36,000
members of tenant families, currently landless, to about double the average
per capita income level for rural areas. Employment would also be provided
for about 750 Project and Government staff and about 2,500 families of
workers, traders and others who are expected to settle in the Project area
to provide retail and other services. In all the Project would support some
65,000 people. The total investment cost per farm family is high ($18,000)
as it includes the cost of providing not only the productive but also the
social infrastructure, such as schools, public health facilities and community
centers, necessary to enable tenants, management staff and future immigrants
to live and work in what was formerly a very remote undeveloped and poten-
tially unhealthy area. The cost of the irrigation infrastructure on a per
hectare basis (about US$3,500, in 1977 prices) is about average. When one
removes from total Project costs those expenditures on social infrastructure
and recurrent items that would have occurred anyway, albeit in another part
of the country, the cost per tenant family goes down to about US$8,400.
Applicable project costs are lowered further when consideration is given
to the fact that a certain portion of the cost of the river works may be
considered as part of a future project to develop the land on the other side
of the river.
7.03      The economic rate of return (ERR) would be about 13% (Annex 24).
Included in this analysis were all expenditures for infrastructure, operation
and maintenance costs directly related to the irrigation scheme, and part
of expenditures for village construction, administrative services, social
services and public health. The marginal value product of farm labor was es-
timated at US$50 per year per family. Foreign exchange was shadow-priced at
a value of Ksh 11.0/US$1.0 (compared with the current rate of Ksh 8.35/US$1.0)



- 42 -
and salaries were costed at actual wage prices. The only benefits included in
the calculation were those from the projected agricultural production and
afforestation. Prices of cotton and groundnuts were based on Kenya's export
prices, and cowpeas and garden crops were valued at market prices.
7.04      In the event that expected future development utilized part of
the Project works (as has been planned) and that costs of such works were
prorated between the Project and the future development in relation to their
respective areas (Annex 24, Case II), with other assumptions remaining the
same, the ERR of the Project would be about 14.5%.
7.05      The ERR was tested against variations in costs and benefits.  An
increase in overall costs of 10% or a 10% reduction of future crop prices or
yields or a delay of one year in the realization of benefits without accom-
panying delay in project costs, would reduce the ERR by 1.5 percentage points.
7.06      Indirect benefits of the Project would include increasing the
level of agricultural technology in Kenya and training Kenyan staff to
undertake the management of future large scale irrigation schemes. A fea-
sibility study would permit the Government to make detailed plans for full
development of the potential of the Lower Tana River Basin.
7.07      Risks.  The main risks associated with the Project are managerial
in nature, and arise out of its complexity, the way in which the various
project components relate to one another, and the sensitivity of the whole
fabric to the failure of one of its parts, resulting from incorrect or untimely
implementation. These risks have been minimized by early attention to coor-
dinated planning of the input of all Government agencies concerned in project
implementation (detailed in a Project Planning Report) and by the timely ap-
pointment of experienced consultants for the supervision of project construc-
tion and of a management agency for the initial agricultural production
phase. Another risk, the development of potentially harmful health problems,
would be dealt with by the provisions made for public health and disease
control. A third risk, the building up of disruptive social tensions ensuing
from the juxtaposition of people from many different tribes attempting to
adapt to an unfamiliar environment, would be mitigated by the employment of
sociologists to advise on the settlement aspects.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      The following would be conditions of loan/credit effectiveness:
(a)  that the Minister of Agriculture had gazetted an Irrigation Area
to include the Nanigi diversion structure site, the area to be
inundated upstream of it together with its riverine margins,
the Supply Canal, the area to be irrigated and the forest areas
(para 4.28);
(b)  that the Government had defined quantitatively by categories
of use the water requirements downstream of the Nanigi diver-
sion structure (para 4.56);



- 43 -
(c) that the NIB had appointed an adequately qualified and experienced
Government officer as Project Coordinator (para 5.02); and
(d) that the NIB had employed Project consultants, on terms and condi-
tions acceptable to the Bank/IDA, to prepare designs and contract
documents, undertake procurement, evaluate tenders, supervise
construction and supply, provide assistance to the NIB for proj-
ect coordination and provide technical assistance to the NYS (para
5.05).
8.02      Assurances were obtained from the Government at loan/credit negotia-
tions that:
(a) the NIB would undertake continuous systematic observations of
the groundwater level in the Project area in accordance with a
program to be agreed with the Bank/IDA (para 4.13);
(b) the Government would maintain the Garissa-Garsen road adequately
and would make sufficient budgetary provision for this purpose
(para 4.17);
(c) the towns and villages would be planned, designed and con-
structed to standards acceptable to the Bank/IDA (para 4.19);
(d) the Government would establish by February 1, 1978 and maintain
a public health and disease control program acceptable to the
Bank/IDA (para 4.27);
(e) persons having rights, to land or access to the river, taken
over by the NIB would receive adequate compensation (para
4.28);
(f) the NIB would own and operate the ginnery and would not delegate
its ownership or operation to a farmers' cooperative before
1987 (para 4.34);
(g) the Government would gazette, as protected reserves, three
blocks of the riverine forest between Garissa and Hola and
assure them complete protection through an adequate staff of
forest guards to be stationed at agreed locations (para 4.36);
(h) the Government would establish, by July 1, 1979, an agreed system
of game patrols within the Project area (para 4.38);
Ci) an agreed staff training program would be designed by December 31,
1978 and established after agreement with the Bank/IDA (para.
4.39);
(j) the CLSMB had by December 31, 1977:



- 44 -
(i)  introduced a system of sales of lint and seed by public
auction satisfactory to the Bank/IDA;
(ii)  employed, after consultation with the Bank/IDA, a mar-
keting officer and a lint classifier, both of whom should
possess qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
Bank/IDA;
(iii)  submitted to the Bank/IDA for its proposed standard con-
tracts for sales of cotton lint and seed; and
(iv)  prepared and submitted to the Bank/IDA for approval a
detailed program for:
-    providing security of adequate returns to cotton
farmers, including a guaranteed minimum price to
be published no.t later than January 1 of every year,
and implementing a system for returning to NIB for
distribution to tenants any profits of CLSMB from
cotton lint and seed sales in excess of certain
levels;
-    adopting adequate accounting procedures for CLSMB,
including a system of controls and accounts to
ensure that proper payments are promptly made to
NIB for deliveries of cotton lint and seed to
CLSMB; and
-    introducing an improved cotton lint grading system,
including adequate provision for grading cotton
lint produced under irrigation (para 4.41);
(k)  the Government would continue to give farmers guaranteed mini-
mum seed cotton prices and publish them annually not later than
January 1 of each year and by January 1, 1980 would introduce a
system of premium prices taking into account the higher grades of
cotton and varieties produced under irrigation (para 4.42);
(1)  the NIB would keep the local market situation for maize, ground-
nuts and cowpeas under review and the MPB would make any necessary
arrangements for purchasing them upon request from the NIB (para
4.43);
(m)  the NIB would establish, by July 1, 1981, a new agricultural re-
search station located on representative soils in the project area
and operate it as its principal research station in the lower Tana
area (para 4.44);
(n)  the Government would guarantee adequate minimum flows in the Tana
River for the Project as well as for downstream water requirements
and effective control of water abstractions from the river
and its tributaries would be exercised by water bailiffs of the
Ministry of Water Development (para 4.56);



- 45 -
(o) an arrangement would be entered into between the NIB and the NYS
defining, specifying and scheduling the works to be constructed
by the NYS and incorporating an undertaking by the NYS to complete
them in accordance with specification and schedule (para 4.65);
(p) the Government would intervene to provide additional resources
to the NYS in the event that the NIB reported that the NYS was
falling significantly behind schedule in its work (para 4.65);
(q) the NYS would maintain adequate stocks of spare parts for
all of its construction equipment and vehicles employed on
the Project works (para 4.65);
(r) the NIB would adopt accounting practices satisfactory to
the Bank/IDA and maintain separate accounts for the Project
(para 4.73);
(s) the NIB would continue to employ independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank/IDA and send the audited accounts,
together with the auditors' report, to the Bank within
six months of the end of the NIB's fiscal year (para 4.73);
(t) the NYS project accounts would be audited by auditors
acceptable to the Bank/IDA and the audited accounts,
together with the auditors' report, would be sent to
the Bank/IDA within six months of the end of NYS
fiscal year (para 4.74);
(u) not later than March 31 in each year the NIB would send
annual work programs for the coming fiscal year to the
Bank/IDA for review and comment (para 5.03);
(v) the NIB would employ by December 31, 1978 an experienced
agricultural management firm or organization acceptable
to the Bank/IDA, under terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank/IDA, to manage the agricultural production phase
of the Project for a period of not less than six years
(para 5.04);
(w) the NIB would employ consultants satisfactory to the
Bank/IDA, under terms and conditions of employment satis-
factory to the Bank/IDA, to undertake by October 31, 1978
feasibility studies for Tana River east bank development
(para 5.05);
(x) the agronomic and water management research required for the
implementation and operation of the NIB's irrigation schemes
would be carried out by the NIB (para 5.12);



- 46 -
(y) the Government would employ an experienced sociologist accept-
able to the Bank/IDA to undertake a study of settlement prob-
lems, and would consult with the Bank/IDA on the findings of
the study before taking any final policy decisions on these
matters (para 5.15);
(z) the NIB would pay a portion of the farm proceeds directly to
the wife of the family to cover basic needs such as food and
clothing (para 5.15); and
(aa) the Government would levy a land and water charge at full
development of not less than Ksh 2,800 per ha of irrigable
land, subject to annual adjustment based on estimated net
returns to tenants, and would also levy charges on non-farmers
(including commercial enterprises) to recover part of the costs
of constructing the towns and villages, and would periodically
review the charges with the Bank and IDA (para 5.28).
8.03      Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the proposed Project
would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$6 million on standard IDA terms and
a Bank loan of US$34 million for 20 years including 4-1/2 years' grace at the
current Bank interest rate.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
The National Irrigation Board
A.  Background
1.        The earliest planned approach to irrigated crop production by
African farmers in Kenya was initiated in 1941 during World War II, as
the British sought new ways to satisfy a rapidly expanding demand for
food production. A "Dried Vegetable Project" was established in Embu Dis-
trict in order to provide dehydrated vegetables for the British East Afri-
can campaign. By contemporary standards the project was quite successful.
At its peak, some 13,500 registered growers were producing about 2,000 tons
of dehydrated vegetables per annum on some 4,000 acres under irrigation.
The output was valued at some Ksh 1.4 million annually, and some Ksh 1.0
million representing wages paid to African laborers was also generated as
a direct benefit to the local economy. Unfortunately, after the war, a
combination of declining post-war market prospects and opposition from both
nearby expatriate settlers and dissident clan and tribal factions led to
the almost complete dissolution of the scheme. The experience gained was
not a total loss, however, as the project provided valuable information for
the later development of the successful Mwea scheme (para 10).
2.        In mid-1953, shortly after the Mau Mau Emergency began in Kenya,
the African Land Development Board (ALDEV) decided to proceed with the es-
tablishment of a major irrigation scheme at Mwea (then part of Embu District).
The plan called for gradually bringing up to 5,000 acre under irrigated rice
production over an extended period. The primary objective of the scheme
was admittedly to provide a source of employment for the Mau Mau detainees,
but the scheme was also designed to allow large-scale expatriate farmers to
expand their crop areas. Two other small irrigation projects were also de-
veloped with detainee labor during the MIau Mau Emergency; these were the
Yatta Scheme (begun in 1952) and the Hola Scheme (begun in 1954) - both of
which are still underway. The Yatta project draws water from the Thika
River by way of a 60 km canal, and has at this time some 75 ha under both
subsistence and horticultural crops. The Hola Scheme pumps water directly
from the Tana River, and presently has some 850 ha under irrigated cotton
production.
3.        A bit later ALDEV also initiated other irrigated developments in-
cluding the Perkerra Scheme (in Rift Valley Province) and the Ishiara
Irrigation Scheme together with several grazing schemes with livestock
watering components. With the exception of the Mwea project (which was
completed in 1973 after a total of 5,700 ha had been brought under irri-
gated crop production), these ALDEV projects met with little success.



ANNEX I
Page 2
The schemes were for the most part severely undercapitalized and given very
little managerial support, dooming them to almost certain failure.
4.        With the development of these various irrigation acitvities, it
became evident that a national irrigation authority was needed to oversee
the various operations and to set general standards and operating proce-
dures. The first official irrigation agency - The Joint Irrigation Com-
mittee - was therefore established in 1954 under the Chairmanship of the
Director of Agriculture. Responsibilities for the various functions ad-
ministered by the Committee were divided amongst three government depart-
ments. The Department of Agriculture had financial responsibility and day-
to-day control of agricultural activities; the Department of Public Works
fulfilled the functions of consultants, design engineers and contractors;
and the Provincial Administration dealt with all matters affecting labor
and settlement. These departments had different objectives and, although
the period between 1954 and the early 1960s was one of rapid expansion
of irrigation, the Committee generally proved ineffective, mainly because
of the bureaucratic antagonisms which developed as the three departments
sought to maintain their individual control over the new irrigation schemes.
By the end of the emergency the Committee ceased to operate and responsibility
for irrigation passed to the Chief Agriculturalist in the Department of
Agriculture. A period of consolidation now ensued, during which the Ministry
of Agriculture concentrated upon improving agricultural production in the
schemes rather than expansion.
B. Trust Land (Irrigation Areas) Rules, 1962 and Irrigation
(National Irrigation Schemes) Regulations, 1977
5.        In 1962 Government enacted the Trust Land (Irrigation Areas) Rules
(see Appendix 2) setting out the rights and obligations of both management
and tenants on national irrigation schemes. In March 1977 regulations under
the Irrigation Act, 1966 were adopted. The regulations, known as the Irriga-
tion (National Irrigation Schemes) Regulations (see Appendix 3), are similar
in all respects to the Trust Land Rules. The rules (regulations) are designed
to ensure that tenants live up to obligations necessarily imposed by them by
the nature of an irrigation scheme and at the same time to protect tenants
from arbitrary action by project management. The rules (regulations) require
that (a) the tenant devote full time to his agricultural enterprise; (b)
holdings be cultivated in accordance with the crop rotations established by
the project management; (c) the tenant properly maintain all irrigation
structures within his holdings; and (d) the tenant practice good animal hus-
bandry and soil conservation methods as instructed by the project management.
6.        The rules allow management to take disciplinary action against
tenants who fail to comply with the above obligations. The penalties for
non-compliance include fines and eviction, although these more severe
measures have in practice been sparingly utilized 1/. Generally tenants
1/   The rate of eviction on irrigation schemes averaged less than 1%
per annum for the ten year period 1961-1971.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
are given a verbal warning followed up, if necessary, by written notifica-
tion of the breach of obligation. On the whole experience shows that the
rules have been a reasonably effective tool in the management of the na-
tional irrigation projects.
C. Establishment of the National Irrigation Board
7.        The control of the irrigation schemes by the Department of Agri-
culture was an improvement on attempts at control by the three departments
but was still found to be unsatisfactory. The Department of Agriculture
was organized mainly to provide advisory services to the farming community,
to carry out agricultural research and to collect and evaluate agricultural
statistics. By 1966 it had become clear that it was not suitable as a man-
aging agency for commercially-oriented enterprises.
8.        The Government therefore enacted in March 1966 the Irrigation Act
of 1966 (Appendix 1) to provide for the "development, control, and improve-
ment" of irrigation schemes in Kenya. The National Irrigation Board (NIB)
was created under the act to exercise responsibility for the planning, con-
struction, settlement and management of national irrigation schemes. The
NIB was established as a semi-autonomous body responsible to the Minister
of Agriculture. The membership of the Board includes:
(a) A Chairman appointed by the Minister of Agriculture;
(b) The Director of Agriculture;
(c) A representative for each Province in which a national
irrigation scheme exists, appointed by the Minister
of Agriculture;
(d) The Director of Water Development;
(e) The Chairman of the Water Resource Authority;
(f) The Permanent Secretary for Economic Planning and
Development;
(g) The Permanent Secretary to the Treasury; and
(h) Not more than three additional members appointed
by the Minister of Agriculture possessing
qualifications of benefit to the Board.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
These members appoint a General Manager who is responsible for the execu-
tion of Board policy and for control and management of day-to-day business.
The Board appoints an advisory committee to oversee the operation of each
of the national irrigation schemes under its control; these committees are
particularly charged with ensuring that specific agricultural, settlement
and other policies established by the Board are strictly enforced by the
scheme managers (these include standards of good husbandry, pest and di-
sease control; regulation of water use charges; issuance and revocation of
licenses and leases for settlers; procedures for the harvesting, storage,
processing, marketing and sale of produce grown on the schemes).
D. NIB Operations and Management
9.        At the beginning of its administration the Board assumed respon-
sibility for three on-going irrigation schemes, the Mwea, Hola and Per-
kerra Schemes, totalling 3,350 hectares of irrigated crops. By 1970 the
Board had taken over responsibility for two additional schemes - Ahero and
Bunyala - bringing the total area under its administration to some 7,200
hectares of irrigated crops. By 1974 this area had expanded to 8,500 hec-
tares. Likewise, the gross value of crops produced had risen from KE 435,000
in 1966 to KE 1,300,000 in 1974. Rice is by far the major crop now being
produced, and the gross value of its production on all schemes in 1974 was
over KE 1,000,000. The number of plot holders (settlers) increased from 2,163
in 1966 to 4,600 in 1974. The above statistics, while illustrating the
growth of the NIB's operations, do, however, somewhat obscure the variety
of problems and varying degrees of success which have been encountered on
the individual schemes. These are therefore discussed individually below
in somewhat greater detail in order to highlight their most important fea-
ures.
10.       The Mwea Scheme (para 3) with a total cropped area of some 5,700
ha and some 3,000 families (1974) is by far the largest and the only finan-
cially self-supporting of the various schemes. The crop area is almost
entirely devoted to rice production, with the exception of limited areas
set aside for subsistence and horticultural crops. The administration and
management of this scheme has been successful in maintaining cropping stan-
dards and in dealing with the growing variety of problems which have arisen
as the area has expanded. This can be seen in the increasing average in-
come obtained by the settlers on the scheme; the average net annual income
from cash crops sold to NIB, excluding subsistence production, increased from
Ksh 2,854 in 1960 to Ksh 6,190 in 1974 (the latter may be compared with
figures of Ksh 2,450 and Ksh 1,380 achieved at Ahero and Bunyala respectively
in the same year).



ANNEX 1
Page 5
11.       The Hola Pilot Irrigation Scheme is also considered a successful
project. This is demonstrated in the yields achieved for cotton, the major
cash crop, which reached 2,700 kg/ha in 1973, including 98% graded AR (top
grade). Unfortunately the small size of the project (850 hectares) has
limited its ability to carry the overhead costs involved, and consequently
the project is not financially viable. The scheme has grown in size and
productivity from 275 settlers producing 822 metric tons of cotton in 1965 to
582 settlers producing 2,288 metric tons in 1974/75. The average net income
of the tenants, excluding the value of subsistence production, was Ksh 5,196
in 1974/75.
12.       The Perkerra Irrigation Scheme has shown extremely poor results
almost from its inception. The project has had consistently low returns
from onion production, its major crop, and the tenants have reacted accor-
dingly with a high percentage of desertions. During 1966-1975 the tenant
population decreased from 400 to 346. NIB's attempts to diversify the
cropping pattern have, however, met with strong settler resistance because of
the prices of onions in some years; tenants seem to prefer to gamble the
possibility of high returns against the unpredictable yields caused by
periodic water shortages, fungal attacks, and poor bulb formation caused by
hot, dry conditions. Recently NIB has had some success in encouraging the
production of chillies as a second cash crop; yields have been excellent, with
net cash returns to the tenants increasing up to 75% over the previous crop
year.
13.       The Ahero Pilot Scheme was established in 1968 to provide guide-
lines for the development of the irrigation potential of the Kano Plains.
The scheme has encountered serious technical and agronomic problems. The
major crop, rice, has suffered disastrous setbacks due to disease, hail-
storm damage, water shortages and pump breakdowns; as a result settler in-
comes have remained low. There are presently about 500 growers cultiva-
ting 800 hectares of paddy.
14.       The Bunyala Irrigation Scheme is facing many of the same prob-
lems affecting Ahero. Paddy blast disease and hail damage have been the
most serious problems, causing extreme variations in yields; these have
ranged from a high of 5,000 kg/ha in 1969 and 1970 to a low of 1,400 kg/ha
in 1974. Morale among the producers has been seriously affected, and this
has resulted in widespread neglect of holdings and many desertions. Most
disturbing of these developments has been low yields of recent crops, even
without blast disease or hail. This poor performance has been attributed
to settler inattention to weeding and other field practices.
E. NIB's Performance
15.       NIB's overall performance since its inception has been uneven
in quality, with the success of the Mwea scheme offset by the real diffi-
cultires which the Board has experienced with most of the other schemes.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
On balance, NIB's problems can be attributed to certain key deficiencies
which must certainly be remedied before any improvements in its perfor-
mance can be expected; these deficiencies range from management problems
(including the absence of the technical expertise necessary to cope with
agronomic questions), to a lack of appropriate crop and land and water re-
search studies. Foremost among these factors, however, the lack of an
adequate management capacity remains the most crucial problem facing the
Board; it is this one constraint which more than any other has impeded
the sustained development and expansion of the national irrigation schemes
for which NIB is responsible. The management problems which plague the
Board are themselves infinitely varied. They include:
(a) the small size of the existing organization and the
slow rate of staff recruitment;
(b) frequent changes in management at all levels;
(c) a heavy and unjustifiable reliance on expatriate experts
provided under bilateral technical assistance programs,
which has in turn led to a high rate of staff turn-over,
long delays in filling vacancies, etc.;
(d) failure to train Kenyan staff employed on the existing
schemes to fill higher level technical positions (in
spite of the long history of irrigation development in
Kenya, there are as yet no Kenyan irrigation engineers,
agricultural engineers or senior agriculturalists with
cotton experience, nor are there many managers trained
on existing schemes who might be available for future
developments);
(e) severe inadequacy in the maintenance and repair of agri-
cultural equipment used on the schemes (while the NIB's
record in this field at Mwea appears on the whole to have
been satisfactory, the experience at Hola has been much
less reassuring. For example, of thirteen tractors at
Hola no more than three were operational during the No-
vember 1975 visit of the appraisal mission - a state
of affairs which had been observed and commented upon
by the Bank's wild-life conservation consultant in
August 1975 but had not been remedied, in spite of the
maize planting season having occurred in the interval);
and
(f) a reluctance on the part of NIB in the past to coordinate
the planning and administration of its activities with
those of other ministries and provincial administrations,
thus depriving the Board of useful inputs from a wide
range of sources and causing unnecessary delays in the
implementation of its program.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
In addition to the management problems, several other inadequacies are
deserving of mention. One key failure which has hampered the successful
development of the irrigation schemes has been NIB's inability to build
up an adequate staff of agronomic experts experienced in the special prob-
lems of irrigated crop production; this, combined with the absence of a
well designed and effective research program, has contributed to the gen-
erally poor overall performance achieved to date on the majority of the
schemes.
16.       NIB's performance to date and the management and technical prob-
lems which hamper its operation raise serious questions as to whether the
Board has the capacity without external assistance to undertake responsi-
bility for another irrigation scheme - particularly one on the scale of the
proposed Bura Project. Not only would the new scheme create in the short
period of six years a developed area about as large again as the combined
total area of its existing schemes, but it would raise a whole myriad of
problems which have not been previously encountered on any significant scale.
The latter would include: difficult soils, and a high cropping intensity with
a heavy agricultural equipment input (Annex 2); environmental, health and
educational problems (Annex 5); a diverse settler population (Annex 6); the
need for an afforestation program (Annex 9); wildlife conservation (Annex
10); an accommodation with pastoralists now living in the area, etc. It is
unlikely that at this stage NIB would prove capable of undertaking a venture
of such complexity. It is therefore proposed that an acceptable experienced
management firm or organization, expected to be the Commonwealth Development
Corporation (CDC), should manage the settlement and agricultural production
component of the Project as a managing agent for NIB, until such time as NIB
would have built up sufficient technical and managerial capability to assume
project management responsibility for itself. It is envisaged that the
management team would be required for a period of at least six years; any
shorter period than this would not be adequate to institute a systematic and
properly planned management system for the irrigation complex, to settle the
new farmers and train them in irrigated farming and to train NIB staff to
operate the Project. The management team should also train NIB staff for
the much greater future expansion of irrigation expected to become possible
under the program of Tana River development associated with the Upper Tana
Reservoir expected to be completed in 1981.



ANNEX 1
Appendices 1-3
KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
The following Appendices:
Appendix I - The Irrigation Act, 1966
Appendix 2 - The Trust Land (Irrigation Areas) Rules
Appendix 3 - The Irrigation Act (National Irrigation
Schemes) Regulations, 1977
are available in the Project File.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Agriculture
Present Agriculture in the Project Area
1.        The area which would be irrigated under the Project is too dry for
rainfed crop production. The only cultivation is along the margin of the
Tana River where members of the Pokomo and Malekote tribes cultivate maize
and vegetables for subsistence on the flood plain in small seasonal patches
near their riverine villages. Away from the river the area is virtually
uninhabited except during and immediately after the rainy season when nomadic
Orma pastoralists roam through it to graze their cattle. As the vegetation
and waterholes dry up they move to the Tana River and elsewhere to find water
and more abundant grazing.
2.        It is estimated that under rainfed conditions one livestock unit
can be raised on 25 ha. Thus, a total of 400 livestock units could be kept
in the area of 10,000 ha within which the 6,700 ha irrigable area lies. With
an off-take of 10%, or 40 livestock units a year, and an estimated net pro-
duction value per unit of K.Sh. 350, the total production value amounts to
K.Sh. 14,000 (US$2,000) a year. This value could be expected to rise by about
1% per year in the Project period as a result of better breeds and improved
care of the animals.
A. Resource Base
3.        The Bura Project area has a favorable climate for perennial agri-
culture, an adequate supply of high quality water available from the Tana
River, and sufficient land of adequate quality for development under irriga-
tion. The existing rural population can readily be supplemented as necessary
by immigrants from other parts of the country seeking an improved standard of
living. Health problems will arise, however, particularly associated with the
irrigation development, and these will have to be given special attention.
They will be particularly severe for the non-immune immigrant population en-
countering the diseases of the tropical lowlands (especially malaria and
schistosomiasis) for the first time.
4.        Climate.  Meteorological data have been collected from the Project
area for relatively few years - only 17 years' total rainfall records for
Bura in a broken sequence and only an 10-year period (1967-1976) of record
when Bura, Hola and Tana meteorological stations have operated simultaneously.
Rainfall is low (averaging about 400 mm) and very erratic, with large varia-
tions from place to place, between the same months in different years and
between annual totals. It falls mainly in two rainy seasons, March-May and
October-December.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
5.              ratures are high throughout the year with little seasonal
variation. The hottest months are February and March (average max. tempera-
tures 35 C) and the coolest June, July and August (average max. temperatures
32 C). Minimum temperatures do not normally go below 20 C throughout the
year. Temperatures are not a limiting factor for crop growth in the area at
any time of year.
6.        Solar radiation is high from December to March and rather lower from
June to August. The lowest values are within the range at which crop growth
might theoretically be reduced but no such reduction has been experienced
either in experiments or at the Hola Pilot Irrigation Scheme.
7.        Relative humidity varies between 60% and 70% throughout most of the
year, with diurnal variation from about 75% at 9 a.m. to about 50% at 3 p.m..
Winds are a normal feature in the area with fairly high daily averages recorded
(110-215 km). The direction of the prevailing wind is southerly from May to
December when the winds are strongest, mostly northerly and easterly in
December and January and veering towards southerly from February through April.
Wind erosion can be expected if large areas of land are left exposed without
ground cover for long periods after being cleared and levelled. Experience at
Hola has shown, however, that wind erosion is not a problem after the first
crops are established. Table 1 gives general meteorological data for the Bura
area.
Soils
8.        Soil Surveys.  A soil survey was done in the mid 1960s by consult-
ants (Acres - ILACO) on over 240,000 ha including the Bura Project area. This
survey has been termed "semi-detailed" but it should more properly have been
called a "low-intensity" or "reconnaissance" survey since soil profile exami-
nations were made at one per square mile and the boundaries of the soils were
plotted on a print-lay-down at 1:25,000, subsequently reduced to 1:50,000.
Soil boundaries were plotted on the aerial photographs by extrapolation from
the vegetation patterns and a fairly detailed examination of the vegetation
association was made in the field as a basis for the subsequent mapping.
9.        In addition to the 1:50,000 map of the entire area, a 1:10,000 map
was made of the proposed research and training area south of Laga Hiraman.
This map was made by intensifying the observations within the lines but no
additional lines were examined. Some 5-7 profile examinations were made per
mile in lines one mile apart, thus giving a very skewed sampling pattern. In
their 1972-73 feasibility study of the Bura area, ILACO made further soil
studies in this area, but these were confined to sampling and analyzing the
marginal soils and no additional mapping was done.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
10.       In 1968 ILACO did a detailed soil survey (1:10,000) of the Galole
(later renamed Hola) Pilot Project (500 ha). The soils were classified as
A, A/B, B and C and these can be correlated with the units used in the Acres/
ILACO report.
11.       Following a review of these surveys by the Bank, ILACO carried
out additional survey work in 1974/75. At that time a project of 14,000 ha
was foreseen. To provide more detailed information on the proposed first
4,000 ha to be developed north of Laga Hiraman, the sampling for the original
survey was intensified by augering at 333 m intervals on lines 333 m apart to
achieve a density of one observation per 11 ha. Within the remaining 10,000
ha of the 14,000 ha proposed Project area, sample strips were surveyed in the
same detail as in the area north of L. Hiraman to check the accuracy of the
soil boundaries shown on the 1:50,000 map. These sample strips showed that
inaccuracies existed in the 1:50,000 map and the Government therefore then
instructed ILACO to undertake during 1976 a semi-detailed survey of the gross
area south of L. Hiraman using lines 500 m apart and sampling 200 m apart in
the lines, to achieve an observation density of one per 10 ha, with mapping at
a scale of 1:5,000. This survey showed that a much higher proportion of
shallow soils existed in the area than had originally been reported. The
consultants nevertheless recommended, on the basis of a comparison with the
shallow soils of the Hola Pilot Irrigation Scheme, that the Project area
should not be reduced for this reason. However, the Government decided, on
IDA's recommendation, that the information available on the long-term pro-
ductivity of the shallow soils was insufficient at present to justify includ-
ing large areas of them in the Project (see para 18) and the Project area was
accordingly reduced to 6,700 ha.
12.       Soil Classification and Soil Suitability for Irrigation.  The system
used to classify the soils (Soil Taxonomy of the US Department of Agriculture)
employs the degree of horizon development and physical and chemical character-
istics of the soil profile as the bases of classification. Twelve soil units
were distinguished in the classification but some difficulties were encoun-
tered over sodium and salinity levels within the units.
13.       Geomorphologically the area can be divided into old alluvium or old
terrace areas and the young alluvium of the Tana river flood plain. The
latter is something of a misnomer as much of this plain is not usually flooded
by the Tana river itself since it consists of a series of back swamps behind
the levee system, which are flooded during heavy storms by run-off from the
lagas.
14.       The major soils on the old alluvium are the aridisols (natrargids,
halorthids and camborthids) and the vertisols (grumusterts and grumaquerts);
entisols (hapludents) are the major soils on the young alluvium. The
natrargids have a sodic sub-soil with a columnar structure, hard when dry,
capped by a bleached indurated layer; this is overlain by sand to various
depths. Soils in which the sandy top soil has been eroded have been termed
mazic and those with sand, typic.
15.       The classification and suitability ratings established by the con-
sultants are:



ANNEX 2
Page 4
SOIL CLASSIFICATION
Soils of the old alluvial terrace
PR                Typic Psammustent
Nl, N2            Typic Natrargid (Ni: > 20" over capped natric horizon)
(N2: < 20" over capped natric horizon)
N3                Mazic Natrargid
N4                Vertic Natrargid
C                 Typic Camborthid
S                 Typic Halorthid
GU                Natric Grumustert
GA                Natric Grumaquert
Soils of the flood-plain
PL                Typic Hapludent
US                Vertic Hapludent (stream bed deposits)
U                   "       "      (river basin soils)
P                 Entisols
SOIL SUITABILITY CLASSIFICATION
Soil Units
Class 1           (highly suitable)               C
"   2           (suitable)                     S, NI
3           (fairly suitable)              GU, GA, U, N4
"   4           (marginally suitable)          N2, N3
"   5           (non-irrigable)                PR, PL, US, P
16.       The Irrigation Suitability Classification of the United States
Bureau of Reclamation would classify the soils:
Soil Units
Class I           (highly suitable)               C
"   3           (marginally suitable)           S
"   4           (suitable for limited          GU, GA, N4
cropping)
"   5           (tentatively non-arable)       Ni, N2
"   6           (non-arable)                   PR, N3, U, US, P and PL
17.       In upgrading soil units S, GU and GA and N4 from the USBR classes,
the consultants' suitability classification has taken into account experience
gained at the Hola Pilot Irrigation Scheme. In particular, the consultants
believe that the GU, N4 and S soils can be included in the layout of an irri-
gation scheme aiming at immediate high level production of cotton, provided
that the non-saline, non-alkali top soil (A-horizon plus a portion of the
B-horizon) has a thickness of 20 cm or more. The deeper sub-units (GUI, N41
and SI) fall within this category. The consultants also consider that GU and



ANNEX 2
Page 5
N4 soils with a non-saline, non-alkali A-horizon of 15-20 cm thickness
(classified as GU2 and N42 respectively) meet this requirement. Similarly,
they believe that S soils meet the requirement if the non-saline, non-alkali
A-horizon is over 15 cm thick.
18.       The consultants' conclusions appear to be adequately justified in
the case of the GA soils and the deeper sub-units of the GU, N4 and S soils
(i.e. the GUl, N41 and SI soils). However, the validity of their proposal is
not so apparent in the case of the more shallow sub-units of these soils.
While the deeper sub-units have been irrigated at Hola since 1958 and have
given consistently high yields of cotton for the past ten years, the more
shallow sub-units were not developed at Hola until 1973 and furthermore, the
soil survey of the area where they occur was not done until after they had
been developed and brought under irrigated cultivation. The characteristics
of these soils, including the original depth of the non-saline, non-alkali
top soil, can only be inferred by extrapolation from the surrounding non-
irrigated areas. Two questions remain unanswered: (a) whether the shallow
soils can sustain production under irrigation throughout the life of the pro-
ject; and (b) whether they are truly representative of the shallow soils in
the Bura area, since their characteristics may have been altered by the irri-
gation and cultivation, e.g. land levelling during the course of development
may have reduced the original thickness of the A-horizon. Although these
soils have yielded about as well as the deeper sub-units of the same classi-
fication for three successive seasons, the Government agreed with the apprai-
sal mission and subsequent soil survey review missions that further exper-
ience should be gained before a major irrigation development is based upon
them. It was decided, therefore, that the shallow soils should not be in-
cluded in the project area at present except in order to provide the Govern-
ment with further experience on which to determine productivity and costs of
development and management. It was recognized that such shallow soils are
characteristic of large parts of the Tana River area, however, and substan-
tial future development of irrigation will probably depend on the utiliza-
tion of at least some of them. Thus, it was concluded that the first phase
Project should include a significant area of each of the three types of shal-
low soils (GU2, N42 and S2) for further investigations.
19.       Soil Salinity and Sodium Content.  A recurring theme in the various
reports on soil surveys in the Lower Tana area has been salinity and high
sodium levels and low subsoil permeability. The ability of the soil to
sustain production under irrigation without deterioration by increase of
salinity or sodium levels has therefore been a matter of special concern.
Following the Bank's 1974 review of the soil studies conducted up to that
date, ILACO carried out a special investigation comparing the soils in the
irrigated area at Hola with similar non-irrigated soils outside the area to
determine whether any increase of salinity and sodium saturation has occurred
under irrigation. The results showed that salts are being leached satisfac-
torily under irrigation and there is no build-up of salinity in the root zone.
In respect of alkali, the consultants found also a decrease in ESP values
under irrigation, indicating that leaching of salts has not been accompanied



ANNEX 2
Page 6
by an increase in sodium levels. On the basis of the investigations com-
pleted up to December 1975, the indications are that sustained productivity
will be possible without the use of soil amendments. Nevertheless, should
it be found necessary to apply soil amendments to correct sodium levels,
there are abundant sources of gypsum available at minimum cost in the Laga
Thula area, immediately to the north of the Project area.
Crops at the Hola Pilot Irrigation Scheme
20.       The behavior of crops under farming conditions provides an invalu-
able check on the conclusions of soil surveys in arriving at a judgement on
development potential under conditions such as those in the Bura area. It
is fortunate that the Hola Scheme has been under irrigation since 1953, pro-
viding 23 years of experience on which to base such a judgement. Its soils
are representative of the Class 2 and 3 irrigable soils of the Bura Project
area and include also the shallow S soils mentioned above (para 17).
21.       The experience with cotton at Hola gives the best guide to crop
potential under the local conditions. There was not much production of
cotton at Hola until 1956. By 1964 yields had reached only about 1,000
kg/ha seed cotton and at this yield level the future of the Scheme was in
doubt. Tenants were abandoning their farms because their returns were too low.
Pests, weeds and poor water management were the major problems. In March
1964 a team of consultants (ILACO) supplied initially under UNDP technical
assistance, commenced work. Within a few years they showed that by ridging
to provide proper field water management, sowing at the right time, good pest
control and good weed control, yields exceeding 3,000 kg/ha could be obtained.
The application of these principles throughout the Scheme since 1966 has
maintained high levels of yields for farmers.
22.       The factors contributing most to this improvement in yields are:
(a) Proper cultivation techniques. The soil studies
emphasized that the shallow top soils could be utilized
best by growing crops on well-maintained ridges 40 cm
high. Where ridges are made badly or allowed to
deteriorate, cotton grows poorly and suffers from water-
logging.
(b) Timeliness of cultivation and planting. This depends
upon efficient management of the tractor fleet and
cultivation equipment; work scheduling and timely
maintenance and repairs are the most important elements
for successful equipment operation.
(c) The ability of cotton to tolerate high levels of salinity
and alkalinity. The literature suggests that cotton will
tolerate ECe levels of 10 without yield reduction and
levels of 12 to 14 with only 25% yield reduction. Cotton
is also tolerant of alkalinity; ESP levels up to 40 do
not appear to affect the plant.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
(d)  Good water control.   By using ridges and good irrigation
techniques the top soil is prevented from waterlogging.
This can be a serious problem in these soils; yellowing
of the cotton sometimes occurs a few days after irriga-
tion.
(e)  Good weed control.  Once the cotton is well established
on a ridge and growing quickly, weeds are much easier
to control.
(f)  Pest control by spraying, allied to a scouting service
for detecting pest build up. Nine sprays are currently
used. During the rains only aerial spraying is feasi-
ble as ground equipment cannot be used on the sodden
soil.
The proper and timely combination of all these good cultural practices
depends, of course, on detailed supervision by skilled management. This
is the key to high production on these soils. Experience at Hola has shown
that intensive staffing by a well trained management cadre is necessary even
after a number of years of operation of the scheme.
Extrapolation of Crop Yields from Hola Pilot Irrigation
Scheme to Bura Project
23.       The Hola Pilot Irrigation scheme is sufficiently large (850 ha;
585 settler families) and sufficiently similar to the Bura Project for its
crop yields to be extrapolated to the new Project. Normally, if such extra-
polation were being considered from a small old-established pilot scheme
to a large new Project, judicious reductions in crop yields would have to
be assumed to take account of such factors as the higher intensity of man-
agement usually available in a pilot scheme, the probability that settlers
for a pilot scheme may have been subject to a more careful process of selec-
tion than would apply in a larger project, etc. These considerations are not
valid for the relationship between crop yields at Hola and those assumed for
the Bura Project. In fact, if yield assumptions were to be weighted, it would
be logical that they should be weighted in favor of higher yields for the new
project rather than in the reverse direction. The reasons for this include:
(a) the Hola scheme suffers from constantly recurring short-
ages of irrigation water. This is due mainly to break-
downs of pumps because of inadequate operation and main-
tenance of the pumping station;
(b) farm equipment maintenance at Hola is poor, resulting
frequently in late planting of crops;
(c) land levelling has not been done adequately at Hola; and



ANNEX 2
Page 8
(d) Hola's field staff generally have an inadequate
basic education to absorb specialized training.
This arises from the historic circumstances of
the original establishment of the scheme and the
lack, until recent years, of secondary schools in
the area.
These constraints should not occur in the Bura Project. The gravity-flow
irrigation water supply would not suffer from mechanical breakdowns of
pumps, land-levelling would be done effectively, the quality of farm equip-
ment maintenance would be improved, and the field staff, having initially
been selected from candidates with an adequate basic education, would re-
ceive specialized training in farming practices. Another important fac-
tor very favorable to Bura in the comparison with Hola is the occurrence
of a high proportion of Class I soils at Bura (see para 24). The Hola scheme
is located on predominantly Class 2 and Class 3 soils; Class 1 soils are not
found there. All these factors have been taken into account by the appraisal
mission in making its judgement of future yield expectations at Bura.
Soil Classes Included in the Project
24.       The irrigation layout has been planned to include all of the Class
I and Class 2 soils occurring in the area, together with sufficient areas of
the three shallow soil types classified as Class 4 to allow experience of
crop production to be gained on them in preparation for a possible future
expansion of the irrigation system. Small areas of Class 3 soils would
also be incorporated, where they can easily be commanded by the canal sys-
tem at little extra cost. The breakdown of the total area (6,700 ha net)
by soil suitability classes is as follows:
Soil Type           Class I      Class 2      Class 3      Class 4      % of Total
-------------------ha net------------------
C                 3,265                                                 48
S1                             1,330                                    20
GUI                                          185                         3
N41                                          590                         9
S2                                                       640            10
GU2                                                      550             8
N42                                                      240             2
Project Total:       3,265       1,330         775        1,330           100



ANNEX 2
Page 9
B. Agricultural Development
Land Allocation and Cropping
25.       About 6,440 ha would be divided into tenancies of 1.2@ ha each.
In addition, about 260 ha would be cultivated as gardens (500 m   per tenant)
located close to the villages. The annual cropping pattern on the tenancies
at full development would be cotton (1.25 ha), groundnuts (0.2 ha) and maize
interplanted with cowpeas (0.4 ha). Cropping intensity at full development
would be 148%.
Mechanization
26.       Among the mechanized operations provided by the NIB would be the
cultivation of all land (including ploughing, harvesting, land levelling
and planing), ridging, spraying (mainly by aircraft), lifting (of groundnuts)
and transport of inputs and crops.
Crop Varieties 1/
27.       The cotton variety which has been grown at the Hola Pilot Irrigation
Scheme for many years is UKA 59/240, an African Upland variety. It has,
however, been consistently out-yielded in variety trials there by a number of
other varieties, especially American Upland and Delta pine varieties. These
other varieties give a longer and stronger (although coarser) fibre than UKA
59/240, with a higher maturity ratio and a considerably larger boll. UKA
59/240 is resistant to bacterial blight ("black-arm") disease, however, and
this has been considered a sufficient advantage (though little is known of the
incidence of black-arm in the lower Tana) to justify its use in spite of its
lower yield. Furthermore the Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board has not
hitherto considered that the production at the Hola Scheme (850 ha) has been
of sufficient volume to justify a change of variety with attendant risk of
seed becoming mixed at the ginnery. This argument would not apply to the Bura
Project, which not only would have its own ginning factory but would also have
a sufficiently high volume of production to justify special consideration
being given to its needs. Since UKA 59/240 has a ginning out-turn of only
32%, compared with the 38% out-turn of possible alternative varieties, the
change to an improved variety would also be accompanied by a significant
increase in lint production. One of the improved varieties already tested in
trials at Hola would therefore be selected for the Bura Project.
1/   See Table 2 of this Annex.



ANNEX 2
Page 10
28.       T!S: varieties of groundnuts which have yielded best in variety
trials at Hola have a long maturity period (125 days) which makes integra-
tion into the cropping system difficult. For this reason anticipated yields
have been based upon the performance of such short-season varieties (116
days) as Natal Common and Red Valencia, rather than the higher-yielding
Shulamit. As with cotton, there is an undeveloped potential for higher yield
which illustrates the need for further investigation through variety trials
and plant breeding for the local conditions.
29.       Conditions in the Bura Project area are well below optimum for high
maize yields, Maize is rated as one of the field crops most sensitive to
salinity, and it is also sensitive to alkalinity. It has been included in the
cropping pattern because, at least initially, farmers will wish to grow their
own subsistence crops in preference to purchasing them. The variety "Coast
Composite" would be grown initially in the Project, having been shown at
Hola to have a 30% yield advantage over the Local White variety in trials
over several years.
30.       Cowpeas would be interplanted with maize.  Crop trials at Hola
(Table 2) have shown that interplanting increases the cash value of the total
return from the two crops over that attainable from the crops grown singly.
Cowpeas have also been shown to be a more productive crop than beans or
other pulses. A locally-available variety of cowpeas has been used to date.
Variety trials should be undertaken in future.   New varieties from the
International Institute of Tropical Agriculture have better pest resistance
than varieties in common use.
Fertilizers
31.       Nitrogen in the form of either urea or sulphate of ammonia would
be applied to all crops. The choice between urea and sulphate of ammonia
at any given time would depend on the ruling price per unit of nitrogen
(N). For cotton, the initial application would be 60 kg N per ha, rising
to 80 kg by the tenth year. For maize and cowpeas grown together, the appli-
cation would be 50 kg N per ha, rising to 100 kg by the tenth year. Groundnuts
require fertilizer nitrogen only in the initial period of growth to give rapid
establishment of the plant to counter weed competition; thereafter the plant
root system would be sufficiently developed so that the symbiotic bacteria
which fix nitrogen on them would meet the plants' nitrogen requirements. The
provision made for nitrogen fertilizer for groundnuts would therefore be only
10 kg N. No provision is made for applying phosphate, though it would be
required eventually (possibly not for a long time for cotton, but earlier for
other crops, e.g., maize). Potash would not be required.
Crop Protection
32.       Adequate pest control has not been a problem on the cotton crop at
Hola, despite the variety of pests encountered. They include American boll-
worm (Heliothis armigera) spiny bollworm (Earias spp), pink bollworm
(Pectinophora gossypiella), stainers (Dysdercus spp) and red spider mites



ANNEX ?
Page 11
(Tetranychus spp). Crop scouting is carried out by trained "scouts" to
give early warning of pest build-up; spraying is normally by aircraft. Eight
to ten sprays are currently used.
33.       Pest incidence on groundnuts and cowpeas has been low at Hola.
However, groundnuts are subject to yellowing and Cercospora leaf spot, which
affect yields. Further investigations are needed to establish the cause of
the yellowing. Maize is subject to stem borers and cob borers, for which
early identification and treatment by insecticides are mandatory.
34.       In the Bura Project provision for pest control would be made by
the Project management through scouting and pest control by aircraft spray-
ing (for cotton), as well as by knapsack spraying and dusting for crops other
than cotton and for local outbreaks in cotton. Field extension workers would
advise tenants on pest and disease control in their gardens and food crops.
Weed Control
35.       Weed control, essential to high yields, requires continuous atten-
tion under the local conditions. Timing and frequency of weeding have been
investigated at Hola and a program of control activities has been established.
Further trials with herbicides would be needed, especially to improve control.
of nut grass (Cyperus spp). Project management would keep close surveillance
on the efficiency with which tenants carried out weed control and would have
the right to have weeding done by hired labor at the expense of the tenant in
the event that he failed to maintain clean crops.
Potential and Projected Yields of Crops
36.       With knowledge of the soils, climate and productivity of comparable
irrigated areas, the potential yields of crops can be estimated with some
precision. However, the realization of potential yields depends upon a number
of factors, most of which are beyond the control of the farmers, such as ade-
quate incentives, a complete and efficient infrastructure, timely land prepara-
tion, effective dissemination of technological information, an efficient sur-
face drainage system, and optimum operation of the irrigation system.
37.       In practice, the various requirements for attaining high levels
of production cannot be effectively separated. For example, along with
adequate and timely water supplies sufficient necessary fertilizers are
required. Fertilizer applications, however, would be relatively ineffective
without adequate water supplies as well as improved seed varieties which can
respond to fertilizer efficiently. The compound benefits of these three
primary inputs, in turn, rely heavily on modern protective measures for the
control of plant diseases, and insect and weed infestations that inevitably
accompany bountiful crop production.  In addition, vigorous educational and
extension efforts will be required to assist the farmers in keeping abreast
of technological advances, and credit will be needed to facilitate some aspects
of the development program.
38.       The following table gives the estimated potential and anticipated
average yields for the Project area:



ANNEX 2
Page 12
Potential and Anticipated Average Crop Yields 1/
Cotton           Groundnuts            Maize       Cowpeas
(m ton/ha)   (unshelled m ton/ha)   (m ton/ha)   (m ton/ha)
Potential            5.5                 4.5                 5.0           1.5
Anticipated
Year
1980/81              -                  -                   2.00          0.50
1981/82             2.50                -                   2.17          0.53
1982/83             2.54                -                   2.28          0.56
1983/84             2.56                -                   2.53          0.62
1984/85             2.63               1.40                 2.86          0.72
1985/86             2.73               1.47                 3.16          0.82
1986/87             2.83               1.54                 3.43          0.91
1987/88             2.91               1.68                 3.63          0.98
1988/89             2.98               1.83                 3.70          1.00
1989/90             3.00               1.92                 3.70          1.00
1990/91             3.00               1.98                 3.70          1.00
and thereafter 3.00                2.00                 3.70          1.00
The Importance of Skilled Project Management in Attaining Projected Yields
39.       The Project area presents a number of inherent problems for agri-
cultural production which can only be overcome by a high degree of skill in
Project management. The soils would require careful management in cultivation,
land levelling, the control of water applications and monitoring for salinity
and alkalinity. Crop varieties would need to be continuously screened for
selection for improved yields.  Weed control and pest and disease control would
require constant attention; and the complex of crop production and processing
would depend upon the efficient scheduling, operation and maintenance of
the Project's fleet of tractors and cultivation equipment and of the ginnery.
The projected yields given above are based on the assumption that skilled
management would be available throughout the Project's life.
Agricultural Research
40.       Agricultural research on irrigation and drainage in Kenya has been
minimal in the past. Any research that has been carried out has been done on
an ad-hoc basis with inadequate continuity. At present it lags far behind
the national need.
1/   Project average yields, taking the phasing of settlement into account.
For development of yields on an individual tenant's holding, see
Annex 8," Cropping Pattern, Production and Farm Revenues from Pro-
duction."



ANNEX 2
Page 13
41.       The Government intends to remedy this situation and has agreed
with the Government of the Netherlands on a technical assistance program for
strengthening irrigation and drainage research. The program includes: the
establishment of an Irrigation and Drainage Research Unit in the Scientific
Research Division of the Ministry of Agriculture; support for NIB research
(particularly on problems of land and water management) at the Hola Pilot
Irrigation Scheme, the Bura Project, and the NIB's Kano Plains pilot scheme
at Ahero; and assistance to the Ministry of Agriculture for the planning and
design of small irrigation projects and to the University of Nairobi (Faculty
of Agriculture) in irrigation teaching and research.
42.       The program agreed for Bura is that one senior research officer
would supervise land and water management research at Bura/Hola and Ahero,
and that one land and water management specialist, one agronomist and one
junior research worker would be stationed at Bura to conduct research and
training, particularly on problems of land and water management and farm
management. Visiting experts from the Netherlands would also conduct spe-
cial studies of limited duration or provide advisory services as necessary.
43.       It is expected that the Dutch technical assistance program will
result in adequate attention being paid both to national research and train-
ing requirements for irrigation and drainage and to the provision of adequate
technical assistance for land and water management research for the Bura Proj-
ect.
44.       Research into agronomic factors, including the selection of crop
varieties adapted to the local conditions, has been undertaken at Hola in the
past under a Dutch technical assistance project - Hola Pilot Demonstration and
Training Project 1966-73 - a reduced version of which is continuing currently.
The research program successfully identified the major constraints which had
been holding down crop yields up to that time and its findings have been
incorporated into the agricultural program for the Bura Project.
45.       The research has demonstrated that the Bura Project has the poten-
tial to produce much higher crop yields than those which have been projected
in the benefit analysis. Since the economic analysis of the Project is
sensitive to yield levels, it would be desirable that every effort should be
made to attain these higher yields. This will require not only the provision
of skilled Project management as mentioned above, but also the continuance and
intensification of research on agronomic factors. The most important factors
for investigation (apart from those concerning soil and water management
mentioned above) appear to be choice of variety, especially for cotton,
groundnuts and maize; weed control and pest and disease control.
46.       With cotton assuming an importance under the Project which it has
never had before in Kenya, it will be necessary for an intensive study to
be made of all aspects of the crop. This would require the services of spe-
cialized agronomic staff not at present available in Kenya and not planned
to be provided under the Netherlands technical assistance project. It is



ANNEX 2
Page 14
intended that they would be provided under the Project. For assistance with
pest control problems, the NIB should, if possible, enlist the services of
the International Centre for Insect Physiology and Ecology (ICIPE) which is
in Nairobi.
47.       Up to the present time all agricultural research for the Lower Tana
area has been undertaken at the Hola Scheme. The soils at Hola, however, do
not include all of the soil types identified in the Bura Project area. In
particular, Hola has no Class 1 soils, which are expected to be particularly
significant in permitting higher levels of yields to be attained for the crops
selected for the Bura Project as well as crop diversification in due course.
To enable future research to be undertaken under fully representative condi-
tions, a new research station should be established on a location in the Bura
Project area selected to include if possible all the soils of the Bura Project.
Monitoring and Evaluation
48.       The Irrigation Act of 1966 (see Annex 1) requires the National Irriga-
tion Board to keep detailed records of all transactions. An individual account
would therefore be maintained for each tenant under the Bura Project. The Act
also requires the Board to submit an annual progress report to the Minister of
Agriculture, together with the report of its auditor and its annual balance
sheet. There would thus be adequate collection of financial data.
49.       In order to provide adequate assurance that the soils of the Project
were being managed in a manner consistent with the maintenance of a sustained
productive life over the life of the Project, their salinity and alkalinity
status would need to be monitored regularly. This work could be undertaken by
the Ministry of Agriculture's Kenya Soil Survey, which has a long association
with the soil survey work carried out by the consultants in the Bura and Hola
areas. If further investigations of the present depth of the watertable
indicate the feasibility of doing so, the National Irrigation Board would
maintain records of the depth to the watertable measured in observation wells
to be installed at several locations throughout the Project area.
Future Irrigation Development on the Lower Tana River
50.       Reconnaissance soil surveys on the East Bank of the Lower Tana River
have given indications of suitable topography and soils for the irrigation
of up to 70,000 ha there. A Feasibility Study for the development of this
area would be undertaken under the Bura Project by the Government and the
Project consultants. The agricultural production experience gained at the
Bura Project would be directly applicable to the expected future develop-
ment; in particular its agricultural research and agricultural management
components would have a significance going far beyond the present Project.



KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Meteorological Data for the Bura Area
_ -- - - - - - - - -   - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -_ _ _ _ _ __-_-_ _ _ _ _
Temperature (C)           Dew-          Solar         Wind speed           Rainfall (mm)          Number of
Month      ------------------------  point           radia2ion        (miles/day)       ---_-____________        rainy days
max.     min.      mean       (0C)    (cal/cm /day)                            Hola     Bura
 -     - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   _  -  -   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
January         34.7    22.4       28.6      23.0           544               80               28.5      16.2             2.5
February        35.5      22.8     29.2      23.6           568               80               16.0       5.0             2
March           35.0      23.6     29.3      24.4           586               94               41.5      53.5             4.5
April           33.5      23.6     28.6      24.1           520              109               71.3      93.8             7
MIay            32.8      22.8     27.8      23.1           496              128               38.3      21.6             4.5
June            32.3      21.7     27.0      22.8           471              131               26.3      11.9             4
iuly            31.9      20.9     26.4     22.2            459              132               20.6       6.8             4
August          32.0      20.6     26.3      22.1           474              136               12.4       4.3             2.5
September       32.7     20.5      26.6     22.9            504              136               40.2       7.7             3
Octcber         33.6      21.8     27.7      23.7           524              126               32.0      28.0             3.5
November        33.5      22.7     28.1      24.1           532               83               90.3    101.6              8.5
December        34.2      22.6     28.4      23.8           550               74               55.2      65.7             7
Average or
(total)         33.5     22.2      27.8     23.3            519             109             (472.6)  (415.8)             4-5
Period
(years)          8        8         8        8               8                5                11       14               14    
-_-_ _-_ _-_ _-_ _-_ _-_ _ __-_ _-_ _-_ _-_ _-_ _-_ _ __-_ _-_ _-_ _-_ _-_ _-_ _ __-_ _-_ _-_ _-_ _-_ _-_ _ __-_ _-_ _-_ _-_ _-_ _ __-_ _-_ _-_ _-_ _-_- -   -_ -     -     -   - -   - -   - -   -     -     -     -   - -   - -   - - _- _ _- _ _- _ _-_- -_- -_3



ANNEX 2
Table 2
Page 1
KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Summary of Yields - 1975 Crop Trials at Hola Experiment Station
1.   Cotton
Varieties         Seed Cotton      Ginning       Lint
kg/ha             %         kg/ha
Capa Acala           5,140          38.3        1,969
CA(70)43             5,173          37.5        1,940
Acala 1517-D         5,082          35.7        1,814
Acala 3080           4,804          38.1        1,830
Deltapine 16         5,427          38.9        2,111
Deltapine 45-A       4,962          40.4        2,005
Stoneville 7-A       5,116          39.9        2,041
UKA59/240            5,011          32.1        1,609
2.   Maize - /  Cowpeas
Yield              Maize,           Maize              Maize
no inter-       interplanted       interplanted
planting        with cowpeas      with green gram
Maize  Cowpeas    Maize  green gram
Average)
Yield  )          4,974          4,097      579     4,291        219
(kg/ha))
Crop )
value/ha)         3,979          3,278 + 1,737      3,433   +   657
(Ksh   )2/
Total  )
crop   )          3,979               5,015               4,090
value )
(Ksh )
1/   Variety:  Coast Composite
2/   1 kg maize       = Ksh 0.80
1 kg cowpeas    = Ksh 3.-
1 kg green gram = Ksh 3.-



ANNEX 2
Table 2
Page 2
3.   Groundnuts (1974) 1/
Variety                        Yield                  Maturity
(kg/ha, unshelled)            (Days)
Shulamit                       4,000                     125
Makulu Red                     3,560                     125
Mani Pintar                    3,260                     125
Kakamega 781                   3,060                     125
Kakamega 778                   2,420                     125
Natal Common                   2,390                     116
Red Valencia                   2,050                     116
South Nyanza                   3,330                     125
1/   1975 results not available at date of preparation of table.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Project Works
A. General
1.        The Project (Map, IBRD 12226R1) would irrigate an undeveloped area
of 6,700 ha net by long-furrow irrigation. The water would be diverted by
gravity from the Lower Tana River by means of a diversion and intake struc-
ture located 9 km north of Nanigi village. This solution was compared by
ILACO with the alternative of a pumping station which would shorten the
conveyance distance of the water by 23 km, thus reducing the capital invest-
ment cost; the pumping alternative was economically less favorable because
of higher annual costs due mainly to high costs of operation and maintenance.
Also, the diversion structure as designed for the Bura Project would be able
to feed a possible future canal on the east bank of the river that would serve
a Tana Stage II irrigation development.
2.        The comparison between pumping and gravity division is being reviewed
and updated by the new Project consultants (MMP), but in view of increases in
the cost of fuel since ILACO's study was made (1973) it is expected that MMP's
conclusions will confirm those of ILACO. Before documents for a construction
contract are finalized MMP would also review ILACO's designs of the river di-
version works taking into account the requirements both of the present Project
and those of the proposed Stage II development on the East Bank of the river
for which they would be undertaking feasibility studies. The cost estimates
for the river works included in the Project have been prepared on the basis of
the ILACO preliminary design drawings but, to allow for the cost of possible
modifications, physical contingencies of 20% have been included. The descrip-
tion of the river diversion works which follows (Section B) is based upon
ILACO's designs.
3.        The irrigation system has been designed for field irrigation only
during the 12 hours of daylight. However, the intake on the Tana River and
the major irrigation canals (primary and secondary canal systems) would
operate on a continuous 24-hour basis. Night-storage reservoirs would feed
the minor canals which would operate only during the day.
4.        The drainage system for the scheme has been designed for the
discharge of excess surface water consisting of rainfall run off, operational
losses and waste of irrigation water. The discharges originating from rain-
fall would exceed by far those resulting from excess irrigation water.
5.        The design criterion for drainage capacity is the discharge within
a 24-hour period of the maximum 24-hour run off occurring once in 2 years.
6.        Excess water in the canal system would be discharged into the
drainage system through escape structures and spillways planned at intervals
along the main canal and at the tail ends of the branch canals and blick



ANNEX 3
Page 2
feeders. Wherever possible, the existing lagas 1/ have been planned as main
drains. These lagas usually also drain a considerable area of land west of
the main canal, and water from the irrigated area east of the main canal
would add only slightly to the peak discharges. All main drains would dis-
charge into the flood plain of the Tana River, where they would link up with
one of the natural drainage outlets.
7.        The canals for the irrigation and drainage system are listed in the
following table:
Approx.          Gross                 Design Capacity
Total             Area              Per Gross
Length           Served                ha          Caacity
(km)             (ha)               (1/sec)      (m /sec)
Primary System
Supply Canal       46              7,300                1.1            8.0
Main Canal         19              5,500                1.1            6.0
declining to 1,600                   declining to 1.8
Main drains        48 /1                              1.2-0.3
Secondary System
Branch canals      36         1,420 to 3,270            1.0         0.9 to 2.8
Tertiary System       /2                 /2
Block feeder       60 /2             158                2.0            0.9
Block drains       60 -              158 -2             4.0            1.3
Quaternary System    /2                  /2
Unit feeders      280 /2              16 /2             2.7            0.15
Unit drains       280 -               16 -              4.0            0.15
/1   within the Project area.
/2   minimum derived from standard field layout.
8.        Although the information available on groundwater is scanty, no
groundwater problems are expected to develop in the Bura Project because
of the great depth at which groundwater occurs at present (para 88).
9.        Protective measures would be taken for the conservation of wild-
life through the implementation of Project works (paras 89-93).
B. Diversion Works
10.       A3diversion structure would ensure that the Project water require-
ment of 8 m /sec (see Annex 7) passes the intake at all times during periods
1/   Lagas are natural watercourses which carry water only during the rainy
season.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
of low flow in the Tana River. The diversion works to be located on the Tana
River about 9 km upstream of Nanigi, (see Map, IBRD 12226R1) would comprise:
(a)  a concrete spillway, 80 m long and approx. 4 m high
with a crest level at elevation 111.50 m;
(b) an intake structure with flushing facilities and an
undersluice;
(c) adjacent flood dikes through the flood plain with a
crest level at elevation 116 m, which includes an
overflow section of 1,300 m with a crest level at
elevation 113 m situated in the flood plain on the
left bank;
(d) a concrete bridge, 2.5 m wide, resting on 2 piers,
which would enable inspection vehicles to cross the
spillway section;
(e) a sandtrap of about 40,000 m3 sediment capacity located at the
head of the supply canal, just downstream of the intake.
Diversion Weir
11.       The location of the diversion weir was determined on the basis
of the highest field level to be commanded, the canal gradient and the slope
of the river. Cost comparisons were made for the weir height in relation to
the canal length and for various combinations of weir height and canal slope.
The following additional considerations contributed to the final selection of
the diversion site:
(a) A relatively stable river section was selected, which
would save costs for future river training works.
(b) The intake is located at the downstream end of an out-
side bend in the river course in order to reduce the
entry of sediments in the canal system to a minimum.
(c) The site chosen would permit the weir to be constructed
in the dry in a planned cutoff through which the river
would be diverted when the weir is completed. The radius
of the cutoff has been chosen in conformity with exist-
ing river bends that are more or less stable.
12.       The spillway capacity has been bassd on an estimated thousand-
year frequency of flood discharge of 3,500 m /sec. The crest level of the
spillway would be approximately 4 m above the present riverbed level. The
spillway width (length of the crest) has been fixed at 80 m.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
13.       A reinforced, post-tensioned concrete bridge of minimum dimen-
sions would be constructed on top of the spillway, 2.5 m wide and suitable
for a 5-ton axle load. This bridge would allow direct access to the left
bank for inspection and repairs thus avoiding an 80 km detour over the next
river crossing at Garissa.
14.       In view of the high tailwater levels, either a concrete spillway
or a gated structure would produce very high backwater levels and excessive
flooding in the upstream reaches. Therefore, an additional overflow section
has been provided to pass the major portion of large floods. It would be
located on the left bank at elevation 113 m and would be 1,300 m long. Since
the level of the upstream river-bank is 113 m, this overflow section would
become operational when the river discharge exceeds 360 m /sec, which it is
estimated ill occur on averaSe once every year. Of the design peak dischargi
of 3,500 m /sec, some 2,450 m /sec would pass the overflow sector and 1,050 m I
sec the concrete spillway.
15.       The length of the overflow section could be considerably reduced if
a gated spillway were to be constructed. However, the cost of the overflow
section is much lower than the additional costs for the gates. Moreover, the
risk that these gates would not be opened in time, either owing to neglect
or mechanical failure, should be avoided since a failure in timely operation
of the gates would result in overtopping and certain destruction of the earth
embankments.
16.       A discharge of 750 m3/sec was taken for the design of the spillway
crest shape (Creager profile) and for the stilling basin dimensions. At
higher discharges the flow would become submerged and less critical due to
higher water levels downstream. The design of the downstream apron (energy
dissipator) assumes erosion of the riverbed by 3.5 m during the first period
of operation. In subsequent years the riverbed would rise again to the pres-
ent level and higher.
17.       To reduce the seepage flow underneath the weir and the uplift
pressure on the downstream apron, the weir would also be provided with an
apron upstream of the spillway. Two rows of sheet-piling would further
increase the length of the seepage way.
18.       Soil mechanics investigations of the foundation conditions for
the diversion weir and surroundings were made by means of 9 borings (10 to
20 m deep) and 17 cone-penetration tests or soundings. Samples were taken
generally at 1 m intervals and analysed both in ILACO's laboratories and
those of the Ministry of Public Works. The laboratory tests included
permeability, consolidation, triaxial and shear tests as well as sieve
analyses.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
19.       Generally speaking, the subsoil consists of a brown, clayey top
laxer 4 to 5 r thick, overlying sand layers of widely varying compaction
and density. Under these sandy layers a very dense formation of low
permeability was found consisting of cemented sand at both sides of the
river and in the river itself.
20.       The foundation conditions for diversion weir and intake are good.
Both would be founded on a hard, cemented sand layer with a low permeability,
at some 3 m below the riverbed. Steel sheet piles would be driven along the
front of the spillway apron and of the upstream face of the spillway down
to elevations 102.50 m and 100.50 m, respectively.
21.       The concrete spillway and intake structure would be constructed
in the dry at a distance of approximately 200 m from the river. Upon com-
pletion of the structure a river cutoff woule be excavated and the river flow
diverted. The section of the river cutoff upstream of the spillway would
have a width of 82.5 m and a length of 450 m. Excavation would be to a level
of 108.0 m. The river cutoff downstream of the spillway would have a width
of 82.5 m at the botton and a length of 400 m. Excavation would be to
107.5 m, i.e. the present average level of the riverbed. The slopes of the
river banks in the cutoff would be 1 : 2 and would be partly protected by dry
stone pitching.
22.       A hydraulic model of the concrete diversion weir was constructed
and tested in the Delft Hydraulic Laboratory (Netherlands). The shape and
the alignment of the weir as well as the length and type of bank protections
downstream of the weir were tested. The model was initially built according
to a preliminary design prepared by ILACO (consultants); the final design of
the weir is being adapted in accordance with the recommendations resulting
from the model test.
23.       A mathematical model was used to simulate the non-steady sediment
movement in the riverbed and to determine the changes in the riverbed levels
which would occur, both upstream and downstream of the structure, during the
lifetime of the proposed weir. This investigation was carried out by the
De Voorst Laboratory of the Delft Hydraulic Laboratory. According to this
mathematical study, during the first year after construction, the riverbed
would be eroded 4 to 5 m immediately downstream of the weir due to the block-
ing of sediment by the 4 m high weir. During the following 50 or more years
the downstream bed might rise again by several meters. The final bed level
rise upstream of the weir would be about 2 m which would be reached about 5
years after construction. At the Garissa bridge site the sedimentation
process would take place more slowly; after 50 years only about 2/3 of the
final value would be reached.
Intake Structure
24.       The intake structure would be constructed with a hydraulic capacity
corresponding to the diversion requirements of a Project area ultimately
expanded to about 12,000 ha. Its design would also permit diversion to a
future east bank project. The structure would consist of the following
elements:



ANNEX 3
Page 6
(a) an undersluice at the entrance to the intake;
(b) for irrigation: eight intake openings each with a
width of 1.90 m; and
(c) for flushing: one spearwall and three gates, each
consisting of two leaves.
25.       Four of the intake openings would serve the West bank area.  The
other four intake openings would be used in future for irrigation on the
East bank. Two tunnels through the concrete spillway would convey the water
across the river. For the time being, the exit of the tunnels on the east
bank would be blocked with masonry. The four intake openings on the west
bank would be controllable by means of two sets of stop logs.
26.       The sill of the intake openings would be located 0.30 m above the
floor of the flushing openings. The gates, with two spindles each, would
be operated mechanically from a platform that would also serve as a bridge
across the intake structure.
27.       The river transports a relatively large amount of sediment, many
particles being smaller than 2 mm. The larger particles are transported in
the lower layers of the flow. In order to reduce maintenance costs for the
canal system, special provision would be made to reduce the entrance of
sediments. The design provides for an undersluice that would remove the
lower layers before reaching the intake; it would operate uninterruptedly,
except in periods of extremely low discharges. The most efficient mode
of operation for various river discharges would have to be determined by
means of sediment transport measurements during the years following the
construction.
28.       In addition to the undersluice, three sluice gates would be pro-
vided to flush sediment deposits in front of the intake opening, particularly
after periods of high river flow. During flushing the intake openings would
remain closed. A long training wall would ensure effective flushing in front
of the intake openings. Each sluice gate would consist of two leaves. The
upper leaf would be opened only for flushing, at which time the undersluice
would be closed. The lower leaf would regulate the flow in the undersluice.
During high river discharges the upper leaf would remain closed so as not
to disturb the flow pattern in the river. The hoisting installation would
serve both gate leaves.
Dikes
29.       The dikes adjoining the concrete spillway would have a crest level
of 116 m and a length of 4.3 km. The spillway would raise flood levels up-
stream. In order to prevent frequent flooding of the flood plain including
the main stream to gradually bypass the weir, a protected overflow section



ANNEX 3
Page 7
with a length of 1,300 m has been planned in the dike on the left bank.
The flood protection dikes would be constructed of the silty clay found
on the flood plain, which is fairly impermeable. A toe filter would be
provided along the downstream end of the dikes on the East bank, as only
a small difference in head of water will occur there. The crest width of
7 m would allow inspection vehicles to pass. The slopes of the dikes
adjacent to the river would be I : 3 upstream and 1 : 2 downstream. For
the dike through the flood plain, slopes of I : 2 have been planned.
The funnel-shaped transition section, adjacent to the spillway, would be
protected by means of dry stone pitching from erosion by the high flow
velocity along the upstream face of the dike. All other slopes would be
planted with grass.
30.       Subsoil investigations, made by means of shallow auger holes
along the dike alignment proposed across the eastern flood plain, revealed
about 3 m thick sandy and silty clay layers overlying clayey and silty sand.
In case of complete saturation of the subsoil considerable settlement could
be expected which would have to be provided for in the final design of the
dike and its overflow section.
31.       Upon completion of the river works and excavation of the cutoff
the river would be closed upstream of the dam axis. Closure would be facil-
itated by the sand bank in the river at that location. The permeable sand
layers in the riverbed would be replaced by a clay core to prevent piping
in the dike section crossing the present riverbed.
Sand Trap
32.       A sand trap at the head of the Supply Canal would be essential to
avoid rapid silting of the canal network. Unfortunately, sediment deposits
could not be flushed automatically and continuously back into the river
because insufficient head is available between the canal water level and
the average river level.
33.       The design of the sand trap has therefore been based on mechanical
clearance of the deposited sediments by dredging. It is estimated that one
dredger, working the year round, would suffice for this purpose.
34.       The dredger, floating in the sand trap, would operate continuously,
pumping the sediments through a pipeline back into the river downstream
of the diversion weir. For a brief initial period, sediments might be dis-
charged onto the flood plain, but storage capacity there would soon be ex-
hausted, so that sediments would have to be pumped through a fixed pipeline
directly into the river which would transport them to its lower reaches.
It would be important that the dredging operations should proceed without
interruption. Maintenance facilities would have to include a wide range
of spare parts in stock.



ANNEX 3
Page 8
35.       The sediment content of the river flow (bed load and suspended
load) varies considerably with the magnitude of the flow and with the sea-
son. The river discharges, particularly at the beginning of the rainy
season, contain large quantities of solids. Due to the effect of the under-
sluice in front of the designed intake, however, approximately 85% of the
bed load would bypass the intake, so that only 15% would enter the supply
canal. It has also been estimated that roughly 50% of the suspended load
would enter the sand trap, of which 50% (the particles larger than 20 u in
diameter) would settle in the trap and the remainder (the "fines" smaller
than 20 u) would be kept in suspension and enter the irrigation canal system.
36.       The amounts of sediment expected to be trapped were estimated
on the basis of
(a) average monthly river discharges;
(b) corresponding bed loads and suspended loads; and
(c) intake flow requirements.
The minimum seliment storage capacity required has been deter3ined to be
about 40,000 m corresponding to a Supply Canal Capacity (8 m /sec) satis-
fying the requirements of the Project area.
C.   Irrigation Distribution System
Temporary Pumping Station
37.       A temporary pumping station would be constructed to provide first
water delivery earlier than could be provided by diversion at the weir. First
water3delivery by the pumping sSation would be scheduled for January 1980 at
1.2 m /sec, increasing to 4.0 m /sec by January 1981. The pumping station
would be sited close to the Nanigi weir site, pumping from the river into
the supply canal.  "Flood-lifter" type diesel-driven pumps are proposed (24
inch diameter, 1 m3/sec each, static head 4 meters, 4 in no. pumps), two
installed for January 1980 and a further two for January 1981.
Supply Canal
38.       The 46 km long Supply Canal would run in a north-south direction
starting roughly at the 112 m contour at the downstream end of the sand trap
and ending at the first branch canal offtake.
39.       The design capacity of the Supply Canal excavation would be 8 m /s
to meet the diversion requirements of the Project for 6,700 net hectares.
However, the structures along the Supply Canal would be designed and con-
structed for a canal capacity corresponding to an ultimate expansion of the
Project area to about 12,000 ha.



ANNEX 3
Page 9
40.       A flood dike would be necessary along the first 5 km of the canal
to protect it against high water levels in the Tana River. The Supply Canal
would cross four main lagas (Lagas Tula, Walesa, Gelmathi and Bilbil) through
inverted siphons. That at Laga Tula would be protected against faulty opera-
tion at the canal intake by a spillway designed to release excess water.
In addition, four minor lagas would cross under the canal through culverts.
Run-off water from the higher land west of the Supply Canal would be inter-
cepted by a collector drain running along the entire right bank of the canal.
41.       The design of the Supply Canal has been based on the following
criteria and considerations:
(a) the flow velocity should be such that no erosion occurs;
(b) the flow energy should be such that sediment particles which have
passed the sand trap would be kept in suspension as much as possi-
ble. In periods of low water demand, however, siltation is unavoid-
able, especially in front of the check structures;
(c) a Manning-Strickler roughness coefficient K = 40; and
(d) the cross-section of the canal should suit construction with heavy
equipment.
42.       The design water level in the canal has been kept slightly below
the land surface, so as to eliminate the risk of local tribesmen breaching
the embankments to flood the adjacent grazing areas, as occasionally
happens at the Hola Scheme. A berm of 1.5 m would be left between the
excavated profile and the embankments to facilitate clearing of the canal
banks by manual labour. For maintenance, the dredger used for cleaning
the night-storage reservoirs (para 61) would be employed.
43.       A soil investigation was conducted along the canal axis at 1.5 km
intervals by auger borings 2.5_X deep. Except for a few sections with a
permeability coefficient of 10   cm/sec (approximately 0.1 m/24 hours),
subsoil conditions along the greater part of the alignment were found to
be-Satisfactory, with permeability coefficients mostly of the order of
10   cm/sec (approx. 0.01 m/24 hours) or lower.  Sealing by silt carried
by the water would further reduce seepage losses, once the canal had been
in operation for some years. In order to cover the possibility of encoun-
tering sandy subsoil (for example at laga crossings), the cost of lining
2 km of canal with clay has been included in the cost estimate. Deposits
of gypsum are being worked near Nanigi for cement production and the con-
sultants have examined the possibility of encountering gypsum on the line
of the canals. They do not expect to encounter gypsum in any quantity suf-
ficient to give cause for concern regarding the stability of the works or
additional costs of construction.
44.       At many locations, the main canal would cut into saline/alkali
subsoils. These soils are liable to dispersal upon wetting, but experience
at Hola indicates that this does not lead to excessive caving-in of the
side slopes of canals.
45.       The material excavated from the canal is generally suitable for
the construction of embankments. It may be necessary to discard the surface
layers in some locations.



ANNEX 3
Page 10
Main Canal
46.       The Main Canal would be 19 km long, starting from the first branch
canal offtafe and would run in a generally north-south direction. Its capa-
city (6.0 m /sec after the first offtake) would decrease progressively as
distribution is made to branch canals.
47.       The design capacity of the Main Canal excavation, mentioned
above, meets the requirements of the Project for 6,700 net hectares. How-
ever, the structures along the Main Canal would be designed and constructed
for a conveyance capacity corresponding to an ultimate expansion of the Pro-
ject to about 12,000 ha.
48.       The Main Canal would cross an important laga (Laga Hiraman) through
an inverted siphon. An escape structure with gates has been planned just up-
stream of the siphon. This structure would allow the Main Canal to be oper-
ated at full supply level during the first few years of operation when only a
limited area would be irrigated; rapid silting would occur if the canal were
operated according to irrigation demand during this period. The openings in the
escape structure would act as an emergency spillway. In case of faulty opera-
tion or blockage of the siphon, water would escape over the top of the gates.
49.       A collector drain along the whole length of the canal would inter-
cept surface run off from the west.
50.       The general design criteria and the considerations regarding soils
investigations mentioned above for the Supply Canal apply to the Main Canal
as well.
51.       Offtake structures in the Main Canal would feed each branch canal.
Two would be free offtakes where it is necessary to raise the water level in
the main canal. The other offtakes would be of the check-and-division type.
The upstream water level at these structures would be regulated by stop logs.
A locking system would be used to prevent the unauthorized removal of stop
logs.
52.       At all the offtake structures the flow entering the branch canal
would be regulated by means of Romijn gates. This type of gate enables the
simultaneous regulation and measurement of the flow with the aid of one staff
gauge which measures the water level in the Main Canal.  Most of the offtake
structures would have separate gates to serve the blocks adjacent to the
Main Canal.
53.       To provide direct access to the Garissa-Garsen trunk road, most
of the above offtake structures would incli-r-- a bridge across the Main Canal.
Branch Canals and Night-Storage Reservoirs
54.       Water would be distributed in measured quantities from the Main
Canal to six brinch canals which would have a capacity ranging from 0.9
m /sec to 2.8 m /sec.
55.       The natural slope of the land in the direction of the branch canals
varies from 1 to 3 m per km so that drop structures would be needed to main-
tain non-erosive flow velocities. Water levels would be kept below ground



ANNEX 3
Page 11
level wherever possible in order to reduce seepage losses and to discourage
the theft of water. For the design of the canals a Manning-Strickler coeffi-
cient K = 40, a side slope of 1 : 1.5 and a freeboard of 0.40 m have been
used.
56.       The end-division structure on each branch canal would contain
a spillway to allow excess water to be released without causing damage.
This spillway would come into operation as soon as the offtake gates on the
branch canal were closed without the main canal offtake being simultaneously
adjusted.
57.       The branch canal offtake structures which distribute the water to
the block feeders would be of the check-and-division type. The check would
consist of stop logs, whereas the offtake flow would be regulated by Romijn
gates. The location of these offtake structures has been chosen to permit
quantities of excavation and fill for the night-storage reservoirs to more
or less balance.
58.       Night-storage reservoirs would be located adjacent to the branch
canals at the head of the block feeders, just upstream of the branch canal
offtake structures. The embankments of the branch canal would also serve as a
dike for the reservoirs. These dikes would have a 1 : 1.5 side slope and a
crest width of 3 m. The storage capacity of these reservoirs would be equal
to the night supply for a block (gross ha x 1.0 1/sec per ha x 12 hours x
3,600 sec/hours).
59.       The reservoirs would have a minimum depth of dead storage of 0.50 m,
an effective storage height of 0.75 m and a freeboard of 0.40 m. The inlet/
outlet structure would be located close to the branch canal offtake structure.
It would consist of a flat, wooden gate to regulate the water flow. Stop log
rabbets for maintenance purposes would be included in the design. The gate
would remain closed during the night. During the day, when irrigation would
continue, the gate would regulate the flow into the block feeder both from the
reservoir and from the branch canal. In the course of the day, the gate would
have to be opened further from time to time as the water level in the reser-
voir fell.
60.       The width of the reservoirs has been set at 50 m to limit loss
of land.
61.       During maintenance work on the night-storage reservoirs, the
block feeder may be supplied directly by the branch canal so as not to
interrupt irrigation. By planning maintenance during periods of low water
demand, the temporary closure of the reservoirs and the consequent loss of
night-time water should pose no problems. It has been estimated that the
0.50 m of dead storage would be filled with sediments in 3 years, requir-
ing an annual clearance of some 40,000 m for the entire Scheme. For
sediment clearance from the night-storage reservoirs a small amphihious
cutter dredger would be used. At a capacity of approximately 50 m /hour
one dredger, used 1,600 hours per year, would be able to do the work and
still be available for maintenance activities on the Main Canal (para 41)
and as a standby for the dredging of the sand trap (para 33).



ANNEX 3
Page 12
Block Feeders
62.       Block feeders may supply up to ten unit feeders simultaneously
(maximum 330 ha gross). Under-normal operational conditions each of the
unit feeders would receive a standard supply of 75 I/sec. During the first
irrigation after planting this might increase to 150 I/sec (para 76).
Division boxes along the block feeder would supply unit feeders with water.
In view of the large number of division boxes required, the openings would
be made in prefabricated sections, each panel containing one opening 0.50 m
wide. Simple attached gates would be used, allowing the opening to be either
completely open or completely closed.
63.       The block feeders would be aligned at an angle to the contours to
achieve a ground slope of 0.8 m per km. This slope would suffice to compen-
sate for the head losses at division boxes - which occur at intervals of
300 m - and to allow a water level slope of 0.2 m per km.
64.       The design of the block feeders has been based on a roughness
factor K = 35, side slopes of 1 : 1 and a freeboard of 30 cm.
65.       The crest of the upslope embankment would be 1.0 m wide, whereas
the embankment on the downslope side, which serves as a road, would have
a width of 4.5 m. In cases where this road provided access to a village,
the width of the embankment would be increased to 6.0 m, 4.5 m of which
would be surfaced road. At the end of each block feeder a spillway section
has been planned, allowing the discharge of excess water into the adjacent
drain. This spillway would prevent the embankments from overflowing in
case the offtakes to the unit feeders were closed prior to the adjustment
of the gates in the branch canal offtake structure.
Unit Feeders
66.       The unit feeders would be supplied by the block feeders through
a culvert under the block road. The flow in the unit feeder would be
blocked by portable checks and then siphoned to the furrows. At the end
of its length the unit feeders would connect with the block drain.
67.       The unit feeders would follow the natural east-west slope of the
land, a slope which varies between 1 and 3 m per km. The water level would
be maintained at 0.20 m above the adjacent ground level. For the design
a roughness factor K = 30 has been used. The profile would be triangular,
to permit construction by ditcher.
68.       Under normal operation, at a supply of 75 I/sec, the freeboard
would measure 0.20 m. At a supply of 150 I/sec, the freeboard would be
reduced to 0.10 m.
69.       The dike crest on the downhill side, over which water is siphoned,
is 0.60 m wide. On the opposite embankment a 4.5 wide non-surfaced field
road would be laid.



ANNEX 3
Page 13
Field Irrigation
70.       The field layout has been planned for irrigation during 12 daylight
hours using 285 m long furrows. The 1.25 ha net holding of a farmer would
measure 45 m x 285 m and would comprise 50 furrows spaced 0.90 m apart.
Twenty-four of these holdings would be grouped in a unit of 300 m x 1,100 m
33 ha gross (approximately 30.5 ha net).
71.       The topographical characteristics of the Project area are suitable
for furrow irrigation. It has been shown at Hola that the right range for
the slope of furrows is between 0.5 and 1.5 m per km. This can generally
be attained with a minimum of earthmoving by adjusting the layout to take
advantage of natural slopes.
72.       The moisture storage capacity of the soils in the Project area
varies between 75 mm and 100 mm (15 to 20% volume storage between field
capacity and wilting point) with a 0.50 m rooting zone. An average storage
capacity of 84 mm would cover a 14-day peak demand period (peak net irriga-
tion requirement is 6 mm/24 hours in May; see Annex 7, Table 1). Assuming
a field irrigation efficiency of 87.5%, a gross application depth sf 95 mm
would be required which corresponds to a volume of water of 24.4 m   per
furrow; it would be applied in about 5 hours with a furrow stream of
1.35 1/sec.
73.       The conditions described in the previous paragraph reflect average
conditions and would not be of general application to the whole Project area.
However, the calculated water application obtained above conforms to the
experience obtained at the Hola Scheme, where 250 m to 300 m long furrows are
irrigated successfully under very similar conditions of topography and soils.
Actually, in experiments at Hola gross applications of 76 mm were applied
at 18-day intervals; field irrigation efficiency is reported to have been 90%
to 95%.
74.       Under average conditions on the Bura Project, two holdings would be
irrigated per day in 10 hours out of 12 hours available, permitting a 20%
allowance for cases which are not average and would need a longer application
time. At the average rate of 2 holdings per day, the 24 holdings comprised
in a unit would be irrigated in 12 days, leaving 2 days of the 14-day irriga-
tion cycle as an additional reserve of 16% of the time; the total built-in
allowance for cases different from average or for delays would therefore be
about 40%.
75.      The water would reach each holding through the "unit feeder", the
smallest irrigation canal in the system. As shown in Chart, World Bank
16059, the unit feeder would be located along the narrow, higher end of the
rectangular holding. For irrigation of the field, the water would first be
backed up in the unit feeder by a portable check gate to provide a constant
head. The water would then be siphoned to the furrow by means of a flexible
siphon tube (2.5 m long, inner diameter 1.5 inch) delivering a furrow stream



ANNEX 3
Page 14
of 1.35 1/sec when operating under 0.20 m head. Two sets of 50 siphon tubes
and two portable check gates would be made available per unit, one set to be
used by the farmer irrigating his holding and the other set to be shifted from
a completed holding to the plot next in line.
76.       Zones of shallow soils would require water in more frequent appli-
cations each of shorter duration, because of the reduced storage capacity
available. For instance, a root zone only 0.30 m deep would require about
52 mm application depth, each application lasting about 3 hours on an irri-
gation cycle of 8 days. Applications on these soils would be achieved with
the same unit feeder capacity and with the same number of siphons, namely:
50 siphons x 1.35 1/sec = 67.5 1/sec
excess capacity             7.5 1/sec
Minimum capacity needed
for unit feeder        75.0 1/sec
77.       A special case is the first irrigition of any crop; it would require
a water application of 150 mm or about 30 m per furrow, according to experi-
ence obtained at Hola. With a furrow stream of 1.35 1/sec, some 8 hours would
be required per irrigation run or 24 days to complete the pre-planting irriga-
tion of the whole unit. This long period of time would make it more difficult
to prepare the whole Project area in time for planting each crop and/or require
more equipment. For this reason, a unit feeder design capacity of 150 1/sec
was selected in order to feed 100 siphons at a time and complete pre-planting
irrigation of a unit in 12 days.
D. Drainage System
Surface Drainage
78.       The drainage system would have to evacuate surface water originating
from:
(a) rainfall run-off from the cultivated Project area;
(b) rainfall run-off from higher land situated west of
the Supply and Main Canals (cross-drainage);
(c) unavoidable operational losses;
(d) wasteful irrigation practices.
By far the major flows to be drained would be those cross-drained from outside
the Project area through the beds of lagas. The catchment areas of ihe main
lagas va5y from a few hundred square kilometers (Laga Bilbll; 338 km ) to
3,666 km in the case of Laga Tula and even more (5,631 km ) for Laga Hiraman.



ANNEX 3
Page 15
The peak discharge per km  expected once evlry 25 years varies with the size
of the catchmeni area, from 20 1/sec per km   for the largest watersheds to
80 1/sec per km for Laga Bilbil, according to estimates made by the Ministry
of Water Development. This agency has also calculated that floods with a
probability of once in 100 years would have discharges 50% higher than those
of 25-year frequency floods.
79.       Since the values indicated above are calculated and insufficient
time would be available before Project implementation to confirm them by
actual flow measurements, adequate safety margins would have to be allowed
at final design stage for the selection of design floods in lagas.
80.       The structures for the laga crossings would be generally overpasses
over the canal, or alternatively the irrigation canal would cross the laga
underground by means of an inverted siphon. Only small lagas would cross the
canal in culverts. The cross drainage structures were mentioned above under
the headings Supply Canal and Main Canal; an additional reference to them is
included under the heading Wildlife Conservation Works (paras 90-94).
81.       At places where the inspection road along the Main Canal crosses
the lagas, "Irish bridges" would be constructed, i.e. surfaced road sections
slightly above the bed level, which would be submerged periodically during
the rainy season.
82.       The discharge in the interceptor drain running along the right
bank of the canal would cross the supply and main canals at regular intervals.
Where possible, the laga crossings would be used for this purpose. In other
cases, drainage culverts passing underneath the canal would be built and con-
nected with a main drain of the scheme. A total of five such drainage cul-
verts has been planned.
83.       Surface drainage requirements resulting from rainfall exceed by
far those resulting from excess irrigation water. Capacities have been deter-
mined, therefore, on the basis of excess rainfall discharge requirements. The
capacity would be large enough to discharge within a 24-hour period the maxi-
mum 24-hour runoff occurring once in 2 years. The corresponding drainage
factor has been determined as follows:
-    design rainfall                   52 mm
-    storage (assuming previous
rainfall or irrigation)    17 mm
-    to be discharged in 24 hours    35 mm
-    drainage factor                 4 1/sec/ha
84.       This drainage factor also suffices for the discharge of the maximum
rainfall occurring once in 3 years during longer periods. With the planned
freeboard of 0.20 m, drains should also have a sufficient capacity to dis-
charge at full bank level the rainfall occurring once in 5 years.
85.       At the lower end of each farmer's holding excess water would be
intercepted by the unit drain. These drains would be constructed as shallow



ANNEX 3
Page 16
(0.50 m) grassed waterways with gentle side slopes (1 : 3) in order to permit
the passage of field equipment.
86.       Unit drains would discharge into block drains.  The latter would
run parallel to the block feeders at an average slope of 0.8 mm per km. Side
slopes would be 1 : 1.5 and the roughness factor has been fixed at K = 30.
Maximum shear velocity should not exceed 0.09 m/sec. A freeboard 3of 0.15 m
has been designed for block drains with a capacity of up to 0.5 m /sec.
Larger drains would have a freeboard of 0.20 m. The dimensions of block
drains would vary, depending on the number of unit drains they collect;
minimum depth and bottom width would be 0.50 m.
87.       Block drains would discharge into main drains; the latter would
run in a west-east direction with the slope of the land towards the river.
88.       Main drains run at a 1-2%  slope and develop erosive stream
velocities at peak discharges. Since the prevention of erosion is expensive
and requires many check structures, the drains have been made extra wide to
reduce the shear velocity and to allow for the occurrence of some gullying
between the embankments.
Groundwater
89.       From the scarce data available it can be concluded that groundwater
in the project area occurs only at great depth. The groundwater table was
never reached by the 20-30 m borings near Korokora during the 1967 survey.
Saline groundwater was reportedly found at a depth of 45-60 m in some
exploration borings at widely dispersed locations. It may safely be assumed
that groundwater does not occur above Tana River waterlevels, i.e. at depths
of 15-30 m or deeper under the project area, and that the water table
probably occurs at much greater depth. Although no quantitative predictions
can be made about a possible future rise of the groundwater table due to
deep percolation from the irrigated fields and seepage from canals, the
available data warrant the conclusion that the soils and subsoils in the
area have a low permeability. Therefore the over-all groundwater recharge
rate resulting from irrigation should be low. In spite of the above consi-
derations, which are rather encouraging with respect to the future ground-
water table level, no risks should be taken. The groundwater levels should
be systematically observed from the start so that control measures can be
introduced if and when needed. The question of the possible rise of the
groundwater table is a very important one in the long term, and should be
treated with care. In the short term, however, it is considered to be of
less importance. In the eventuality that the groundwater would tend to reach
a critical level, a deep drainage system could be introduced. The longitu-
dinal form of the project area parallel to the river, and the prevailing
gradient toward the river, would make the construction of such a system
relatively inexpensive. Since the system either would not be necessary at
all or would be required only after a long period of irrigation (10-30 years)
the cost of siwh works would not significantly influence the present econo-
mics of the proj;ect.



ANNEX 3
Page 17
E.   Wildlife Conservation Works
90.       Among the measures that would be taken to attempt to mitigate
the impact of Project implementation on wildlife, two would require the
construction of civil works. These are the construction of drinking pools
along the Supply and Main Canals and the provision of crossings for game
over the Supply Canal.
91.       The drinking pools would serve game that would find their customary
access routes to the river blocked by the irrigated fields of the Project
and/or major canals. Some of them might also provide for livestock water-
ing. The pools would be located at least 300 m west of the canals at dis-
tances of about 4 km apa5t. They would be shallow (about 1.5 m deep) with
an area of about 2,000 m and be fed from the Supply or Main Canal through
buried pipes.
92.       The canal designs provide for inverted siphons to carry the canal
across all major natural cross-drainage lines. These will provide an oppor-
tunity for wildlife to cross the supply canal along the beds of the lagas.
93.       Additional wildlife crossings of the Supply Canal would be required
and it is proposed that fords through the canal be provided for this purpose.
These fords or drifts would have reduced side slopes, and a surfaced canal
bottom to prevent animals becoming "bogged."
94.       Initially, three fords would be provided at locations to be deter-
mined at the time of construction of the canal following discussions with
Wildlife Service personnel and the Tana River Development Authority. Allow-
ance has been made in the estimates for a further four ford crossings which
may be built after the canal has been constructed, if additional sites of
high challenge are noted.
F.   On-Farm Development Works
95.       This work involves bush clearing, land leveling and the construction
of unit feeders, unit drains and unit roads.
96.       The bush consists mostly of shallow rooted trees and shrub which
can be cleared easily by means of a bulldozer. To the extent possible felled
timber would be saved for fuelwood.
97.       Land leveling would not involve much large-scale earth movement,
since most of the slopes are already of a fairly even and continuous grade
over a 300 m length of run and therefore suitable for long-furrow irrigation.
Soil conditions permitting, local corrections of unfavorable slopes may be
considered, however, so as to arrive at a more efficient field layout. In



ANNEX 3
Page 18
the cost estimate this possibility has been covered by providing for earth
moving at the rate of 1,000 m /ha for 20% of the area.
98.       In addition, the entire area would have to be corrected for small
irregularities in the natural slope by smoothing with land planes.
99.       Unit feeders, unit drains and unit roads run parallel to each other.
Spoil from the unit drain would be used as fill for the unit feeder. These
smallest canals would be constructed by a ditcher.
G.   Roads
100.      The implementation of the Bura Irrigation Scheme would go hand in
hand with or be preceded by the construction of a road system. The main
elements of this system would consist of:
(a)  Trunk Road Garissa - Garsen                   km
Improvements                           188
Realignment                             36
(b)  Access Road to the Nanigi Weir Site           22
(c) Internal Project Roads 1/
Along unit feeders                     280
Along block feeders                    100
Main roads on both
sides of branch canals             30
Inspection road along Supply
Canal and Main Canal               65
Inspection trails on top of
dikes                               5
101.      The Garissa-Garsen road (224 km) provides access to the Project
area respectively from Nairobi in the north and Mombasa in the south. At
present, this road is a poorly maintained, non-surfaced road, which during
the rainy season becomes impassable for lorries for periods of up to several
weeks. The Ministry of Works is studying the need to upgrade this road to
all-weather status, but even in the most favorable case, improvements could
not be expected to start before 1978 at the earliest. As the construction
of the Bura Irrigation Scheme is expected to start in 1977, it has been
planned that, pending the provision of a better road by the Ministry of Works,
minimum improvements would be carried out to the Garissa-Garsen road as
necessary to ensure year-round access to the Project area during the period
of construction and initial operation.
1/   In general internal roads would be unsurfaced except for the main
roads, mostly leading to villages.



ANNEX 3
Page 19
102.      The cement industry, with factories in Nairobi and Mombasa, is
considering intensifying existing gypsum mining in the Nanigi area and
transporting the product to both factories in heavy trucks; obviously, this
would require the reconstruction of the road to standards capable of carrying
the loads. If the road were not maintained adequately, the implementation
of the Project could be paralyzed. An assurance has therefore been obtained
from the Government that the road would be maintained in accordance with
sound engineering practices and that adequate budgetary provision would be
made for this purpose.
103.      The present Garissa-Garsen road runs partly through the area to be
irrigated. This section (36 km long) would be realigned to the west of the
Main Canal.
104.      The main roads along the branch canals form the principal trans-
port axis within a section, with all block roads connecting to them. They
run in an east-west direction, and connect with the Garissa-Garsen trunk
road outside the area to be irrigated. This trunk road provides the main
north-south connection between the sections. To provide for North-South
communication between the sections within the irrigated area, mainly for
inspection, servicing and for traffic between villages, bridges have been
planned across the tail ends of all branch canals and main drains.
105.      The main roads and the block roads leading to villages have a width
of 6 m, of which 4.5 m would be surfaced. 1/ All the other block roads, as
well as all the unit roads and inspection roads, are 4.5 m wide and non-
surfaced.
H. Infrastructure
106.      Adequate water supplies must be made available for the settlers and
satellite population. Proper sanitation arrangements are also required, and
an electricity supply is required to supply the ginnery and other installations
at the headquarters town.
107.      Water Supplies.  In the villages it is proposed to provide communal
facilities for each group of twelve tenants' houses. These facilities would
comprise two showers, one for men and one for women, and two taps with a
clothes washing slab. In the headquarters town individual connections would
be provided to all houses.
108.      Three alternative water treatment and distribution systems were
considered as follows:
1/   Surfacing materials (murram, sand, or possibly a sand/clay/lime mix)
would vary in relation to soil conditions and the local availability
of materials.



ANNEX 3
Page 20
(i)  a central treatment works at the headquarters town
served by an intake from the main canal, with a
gravity distribution system to all the villages;
(ii)  an individual treatment works at each village served
off a secondary or tertiary irrigation canal with a
local distribution system; and
(iii)  an intermediate solution between the above two
alternatives, providing separate treatment works
for groups of four or five villages, together
with a more extensive distribution system than
in (ii) above.
109.      A comparison of the total construction costs showed alternative
(i) to be marginally preferable, and because of its lower operating costs
and greater security of supply, this alternative would be adopted.
110.      The system comprises a central treatment works served by an intake
from the main canal. Cross regulation would be provided on the main canal to
ensure an adequate reserve of water in the canal when sections of it are
closed for maintenance. After full treatment, including sedimentation,
filtration and chemical dosing, the water is pumped into a main storage tank
located at a sufficiently high level to permit gravity distribution, taking
advantage of the general fall of the ground towards the river. 48 hours'
water storage would be provided in the tower and storage tanks to prevent
any risk of schistosomiasis infection in case of breakdown of chlorination.
111.      The distribution network would be constructed in PVC pipe to
minimize head losses. The mains would be located in the road verges along-
side the canals, and intermediate water towers and standpipes would be provided
where necessary within the system to balance out peak demands.
112.      Sewage Disposal.  Sanitation in the villages would be provided by
individual pit latrines for each settler dwelling. In the headquarters
town, with its larger population, smaller plots and relatively intense dev-
elopment, a full waterborne sewage system would be provided with centralized
treatment facilities provided outside the development area. As ground falls
are limited, it is proposed to install a pumping station to convey sewage
from the town to the treatment works.
113.      The treatment works would consist of a series of three simple
earthwork waste stabilization ponds. The ponds would be open to the sun
and air, treatment being primarily by the release of oxygen to the waste
waters by algal photosynthesis. The high air temperatures and high solar
radiation at Bura provide ideal plant operating conditions, and this is there-
fore the most economical and effective treatment method in the circumstances.
The works would be located east of the town adjacent to the branch drain



ANNEX 3
Page 21
which would facilitate initial filling of the ponds and the provision of a
gravity outfall for treated effluent to the branch drain. This location
would also ensure no odor nuisance to the residential area. Treated effluent
standards would be as follows:
5 day B.O.D.             -  20 mg/liter
Suspended solids         -  30 mg/liter
Coliform bacteria not
to exceed              -  5,000 organisms/100 mg/liter
114.      Electricity Supply.  Electrical power generation would be by means
of diesel powered units. The main electrical load would be the ginnery
operation, but power would be supplied to offices, workshops, houses and other
buildings in the headquarters town, together with street and security lighting
and water and sewage pumps. There would be no power supply to the villages.
115.      The exact composition of the generating system would be decided at
detailed design stage, but it is anticipated that the total installed capacity
would be about 2,000 KVA using 3 x 500 KVA and 2 x 250 KVA generators.
The generating plant would be located adjacent to the ginnery to minimize
the costs of the distribution system.
116.      Distribution would be at 11 KV within the township via step-up
transformers at the plant as the distances for distribution are up to 2 km.
Pole-mounted substations would be located at load centers to provide final
distribution at 415/240 volts. General distribution would be overhead
with the final connections to residential properties by underground cable.
May 13, 1977



KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
STANDARD FIELD LAYOUT
AVERAGE 1300 M
UNIT FEEDER                             FARMER'S HOLDING
\X\\,      UNIT FEEDER -                                          \
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    
UNIT DRAIN          
\ 50 FURROWS (45 M)                                                      \
ROADS
World Bank-16059
Xrn
, >






ANNEX 4
Table 1
KENYA
BUgA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT FEOJECT
CaPital Cost S.   rv of Irrixation Works
Unit      Local       Foreign       Total      Local       Foign         Total       % Foreign
Unit      Ossotitv       Coot   -    --        Ksh '000 ----------       -us$'000-------- -                   Echange
1.  Rivr Works
Escavotion                                          ao3        417,000          25     4,691        5,734       10,425       562           686        1,248
WeIr Fo. dation                                 (IheP sam)                             1,534        1,876        3,410        184           224         408
Sheet Piling                                        i3           3,900        350        614          751        1,365         73            90         163
Concrete (Spilliay)                                 i3           9353        1,670     7,029        8,591       15,620        842         1,029       1,871
Concrete Stroctoros                                 a3           2,833       2,100     2,677        3,273        5,950        320          392          712
Gates and Stoplogs                              (IUDP son)                               337          413          750         40            50           90
Efoerbank Protection                                a2          42,800         160     3,082        3,766        6,848        369           451         820
Teporary Bridge, etc                            (lpap  s)                                630          770        1,400         75            93          168
Clearing JuPgle                                     ha              40      12,500       225          275          500         27            33          60
E.cavatian                                          is3         25,300          25       281          348          633         34           42           76
E-cavation and Fill                                 m3         198,300          30     2,677        3,272        5,949        321           391         712
Over-flT   Protection                               i3          20,150         225     2,040        2,494        4,534        244           299         543
Cr000 Cooer to Dykes                                ha               8     59,500        214          262          476        25            32           57
Flood Protectien at Canoes                      (lamP oem)                               247          303          550         29            37          66
CampS ond Offices                               (IUDP son)                               590          710        1,300         71           85          156
Slb-Total                                                                   26,872      32,838       59,710      3,216         3,934        7,150          55
II.  Te-p-rarY P-iPing Station
Civil Works                                     (icop scm)                               504         1 546       1,050         60            66         126
Supply sod Delivery of Plast                    (IUDP son)                                -         1,982        1,982         -           237          236
Tr-n pert and Erection of Plant                 (lamp Sam)                               670          978        1,648         80 .117                  197
Slb-Total                                                                    1.174       3,506        4,680        140           420          560          75
Ill.  Slppy Canal
Clearing Jungl                                      hi             300      2,450        331          404          735        40            48           88
E.cavatien and Fill                                  3       1,281,380          22    12,685       15,505       28,190      1,519        1,857        3,376
Clay Lining                                         a3          28,000          45       567          693        1,260         68           853         151
Saed Trap Strectures                                i3             274       1,188       135          166          301         16            20          36
Ceocrete Strectures                                  3           1,815       2,100     1,715        2,096        3,811       205           251          456
CStel-ork, Gates.  tc.                             tonne             6.5   15,000         42           55           97          5             7          12
stone Pitmhig                                       a3           1,850         480       400          488          888        48             58         106
E     Pitcting                                      i3          65.600          21       620          758        1,378         74 ,.1                 .i.
Sob-Total                                                                   16,495      20,165       36,660      1,975         2,415       4.390           S5
IV. Main Canal Eirthlorks
Cle-ring                                            h5             113       2,450       125          152          277         15            18           33
Efcevation nod Fill                                 m          35,200           22     3A496        4 274       7 77n        41           512          931
Sub-Total                                                                    3,621       4,426        8,047        434           530          964          55
V.  Main CGne1 Structures
focavoties                                          t3          20,400          21       193          235          428        23            28           51
Coscrtre                                             o3          1,125      2,100      1,063        1,300        2,363        127          156          283
Gater, Steelvork                                (lamp see)                                55           70          125          7             S           15
Stoe  Pitching                                      sO           1.346         480       291          355          646         35            42          77
lob-Totel                                                                    1,602       1,960        3,562        192           234          426          55
VI.  Ir-iation Net-ork
E-cavatior and Fill                                 i3       1,270,080          17     9,715       11,875       21,590     1,164         1,422        2,586
Encavation                                          a           19,000          15       128          137          285         15            19          54
Ceocre to                                           m3           1,620       2,100     1,531        1,871        3,402        183          224          407
Stone Pitching                                      i3           3,750        400        675          825        1,500         81            99         180
Gatra and Strplofs                                  No.             82       4,500       166          203          369         20            24           44
Mlscellaneous                                   (mIVP son)                                41           51           92          5             6           11
Fern Ditchee and Drains, Access                    XK.             280       9.500     1.197        1.463        2,660        143           175         318
Spb-Total                                                                   13,454      16,444       29,898      1,611         1,969        3,580         5S
VI. O.-Farm LDvelopPert
Land Cleoring                                       ha           7,300       1,068     3,508        4,288        7,796        420           514        934
Laod Levelling                                      ha           7.300       2.100     6.898        8.432       15.330        826        1 Rlh        1 825
Sob-Total                                                                   10,406      12,720       23,126      1,246         1,524       2,770           55
VIII.  Wildlife Conservation
Drinkifg Polas                                      No.             11      19,700         98         119          212         12            14          26
Ctnal Creasing                                      No.              3    160,000         216         264          480         26            31          57
Other Works                                     (lamp sVm)                               3b           44B          815         4l           514         97
Slb-Total                                                                      681          831       1,512         01            99         100           55
IX.  Roads and Airfields
Garise-Gfarsen Road                             (lamp Sam)                             4,578        4,578        9,156        550           550      1,100
Nanigi A-ces Rood                              (lamP son)                               420          420          840         50            50         100
Maint-nance                                     (lsp son)                             1,134        1,134        2,268        135           135         270
Projoct foods                                   (Ilap son)                             1,050        1,050        2,100        125           125         250
Ainftoldo                                        (lPDP ann)                               420         420           840        50            50         100
GSb-Tot.l                                                                    7,602       7,602       15,204        910           910       1,820           50
Base Cont                                                                             81,907      100,492      182,399      9,805        12,035     21,840            55
May 11, 1977



KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Capital Cost Susmmary of Buildings. Utilities and Infrastructure
Unit      Local       Foreign      Total       Local       Foreign      Total       E Foreign
Unit      Quantity      Cost       --         Ksh'000         ---       ----------USS$O00- ----------        Exchange
I.  SETTLERS' DWELLINGS                             No.        5,150       4,000      16,480       4,120       20,600      1,972          493        2,465        20
II.  OFFICES AND WORKSHOPS
N.I.B.                                           -            -            -       2,528        1,084       3,612        302          130          432
Administration                                                                       535          230          765        64           28           92
Sub-Total                                                                3,063       1,314        4,377        366          158         524         30
III.  SPECIALIZED BUILDINGS
Multi-purpose Halls                             No.           24       42,000        655          353        1,008        78           42          120
Police Station                                 No.             1     800,000         520          280         800         62           34           96
Police Posts                                   No.             3      250,000        487          263          750        58           32           90
Post Offices                                     -            -            -         416          224         640         50           26           76
Postal Agency - Telepnone                       -             -            -          65           35          100         8            4           12
Health Center & Sub-Centers                            -                   -          50          670        1.920       150           80          230
Sub-Total                                                                3,393       1,825        5,218        406          218         624         35
IV. SCHOOLS
Secondary - Boarding                            No.            1   2,000,000       1,200          800       2,000        144           96          240        40
40
Primary                                         No.           25      140,000      2,800          700       3,500        336           84          420         20
Sub-Total                                                                4,000       1,500        5,500        480          180          660        33
V   HOUSING
Principal Staff                                 No.           10      310,000      2,170          930        3,100        260          111         371
Senior Staff                                    No.           44      180,000      5,544        2,376        7,920        664         284          948
Junior Staff                                    No.          362       63,000     15,960        6,840       22,800      1,911         819        2,730
Other Staff                                     No.          370       25,000      9,975        4,275       14,250      1,195          511       1,706
N.I.B. Guest House                              No.            1      750.000        525          225          750         63           27          90
Sub-Total                                                               34,174       14,646      48,820      4,093        1,752        5,845        30
VI. SEWERAGE SYSTEM
Mains and Pumping Stations                                                         4,914        3,276        8,196        589          393          982        40
Sewerage Treatment Plant                                                              286       1,604        1,884         34          192         226         85
Sub-Total                                                                5,200       4,880       10,080        623          585        1,208         48
VII. WATER SUPPLY                                                                        15,700      11,370       27,070      1,880        1,362        3,242
VIII.  ELECTRICITY SUPPLY                                                                  1,400       5,600        7,000        160          670          830
IX.  WAITCLEOUS WU=                                                                      2,220         950        3,170        266          114          380
TOTAL BASE COST                                                                    85.630      46A205      131.835    10246                         77
May 11, 1977                                                                                                                                                                          Hll



KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Itecoi.ed Coot Suomary of Plant. Machinery. Equipment and Vehicles 1/
Unit         Local         Foreign          Total         Local          Foreign         Total          % Foreign
No.         Cost         ---sh'O0 -------------                       -------------US$'000-------------             Exchange
I. FARM MACHINEZRY
Tractors (65 to 75 HP)                       72             89            641         5,767           6,408             77            691             768
Ploughs                                      32             11.5           37           331              368             5             39              44
Harrous                                      17              13            22           199              221             3             23               26
Land - Planes                                 6             43             26           232              258             3             28               31
Ridgera                                      19               6            11           103              114              1            13               14
Digger-Shakers                                7              17            12           107              119              1            13               14
Trailers                                     26              20            52           468              520             6             56               62
Mobile Workshops                              1            179             18           161              179              2            19               31
Mobile Lubricatios Units                      2             153            31           275              306             4             33               37
Spare Parts and Special Tools            (luip sum)                       170         1,528            1,698            20            183              203
1.020         9.171           10.191           122          1.098           1.220
Sub-Total                                                                                                                                                            9O
II. HEAVY MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT
Dragline                                      2          1,000            300         1,700            2,000             36           204              240
Crawler-Excavator                             1            590             90           500              590             11            60               71
Cutter-Dredgers                               2          1,050            160           890            1,050             19           107              126
Bulldoeer-D6                                  1             770           115           655              770             14            78               92
Coopactor/Vfbrator                            1             228            34           194              228              4            23               27
Loader-Excavator                              I            306             46           260              306              5            32               37
Front-End Loader                              1             532            80           452              532              7            57               64
Graders                                       2             640           190         1,090            1,280             23           130              153
Tipper Wagons                                 4             180           108           612              720             13            73               86
Tractor                                       1             100            15            85              100              2            10               12
Mobile Crane                                  1             789           118           671              789             14             80              94
Lw Leader                                    1            584             87           497              584             10            60               70
Land-RSvers                                   2             100            30           170              200              3            21               24
Utilities                                     2              80            24           136              160              3             16              19
Tanker-1200 Gallons                           1             206            31           175              206              4             21               25
Tanker-Trailers - 500 Gallons                 2              35            10            60               70              1              7               8
Water Pups                                    2               5             1              9              10              -              1                1
Mobile Workshop                               1             200            30           170              200              3             21               24
Mobile Lebrication Unit                       1              70            10             60              70              1              7                8
Miscellaneome Enuip-ent                   (Snap  o)                        45           255              300              5             31               36
Ditcher                                       1             120            18            102             120              2             12               14
Ports and Tools                           (lu=p anI)                      335         1,745            2,080             40            209              249
Sub-Total                                                               1.877        10,488           12.365            220         1.260            1.480           85
III. VEHICEES
Vehicles, Nairobi Office                      2             57             46             68              114             6              8               14           60
Four-Wheel Drive Vehicles                    30             85          1,020         1,530            2,550            122            183              305           60
Pick-Up Trucks                              114             43            120            482             602             14             58               72           60
Lerriea                                       8             116           186            742              928            22             89              111           80
Motorcycles                                  56               6           134            202              336            16             24               40           60
Bicycles                                    211               1            63            148              211             7             18               25           70
Spare Parts and Special Tools            (lamp one)                       284            664              948            34             79              113           70
Sub-Total                                                               1.853         3.836            5.689            221            459              680          A3
IV. MISCELL4ANEOUS EQUIPMENT
Telecomuxicatione                         (lamp sum)                      193            451              644             23            54               77
Hydrological and Meteorological Equip.(lump sun)                          193            451              644             23            54               77
Workshop Machinery and Tools              (loop s.o)                      193            451              644             23            53               76           70
Sub-Total                                                                 579          1.353            1.932            69            161              230
TOTAL BASE COST                                                                                       30,177                                          3.610           82
1/  Provisional, subject to modification after receipt of Project Planning Report.
May 11, 1977



KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Itemized Cost Summary of Ginnery 1/
Unit       Local       Foreign       Total       Local        Foreign       Total       'I. Foreign
Unit       Quantity       Cost       ----=------Ksh'000 -----------         -----------US$'000-----------          Exchange
GINNERY
Machinery and Electrical Equipment  (lump sum)                                       -        7,990         7,990          -           957          957
Delivery to Site                        (lump sum)                                   50         500           550           6           60           66
Erection                                (lump sum)                                  418       1,336         1,754          50          160          210
Buildings                               (lump sum)                                4,560      18,235        22,795         546        2,184        2, 730
Other Works                             (lump sum)                                2,146       5,177          7,323        257           620         877
Sub-Total                                                              7,174      33,238        40.412         859        3,981       4.840              82
1/  Provisional, subject to modification after receipt of Project Planning Report.
M 1  X
May 11, 1977



ANNEX 5
Page 1
KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Public Health, Education, Institutions and Services
I. PUBLIC HEALTH
Background
1.        The area to be developed under the Project lies along the Tana
River and is composed of arid scrub land. Only the oxbow lakes along the
river banks and areas which are flooded seasonally by the river are now
cultivated. The Hola Pilot Irrigation Scheme, about twenty miles south
of the project area, has been farmed for about twenty years. It provides a
demonstration of Bura Project's probable ecological effects. The Hola
Scheme is heavily infested by urinary schistosomiasis, with large snail
populations in the canal network. There is seasonal transmission of malaria,
apparently reflecting intensive seasonal use of insecticides on cotton crops
and consequent partial control of the mosquito vector. Other tropical diseases
are present but not at alarming levels. Irrigation of the 6,700 hectares
under the Project will substantially increase the magnitude of the snail
habitat and of mosquito breeding areas.
2.        The Project area is now populated by the Pokomo/Malekote who are
riverine cultivators and the Orma who are nomadic pastoralists. About
a thousand people now reside in the area. Health services are provided by
a District hospital at Hola which has 50 beds and an outpatient department;
there are two dispensaries in the area with resident dispensers and "ad-
ditional dispensaries" which are staffed periodically by workers from Hola
hospital. Schistosomiasis infection rates are estimated to exceed 70 percent
in the age group 5 - 9 years; malaria infection rates are estimated to be
about 33 percent.
3.        Almost nothing is known at present about the specific characteristics
of the future settlers. It is Government policy that they shall be selected
nationally with preference points being granted to residents of-the District.
Other selection criteria include the requirements that heads of households
be (a) male, aged 25-45, (b) unemployed or underemployed, (c) landless, (d)
experienced in farming, and (e) able to supply four adult-equivalent workers
from the household. The successful households are to be settled in villages
populated by diverse tribal groups in the hope that this will reduce the
potential for emergence of tribal factionalis'. within the Project.  These
policies on recruitment and settlement of households are expected to result
in a broad sampling of nomads and settled riverine cultivators populating
the new villages along with immigrants from other areas of Kenya. This in



ANNEX 5
Page 2
turn poses the problem that persons who have not acquired natural immunity to
specific diseases are likely to reside near those who are heavily infected;
unsophisticated sanitation habits and a lack of understanding of the health
problems arising from the use of canal water for domestic purposes are then
likely to compound problems of disease transmission. In particular, the
nomads and riverine tribes are expected to have been infected with urinary
schistosomiasis and malaria but to have little tuberculosis or intestinal
schistosomiasis. On the other hand the immigrants, especially those from
highland areas of the country, are anticipated to be more heavily infected
by intestinal schistosomiasis and tuberculosis and to have little or no
immunity to malaria. During the period of land development nutritional stress
will be a persistent threat, increasing the potential seriousness of infec-
tious diseases.
4.        The selection criteria also ensure that the population will be
young and that birth rates will be fairly high. Thus the diseases of child-
hood and problems of maternal health will be particularly prominent. Villagi-
zation and poor sanitation are also likely to compound these health problems
by facilitating transmission. The nomadic population is believed to be
relatively free of fecally transmitted disease because of its continuous
migration and consequently interrupted contact with sources of contamination;
however these people are particularly prone not to use sanitary facilities.
The very hot, arid climate is likely to encourage bathing in the irrigation
canals with the result that schistosomiasis will be a grave hazard especially
to children. Thus, a program of maternal and child health, health education
and the provision of village bathing and laundry facilities as an alternative
to the use of the irrigation canals for these purposes would appear important
if serious outbreaks of childhood diseases are to be avoided. The high
potential fertility of the settlers also argues for establishment of family
planning services as rapidly as possible.
National Health Policies
5.        The Kenyan model of rural health care is based upon modules which
provide services to groups of about 100,000 persons. A district medical
officer directs public health activities for the group from the district
hospital where inpatient and outpatient services are also provided. Below the
level of the hospital are four or five health centers and subcenters for
smaller groups of about 20,000 each which provide care to persons referred by
local dispensaries. The health centers supervise environmental health activi-
ties and promote health education and family planning. The center is distin-
guished from the subcenter by its greater responsibilities in administration
of public health activities, and by its responsibility for operation of mobile
consultation services. The lowest level in the system is the local dispensary
which serves groups of about 10,000.
6.        The health care system is fully centralized administratively under
the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health in Nairobi. Services are financed
from national funds. The idealized pyramidal system has not been fully
implemented but is being actively developed in rural areas.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Health Strategy under the Project
7.        The health hazards of the Bura Project are particularly formidable
firstly because of the problem of nonimmune immigrants, secondly because
of unusual nutritional and psychosocial stress initially, thirdly because
of the youthfulness of the population and fourthly because of the hospitable
environment created by the irrigation scheme for waterborne and water-related
diseases. These extraordinary hazards represent genuine threats to the
viability of the scheme and must be addressed if risks of collapse are to
be contained.
8.        The health component has been conceived in phases which correspond
to the major crises posed by the project. The first phase is concerned with
avoiding fatal onslaughts on construction workers and new settlers who are
not immune to local diseases. It focuses primarily on malaria and urinary
schistosomiasis. It is planned that disease vectors and human reservoirs of
infection for malaria and urinary schistosomiasis would be minimized through
application of insecticides and molluscicides, and by administering chemo-
therapeutic drugs to current residents of the area. A program of food dis-
tribution 1/ would complement the disease control activities. The program
would compensate heads of households for work performed in developing farms
and project infrastructure by credit advances of food and also of cash,
which would be used to purchase other food stuffs from local merchants at
controlled prices. It is intended to limit the initial arrivals to heads
of households, with remaining members being brought in only as farms become
productive; there is a danger that efforts to control settlement could be
only partially successful and that the food distribution scheme might as a
result be overwhelmed.
9.        The second phase would be directed towards minimizing the intro-
duction of diseases by new settlers. Tuberculosis, intestinal schistosomiasis
and contagious diseases of childhood are the most serious potential problems,
though intestinal parasites wouldi also be likely to be serious among some
groups. Settlers would be screened for common diseases at the time of arr'val
and immunizations would be administered wh re possible.  Chemoprophylaxis or
chemosuppression would be administered for malaria and perhaps urinary sc'Ais-
tosomiasis. A program of disease surveillance is proposed, to monitor possible
outbreaks of disease and to permit rapid response by the health care systemi.
10.       The third phase would be devoted to development of a basic health
service for the Project area. It would provide preventive, promotive and
curative care but would emphasize maternal and childhealth services and
treatment of trauma. The scheme would be modeled after the national strategy
and would include two or three health centers, six dispensaries and twenty-
four village-level surveillance workers. The village level units are inno-
vative and are justified by the need to monitor infectious disease outbreaks
but also would be expected to offer first aid and health education, and to
1/   It is expected that the UN World Food Program would assist with the
provision of this food.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
supervise sanitateion. The village surveillance workers would be recruited
from the villages and like other nonprofessional staff would be trained at the
health centers for their role.
11.       In addition to the services noted above, the Project would be
designed to minimize contact with sources of infection. Villages would be
sited away from canals, bathing and clothes-washing facilities would be
provided, water supplies would be assured and latrines would be provided. The
acceptability of these efforts is uncertain and education is likely to be
necessary for some time to adapt traditional behaviours. Sanitary water
supplies are clearly the highest priority since organic contamination of
surface water is certain and the problem of disease transmission consequently
severe. A centralized water treatment plant with piped distribution to
villages appear to be the least costly alternative in this area.
Health Care Proposals
12.       Appropriate health facilities are dependent upon a knowledge of
the type and magnitude of health problems. The proposed Project would cause
substantial alterations in existing disease patterns and could result in the
introduction to the Project area of exotic diseases. The health care pro-
posals summarized below have therefore been based upon the results of studies
of the existing situation and of the probable impact of the expected eco-
logical and environmental changes.
13.       Health care facilities would be provided by a Health Center at the
town headquarters, three Health Subcenters located at "market center" villages,
and Village Health Units in all other villages. The Health Center would
provide curative and preventative facilities and maternity and acute admission
beds. It would also serve as a base for surveillance and control services,
and teaching facilities.
14.       The Village Health Units would be accommodated in a section of the
community center in each village and would be staffed by village health
workers, providing initially limited curative and preventative services.
The innovative nature of the rule of such workers would require careful
training and supervision.
15.       Two fifths of the Project population are expected to be children
under ten years of age, and the health care facilities would have to be
particularly directed towards maternity, child health and nutritional
services.
16.       The development of specific disease control programs would be
considered an integral part of the developing health service rather than as an
isolated service operating independently. Disease control programs, especially
in the absence of national programs, would aim at reducing the morbidity from
disease and increasing case detection and treatment rather than attempting
eradication.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
17.       The extent of the development proposals and the complexity of the
expected ecological changes strongly indicate that the normal level of health
services applicable to other parts of Kenya should be augmented for the
Project by the introduction of surveillance and control programs, so that
changing patterns of disease can be identified and appropriate control
programs instituted.
18.       The future health care services for the Bura Project population
would be greatly simplified by introducing surveillance and control programs
on the existing Hola Irrigation Scheme and neighboring communities, in
advance of the development of the Bura Project. In addition to reducing
disease prevalence in the area, this would permit the development of appro-
priate techniques and provide training for future staff of the Bura Project.
The Government would undertake this pre-development program as soon as the
Bura Project is approved.
19.       Project designs and construction would take full account of the
health implications of the development. Particular emphasis is placed
upon village planning and design. The villages would be as far as possible
from irrigation facilities, untreated irrigation water would not enter the
village and snail-free bathing areas would be available for children. The
provision of treated water supplies as close to the individual homesteads as
economically feasible would ensure a major improvement in health. Finally,
good management of the Project would reduce the potential for mosquito
and snail breeding.
20.       Health screening of tenants and their families would be carried
out on arrival in the Project area rather than in their place of origin.
This would not only avoid the tenants considering health screening as an
obstacle to their selection, which might result in evasion and corruption,
but would also demonstrate to them that health care on the Project is a
major consideration. Health screening on arrival in the Project area would
also provide the necessary basic information upon which to establish the
health care service.
21.       Health care services to the labor force of the construction works
would, where possible, be provided by the developing Project facilities.
Mobile services would be required for the labor force, but other labor con-
structing the diversion structure would use the Health Center, which would
be constructed by late 1978.
22.       The development program would also take account of the health
care facilities needed for people outside the Project area. These would
include the informal sector population and the remaining groups of the
riverine Pokomo and nomadic Orma, who might be adversely effected by the
development program unless adequate precautions are taken.



ANNEX 5
Page 6
Project Costs
23.       The costs of the health component inclusive of recurrent costs
from 1977-78 through 1981-82 are estimated to be approximately Ksh 8,200,000
(US$990,000). About Ksh 2,740,000 would be spent on structures and vehicles
and the remaining Ksh 5,460,000 on salaries, supplies and maintenance.
24.       A substantial proportion of outlays for salaries and operations
are assignable to predevelopment and development phases of project implementa-
tion. These activities are intended to minimize the initial threats of communi-
cable disease until immunity can be acquired and nutritional and psycho-social
stress are controlled. It is estimated that approximately 70% of these
categories of expenditure or about Ksh 3,500,000 should be regarded as invest-
ments in the development of the scheme.
25.       Upon full development of the area, health care and related activities
are expected to cost approximately Ksh 1,590,000 annually or about Ksh 27 per
capita a year. About 40 persons would be employed by the system and an addi-
tional 20 would serve as village surveillance workers on a part-time basis. In
addition Hola hospital would function as the administrative, inpatient and
referral facility for the area; it is being upgraded at present under
Netherlands bilateral assistance.
26.       It is estimated that the cost of a water supply system served by a
central treatment works would be about Ksh 27,000,000. This is based on an
arrangement providing two showers and two taps with a washing area for each
group of twelve houses in the villages, and allowing for a per capita con-
sumption of about 80 liters/day. Introduction of latrines may be difficult
because of cultural practices of some of the tribes. The Hola Pilot Irrigation
scheme has successfully introduced pit privies but they have been responsible
for increased breeding of mosquitoes. It is proposed to construct latrine
pits using mechanical augers and provide cover slabs. These latrines would
be installed in advance of reconstruction of settler houses at the villages.
The cost of this work has been included in the estimate of Ksh 3,000,000
provided for minor village works. The specifics of a waste disposal scheme
must await more information on settlers and settlements.
Administrative Arrangements
27.       It is proposed that a committee would be formed in the Ministry
of Health to take ultimate responsibility both for this Project development
and other local development programs, in close cooperation with the National
Irrigation Board and the Tana River Development Authority. The health services
would be administered locally by an experienced public health officer and a
senior clinical officer who would liaise closely with the Project management
and the local administration through the proposed Bura Development Council.



ANNEX 5
Page 7
II. EDUCATION
Government Policy
28.       The long term objective of the Government's education policy is
free and compulsory primary education. At the same time the necessity to
balance the content of education at different levels against the demands
which different sectors in the economy will make for particular skills has
been perceived. To this end it is intended that the secondary classes at
the top end (Forms V and VI) will be rationalized and the numbers of Form
IIIs, to which entry will be by competitive examination, will be increased.
In addition there will be increased emphasis on applied vocational subjects
such as agriculture, home science and business studies in secondary educa-
tion.
29.       The whole field of education is being reviewed at present by a spe-
cially appointed committee. Their report has not yet been released but it is
expected to call attention to vocational training, village polytechnics and
education extension programs. To accommodate children who are unsuccessful
in the examination for entrance to secondary school and to accommodate them
up to the age of 16 the desirability of extending the primary range by two
further grades is being considered. Thus grades 8 and 9 would be specifi-
cally orientated toward the acquisition of vocational skills. This devel-
opment would have a very important implication for the Bura Project.
Special Project Considerations
30.       The selection criteria of the Project are likely to result in a
higher than normal proportion of school age children with a preponderance
in the younger age groups of primary school age and a relative scarcity of
secondary school age children.
31.       Construction of the primary schools under the 'Harambee' system,
together with the fact that the Government has remitted all primary school
fees for the Tana River District, are likely to result in high usage rates
of the facilities provided.
Primary School Requirements
32.       The primary school requirements have been calculated on the basis
of village population projected to 1983 as shown below:



ANNEX 5
Page 8
Estimated
Type of Town/  Initial       Projected         Children of Primary    Number
Village    Population  Population (1983)   School Age (1983)   of Classes /
Headquarters
Town             1000          4500                1100               25
Market Centre
Village          1942          2200                 733               15
Local Centre
Village          1846          2074                 691               14
Sub-local Centre
Village          1750          1967                 656               13
/1   Assuming 20 percent absenteeism and 40 children per classroom.
33.       The building and staffing requirements based on this data are as
follows:
(a) In each of the 23 villages a double stream school
comprising 14 classrooms (40 children) would be
built under the 'Harambee' system. At each school
the staff would comprise a Headmaster, Deputy
Headmaster and 13 teachers mainly in P2 and P3
grades. The total staff requirements at full
development (1983) are given below.
(b) The headquarters town would require two double
stream primary schools, with similar staffing to
those in villages. Total staff requirements are
given below:
Villages   Headquarters Town   Total
Headmasters             23               2              25
Deputy Headmasters      23               2              25
Teachers P1             23               2              25
Teachers P2 and P3    276               24             280
Clerical                23               2              25



ANNEX 5
Page 9
(c) The secondary schooling requirements of the Proj-
ect would be catered for by one triple stream board-
ing/day establishment with full facilities for Forms
I to 6, located in the headquarters town. It would
accommodate about 600 students and would be built
by a contractor in the second year of the implemen-
tation program, to be ready for pupils in 1981/82.
The staffing of this school would be as follows:
Headmaster and Deputy Headmaster
14 Teachers (graduate and Grade Si)
6 Supporting Subordinate/Junior Staff
III. ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES
34.       The Project would be unique in Kenya in its size and its need for
a wide range of Government services. It would nevertheless remain an entity
within a larger administrative unit and would therefore be integrated with
the national development strategy, as well as the local administrative frame-
work. This requirement would be achieved through the development of the
services described below.
35.       District Administration.  A skilled and experienced administrator
would be needed to ensure coordination between the services provided by
the various Government departments. The Project would be treated as a sub-
district administered, under the District Commissioner, by a senior District
Officer with one Administrative Assistant.
36.       Local Administration.  It is of paramount importance that the pro-
cesses of community development and tenant guidance in matters such as health,
education and co-operatives are catered for. In each village a structured
community would be developed with representation on a Village Committee.
These committees would fall under the hierarchy of Chiefs at the Market
Center Villages, (who would answer to the District Officer), and Sub-chiefs at
each Local Center Village.
37.       Police.  One Police Station would be established in the headquar-
ters town, fully equipped with vehicles and radio communication, and inde-
pendent of the Hola police station. It would have authority over the whole
Project area and adjacent riverine areas and gazetted forests up to Nanigi
diversion structure. This is justified given the size and importance of the
Project.
38.       Prisons.  No specific provision has been made under the Project
for prisons in the area, but the Government would give consideration to es-
tablishing prison facilities which might provide useful assistance in pro-
viding labor for such programs as forestry and research.



ANNEX 5
Page 10
39.       Local Councils.  A Divisional Council would be established under
the Ministry of Local Government and under the chairmanship of the District
Officer (Bura). It would have its own Executive Officer and would be re-
sponsible for directing the development of local services such as markets,
beer halls, nursery schools, abbatoirs, refuse collection, and cemeteries,
as well as local licensing and inspection. The headquarters town would be
the focus of these activities.
IV. TECHNICAL AND SPECIALIST SERVICES
Agricultural Extension
40.       The Ministry of Agriculture has stationed a District Agricultural
Officer and a Livestock Officer at Hola together with various assistant
staff. They deal with crop and vegetable development, minor irrigation
schemes, cattle ranching schemes, poultry and home economics among the
Pokomo and Orma people, particularly those who have settled in the vicinity
of Hola. It is proposed that Bura should have its own agricultural office
which would be concerned with crop production outside the Project area and
livestock extension both on and off the Project area. The staff required
to carry out this work would be built up over four years and would ulti-
mately inc.ude an Agricultural Officer, a Livestock Officer, two Assistant
Agricultural Officers and sixteen Agricultural Assistants. The senior staff
would be stationed in the headquarters town center with offices in the dis-
trict administration's office block.
Ministry of Labour
41.       The Project will involve large numbers of skilled and unskilled
workers in addition to the Government staff during construction and opera-
tional phases. To deal with the usual labor disputes, breaches of labor
regulations, social security payments and workmen's compensation matters
the Government is planning to set up a Labour Office at Garissa to serve
the Tana River District. If this is developed there would be no need to
have an office at Bura as well, provided the necessary staff are posted
to Garissa before the Project construction begins early in 1978.
Post Office and Telecommunications
42.       The East African Posts and Telecommunications Corporation is
responsible for postal and telephone services throughout the country. The
following services are proposed for Bura in accordance with criteria laid
down by the Physical Planning Department of the Ministry of Lands and Settle-
ment:



ANNEX 5
Page 11
(a) A post office and telephone exchange at 'minimum
development' level in the main town. This would
provide all the normal basic services to the NIB
an" Government offices. The building and equip-
ment required would cost between Ksh 500,000 and
Ksh 600,000 and would be staffed by a postal super-
intendent and four postal officers and two telephone
assistants.
(b) At the market centers local post offices would
be built using prefabricated units each costing
Ksh 50,000. The staff required for these offices
would include one senior post officer, two post
officers and two telephone assistants.
(c) Local centers and sub-local centers would be served
by postal agencies which would be set up under an
agreement with a trader or businessman in the vil-
lage.
Cooperative Development
43.       The Kenya Government attaches a high priority to the development
of cooperatives in the country. The possibilities in this field are demon-
strated by the success of the Mwea rice milling activities which have a con-
siderable cooperative content. At Bura the tenants' participation and in-
volvement in the Project would be encouraged through similar cooperative
activities covering collection and processing of the seed cotton crop.
In due course further developments in savings, credit and marketing of
other crops may be feasible.
44.       The lines along which cooperative activities would be encouraged
to develop, and the support this would require, are, as follows:
(a) The establishment of ajBura Cooperative Society,
which would have branches in each Project village,
to handle the marketing of cotton. Operations per-
formed by the society would include collection,
weighing, storing, grading, packing, recording
and transportation to the ginnery.
(b) Possible additional activities which might be'
developed once the basic marketing operation
is successfully established include: savings
and credit, fuelwood exploitation and supply and
distribution of agricultural inputs.
(c) The Government staff required to support the
cooperative movement on the Project would in-
clude an experienced Cooperative Officer and



ANNEX 5
Page 12
six Cooperative Assistants. in addition the
society would employ a full time manager in its
headquarters and clerks in each village branch.
The more junior staff would require training and
guidance in cooperative management.
V. SOCIAL SERVICES
45.       The successful induction, orientation and continued assimilation
of tenants into fully integrated and balanced communities would be a major
challenge to those concerned with the Project. The problems of developing
stable new communities would be exacerbated by the cultural diversity of
the people, the preponderance of relatively young, inexperienced heads of
families and a deficiency of 'elders.' NIB would have primary responsibility
for this aspect of the Project but would be assisted in the work by the Min-
istry of Housing and Social Services. The staff and services to be provided
by the Ministry of Housing and Social Services would be the following:
(a) a Senior Community Development Officer who would
be stationed in the headquarters town and assisted
by five Assistant Community Development Officers
and 23 Community Development Assistants stationed
in each village. The staff would be required in
step with the settlement program for tenants and
would therefore build up as the program proceeds;
(b)  village community services such as baby creches,
day-care centers and village polytechnics would
be established in the town and in all villages.
These would have a very important role to play
in establishing facilities to deal with pre-
school child care and provide training for pri-
mary school leavers;
(c) adult literacy programs, women's clubs, youth
activities, sports and environmental clubs would
also be fostered by the Community Development staff
to ensure that a continuous process of community
building is established; and
(d) multi-purpose community centers would be built in
each village to provide facilities for village
cooperatives, a community hall and meeting place,
health sub-clinic, sub-chiefs' offices and the
creches and day-care group.
May 15, 1977



ANNEX 6
Page 1
KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Tenant Selection, Settlement and Housing
A. Introduction
1.        The National Irrigation Board (NIB) plans to undertake settlement
of farmers on the Bura Irrigation Settlement Project beginning in early 1980,
with an eventual 5,150 families being progressively settled over three and
one-half years (1979/80-1982/83). As the area is now only sparsely occupied
by various local tribes (para 4), the settlement effort will involve the
recruitment of potential farmers from each of the Kenyan regions, with certain
preferences being extended to those from the local area. The recruitment of
these farmers will necessarily involve a massive planning and organiza-
tional effort in order to ensure both that the selection of settlers is
carried out in an impartial and rational manner, and that the settlement
process itself is implemented as smoothly as possible. Although the settle-
ment program would be developed and implemented in the main by NIB, coopera-
tion of the Ministry of Lands and Settlement, the Ministry of Local Govern-
ment, the local administration and the local community leaders (who would take
part in the selection of the prospective farmers) would be essential to its
ultimate success. For this reason, it is clear that all concerned must have
from the beginning a complete understanding of the nature of the program, and
the means to be utilized in its implementation.
Local Rights in the Project Area
2.        Legal Status of the Land.  It is important to note that although
the Bura Project area is almost completely uninhabited, the land does not
lie waste and is not completely free from customary land use rights (para
4). According to current law, the titles to lands inside the Project area
and its immediate surroundings are generally vested in two different author-
ities: the County Council on behalf of the local population, and the Dis-
trict Commissioner (DC) on behalf of the Commissioner of Lands (Ministry
of Lands and Settlement). The County Council is entrusted with the admin-
istration of the "Trust Land" in its jurisdiction, which here comprises
land on both sides of the Tana River. The DC administers the "State land" of
the District, i.e. all the lands outside the Trust land zone for which no
title-deeds have been established. No titles to land in or adjacent to the
Project area have been registered to date.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
3.        The Irrigation Act (1966) gives the Minister of Agriculture
power to designate any area of Kenya for the establishment of a national
irrigation scheme. This designation is published in the Government Gazette.
In respect of land other than Trust Land the Minister will subsequently
acquire the rights, titles or interests and vest them in the National Irriga-
tion Board. In the case of Trust Land forming part of a national irrigation
scheme the Minister has power to take such land on lease on behalf of the NIB
on terms to be negotiated with the County Council concerned; about two-thirds
of the Bura Project would be located on Trust Land along the Tana River (the
Nanigi diversion structure would be located on Trust Land). As the State land
on which the Project would be situated is free from any title-deeds, only
minor delays are to be expected after the Project area has been designated for
a national irrigation scheme and before the land can be vested in the NIB.
The process of extinction of rights in the State land area by payment of
compensation is expected to take four months (Ministry of Lands and Settlement
estimate). Therefore at negotiations the date of Loan/Credit effectiveness
was set four months after signature to permit the gazetting to be finalized
before effectiveness.
4.        Local Rights and Interests.  The native population of the Tana
River Valley and the surrounding dry scrubland considers the land to be
their common heritage. The Trust Land area along the Tana River is the
traditional homeland of the Pokomo/Malekote and other riverine tribes.
These people have been agriculturalists from time immemorial. Their vil-
lages (situated along the riverbanks) are relatively permanent settle-
ments. They have the traditional right to clear and to cultivate any
portion of land in the river valley that the extended family can suc-
cessfully handle. No cultivation rights outside the river valley zone
are claimed by the riverine tribes, traditional cultivation being en-
tirely dependent upon natural flooding of the Tana River. The dry scrub-
lands outside the zone of riverine areas are traditionally claimed by Orma
nomadic pastoralists. They roam vast areas of land in search of the scarce
food for their herds of cattle, sheep and goats. They regularly penetrate
the river valley zone in order to water their herds. In doing so, however,
they usually try to keep away from the gardens of the riverine people so
as not to evoke conflicts. Scrubland and riverine tribes are reported to
have been living in harmony for many years; they regularly barter goods
while the Orma sometimes graze small livestock herds of the riverine people
or take along the odd head of riverine cattle in their nomadic rambles.
5.        The riverine and the Orma tribes look to the County Council and
the DC respectively for the protection of their traditional rights to land
(and water) and/or the fruits thereof. As the Bura Project area is situated
almost exclusively in the dry scrublands, it will be particularly important
to ensure that the Orma people are protected from any unnecessary prejudice



ANNEX 6
Page 3
to their existing rights and interests. However, as this area will even-
tually be devoted to intensive (irrigated) agricultural development, and
as the present use of the land for grazing of cattle is incompatible with
such, the Orma people will have to withdraw from the Project area. The
land which would be required by the Bura Project totals some 10,000 ha -
a relatively small area when compared with the total grazing area avail-
able to the Orma; it is considered that the remaining area would be more
than sufficient for the present livestock population maintained by these
people. It is expected that the Orma will put forward some claims for
compensation for the loss of their land, but these claims will or should
not be based on any actual deprivation of development possibilities.
6.        A second, and more serious encroachment on the freedom of move-
ment of the Orma nomads arises from the fact that the future Project will
bar their passage from the scrubland to the Tana River over a distance of
about 30 km. In this respect Orma pastoralists will certainly look upon
the Project as an obstacle causing them inconvenience. To meet this prob-
lem, it would be proposed under the Project that a number of watering pools
be constructed near the western boundary of the Project area which would be
permanently fed by inlets from the main irrigation canal. These pools would
provide the most viable means of safeguarding the present right of the Ormas
to free access to certain permanent water sources. Finally, there is a pos-
sibility that some conflict between the needs of the Orma and the require-
ments of the wildlife in the Project area may arise.
7.        The fact that the free supply of water to the Orma pastoralists
and their herds can be considered an adequate off-set for the disadvan-
tages resulting from the Project does not mean, of course, that the local
people have no further role to play or that they will subsequently not
claim prior enjoyment of possible advantages of the Project. As men-
tioned before, both the Orma and the riverine tribes consider the area
to be their common heritage, the use of which they consider should pri-
marily be reserved for them. According to the local population, people
from other areas should be allowed to make use of the available resources
of the area only after the needs of the local people have been met. The
question of how or how far the "rights" of the local people should be re-
cognized is a delicate one which will require gradual accommodations over
the settlement period. It appears from investigations made in the field
that considerable friction might be expected, particularly on the part of
the Pokomo and Malekote tribes, if numerous non-local applicants for holdings
in the Project area were given access to the resources before eligible local
applicants had been offered this opportunity. The selection criteria agreed
at negotiations (Schedule 4 of the Development Credit Agreement) are expected
to minimize this friction to the maximum extent possible.
8.        A number of the Orma pastoralists interviewed in the area expressed
interest in participating in the Project. It is therefore expected that Orma
would be included in the selected settlers. Moreover, the location of the
Project in "Orma land" and its production of crop residues suitable for
utilization as cattle feed offer opportunities to improve the standard of



ANNEX 6
Page 4
their livestock keeping; thus, important secondary Project benefits could
flow to even those Orma who do not wish to participate in the Project. The
study of possible improvements in livestock production around the Project area
will be considered in the Project Planning Report. The subject deserves
further attention both due to the opportunities offered by the Project and the
future need of the Project population for fresh milk and meat.
B. Selection of Tenants
9.        While priority would be given to local inhabitants, tenants for
the Bura Irrigation Scheme would be drawn from all the regions of Kenya
using specific criteria to determine the numbers to be selected from each
area. These criteria include:
(a) population for each area as of 1981;
(b) population density corrected for relative
land area potential;
(c) opportunities for alternative employment
in the area;
(d) adaptability of local population to agri-
cultural activities in the Bura Project
area;
(e) preference for inhabitants of the Tana River
catchment area (as the irrigation scheme would
in due course reduce the water available for
irrigation uses in the catchment area, a pref-
erence would be granted to people from this
area).
10.       Special attention would be given to the allocation for tenants
from the local area. Preliminary indications are that (based on expected
demographic trends), some 1,900 local applications can be expected in the
first year, with an additional 1,600 persons expected to apply over the
development period. It should be noted here that the present NIB estimates
(Table 1) allow for a total of only 1,290 persons from the entire Coast
Province - a number which may be quite inadequate if the interest in the
other Districts of the region is anything like that estimated for the Tana
River District. Likewise it should be noted that the Coast Province and the
Eastern Province contain an extremely high percentage of persons living on low
potential land. This factor would tend to stimulate an even greater local



ANNEX 6
Page 5
interest in participating in the Project than might otherwise be expected. In
view of the large numbers of local people expected to apply, the allocation
for Coast Province agreed at negotiations was considerably higher than would
have been the case if the allocation had been determined simply on the basis
of the usual criteria detailed above.
11.       Allocations by Provinces have already been agreed (Table 1).  NIB,
in collaboration with the Ministries of Agriculture and of Lands and Settle-
ment, would also establish a mechanism whereby the actual candidates for
settlement would be identified on the local (district) level. In order
to safeguard NIB's ultimate responsibility for the success of the Project,
assurances would be obtained at negotiations that NIB would be the agency
with primary responsibility for the final selection of tenants. It is
envisaged that the entire tenant selection process would be under the overall
direction of a Settlement Officer. This officer would head the Settlement
Section to be established in the Project Coordinator's Office of the NIB, and
would coordinate the entire selection campaign throughout the country. He
would, in particular, be responsible for the activities of the "District
Settlement Committees" which would be established in each district, These
Committees would make the actual selection of the tenants to be proposed from
their area, based on names put forward to them by clan elders, tribal chiefs
or other local authorities. The Committee would be composed of;
(a) District Commissioner (Chairman);
(b) District Agricultural Officer;
(c) District Community Development Officer;
(d) Chairman/Clerk of the County Council;
(e) a representative of the Ministry of
Health; and
(f) two community members not in the Civil
Service.
The duties of the Settlement Committee would include:
(a) liaising with the Settlement Officer on matters relating
to the selection and settlement of prospective tenants;
(b) informing the local people as to the nature of the Bura
Project;
(c) preliminary selection of tenants using criteria
established by the NIB; and
(d) communicating with selected tenants and informing them
when they are required for briefing or migration.



ANNEX 6
Page 6
12.       NIB would establish the criteria to be used by the Settlement
Committees at least two years in advance of the approximate date on
which the first farmers could be settled on the Bura Scheme.
The basic criteria would be that candidates should be:
(a) heads of households, age 25-45 years;
(b) of good character;
(c) physically fit;
(d) landless, unemployed or underemployed, or earning
a return far below the average for the area;
(e) able to provide, within the family, four adult
equivalents of labor;
(f) experienced in farming and with an aptitude for
irrigated farming; and
(g) persons who had not demonstrated any social habits
which might adversely affect their ability to carry out
their proposed responsibilities.
13.       NIB would also formulate a publicity program to be carried out
in each of the Districts from which candidates are to be attracted. The
program would utilize brochures and radio coverage to inform the local peo-
ple as to:
(a) the objectives of the Bura Scheme;
(b) the location and climate of the Project area;
(c) the settlement rules and the land tenure system;
(d) crops to be grown;
(e) expected incomes and fees and charges;
(f) housing and basic services in the Project area.
Candidates who are interested in participating in the Scheme would then
file an application for the scheme with their clan elder, the chief of



ANNEX 6
Page 7
their location or some other formal or official local authority (either
acting on their own initiative or on suggestions of these authorities). The
names would be subsequently forwarded to the DC of the applicants' district,
who would reler them to the Selection Committee. The Committee would inter-
view each candidate, and would at that time request that he fill out a basic
questionnaire regarding his age, employment history, character references,
family size, special skills, medical status, identity card number, etc.
The names of those chosen would then be forwarded to the Settlement Officer
who would review each candidate's suitability for inclusion in the program.
Should any candidate prove physically or otherwise unsuitable, the Settlement
Officer would have the right to refuse him; in practice, this should not be
a problem if the various committees function properly.
C. Migration of Settlers to the Bura Project Area
14.       The migration to the Project area of up to 4,000 tenants and their
families from outside the Tana River District (and to a lesser extent migra-
tion of tenants from within the District) would require a well balanced plan
of operation and a very efficient organization, as the distances to be trav-
elled will range up to 500 - 1,000 km. The overall migration program would
be headed by a Migration Officer assigned to the NIB Bura Project Coordina-
tor's office.
15.       Prior to the actual migration, the Selection Officer within each
district would brief the selected tenants in groups on both what to expect
when they arrive in the Bura Project area, and what preparations they would
need to make before their departure. He would specifically alert each head
of family as to the date on which he should be prepared to depart and where
he should present himself to pick up transport. The prospective tenants
would be expected to pay a non-refundable commitment fee of Ksh 20, which
would partly meet their transport costs; this deposit is not expected to
impose a burden beyond the means of these tenants, and it would help to give
them a sense of commitment to the scheme and help reduce absenteeism during
the actual migration.
16.       The actual transport of tenants would be arranged by the District
Settlement Committees, under the overall guidance of the Migration Officer
who would inform the Committees of the dates on which specific numbers were
expected to be in the Project area. The actual phasing of the migration
operation over a 3-1/2 year period would depend on a multitude of factors, some
of which would be closely tied to sociological considerations. These fac-
tors would include:
(a) The phasing of Project construction. Accord-
ing to the Project Implementation Schedule
(see Chart, World Bank 17274), the first 800 ha
of the area would be ready for cultivation by the
middle of 1979, and the remaining 5,900 ha would be



ANNEX 6
Page 8
gradually brought into use over the following three years.
Thus, according to the present schedule, some 800 families
would be settled in 1979/80; 1,880 in 1980/81 and 2,470 1/
in 1981/82. The phasing of tenant selection, irrigation and
settlement is shown in Chart, World Bank 17461.
(b) The building of village accommodations. This consideration
would not be as important in determining the pattern of
migration, as many of the village facilities (homes, etc.)
would be constructed with the assistance of the actual
tenants who would use them. However, certain temporary
accommodations (food storage, sanitation, medical facilities,
etc.) would have to be available at the receiving area when
the new tenants arrived. An outline of the development of
a typical village is shown in Chart, World Bank 17462.
(c) The need for proper preparation of the settlers. In order
to ensure that the tenants were adequately prepared to
play their part in the proper functioning of the scheme, it
would be essential to arrange that they arrived in the area
well in advance of their first cropping season so they could
receive training in crop cultivation. If this were not
done, lack of acclimatization and poor preparation would
inevitably lead to a poor start for the Project.
(d) Organizational requirements. Two organizational requirements
would affect the migration process. First, in order to
minimize confusion and reduce delays, the transport of
tenants should, as far as possible, be spread throughout the
year. Secondly, heads of families should be transferred to
the Project area in advance of their dependents so that they
can familiarize themselves with the obligations they would
be agreeing to assume, and so that they could begin construc-
tion of housing. These two considerations dictate that
family heads should be transported to the Bura area in
May-August of each year, while the remaining members of
their families would follow in September-December of
the same year.
1/ A small number of these would actually be settled in the early part of
1982/83.



ANNEX 6
Page 9
(e) Tribal composition of migrant groups. It is
obvious that by concentrating large numbers of
individuals from various parts of the country in an
area that is relatively isolated from their homes,
and putting them in a situation in which they have
to live and work closely together with local
people under conditions which both physically
and socially differ widely from those to which
they are accustomed, some social tension may
arise. In this situation, it is most probable
therefore that, in an effort to create a sense of
security for themselves, the tenants would attempt
to form alliances with others of the same tribal
background. This is a highly understandable
phenomenon and one to be expected; however, every
care must be taken to ensure that these rela-
tionships do not solidify into strict social
groupings, and that the petty problems of everyday
living do not intensify into inter-tribal controver-
sies. The distribution of the settler population
throughout the irrigation scheme will have a
crucial effect on the resolution of these problems.
However, no final decision has as yet been made
on the means of dealing with this problem.
For example, it is unclear as yet whether the
tenant population should be mixed as much as
possible per village and per irrigation unit in
order to minimize the incidence of a strong tribal
orientation in social groupings. Likewise, it is
not yet certain as to whether local and non-local
tenants should be mixed over the irrigation area.
Finally, it must be decided whether any one group
of settlers arriving in the area on a given day
should be from a single area or whether it should
be composed of people from different tribal back-
grounds. Another problem, well recognized in other
settlement schemes in Africa, to which attention
should be given is the means by which possible
misallocation of family income by the head of the
family, to the detriment of the nutritional well-
being of the other members of the family, may be
minimized. Some study of the problems involved in
these various approaches would be necessary before
any final decisions can be made. Therefore,
Government agreed at loan/credit negotiations
to employ an experienced sociologist acceptable to
Bank/IDA to undertake such a study, and that
Government would consult with the Bank/IDA on the
findings of the study before any final policy
decisions were taken on these matters.



ANNEX 6
Page 10
17.       Once the factors affecting the migration of the settlers had been
evaluated, a comprehensive transportation schedule would be drawn up by the
Settlement Officer. He would ultimately decide how many tenants from each
specific district would be required in each year of the Project (a provi-
sional or trial schedule prepared by the NIB is available in Table 2). He
would then arrange with the District Settlement Committees for the estab-
lishment of pick-up centers in each district. The tenants would be told
to report to these centers on a designated day at which time they would be
moved by truck to the Project area. These trucks would be furnished by the
National Youth Service (Annex 15), which would be given overall responsibil-
ity for the entire transport program. Also, in order to accommodate those
settlers coming from relatively great distances, transit facilities would
be constructed on the outskirts of Nairobi in the Ruaraka area. This camp
would be quite small, with only a shed and canteen, but would allow reason-
able accommodations for a one-night stay. A similar camp would also be
established between Thika and Garissa.
D. Reception of Tenants
18.       On arrival at Bura the truck driver would hand over to the Settle-
ment Officer a delivery sheet containing the names of the people carried.
The sheet would be in triplicate, with one copy each for the Settlement
Officer, the NIB and the Settlement Committee in the district from which
the person came.
19.       The tenants (here reference is to the male heads of families who
would precede their families by about 10 weeks) would be given temporary
accommodations in previously constructed houses (para 22), with six men
to each house. On the succeeding day the tenants would be interviewed by the
Settlement Officer and the Scheme Manager in order to verify their identity.
The Irrigation Regulations and Rules would be read to each group, and the role
which they would be expected to play in the Scheme would be explained. Each
man would then be required to sign an acceptance of these rules, after which
he would be issued a tenant identity card.
20.       The Scheme Management would provide for the storage of suffi-
cient quantities of food 1/ for sale to the tenants until such a time as
they have harvested their first subsistence crop. Thus, on the basis of
the preliminary migration schedule, sufficient food would be required to
feed heads of families over 5-8 months, while families would have to be
fed over a period of 1-4 months. Assuming that each head of family would
1/   It is expected that the World Food Program (WFP) would assist with
the provision of these foodgrains.



ANNEX 6
Page 11
require 20 kg of maize flour per month and that the entire family (himself
included) would require 100 kg per month, the estimated maize flour re-
quirements would be:
1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83
Maize Flour (tons)    300        500       750      750
It is not yet decided whether the maize would be delivered to Bura as maize
grain for milling at Bura or as maize flour.  In either case storage facil-
ities for at least 200 tons of maize grain or flour would be required. To
avoid waste or black-market sales, the maize would be rationed on a weekly
basis. In addition, meat, beans and other items would be available for
sale at controlled prices from privately operated butchers' and other
shops.
21.       From the first day onward, the heads of families would be or-
ganized into working groups. These groups would, under the direction of
the scheme staff, be put to work on the construction of houses, communal
facilities, or any other tasks which the management would specify. For
this work the tenants would be paid a subsistence allowance (a minimum
of Ksh 5/day) which would allow them to buy food and other essentials.
E. Housing
22.       Type of Housing.  Tenant housing on the Bura Scheme would be con-
structed by the settlers according to standards established by the Project
Management. These houses would be designed with the following points in
mind:
(a) sufficient room would be required to accom-
modate the tenant and his family;
(b) the house would have to be capable of ex-
tension; and
(c) the total cost of the structure would have
to be low so as to avoid putting a heavy
burden on the tenant for loan repayment.
The basic intention would be to build improved traditional houses. Three
prototype structures have been put up on the Hola Scheme in order to test
each type for its suitability for local conditions. Indications are at
this time that the final choice will be between two of these types; that
is, the selected model would be either:



ANNEX 6
Page 12
(a)  a house whose walls are made of mangrove
poles plus a mud fill with a corrugated
iron sheet roof; or
(b)  a house built of sundried mud brick walls
with a corrugated iron sheet roof.
If sufficient mangrove poles can be found, the first alternative would be
preferable, otherwise the second type would be used. Doors, windows and
roof trusses would be standard items and would be made by designated car-
penters and nailmen (para 23) during periods of low activity; while doors
and windows would be produced centrally, roof trusses would be assembled
in the villages.
23.       Construction of Housing.  Prior to the arrival of the first
settlers, the NIB would have built houses for temporary accommodation
of the incoming groups. The tenants would live 6 to a house, with the six
forming a basic working unit. These working units would be responsible for
the construction of houses for all 6 members. One man in each group would
be designated as a nailman, and one out of every 5 units would be desig-
nated as a carpenter. The construction time for each unit would be allo-
cated as follows:
No. of Men               Days                     Activity
6                    1.25          digging holes and placing
poles for one house
4                    2.00          placing and nailing parallel
fitos
4                    1.50          placing and nailing roof
trusses
4                    1.50          placing and nailing sheets
6                    2.50          mud preparation and filling
24                    8.75
The total man-days required for one house would be 43.5 Thus, the group
would complete one house every 7 days; the houses for all 6 members of
the group would be completed in 44 days.
24.       Construction Staff Requirements.  The total number of staff re-
quired to build houses for all tenants would be:



ANNEX 6
Page 13
Maximum Monthly
Year       Housing Units          Nailinen       Carpenters        Supervisors
1979/80           100                100              20                 4
1980/81           300                300              60                 8
1981/82           300                300              60                 8
1982/83           100                 70              15                 4
25.       Cost of Tenant Housing.  The expected cost per house would be
roughly as follows:
Ksh
Material                                           3,582
Water charges                                         50
Labor
42.5 man-days @ Ksh 6/day               255
7 nai'Lmen's days @ Ksh 10/day        70
1.4 carpenters' days @ Ksh 20/day       28
0.5 supervisors' days @ Ksh 30/day       15
368       368
4,000
The total cost of 5,150 houses would thus be Ksh 20,600,000.
May 15, 1977



ANNEX 6
Table 1
KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Allocation of Tenants by Province
Total            Z of Total
Province                    Allocation          Allocation
Central Province               700                 14
Coast Province*              1,290                  25
Eastern Province             1,290                  25
North Eastern
Province                     130                  3
Nyanza Province                700                  14
Rift Valley
Province                     240                  5
Western Province                700                 14
TOTAL                5,150                100
*    Approximately 75% of the allocation of Coast Province is expected
to come from Tana River District.



KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMEN.T PROJECT
Tenant Selection, Migration and Settlement
Calendar Year                       1977              1978               1979        |      1980               1981              1982
HQ Settlement and Information Staff Secondment         am _  _                                           m  I  u  m_           m   m       l _ *           ml
Study for Selection and Settlement Procedures
Finalize Selection Procedures
Mobilize District Selection Committees and
Publicize Project
Process Applications and Complete Selection
Prepare Final Migration and Settlement Program
640               2025            _40 0            5150
Tenants migrate to Project                                        __                                                            2925               4 7 2
Families settle at Project                                                                         2690                                                 30900
(No. of dependants)                                                                             2   -                  _   -               --
5380               13440             26880
Guided Harambee construction
(tenant housing, primary schools and
village halls)                                                                                _   _   _          _      _ -                   _        _
No. of villages settled                                                                                3         6        10        15       19        23
World Bank-17461






KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Typical Outline Development of a Village
WEEK                                       5                    10                  15                    20                   25                   30
Advance village housing*
NIB extension staff arrive
Stockpile housing materials
Complete water supply
Tenants travel to project area
Tenants inducted at village site
Tenants construct houses
Tenants construct schools, etc.
Tenants' families travel to village                                           .
NIB extension/tenant training input
Settlement Officer input                                                                                      _                           .
Social services input/family induction                                                                                                            W     Bn-76
*Housing for NIB staff and tenants                                                                                                                 World Bank-i17462






ANNEX 7
Page 1
KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Water Quality, Demand and Availability
A. Water Quality
1.        The quality of the Tana River water is excellent for irrigation
(USDA Salinity Laboratory class CMSl). Measurements taken near Bura and
Hola reveal that in these lower reaches the river carries water of low
salinity and low sodium content even during the low flow season. Electrical
conductivity ranges from 0.1 to 0.3 mmhos/cm (on average about 130 ppm salt)
and the sodium absorption rate (SAR) is 0.4 to 0.7. The residual sodium
carbonate value is 0.4 m.e./liter and the boron content 0.07 ppm or less.
The iron content is negligible.
2.        The Tana River carries a sediment load consisting mainly of silt,
the amount of which varies with the discharge. During the low flow season
the silt content of the water may e around 200 ppm (or 200 milligrams per
liter); a river discharge of 100 m /sec would contain about 1,500 ppm while
in higher discharges of some 500 m3/sec around 8,000 ppm have been observed.
The sediment transport of the river indicates that erosion takes place in
the upper parts of the river basin.
B. Water Demand
3.        Crop water requirements (Table 1) have been calculated on the
basis of scanty climatic data available from the Hola meteorological station
situated about 20 km south of the Project area. These data were confirmed by
observations made at the Bura meteorological station located about 5 km east
of the Project area.
4.        In the absence of direct measurements of evaporation from pans, open-
water evaporation (Eo) was calculated by the Penman method, as modified for
East Africa by McCulloch. Since the duration of sunshine was not measured at
Hola, the relation between actual and potential maximum number of sunshine hours
(factor n/N in the Penman formula) was assumed to be equal to the relation
between actual and potential maximum solar radiation. The following monthly
open-water evaporation calculated over eight years of data available from Hola
was used to determine crop water requirements:



ANNEX 7
Page 2
Open-water evaporation Eo
Month                             in mm (calculated)
January                                    218
February                                   201
March                                      232
April                                      198
May                                        197
June                                       176
July                                       176
August                                     181
September                                  185
October                                    204
November                                   194
December                                   208
Total                                    2,370
Monthly average                            198
Daily average                                6.5
5.        The following crop factors have been adopted for the consumptive
use of the different crops by months of growth.
Growth months    Cotton    Groundnuts    Maize         Cowpeas
1st          0.40         0.40         0.40        0.50
2nd           0.70        0.70         0.80        0.95
3rd           0.90        0.95         1.00        0.90
4th           1.00        0.90         0.80         -
5th          0.90          -            -           -
6th          0.70          -            -           -
6.        The crop factors shown in Table 1 are adjusted for the staggered
planting and harvesting schedule indicated in the bar graph at the top of
the same table.
7.        The crop water requirement takes into consideration the consumptive
use, a pre-planting requirement of 150 mm, and an end-of-season depletion
allowance of 50 mm. Water requirements for leaching are expected to be
moderate as a result of the good quality of the Tana River water and on the
basis of the experience at the Hola Scheme. Furthermore, any water applica-
tion for the purpose of leaching will not have to coincide with the peak of
irrigation water demand. Hence, no allowance was made for it.
8.        The contribution of rainfall to crop needs has been estimated at
a low rate corresponding to rainfall occurring once in 5 years because of
the erratic character of precipitation in the area. There is no effective
rainfall in May, the month of maximum demand which determines design capa-
bilities of water conveyance.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
9.        The net irrigation requirement is the crop water requirement minus
the effective rainfall. The overall Project irrigation efficiency has been
estimated at 60%, which includes conveyance losses. Therefore,
intake requirement = Det irrigation requirement.
0.6
10.       The details of the calculation of water requirements are given in
Table 1. On the basis of the intake requirements per crop and the cropping
intensities, the total intake requirement for irrigation of the proposed
cropping pattern has been determined. Finally the water demand for a total
area c-f 550 ha of settlers' gardens, for domestic water supply and for wild-
life and livestock were added; they include conveyance losses (10%) and con-
tingencies.
11.       Domestic water requirements were estimated for a future population
of 60,000 inhabitants on the basis of a demand of 50 1/day per capita, which
is equivalent to a continuous flow of 35 1/sec.
12.       Wildlife and livestock may ultimately need about 20 drinking pools
fed from the supply and main canals. However, the water demand will be very
small. Assuming that the animals expected to be present in and around the
Project area (11,000 elephants, 4,000 other game) in addition to possibly
8,000 head of livestock would consume 10 to 40 liters per day each; Ind taking
into account the evaporation from about 29 drinking pools of 2,000 m surface
each, the total need would be about 840 m /day, or 10 I/sec continuous flow.
13.       The peak of the total monthly di ersion requirement for the Bura
Project occurs in May and amounts to 8.0 m /sec, not including the Hola
Pilot Irrigation Scheme requirements.
C. Water Availability
14.       The Tana River and most of its tributaries have their origin on
the eastern and2southern slopes of Mount Kenya and in the Aberdares. The
upper 10,000 km of the catchment area have an annual precipitation ranging
from 750 mm to 2,500 mm, while the rainfall in the middle and most of the
lower catchment area decreases to about 400 mm per year. Although gauging
at stations on the Tana River started in the 1930s, the records of only a
few of them are suitable for the purpose of determining the water availabJlity
for the Bura Project. The pertinent stations are listed below.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
Distance along river                     Recorder and
from proposed diversion   Staff gauge   staff gauge
Number   Name (Location)         weir at Nanigi            reading        reading
4 ED 3   Kamburu (power         480 km upstream          From 1947       From 1951
station)
4 G  I   Garissa                 80 km upstream          From 1933       From 1964
4 G  6   Korakora /1             40 km upstream          From 1964       From 1965
4 G      Nanigi /1                0.3 km upstream        From 1973          -
4 G  4   Hola (Galole)          120 km downstream        From 1949       1964-1968
4 G  2   Garsen                                          From 1946       1965-1967
/1  Only water level data are available.
15.       The hydrological characteristics of major importance for the Project
are:
(a) minimum monthly flows available at Nanigi diversion site;
(b) maximum flows expected at the same site and corresponding
water levels;
(c) sediment transport of the river at Nanigi;
(d) future behaviour of the riverbed after the construction
of the diversion weir and the abstraction of water for
the Project.
Minimum Flows
16.       The reliability of flow statistics (collected data and rating
curves) has been studied by the TRDA and the Water Department of the Ministry
of Water Development. The records were revised and where needed recalculated
or discarded. The stations used to determine water availability for the
Project and the observation periods considered usable for this purpose, are:
Kamburu:      1947 - 1972
Garissa:      1944 - 1974
Hola (Galole): 1949 - 1955
17.       Table 2 lists the monthly and annual averages for the above-men-
tioned period of reliable data for the Tana River flow recorded at Garissa.



ANNEX 7
Page 5
18.       In the upper reaches of the Tana River, the East African Power
and Lighting Company Ltd. (EAPLC) is operating the hydro-power plant of
Kamburu in a way that does not significantly influence peak flows due to
the relatively small storage volume of the reservoir.  However, the mini-
mum discharges at Nanigi are to a large extent controlled by the releases from
Kamburu. The third and last generating set has been 3installed at Kamburu;
the EAPLC plans to release a minimum flow of 42.5 m /sec during the months
with inflows to the reservoir smaller than this value. These released flows
will be maintained in the following months until the Kamburu reservoir is full
again. After that, the flows released from Kamburu will practically be equal
to the inflow to the reservoir.
19.       The regulated flows that would pass Garissa under the above 1972
operating rule, calculated for the periods 1947 - 1972, are given in Table 3.
Monthly frequency distribution graphs were prepared from which the lowest
flows for each month occurring once' every 5 years and once every 10 years were
determined. From these two calculated sets of monthly low flows (given in
Tables 4 and 5) the expected water losses were deducted to obtain the avail-
able discharges at Nanigi.
20.       The water losses mentioned above consist of the following components:
(a) Domestic, public and industrial water
abstractions between Kamburu and Grand
Falls, according to previous studies
by ILACO (1971 and 1973) and more recent               3
information from Government                       0.4 m /sec
(b) Domestic, public and industrial abstrac-
tions between Grand Falls and Nanigi,                  3
estimated                                         0.1 m /sec
Total domestic, public and                        3
industrial water abstractions             0.5 m /sec
(c) Losses by infiltration and evaporation
between Garissa and Nanigi                        variable
21.       The losses between Garissa and Nanigi as well as between Nanigi
and Garsen have been analysed 1/ as far as this is analytically possible
in the absence of flow records at Nanigi and with records from Hola and
1/   Estimation of variation in flow in the Lower Tana downstream from
Garissa; TRDA, July 17, 1975.



ANNEX 7
Page 6
Garsen of too short duration and accuracy. The results indicate that the
losses of water between Garissa and Hola are greater than those between
Hola and Garsen, in terms of percentage of flows as well as per km of stream
bed, as shown in the following table (in rounded figures).
Flow at  Losses from Garissa   Remaining    Losses from Hola            Remaining
Garissa   to Hola (197 km)    flow at Hola  to Garsen (166 km)   flow at Garsen
mi /sec   m /sec % 1/sec/km       m /sec       m /sec % 1/sec/km       m /sec      %
50       8   16    41            42              3   7    18           39       78
100      11   11    56            89              5   6    30           84       84
150      15   10    76           135              7   5    42          128       85
200      18    9    92           182             10   5    60          172       86
22.       The losses between Garissa and Nanigi shown in Tables 4 and 5 were
taken to be one third of those occurring between Garissa and Hola, propor-
tionally to the corresponding distances along the riverbed.
23.       The lowest flows for each month at Garissa and Nanigi, the Project's
diversion requirement (from Table 1), and the estimated flows remaining in the
river-bed immediately downstream of Nanigi and at Garsen are given in Table 4
for a recurrence of once in 5 years, and in Table 5 for a recurrence of once
in 10 years. The results show that the planned abstraction at Nanigi would
leave the following minimum flows available at Garsen:
38.5 m3/sec once in 5 years (month of March)
34.9 m 3/sec once in 10 years (month of March)
24.       Government is preparing the multi-purpose project of the Tana Upper
Reservoir which would dam the Tana River upstream of the Kamburu reservoir
and provide hydroelectric power, water supply and water for irrigation with
seasonal flow regulation. The Government's present policy is to guarantee
dry-season flows in the Tana River downstream of the Bura diversion structure,
after abstraction of the Bura Project diversion requirement, that would be
equal to the '"natural" flow in the river without regulation.
25.       From the above considerations, it appears that Government should:
(a) define quantitatively the present and future needs of
water downstream of Nanigi for
(i)      population,
(ii)     livestock,
(iii)    game,
(iv)     fish,
(v)      riverine forest, and
(vi)     development projects;



ANNEX 7
Page 7
(b) define and quantify the concept of "natural" flow
mentioned above;
(c) guarantee minimum flows for the Bura Project and for
the regions downstream of it to be obtained by opera-
tion of existing and future storage reservoirs located
upstream of the Bura Project;
(d) take immediate steps to enforce efficiently the control
of water apportionment from the Tana River according to
existing agreements with IDA; and
(e) install immediately close to the Nanigi diversion structure
site a hydrological observation and stream-gauging station
equipped to determine dry season flows, flood discharges,
transport of suspended sediment and bed loads by the
river and losses of water between Nanigi and Garseh.
The installation of this station should be proceeded with
immediately. It would not be acceptable that it be post-
poned until the diversion structure is built.
Maximum Flows
26.       The occurrence of maximum flows was studied on the basis that
existing upstream reservoirs would not produce a reduction of peak flows
and that the increase of flood flows between Garissa and Nanigi is negligible.
27.       The maximum daily mean discharges of 20 years (1944 to 1972) were
used to determine3the flood frequency. However, the largest observed flood
(1961) of 2,418 m /sec corresponds to the actual absolute maximum on the obser-
vation day. The data listed below were plotted and fit a linear type Gumbel
distribution curve.



ANNEX 7
Page 8
Annual maximum daily discharges at Garissa (m3 /sec)
Year     Discharge            Year        Discharge
1944         549              1959            496
1945         360              1960            828
1946         683              1961          2,418
1947       1,209              1962            719
1948         447              1963          1,139
1949         251              1964          1,060
1950         765              1965            534
1951       1,195              1966          1,026
1952         479              1967          1,389
1953         467              1968          1,723
1954         660              1969            461
1955         360              1970            828
1956       1,281              1971            671
1957         864              1972            875
1958         943
The probabilities of occurrence of maximum daily mean flows, within a 68%
reliability range, are as follows:
once in  20 years    1,850 m 3/sec
once in 100 years    2,530 m /sec (extrapolated)
once in 1,000 years  3,500 m /sec (extrapolated)
Water Levels
28.       The water level elevations for low flows at the Nanigi diversion structure
site are based on a provisional rating curve, which is acceptable. The water levels
for high discharges had to be calculated on the basis of flood marks on trees
and information from local people for 3the two largest floods on record, cor-
respondi5g to the years 1961 (2,418 m /sec, once in 80 years) and 1968
(1,723 m /sec, once in 15 years).
Sediment Load
29.       The estimated sediment load in the Tana River at Nanigi, consisting
of suspended sediment and bed load, is presented in Annex 3, paras 34-39, in
the context of the proposed sand trap.  This estimate, prepared for the
feasibility study (June 1975), has been reviewed in December 1975 by the TRDA,
who confirmed its order of magnitude.



ANNEX 7
KENYA                                                                                              T.bl,, 1
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
C,.p Cal-nde  and Waton Rq.igsrntt
U-,       FI,b-aa'     Ma...n       Ap,i        M.,          j-o         July          August          Septmbe        O-.bt        Nreme ,ebe                   aur
El-t                                                                        H.-as
COTTON                                                                                                                       m m    mm
G ROUNDN UTS
MAIZE
COWAPE S
O-a W-i, E- ......,, Eo                  ri       201           232         198         193                       120        1811               185            204(821
14-  -            -   ~~~GRlbNDlUTS-
C-op F cO-n0.40                                                      0.55       0.40        0.95           0.95       000Fl      0.70               0.40           0. 65        0 90          U 90           0 90
land Ub-                                            10            000         too         too            ioo        100        00                 75             100          100           000            25
Con--rpb,r- IIenr                                   40            128         1561        1817           167        141        63                 06             133          174           187             49
pr- Plssbbng  Itlgbbtt10                                           50                                                         -          o 00    10
D.pIII,tan All. scrna                               _                                                     -         '         '25    i..          --                     ~-12
Ct-p Wor   R qrrln-reot.n                         140            170         156         187            167       11                IO16                       13           14149                         37
Effeobirn  Rainball               ___            -~~ ~ ~~~~             ~~             ~~~~ ~~14  -25  -- -   -      j           -_                          -29           -21
SeE IgybOaniO   OnqSietilb             a        140            144         133         187            167        116               I531       156             133          145           126            37
Intake OrI_gablonOqsrnn                   a        233            273         222         31  2          2751       193        63    I83          60            221          242            213            6
C-oWning Onlnn-  ty                                                           1000  ( Q.253h1./fse-)      -
ha nc.     00              10         0.566       1.16          .1.07       0.72      0.231  0231        5.3              .02         0.93          09'           0 23
II-                         - 06001 0100IZE 1U8DEPL.ANTED 
I         .                      0010~~~~~~I   COIPPEAS
Crop FucorI                                                                                                                                        0.40            0.-,0        0.92          0.90           0. 
Land USe-                                                                                                                                         71            100           100           100            2S
Consumptive Use  oar                                                                                          56            143          F'4         1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5614  1444,4
ISO       100
DepletIon  01All   c                      oeI--                                                                                                  __                                          i.-
Crop WI,er Rquire-ten                     no0                                                                                                    156             143          104     ~     149
O'f_ecIlv          'Iofl                 _a                                                                                                                      __29                        L
eC101 ganiRon     I  ...roeeo          ro                                                                                          I-so        15-6           143          -1511
Intake Irrlgublon  Opqslrenrnst  ear                                                               I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3  260   2            55P            31'            15~~~8 26
CeoppUro Ointnnsity  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.A321 ~0.4 ha/fsm)_
h. ntI031                                                                                                 1.00           0.'9         1.00    I 4.00              0 04
P-op-sd Cooopu-g______                                                                                                                                            -
P.tI,O                 InCe-ityI
000                        1400IQ         an       233            273         2 2         TI?            27o        193        63 
Spo-d-trl                   167                                                                                                       11 Il       IT              35           39            34            15
'Salo-  and C-Up- s         224'x                                                                                                    127          03              76           63            50             3
rent                      sos      ~~~~           ~~~~          ~    ~ ~          ~     ~~232  23  22  1  71  193  3    U          93            11           122           102             13
Tal-Itke Terglgui- Req-ien
neo   oP4700  ha net             ns          6.45           6.03        5.74       7.80            7.18      4 03         2.52             2.41           2.78         3.15           2.55          0.32
Cr0.100ig0ti- Rnq.i--sn   foe
26k, h2. 31 T-n-r    Car/en           n           0.13           0.13        6 13       0.13            0.16      3 10         0.24             0.26           0.26         0.18           0.13          0.13
Ps--o  sO 50) I/rye  5                             .04           0.54        0.04        0.04           0.04       0 04         0 54            0.04            0 04         0.04          0.04          0.04
Wildlife Reqsli-,nts (Dri.kino
'O15                                  -'.0                        .01I      0. 01i     -001             0 01      0, 0 1        0 01            0.01           0.01         0.01          5 01          5 01
23t21 Di-iRtlo  R,,qsi--net   .1           3/s        6.2            7.0        5.9         0.0             7.4       5.1            2.9           2.7             3.1          3.4           2.7            0.5
01   Not i-ol.d-g RoI. 21100 Irrigatjoo  Sohern  enquj-neto.
J..-ay 4. 1920



KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Tana River - Monthly Average Flows Recorded at Garissal!/
(m3/sec)
YEAR             Jan.    Feb.    Mar.    Apr.    May    June    July    Aug.    Sept.    Oct.    Nov.    Dec.                       YEAR
1944              60       40       26      80      109      49       42      42       44        79      159      217                 79
1945              49       20       16       37     103    130        72      84       91        62      176      109                 80
1946              85       56       92       66     178      89       50      63       83       130      406      149                121
1947              76       38       45      397     994    392       147      96       78        72      132      178                220
1948             101       53       32       97     229    128        86       74      58        60      212      243                114
1949              64       39       78     108      103      82       52      53       47        43       68       83                 68
1950              58       36       40      346     351    216       122     118      131        83      120      114                145
1951             235      128       69     941      481    385       154     124       94       110      580      635                328
1952              71       38       38       90     306    151        92       80      66        85      135      124                106
1953             101       63       43      55      209    113        71      62       56        92      237      189                108
1954              91       72       48     151      484    308       148     118       88        77      139      195                160
1955             159      119       78      98      171    123        75       34      75       100      136      135                113
1956             159      115       78     224      593    223       126      96       77        67      270      161                183
1957              91       67       63     161      559    244       137       99       79       81      251      268                176
1958             130      126      100     145      665    305       172       89      73        66      100      159                178
1959              89       93       55       90     264    159        82       75       79       63      109      135                108
1960              67       55      103      210     230    105        73      60       56       138      270      117                124
1961              63       50       42     169      276      95       80      97      123       523    1814       645                331
1962             116       84       87      216     527    227       137     105      105       123      139      137                167
1963             341      162      147      349     794    413       176     124        78       67      306      566                294
1964             193       99       68     593      494    238       122     123       84       118      126      399                221
1965              99       73      106     125      247    123        76      64       46        65      324      182                128
1966              84       58       53     427      405    187       122       79       78       77      416      141                177
1967             178      121      359     165      707    302       184     148      137       198      608      377                290
1968             236      146      205      732     690    416       227     162      100       112      569      925                377
1969              50       62       53     172      301    135        81      60       51        59      143      122                107
1970              48       37       28     454      422    233       122       87       77       51      110       74                145
1971              76       78       50     209      427    191       111      87       70        36      149      127                134
1972             232      102       58      47      173    199       102       63      52       170      733      282                184
1973              48       40       35     135      181    170        88       74      59        68      157       80                 94
1974              67       48       35     312      214    120       216     126       95       100      214       94                137    * m
Average          117       70       76      256     372    205       115       92       78       89      260      235                164  
1/ Original Recordings.



KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Tana River - Regulated Discharges (mn/sec) at Garissa Resulting
from Proposed Minimum Dry Season Release
of 42.5 Cumecs at Kamburul/
Year       Jan.      Feb.      Mar.      Apr.     May      June      July      Aug.      Sept.     Oct.      Nov.      Dec.         Year
1947        -         -        91.8    397        994      392       147       95.6       77.5      72.4    132       178             -
1948        86.2     59.0      62.7      60.2    218       128        85.9    74.3        58.3      59.7    212        243           112
1949      101         70.5     55.3      69.4    101        81.8      63.8    63.8        64.4      59.0      71.8      75.8          73
1950        73.2     60.2      83.6    299        351      216       122      118        131        83.3    120       114            148
1951        73.6     55.3      52.3    894        481      385       154      124         93.8    110        580       635           303
1952       235      127        76.5      82.9    306       151        91.8    79.5        66.4      84.8    135        124           130
1953        81.0    *;60.2     59.4      58.3    164       113        73.6    63.1        62.5      81.4    237        189           104
1954      103         78.7     66.1    110        484       308      148      118         88.3      76.5    138        195           160
1955        96.0      79.1     65.0      88.7    150       123        75.0   836          74.8      99.7    136        135           100
1956      159       118        78.4    224        593       223      126       96.3       77.2      66.8    270        161           183
1957       92.6       70.5     72.1    146        559      244       137       99.3       78.7      81.0    251        268           175
1958      130       125        99.7    145        665      305       172       89.2       73.3      66.1    100        159           177
1959        88.9    101        66.5      70.2    264       159        81.8    74.7        79.1      62.7    109        135           108
1960        73.6     68.4    107        188       230      105        73.2    68.0        64.0    128        263       117           124
1961        76.9     69.6      62.4    150        248        95.3     79.5    97.1       123       523      1814       645           332
1962      387       184       136       216       526      227       137      105        105       123       139       137           202
1963      116        82.8      87.0    349        751      413       176      124         77.9      67.2    306        566           260
1964      340       161       147       593       494      234       122      123         84.1    118        126       40C           245
1965      193        97.9      68.0    125        247      123        76.2    64.2        52.5      58.2    324        182           134
1966       99.3      72.1    106        427       405      187       122       78.8       77.9      76.9    416        141           184
1967       84.4      69.2      66.1    140        707       302      184      148        137       193       608       377           251
1968      178       120       359       732       690      416       227      162        100       112       569       925           382
1969      236       145       205       172       301      135        80.6    60.5        50.9      58.6    143        122           142
1970       68.3      61.9      53.4    454        422       233      122       86.6       76.8      50.8    114         73.6         151
1971       57.9      57.4      53.4    162        427      191       ill       86.6       70.2      35.8    149        127           127
1972       75.8      77.0      55.6      53.6    160       199       102       63.1       -         -         -         -             -
Average                                                                                                                                      wX
1948-71   135        91        95       248       408      212       118       95         82       103       305       260           179    Li
1/  After adjustments were made to the origiral recordin_s of Table 2.



KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Tana River - Minimum Monthly Mean Discharges Available at Nanigi and Garsen
once in 5 years Nm3/sec)
Water Abstrac-    Estimated                                        Remaining        Estimated
Regulated low    tion from       Losses Between   Available   Total Diversion   Flow Down-   Losses Between   Remaining
Flow at Garissa   Kamburu to       Garissa and       Flow at    Requirement for   stream of    Nanigi weir and   Flow at
(once in 5 vears) Nanigi weir      Nanigi weir    Nanigi weir   Bura Project/!  Neaigi weir            Garsen         Garsen /
January              76.o             0.5              3.2            72.3             0.5            71.8            10.6            71.2
February             64.0             0.5              3-0            60.5             6.2            54.3             8.9            45.4
March                57.0             0.5              2.8            53.7             7.0            46.7             8.2             38.5
April                79.0             0.5              3.2            75.3             5.9            69.4            10.3             59.1
May                 220.9             0.5              6.4           213.1             8.0           205.1            22.8            182.3
June                130.0             0.5              4.4           125.1             7.4           117.7            14.8           102.9
July                 79.0             0.5              3.2            75.3             5.1            70.2            10.6             59.6
August               69.0             0.5              3.0            65.5             2.9            62.6              9.8            52.8
September            63.0             0.5              2.9            59.6             2.7            56.9             9.1             47.8
October              60.0             0.5              2.9            56.6             3.1            53.5              8.9            44.6
November            122.0             0.5              4.2           117.3             3.4           113.9             14.4            99.5
December            123.0             0.5              4.2           118.3             2.7           115.6            14.6            101.0
1/ Not including Hola Pilot Irrigation Scheme requirements.
2/ Ignoring abstractions for Hola.
January 4, 1977



KENYA
BURA IlRIGATION SETTLEMNT PROJECT
TAna River - Minimum Monthly Mean DischarRes Available at Nanigi and Garsen
once in 10 years (m3/sec)
Water Abstrac-    Estimated                                         Remaining        Estimated
Regulated Low      tion from      Losses Between   Available    Total Diversion   Flow Down-   Losses Between   Remaining
Flow at Garissa    Kamburu to       Garissa and       Flow at      Requirement for   stream of    Nanigi weir and   Flow at
(once in 5 yeara)  Nanigi weir      Nanigi weir    Nanigi weir    Bura Proiect 1/ Nanigi weir            Garsen         Garsen 2/
January              68.0              0.5              3.0            64.5              0.5            64.0             9.8            54.2
February             57.0              0.5              2.8            53.7              6.2            47.5             8.3            39.2
March                53,0              0.5              2.7            49.8              7.0             42.8             7.9            34.9
April                62.0              0.5              2.9            58.6              5.9             52.7             8.8            43.9
May                 158.0              0.5              5.0           152.5              8.0            144.5           17.3            127.2
June                105.0              05              3.8           100.7              7.4             93.3           12.6             80.7
July                 72.0              0.5              3.1            68.4              5.1             63.3             9.8            53.5
August               63.0              0.5              2.9            59.6              2.9             56.7             9.2            47.5
September            56.0              0.5              2.8            52.7              2.7             50.0             8.5            41.5
October              54.0              0.5              2.8            50.7              3.1             47l.6            8.3            39.3
November            108.0              0.5              3.9           103.6              3.4            100.2            13.1            87.1       0k
December            112.0              0.5              4.0           107.5              2.7            104.8            13.6            91.2       v !
1/ Not including Hola Pilot Irrigation Scheme requirements.
2/ Ignoring abstractions for Hola.
January 4, 1977



ANMNX 8
RENYA
BURA rRRIGATION SETLElMENT PROJECT
Croppins Pattern. Production and Farm Revenue
1/
YEARS                                  1          2        3         4       5          6           7          8           9
COTTON
Area Planted (ha)                     1.25        1.25     1.25      1.25    1.25       1.25        1.25       1.25         1.25
Yield (ton/ha)                        2.5         2.6      2.7       2.8     2.9        3.0         3.0        3.0          3.0
Production (ton)                      3.13        3.25     3.38      3.5     3.62       3.75        3.75       3.75         3.75
Selling Price  (Ksh/ton) 2/          3,200       3,200    3,200    3,200   3,200      3,200        3,200      3,200       3,200
Revenue (Ksh)                       10,016      10,400   10,816   11,200  11,584    12,000        12,000    12,000        12,000
MAIZE
Area planted (ha)  3/                 0.60        0.60     0.60      0.50    0.50       0.45        0.45       0.40        0.40
Yield (ton/ha)                        2.0         2.5      2.8       3.1     3.4        3.7         3.7        3.7         3.7
Production (ton)                      1.20       1.50      1.68     1.55    1.70       1.67         1.67       1.48        1.98
Production  Consumed (ton)            1.20       1.22      1.22     1.22    1.22       1.22         1.22       1.22        1.22
Production Sold (ton)                  -         0.28      0.46     0.33    0.48       0.45         0.45       0.26        0.26
Selling Price (Kah/ton)  4/            890        890       890      890      890       890          890        890         890
Revenue (Kah)                          -           249      409       294     427        400         400        231          231
COWPEAS
Area Planted (ha)  3/                 0.60        0.60     0.60      0.50    0.50       0.45        0.45       0.40        0.40
Yield (ton/ha)                        0.5        0.6       0.7      0.8      0.9       1.0          1.0        1.0         1.0
Production (ton)                      0.3         0.4      0.4      0.4      0,4       0.4          0.4        0.4         0.4
Production Consumed (ton)             0.3        0.3       0.3      0.3      0.3       0.3          0.3        0.3         0.3
Production Sold                        -         0.1       0.1      0.1      0.1       0.1          0.1        0.1         0.1
Selling Price (Ksh/ton)  4/          1,250      1,250    1,250    1,250   1,250       1,250        1,250      1,250       1,250
Revenue (Koh)                          -           125      125      125      125       125          125        125          125
GROUNDNUTS
Area Planted (ha)                      -           -        -        0.10    0.10       0.15        0.15       0.20         0.20
Yield (ton/ha, Unshelled)              -           -        -        1.4     1.6        1.8         1.9        2.0          2.0
Production (ton, Shelled)  5/          -          -         -         .09    0.10      0.18         0.19       0.26        0.26
Production Consumed (ton)              -           -        -       0.07    0.08       0.12         0.12       0.12        0.12
Production Sold (ton)                  -           -        -       0.02    0.02       0.06         0.07       0.14        0.14
Selling Price  (Kah/ton)  4/           -          -         -      2,220   2,220      2,220        2,220      2,220       2,220
Revenue (Ksh)                          -           -        -          44      44       133          155        311          311
GARDEN CROPS
Production (kg)                        350         350      350       350     350       350          350        350          350
Production Conaumed (kg)               175         175      175       175     115        175         175        175          175
Revenue (Koh) 6/                       350         350      350       350     350        350         350        350          350
OTAL CASH REVENUE FROM CROPS (Ksh)         10366    11,124   11,700   12,013  12,530    13,008         13,030    13,017        13,017
Market Value of Production
Consused 7/                       1,790    1,810    1,810    1,810   1,810       1,810        1,810      1,810        1,810
1/ Tenant is assumed to plant a maize/cowpeas crop immediately after he is established on his holding, and a first cotton crop
in February. Full production ia reached in year 9.
2/ Seed cotton.
3/ Maize and cowpeas are planted in association.
4/ Prices used are Maize Board prices, February 1977.
5/ Shelling percentage 65%.
6/ 175 kg at Kah 2 per kg.
7/ Maize and Cowpeas (Ksh 1,460 from year 2) and Garden Crops (175 kg at Kah 2 per kg).
May 19, 1977



ANNEX 9
Page 1
KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Forest Conservation and Afforestation
1.        Four major topics have been studied in the course of Project plan-
ning for the forestry component:
(a) conservation of natural vegetation, particularly
riverine forest;
(b) the demand for and the supply of timber and
fuelwood;
(c) forest extension and amenity requirements
in the proposed settlement villages;
(d) research.
Areas Recommended for Gazettement for Conservation
2.        Studies of existing natural vegetation both from inspection on the
ground and from maps specifically prepared from 1975 aerial photography indi-
cate that much of the riverine forest area has already been heavily exploited
or settled. The gazettement of natural forest reserves in Kenya is a compli-
cated procedure which also involves the resettlement of, and compensation paid
to, the population within any proposed reserve blocks. Gazettement of the
entire stretch of riverine forest from Garissa to Garsen is therefore consi-
dered to be neither feasible nor necessary. Instead, three specific blocks
have been selected for gazettement, based upon the present extent of actual
riverine forest area, population density within the proposed block, and
the future pressure the area is likely to experience from the proposed
Project.
3.        These areas are cited in order of priority (see Map IBRD 12226R1):
(a) the Bura block, of approximately 70 square
kilometers of riverine forest to the east
of the Bura Project, and encompassing
both banks of the river;
(b) the Nanigi block, of approximately 85 square
kilometers of riverine forest surrounding
the river diversion structure site; and



ANNEX 9
Page 2
(c) the Milalulu block, of approximately 90 square
kilometers of dense-medium Comiphera scrub,
to the north of Hola Pilot Irrigation scheme.
Provision of Timber and Fuelwood
4.        The demand of the Project population for timber and fuelwood has
been projected over a 20-year period on the basis of population estimates,
per capita consumption and an assumed rate of substitution of fossil
fuels for wood. A comparison of this demand with estimated supplies for
the natural vegetation has shown that unless the riverine forests are clear-
felled, a policy which is not recommended, there will be a serious shortage of
fuelwood amounting to 45 thousand cubic meters of solid volume per annum by
the 1990's.
5.        Four alternative sources of supply have been considered:
(a) dry land plantations near Garsen;
(b) partially irrigated plantations adjacent
to the Project area;
(c) natural forests such as Witu and Boni to
the south-west of the Project area;
(d) fossil fuels such as kerosene.
Accepting that the riverine forests should be protected, the least cost
method of meeting the Project's demands appears to be to establish fuelwood
plantations, partially irrigated by utilizing the spare capacity of the
canal system which would be available for most of the year.
6.        A plantation program has been prepared to meet the projected
demand to the year 2000 based upon demand estimates, a rotation period
of 7 years and a conservative mean annual increment of 15 cubic meters
per hectare per annum. The program is subject to modification following
recommended species trials to establish optimum growth rates, but, in its
present form, indicates that a net area of 3,900 hectares will be required for
afforestation, giving a gross area of 4,500 hectares after allowing for roads,
firebreaks, etc. Adjacent to and immediately to the east of the Project area
there are approximately 6,000 hectares above the Tana floodplain available for
the proposed afforestation program. If more than 25 percent of this area
were rejected after further investigations on the grounds of topography and
soil characteristics, the adjacent fringe of the floodplain could be utilized.
A financial analysis of the proposed program indicates that the net returns to
the Project are likely to be relatively high, because the irrigation water
would be surplus to agricultural needs and would thus be available at only
marginal cost. The cost of pumping water in the first few years of the
Project would not significantly affect the net returns.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
7.        Shade and amenity trees for the town and villages are considered
to be essential for the well being of the Project population. Experience
has indicated that while part of the tree planting could be undertaken by
the tenants themselves as a community development undertaking, an organized
program of tree planting in public places would be desirable. The Forest
Department, which has its own extension service, could undertake part of
this program and it is recommended that the school in each village be
involved in the remainder, possibly with the aid of the Wild Life Clubs of
Kenya, an active conservation-oriented organization which could be given an
annual grant by NIB to promote amenity tree planting. A number of species and
methods of watering have been proposed.
8.        Research proposals are primarily related to carrying out statistic-
ally replicated trials on 24 different species to establish those which will
give optimum growth rates under the proposed partial irrigation regime.
Because these trials should be carried out as soon as possible, preliminary
discussions have been held with the research team funded by the Government
of the Netherlands and located at Bura. The team has indicated that in
principle they would be willing to supervise the forestry trials provided
necessary funds were made available.
9.        Capital and recurrent costs have been estimated at constant 1977
prices for the forestry development proposals as a whole for a 13-year period
(1977/78 - 1989/90). In total a sum of about 41.5 million Kenya Shillings
is required. Of this about Ksh 32.5 million is required for the afforestation
program; about Ksh 4.6 million for the forest reserves; about Ksh 2 million
for an amenity program and about 2.4 million for the research program.
Revenue from the plantations would not commence until the first clear felling
in 1988; thereafter both capital and recurrent costs could be met from current
revenue.
May 15, 1977



ANNEX 9
APPENDIX 1
Page 1
KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Preservation of Indigenous Forests -
1.        Until recently vast land areas within the tropics have been cov-
ered by forests. In the past few years much of this area has gradually
been taken over by agriculture, as the fertile soils and the favorable
climate make the land ideal for cultivation. The tropical forests have
also been devastated by uncontrolled logging which has opened previously
impenetrable areas to unrestricted use by charcoal producers, pastoralists
and small farmers. These activities have disturbed the natural soil regime,
and the result has often been leaching and pan formation, destruction of
organic matter, loss of plant nutrients and general soil erosion. The
establishment of forest plantations to replace the indigenous forest cover
has received little support, with the result that today only marginal areas
are still available for planting, and even in these areas there is constant
pressure from agriculturalists and livestock owners.
2.        Only recently has attention been drawn to the necessity of pre-
serving at least representative samples of the various forest types.
These forests demonstrate an unparalleled richness and diversity of life,
and their preservation is essential not only as a learning tool for science,
but also because they represent an important tool in the conservation of
valuable land resources and a source of both present and future economic
wealth. The destruction of these indigenous tropical forests is an irre-
versible act whose ultimate environmental consequences are not always
fully appreciated. If the case for preservation is to be made in a cohe-
sive and rational manner, however, some means must be found for evaluating
the various conflicting interests and for establishing a scale of priori-
ties. Once this has been done, an overall land use plan can be drawn up;
this will not only help to minimize the adverse ecological effects of un-
controlled forest development, but should also help to reduce the present
undesirable conflict of interest between foresters and agriculturalists.
1/   This appendix was prepared by Messrs. P. Brinck and P. H. Enckell,
ecology consultants who participated in the IBRD Appraisal Mission
for the Kenya Second Forestry Plantation Project (Loan 1132-KE and
Credit 656-KE) in September/October 1974.



ANNEX 9
APPENDIX I
Page 2
3.        It has become evident that the only way to retain biological di-
versity and to preserve the full richness and complexity of these indige-
nous forests is to preserve an entire forest ecosystem. Early conserva-
tionists made considerable efforts to preserve rare (endemic) species,
irrespective of any concern for the status of the environment in which
the species existed. This approach should be avoided, as it often leads
to isolation or extinction of the species in a small part of an incomplete
ecosystem. The survival of a rare species can be ensured only by preserving
complete and viable parts of the ecosystem. Given present experience, it is
evident that some form of legal protection is necessary if an ecosystem is
to be allowed to remain undisturbed. The main instrument to be employed
is the creation of a forest area under the administration of the Forestry
Department. However, some method must be available to the administrators
so that they can make intelligent choices between different forms of com-
peting land uses. Each proposal for the protection of a particular forest
area must be evaluated with extreme care, so that ultimately the most effec-
tive sample of various forest types is preserved for future generations.
The criteria outlined below are set forth as an indication of the variety
of factors which should be considered in making the necessary choices.
1/
Conservation of Land Resources
(a) Soil status: organic contents,
nutrients, texture.
(b) Erosion preventive features.
(c) Water catchment and influence on water
movement.
(d) Climatic influence: humidity, air
filtering capacity.
1/   It has been argued that carefully managed forest plantations and
farm crops can achieve these aims as well as natural vegetation.
Given defined cultivation methods, short term experiments seem to
support this opinion. Long term observations of prevailing condi-
tions in most tropical countries seem to show that traditional forms
of land use (i.e. the shamba system) are not sufficient to conserve
soil and water resources. More research is needed on the importance
of tropical forests for water catchment, soil conservation and local
climate.



ANNEX 9
APPENDIX 1
Page 3
11
Present Economic Value
(e) Exploitation of single tree species.
(f) Extraction of wood for fuel, housing,
fencing, and carving.
(g) Habitats for game birds and mammals.
(h) Tourist attraction, because of scenic
and recreational value and a rich and
diverse plant and animal life.
Future Economic Potential
(i) Development of uses for currently eco-
nomically non-merchantable species of
trees and plants.
(j) Development of uses of active natural
chemical compounds present in large
numbers in forest plants and animals.
(k) Gene pools, retaining the range of varia-
tion within the species, and forming the
basis for future search for attractive
characters in useful species.
(1) Development of uses of ecological mechanisms
which stabilize inter-relations between species
and (i) form the basis for future biological
control in the tropics and subtropics, and
(ii) make control possible of the great var-
iations in numbers of individuals occurring
in exploited or otherwise perturbed ecosys-
tems 2/
1/   Only (f) and (h) are of considerable importance.  In practice, tourism
increases at a fast rate in countries where attractive forests can be
opened for tourists by the provision of adequate facilities.
2/   It has been argued that chemists will produce needed substances in the
laboratory and that geneticists will use gene pools available in plan-
tations and arboreta. This idea does not take into account the recent
great development and success of natural products chemistry, nor the
fact that plantations/arboreta contain only part of the genetic varia-
tion of a small number of species.



ANNEX 9
APPENDIX 1
Page 4
Present and Future Scientific Value
(m)  Differentiation in structure and func-
tion of species and their adaptation to
the complex environment. This is the
basis of biological evolution.
(n) Optimum utilization of energy and soil
resources. This is a characteristic of
humid tropical forests in contrast to
man-made ecosystems. The possibility of
studying natural ways of increasing pro-
ductivity.
(o) Biologically generated substances which
pass information and release reactions
among individuals and species.
(p) Life forms analysis (autecology) of species.
(q) Degree of endemicity (species/genera restricted
to the area in question).
(r) Degree of diversity (complexity of plant and
animal communities).
4.        Local Utilization of Indigenous Forests.  All over Africa local
population groups meet their need of wood for fuel, housing, and fencing
from indigenous forests and plantations. This consumption is considerable.
For Tunisia, it has been shown that the daily ration of fuelwood is about
2 kg per person (10-20 kg per family); and 80-150 kg are used per family for
housing purposes each year. The figures are similar in Kenya. This means
an out-take of 26,000 tons each day for fuelwood alone in Kenya (9.6 mil-
lion tons each year). Housing material contributes about 6-7% of this
figure. It has been calculated (FAOSWE/TF 28, 1970) that by the year
2,000 total consumption will have doubled, while the plantation program
is expected to yield only 1.25 million tons per year at that time. These
figures thus indicate that the pressure on indigenous forests will increase
considerably.
5.        There are several different ways of neutralizing the impact of
this trend. In Kenya one successful method used by the Forest Department
has been to surround forests in exposed locations with a protective zone
of plantations; this scheme should be extended. The Forest Extension Ser-
vice serves the same purpose by stimulating local tree planting through
rural afforestation and County Council forestry schemes.



ANNEX 9
APPENDIX 1
Page 5
6.        The Need for Documentary Studies of Indigenous Forests.  The de-
velopment of indigenous forests often results in widespread changes in the
flora and fauna, the effects of which are often little known and poorly
understood. Under similar circumstances, certain countries have found it
advisable to provide funds for documentary studies of the various ecosys-
tems. In Kenya the possibilities for such a study are particularly favor-
able owing to the capability of the National Museum and its staff. It is
recommended that studies of this kind be undertaken under the auspices of
the Museum.



ANNEX 10
Page 1
KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Wildlife, Fisheries and Ecology
I. WILDLIFE
1.        Although animal densities tend to be low, the Tana River District
is an important area for wildlife in Kenya. The Project can be expected
to affect some 1,500 square kilometers of wildlife habitat. The loss of
the actual area to be irrigated will not have such serious consequences
for wildlife as the restriction of access to the riverine forest, the
good grazing of the floodplain and the river itself. The proposed supply
canal which will bring water from the diversion structure near Nanigi
to the Project area is of particular importance in this respect, and
provision will have to be made to enable animals to cross this canal.
2.        The revised designs for the supply canal provide for inverted
siphons to carry the canal across natural cross-drainage lines, and these
may be used by animals to cross the canal alignment. Additional crossings
may be necessary: preferably these should also be inverted siphons, but if
these are too expensive, fords or drifts might be built within the canal.
It is proposed that initially three such additional structures may be built,
their locations being determined at the time of construction of the canal
following discussions with Wildlife Management Service personnel and the Tana
River Development Authority. Allowance has been made in the estimates for a
further four ford crossings which may be built after the canal has been
constructed if there are additional sites of high challenge.
3.        Eleven drinking pools would be provided along the west side of the
supply canal, preferably some 250 meters from it: these would help reduce
the number of animals wishing to cross the canal. The construction of
extensive fences to reduce wildlife damage to the supply canal cannot be
justified either on the grounds of effectiveness or expense. Experience
at Hola has shown that after a time game animals become accustomed to the
canal and cause little damage. The proposed siting of the settlement villages
around the perimeter of the irrigated area is well suited to reducing the
challenge of wildlife to the cultivated area. The main canal to the west and
the drainage channels to the north and south of the irrigated area would also
do much to reduce damage by wildlife. Fencing of the irrigated area is
considered to be of questionable value and trenching too expensive. It is
proposed that trials should be started in 1978, at Hola, in conjunction
with the forestry species trials, using vegetative barriers of Opuntia
ficus-indica and Euphorbia grandicornis. These may well prove a cheap
method of excluding wildlife from the irrigated area.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
4.        In 1980 twelve game scouts and one Junior Warden would be
required to limit poaching, control wildlife within the irrigated area
and deal with any game animals which may be trapped in the canal.
5.        The development of the east bank of the Tana River (the expected
Stage II of the Project for which feasibility studies are provided for under
the Project) would be detrimental to the endemic Hunter's Antelope. The
proposed irrigated area on the east bank of the river is a center of con-
centration for this animal and adequate safeguards must be provided if this
area is to be developed.
II. FISHERIES
6.        Although there is little commercial fishing in the vicinity of
Bura, fishing is an important activity, and most of the riverine people
fish to supplement their diet.   Commercial fishing is undertaken downstream
of Bura, but a ban on the use of nets introduced in mid-1975 has resulted in
much reduced official recorded landings.
7.        The Project's diversion structure will not hinder the migration of
fish going upstream to spawn, because this migration occurs during the
flood period. The possible reduction of peak flood levels downstream of
Bura may affect fishing because the main source of fish, the riverine
lakes, may receive less river water.
8.        There is a considerable potential for fish farming near Bura and
the development of this activity would provide a valuable protein supplement
to the Project population's diet. Because of the possible problems of
pesticide residues, any fish farming should be located north of the irrigated
area. It is proposed that fish farming trials be established in 1981 to
investigate the potential production from fish tanks and from fish cages
suspended in the supply canal.
III. ECOLOGY
9.        To determine the effects of the Project on aquatic and ter-
restial ecological systems it is proposed that a number of studies be
carried out. These would commence before the Project is commissioned
so that base-line data can be obtained against which subsequent data
can be compared. The studies include:
(a) wildlife;
(b) forestry;



ANNEX 10
Page 3
(c) fisheries;
(d) pesticide residues;
(e) soils;
(f) groundwater;
(g) health and nutrition;
Details of these proposed studies are set out in Annex 21, Monitoring and
Evaluation.
May 15, 1977



ANNEX 11
Page 1
KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
The Cotton Industry and the Cotton Lint and Seed
Marketing Board (CLSMB)
Background
1.        Despite its small size in relation to the total Kenyan economy,
the cotton industry is important because in the lowlands (including most
of Coast and Nyanza Provinces, and part of Central, Eastern and Western
Provinces) cotton is the longest established traditonal cash crop. Cotton
is also becoming increasingly important to the local textile industry. With
five existing major cotton mills and two under construction, the Kenyan in-
dustry will have a total capacity of 56 million sq.m. when in full operation.
This would still be below domestic consumption, estimated at 70-80 million
sq.m.
2.        Cotton was introduced into Kenya in 1906 by a private company
assisted by the British Cotton Growers Association, but its commercial
development was so unsuccessful as compared with cotton development in
neighboring Uganda that two of the first three ginneries (in Asembo Bay
and Malakisi) were dismantled and moved to Uganda. Later with Government
and private ginning company encouragement, cotton growing was adopted by
smallholders, and lint output increased from about 17,000 bales in 1963/
64 to about 30,000 bales in 1972/73 planted over about 76,000 hectares.
Ginnery ownership and management, however, remained in private (largely
expatriate) hands. In recent years it has become established Government
policy that, in order that farmers should reap the maximum return from the
cotton industry, ginneries may be bought out by farmers' cooperatives
except for a few in special areas (e.g. irrigation schemes) which it has
been agreed would remain under private or statutory board ownership. In
September 1975, there were 11 ginneries in Kenya, of which 3 were owned
by farmers' cooperatives, 5 by private individuals and companies, and 3
by the Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board (CLSMB).
3.        Cotton production in Kenya in 1975 was still at 1972-73 levels.
Of the 30,000 bales which Kenya grows, about 25,000 are of good quality
longer staple AR variety and 5,000 bales are of the shorter staple BR
type. Since BR cotton is preferred by the local industry, Kenya has
traditonally sold about 24,000 bales of AR cotton for export and
imported about 75,000 bales of BR cotton for its domestic needs from
Tanzania and Uganda. Because of the decline in Uganda's cotton produc-
tion and Tanzania having committed itself for cotton exports elsewhere
and increasing its own consumption, Kenyan mills are actively searching
for new long-term sources of supply.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
4.        CLSMB is a statutory corporation established in 1955 under the
Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Act. 1/ It has wide-ranging powers for
regulating and servicing the cotton industry in Kenya including, for
example: power to buy and sell raw cotton, lint, and seed; prescription
of cotton seed and ginnery standards; licensing and inspection of cotton
stores, marketing, ginneries and factories; treatment of cotton diseases;
financing ownership and operation of ginneries; financial, technical and
other assistance of cotton growers, growers' cooperatives or ginners;
and fixing of prices (with ministerial approval) for seed cotton, cotton
lint, and cotton seed.
5.        There have been persistent complaints over the years about the
way the Board carried out its functions. The reasons for the complaints
have been, among others: absence of a strong, independent and well informed
executive capacity; lack of continuity in management; inadequate agricultural,
financial, costing, credit, pricing and marketing policies; and construction
of new ginneries despite a stagnant raw cotton output which left ginneries
operating well below capacity. These complaints led to the appointment of
several committees of inquiry, including the Cotton Workiig Party of 1971,
and the 11-man Reorganization Committee which reported in June 1974. These
inquiries have, between them, recommended improvements regarding every
aspect of the Board's activities. Although most of the recommendations
were accepted by the Government, many of them were never implemented. Thus
in August 1975, the Government appointed yet another Committee of Inquiry
to investigate allegations of mismanagement in the Board. As a result of
the recommendations of this Committee the General Manager and his four
most senior staff were dismissed early in 1976 and new management brought
in.
6.        In addition to the appointment of new management, a number of
other measures have been taken or are about to be taken. Some of these
measures arise from recommendations made by the Bank/IDA in the course of
appraising the Integrated Agricultural Development (IADP) Project (Loan No.
1303T-KE and Credit No. 650-KE) in 1975 and certain of them are the subject of
conditions to the Bank/IDA's lending for that Project (Appendix 1). They are
discussed below:
Composition of the Board
7.        The composition of the Board is prescribed in Section 3(a) of the
Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Act. Representatives of the growers were
in the past appointed by the Minister of Agriculture after consultation with
the Central Agricultural Board. They are now to be elected from among the
growers in the main cotton growing areas. Section 3(2)(a) of the Act
specifies that representatives should be designated also from the cotton
industry. They are now to be chosen both from among local spinners
and from exporters, thus helping the Board to acquire a knowledge of
the competitive market interest of various groups.
1/   The Act became effective in Nyanza and Coast Provinces on July 1,
1955, and in other parts of Kenya somewhat later.



ANNEX 11
Page 3
Functions of the Board
8.        Marketing of Lint and Seed.  It has been agreed that the primary
responsibility for the marketing of lint and seed should rest with the Chief
Executive of the Board and that the Board should employ a marketing officer
with appropriate qualifications to assist him. In order to help the officers
make judgements as to the quantities of lint to be sold, the time of sale and
the price reserves to be set, the Board should subscribe to a daily advice
service which would provide up-to-date information on the prices of equivalent
growths in the main cotton export markets. It was agreed at negotiations for
the IADP project (Appendix 1) that it should be a condition of effectiveness
of that project that the CLSMB should employ a marketing officer 1/, a financial
controller and a chief accountant with qualifications and experience satisfactory
to the Association. The status of these appointments was reviewed at negotia-
tions for the Bura Project. The Board has filled satisfactorily the posts of
financial controller and chief accountant, but has had difficulty in finding a
suitable marketing officer. However, it is negotiating at present for the
position to be filled under French bilateral assistance and expects to propose
a candidate for the Association's approval shortly. The Government and the
Association therefore agreed at negotiations for the Burea Project that the
appointment of the marketing officer should be made by December 31, 1977.
9.        It was also agreed at negotiations for the IADP project (Appendix
1) that the CLSMB will sell all lint and seed by public auction and will
publish the results of such sales promptly after each auction. There will be
no restrictions applied to the sale, ownership, use or export of cotton or
seed produced in Kenya which have as their purpose, or their probable effect
(a) discrimination between (i) purchasers who intend to export from Kenya
the cotton lint or seed purchased, and (ii) purchasers who do not so intend,
or (b) restriction on the export of cotton lint or seed. All sales of cotton
lint or seed will be made pursuant to standard contracts acceptable to the
Association and contracts will be concluded only with purchasers who have
opened irrevocable letters of credit in favor of CLSMB for at least the
amount of the purchase price. The Government would submit its proposed
standard contract to the Association. The present situation in regard to
these undertakings was also reviewed at negotiations for the Bura Project.
The Board has introduced a system of sales by auction which has resulted in
greatly improved sales prices. It has not yet instituted the formal publi-
cation of the results of the sales but intends to do so shortly. It is in the
process of preparing its proposed standard contract for submission to the
Association. It was therefore agreed at the Bura Project negotiations that
these actions should be taken by December 31, 1977.
10.       The Chief Executive would benefit greatly by the recruitment of
a qualified lint classifier whose main function would be to establish and
maintain the FA (first grade) standard box for each zone against which AR
(first quality) lint sales are made, as well as the UG (undergrade) box
used to determine the extent to which any sample which is the subject of
a quality claim falls below the FA standard. This lint classifier would
1/   It was agreed subsequently, however, that the appointment of a mar-
keting officer should not be a condition of effectiveness. Instead
March 31, 1977 was established as a deadline date for the appointment.



ANNEX 11
Page 4
be the Board's main spokesman in discussions with claimants with regard
to quality defects (prior to resort to arbitration). The classifier should
also study the possibility of establishing premium grades for the various
zones, which could then be the subject of separate sales against a premium
standard. Tfls would be of particular importance for the Bura Project whose
cotton lint is expected to be of premium quality as compared with lint grown
under rainfall conditions. It was agreed at negotiations for the IADP project
(Appendix 1) that the CLSMB would employ a lint classifier not later than
December 31, 1976 but this has not been done. As in the case of the marketing
officer (para 8) the CLSMB has had difficulty in filling this position, but
expects it to be filled under French technical assistance. It was therefore
agreed at negotiations for the Bura Project that the appointment should be
made by December 31, 1977.
11.       Ginnery Inspection and Training of Gin Fitters.  The Board should
employ two qualified mechanics trained in gin fitting and maintenance. These
mechanics would be responsible for the inspection of ginnery operations and
the correction of faults; they would also provide on-the-job training for
local fitters and mechanics employed by the ginneries. These staff should
then establish a formal inspection and training routine. Prior to the
opening of the ginning season in each zone, the inspectors would select
a central ginnery and invite all local mechanics and fitters from the
ginneries in that zone to attend a training course in gin fitting and
maintenance; the group would then prepare and set up all the equipment in
the ginnery under the guidance of the inspector. For maximum impact and
in order to ensure continuity of standards, this course should be offered
annually in each zone. During the actual ginning season, the inspectors
should ideally visit each ginnery at least once a month to check for faulty
setting and maintenance of the openers, gins, rollers and presses. Any
faulty equipment could then be stopped and repaired under the inspector's
supervision. The inspectors would also be responsible for running tests
of the ginning outturn percentage (GOP), and for reporting the results to
the Board. These tests should be carried out at least twice per season
at each ginnery. Finally, the inspectors would be charged with ensuring
that no BR (second quality) cotton is ginned before AR (first quality) cotton;
if this procedure is not followed much time can be lost in making the neces-
sary adjustments to the rollers and knives ruined by the BR cotton. It was
agreed at negotiations for the IADP project that the CLSMB would employ two
ginnery mechanics not later than December 31, 1976 and this has been done.
12.       Improved Seed.  One of the most important responsibilities of the
Board is the treatment and distribution of new seed for planting. Particular
attention should be paid to this area if yield increases are desired. The
Board is expecting to obtain experienced staff, also under French technical
assistance, to institute a seed multiplication and distribution system.
Board Financial Controls and Accounting Procedures
13.       Financial Controls.  At present the Board's overhead costs are
consuming about 5% of its gross receipts from the sale of lint and cotton.
As cotton yields are increased and Board operations streamlined, this
percentage would be significantly reduced, thus freeing funds for other



ANNEX 11
Page 5
and possibly new operations. Specifically, the Board is considering
the establishment of a price assistance fund for growers to help protect
the farmer against sudden down-turns in prices, and on occasion it might
be possible for it to pay a short crop bonus when circumstances beyond
the farmers' control have reduced the level of production. Assuming
production can be increased in the next several years, and if world prices
continue to gradually advance in accordance with IBRD forecasts, it is
possible that a fund as large as Ksh 4.0 million could be built up over
a period of 4 to 5 years. In addition, it was agreed at negotiations for
the IADP project (Appendix 1) that the CLSMB would provide security of
adequate returns to cotton farmers, including a guaranteed minimum price
published annually before planting, and would adopt a system under which
the profits of CLSMB (above a certain level) from the sale of cotton lint
and seed would be returned to cotton farmers. The detailed plans and pro-
posed program for the introduction of these reforms are to be submitted
to the Bank for its approval by December 31, 1977. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations for the Bura Project that the guaranteed minimum
prices would be published annually not later than January 1 of each year, that
such prices would be set at levels adequate to maintain incentives to farmers
to grow cotton and that by 1980, based on prices realized at auction, the
CLSMB would introduce a system of premium prices taking into account higher
grades of cotton and varieties produced under irrigation.
13.       Accounting Procedures.  The Board has recruited a Chief Accountant,
along with an appropriate staff of accountants, invoice clerks and book-
keepers. The Chief Accountant will, in addition to preparing the annual
accounts and financial statements, devise a system of controls to ensure
that proper payments are made for the actual quantities received (i.e.
seed cotton by the ginneries, lint by the buyers, and seed by the oil mills).
The Gross Outturn Percentage (GOP) tests made by the Inspectors would provide
a useful guide as to the volume of lint and seed which should be produced
by each ginnery from the seed cotton received and paid for by the Board.
Also, efforts should be made to ensure prompt payments at all levels to
help keep costs to a minimum.
Ownership of Ginneries
1]4.      In order to ensure that the farmers reap the maximum return from
the cotton industry, Government policy now encourages cooperative societies
to acquire and manage most privately owned ginneries. However, coming from
lowly rural backgrounds and without previous experience of industrial enter-
prises, the tenants in the Bura Project could not be expected to be able to
participate effectively in the ownership and management of the Project's
ginnery for many years. The Government has therefore agreed that the NIB would
own and operate the ginnery and would not delegate its ownership or operation
to a farmers' cooperative before 1987 or such earlier date as the Bank/IDA
accept.



ANNEX 11
Page 6
Prices to Growers
15.       Prices tu growers have increased substantially over the past
couple of years. In January 1975, the prices for AR cotton were raised
from Ksh 1.40 to Ksh 2.00 and those for BR from Ksh 0.70 to Ksh 1.00. In
January 1976, the AR and BR prices were further increased to Ksh 2.50 and
Ksh 1.25, respectively; in February 1977 they were increased again to Ksh
3.20 and Ksh 1.50, respectively. These substantial increases should provide
the Kenyan growers with sufficient incentive to intensify production.
Lint Price Formula
16.       The Board, in line with a Government request, has begun a study
of possible new formulas by which ginneries could be paid for ginning
services. At the present time, the Board is utilizing a revised version
of the old formula applied in neighboring Uganda, under which a ginner
receives a standard first payment for his services plus a second variable
payment determined by his submission of returns of opening and closing
stocks of consumable stores and actual costing of the variables involved.
Thus, every ginnery would appear to be operating on a cost plus basis,
regardless of throughput and with no real check on variable costs. There
is now considerable support, both within the Board and in Government, for
the abandonment of the old formula and the adoption of a fixed ginning
price. This desire for simplicity is understandable, but it is also true
that unless the reimbursements are based at least in part on costs, there
is a risk of over or underpayment with the latter posing a real threat to
the viability of marginal enterprises. The choice then appears to be
between a different price level to every ginnery based on capital employed
in buildings and equipment, variable costs and throughput (i.e. fixed and
variable costs plus a fixed margin of profit) or a uniform price to all
ginners giving differing profit or loss levels and thus an incentive to
operate to maximum economic efficiencies.
17.       Thus various alternatives should be considered by the Board
before making any final decision on this point. Initially, the problem
can be simplified by separating the buying from the ginning function,
thus reducing the level of variable costs. The cooperative societies
and the unions might be given exclusive collection or buying rights
for seed cotton, and be paid themselves directly by the Board on the
basis of weight notes signed jointly by the society or the union repre-
sentative and the ginnery representative. This procedure is already
being followed in several areas, and would be relatively simple to insti-
tute for Bura. This change would then leave the separate question of
remuneration for the ginning and baling operations. Two different
approaches in this regard might be considered by the Board. One solu-
tion would be to divide the ginneries into classes; cost analyses of both



ANNEX 11
Page 7
the fixed and variable (staff) overheads could then be made and lump sum
first payments fixed for each class. Other variable costs (e.g. costs
of fuel, oil, grease, hessian, twine, baling hoops, studs, etc.) could
be determined by reference to the main suppliers as of a fixed date in
advance of the opening of the ginning season; these costs plus an agreed
profit could then be remitted to the ginners as a second payment on
delivery of the cotton bales. A second method would be that, assuming
that all ginneries are owned by the cooperative societies or unions,
the Board could sell the bales and seed and after a deduction of an
agreed percentage to cover the costs of marketing and mangement incurred
by the Board, pass the proceeds back to the ginneries. Once the ginnery
costs of transport, ginning and buying were deducted, the remainder would
be available for distribution to the members of the cooperatives. It
was agreed at negotiations for the IADP project (Appendix 1) that the
precise formula to be adopted would be submitted to the Bank for its
approval by July 1, 1977.
Terms and Conditions of Sale of Lint and Seed
18.       Sales.  The Board has recently instituted sales by public auction.
Previously, lint and seed were sold separately by private treaty after
invitation to exporters, spinners and oil millers, and the results of
the sales were not published. A public auction assures all participants
that the sales are being carried out in a regular and impartial manner.
The standard sales contract is also being revised in order to expedite
the proceedings, and will provide for the need for ensuring prompt payment
by the buyer and that no party shall be permitted to bid or tender for seed
or cotton lint unless an adequate irrevocable credit has been established
in the name of the CLSMB prior to the sale. Such a contract should also
define clearly the period within which quality claims would be entertained,
and should establish the arbitration procedure to be adopted in the event
of disputes.
19.       Transport.  Some economies would be achieved by the Board if all
lint and seed were sold on an ex-ginnery basis with transport paid by the
buyer. Sales of lint would best be made in 200-bale lots and should
preferably be made before ginning. In this way the buyer could have an
agent at the ginnery to watch the ginning of his purchases and to check
delivery weights (no weight claims would be admitted thereafter). This
procedure would help to ensure accuracy of weighing and recording, and
would allow the Board to pay the ginneries only for the exact weight
recorded, thus reducing the chance of over-payments. Owing to the in-
accessibility of the area, seed cotton from Bura should be sold on an
f.o.b. Mombasa basis.
20.       Quality and Price Controls.  All sales of AR lint cotton are
presumed to be made against a standard FA (first grade) standard box
(para 10), which is renewed annually to ensure against quality erosion.
Consideration might be given to the establishment of at least one other



ANNEX 11
Page 8
box representing the UG (undergrade); the differential in cents per pound
to be paid for each could be agreed annually by the Board's classifiers.
This procedure could help greatly in the arbitration of quality claims
by providing a more exact standard of comparison. Recently the Kenya
Government has put a limit on the price at which cotton seed oil may be
sold, thus depressing the price tendered by the oil millers for the
cotton seed offered by the Board. With no control on the latter price,
and without detailed knowledge of the standard processing costs, there
is clearly no well-defined policy allocating the benefits of cotton seed
between the grower, the Board, the oil millers, and the consumers of the
oil. This matter is to be considered in conjunction with the financial
and accounting plans to be submitted to the Bank by December 31, 1977
(Appendix 1).
Requirements of the Kenya Spinning and Weaving Industry
21.       Until open public auctions were instituted, the volume of cotton
lint allocated for sale to local spinners and for export had been determined
by the, Board, with the supplementary requirements of the domestic textile
industry being met by the purchase of BR lint from Uganda and Tanzania.
Kenya's AR staple cotton, 1-1/16" and better, is of a higher quality than
required for much of the local textile production and thus, other things
being equal, it is more economical to export the Kenya AR lint and import
lower grade and shorter staple cotton from Pakistan, India and other countries
to supplement the supply of East African BR cotton. By offering all lint
cotton in public auction to both cotton exporters and local spinners, market
forces are thus left to decide how much AR cotton should be exported or
retained for local consumption, and the price offered to the CLSMB and the
producers (through guaranteed minimum prices and bonuses) should equate the
export parity price.



ANNEX 11
Appendix 1
KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Schedule 6 of Development Credit Agreement for Kenya:
Integrated Agricultural Development Project; Credit No. 650-KE
This Appendix is available in the Project File.



ANNEX 12
Page 1
KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Feasibility Studies of Stage II
Irrigation Project on the Lower Tana River
1.        Agricultural development on the east bank of the lower Tana River
will be possible in future, after flow regulation has been provided in the
upper reaches of the basin (mainly by means of the on-going Upper Tana
Reservoir). Water will be the limiting factor to irrigation projects, and
this will depend on releases from the Upper Tana Reservoir and existing
reservoirs during the dry season. The reservoirs will have to be operated in
such a manner as to satisfy the demands of irrigation, power production and
domestic and industrial water supply.
2.        Preliminary reconnaissance soil surveys have identified an area
of more than 60,000 ha of soils on the East Bank as likely to be suitable
for irrigation. The Tana River Development Authority has confirmed the
likely availability of sufficient water, after the construction of the Upper
Tana Reservoir, to irrigate up to about 25,000 ha. It has therefore been
decided to undertake pre-investment feasibility studies, financed under
the Bura Project, for the development of a Stage II irrigation project on
the East Bank of about 25,000 ha.
3.        It is unlikely that financing decisions for this possible Stage
II development would be taken before the early 1980s. Since the conclusions
of a full feasibility study conducted Immediately would not be likely to
remain valid so far ahead, consideration has been given to postponing the
study until towards the end of the implementation of the Bura Irrigation
Settlement Project, by which time also the experience of the Bura Project
would be available to provide guidance for east Bank development. However, it
would be necessary to establish the feasibility of East Bank development in
order to finalize the location and design of the Bura diversion structure,
which is intended to provide gravity diversion for both West Bank and East
Bank development. For this a feasibility study will have to be completed
by October 1977 to permit its findings to be taken into account in the final
design of the structure.
4.        In the light of the above considerations it has been decided to
undertake the feasibility studies in two phases. Phase I, which is the
subject of the following terms of reference, would be a preliminary feasibi-
lity study concentrating mainly on technical feasibility, with agricultural
production, economic, social and financial inputs extrapolated from the Bura
Project's Project Planning Report. The Phase II study, for which terms of
reference would be agreed between the Government of Kenya and the Bank/IDA at
a later stage, would update the findings of the Phase I study in relation to
actual experience on the Bura Project and updated costs and benefits and its
findings would be presented as a full feasibility study.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
5.        The area of the East Bank Project is at a distant location, present-
ing serious access difficulties. Some of the aspects of the East Bank Project
will be similar to those prevailing in the Bura Irrigation Settlement Project
(agriculture, settlement, buildings and infrastructure, organization and
management requirements, etc); it is therefore advisable to take full account
of experience that can be gained in the Bura Project. Initially, for the
Phase I study, the findings of the Bura Project Planning Report on such
aspects would be accepted as being adequately applicable to the East Bank area
for the purposes of establishing preliminary feasibility.
6.        The soils studies necessary for the feasibility study would be
conducted as part of the Phase I study. They would be undertaken either by
the Government with a liaison input from consultants or alternatively entirely
by consultants. If done by Government, the capacity of the Ministry of
Agriculture's Kenya Soil Survey Project would have to be supplemented urgently
by additional experienced staff. It is understood that the Government has
approached the Netherlands Government to provide this staff as an extension
of their existing technical assistance under the Kenya Soil Survey Project.
A decision on this aspect would have to be taken as soon as possible to
permit the responsibility for the execution of the work to be defined and its
timing agreed upon.
7.        The Phase I feasibility study would cover the following subjects:
(a) Semi-detailed soil survey and land capability classification
A soil survey would be undertaken for the areas under con-
sideration for development, with soil maps on a scale 1:20,000,
covering about 40,000 - 50,000 ha. An appropriate density of
observations would be attained on a grid with cut lines forming
rectangles of 200 m by 500 m, with one observation at each
intersection of cut-lines. Soil observations would be carried
out by augers or pits to a depth of 2 m. Not less than 5% of
these observations sited throughout the project area would be
extended by augering to.a depth of 3 m in order to furnish
information on the lower substrata. A sufficient number of the
total observations would be sampled throughout the major
horizons to classify the soils by their suitability for irri-
gation. The following analytical data would be obtained in
mobile field laboratories:
pH of a saturation extract;
Conductivity of a saturation extract;



ANNEX 12
Page 3
exchangeable sodium percentage; and
permeability of disturbed (air-dry, 2 mm) samples.
The survey reports following the investigations would
include the usual details of climatology, geomorphology,
pedology, vegetation, land use, etc. The semi-detailed
soil survey reports and land capability classification
would contain, in addition to the above-mentioned general
requirements, the following:
(i)  a description of the procedure of the soil survey;
(ii) a description of the method of aerial photo-inter-
pretation;
(iii) tables with analytical data from the profile pits
and borings for each site;
(iv) a location map of all profile pits and borings;
(v)  a study of the requirements for land levelling
based on detailed topographical surveys of a
sufficient number of sample areas to give signi-
ficant results applicable to the area as a whole.
In the event that non-saline, non-akaline topsoils
are encountered overlying saline and/or alkaline sub-
soils at shallow depth, the feasibility of carrying
out effective land levelling without exposing the
subsoil in subsequent cultivations will be demon-
strated by such sample studies prior to including
the soils in an "irrigable" class in the classi-
fication system.
(vi)  if requested by the Government, a taxonomic soil
classification map, in multi colors to a scale of
1:20,000 or some other suitable scale to be agreed
with the Government, showing the boundaries of the
irrigable areas;
(vii) a land capability classification map, in multi
colors, for irrigated cultivation. The soil would
be classified according to U.S. Bureau of Reclama-
tion standards, adjusted where necessary to fit
Kenyan experience. Land classes Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4
and 6 would be delineated at 1:20,000 scale showing
the boundaries of the irrigable areas; and



ANNEX 12
Page 4
(viii)  a review of the capacity of the soils to support
and maintain production over the life of the pro-
posed project under irrigation at the intensity
proposed under the project, paying attention to
field drainage requirements.
(b) Proposed agriculture - including forestry and animal husbandry
The findings of the Bura Project Planning Report in respect of the
following would be taken into account in the study, mainly by extrapolation
from the Bura Project:
(i)  a review of possible crops and an estimate cf yields;
(ii) alternative cropping patterns, cropping intensities,
rotations, and planting dates;
(iii)  mechanisation of agricultural operations, including
estimation of requirements of tractors and farm
equipment month by month throughout the year;
(iv) costs of marketing, processing, etc.;
(v)  cash yields, returns per hectare, farm holding sizes,
labor requirements, mechanization and working capital
etc.;
(vi  investigation of the role and significance of animal
husbandry in the development of the project area,
paying particular attention to the utilization of
crop residues by livestock. The potential for feed-
lot fattening of range-reared animals would also
be reported upon;
(vii)  an assessment of the project's needs for forest
conservation and afforestation, with proposals for
meeting them in a timely manner; and
(viii)  an overall assessment of the probable status of
agriculture following the development of the project
with information on cropping patterns, areas, yields,
water requirements, markets for increased production,
probable farm prices, development period, expected
gross value of production, expected farm production
costs and net value of production.



ANNEX 12
Page 5
(c) Enginee-ing investigations
(i)  hipping of the irrigable project area at a scale
of 1:10,000 with contour lines every 0.25 m.
(ii) Preliminary site surveys and foundation investiga-
tions, where necessary, for major irrigation works
such as canals and structures; and construction
materials investigations.
(iii)  Layout plans of main and branch canalisation and
drainage. Cost estimates for project canalisation
and drainage system and estimates for control
structures and unit: costs for construction. Minor
canalisation and drainage layouts and estimates
would be based on typical areas and/or deduced
from costs of construction in the Bura Project.
Particular attention would be paid to detailed
estimates of the extent and cost of land levelling
if any, required for the field irrigation system
recommended for adoption in the project.
(iv) The preparation of outline designs, where required,
and cost estimates including annual recurring
charges for the project works, namely:
Irrigation works
Irrigation canals and major drains
Distribution and drainage system, roads
Equipment and vehicles for operation and
maintenance of irrigation works
(v) Review of water availability for irrigation and
determination of overall water demand in the project
for irrigation and other uses.
(vi) Collation and review of existing information on
groundwater levels, groundwater availability and
quality. A decision would have to be made whether
there is adequate justification for continuing the
search for non-saline groundwater.
(vii) The system of operational control of water releases
from the reservoirs which should be adopted to ensure
adequate water availability for the project.
(viii)  For the following components, the conclusions of the
Bura Project Planning Report would be extrapolated to
the East Bank study:



ANNEX 12
Page 6
Buildings and utilities
Buildings for project administration
including offices, workshops, project
staff housing, water supply and tele-
communications
Physical and social planning of villages
and towns
Infrastructure including roads,
water supply and electrical dis-
tribution
Buildings for public administra-
tion, community services and
commerce
Substations and transmission lines
Transportation, processing and storage
Agricultural equipment and vehicles
Equipment and vehicles for road main-
tenance
Public health, community development
and education
Agricultural experimental stations and
farms
In addition the estimates would include items
for administration and overheads, consultants
and studies, physical contingency and price
escalation.
(d) Wildlife
The consultants would carry out a study of the wild-
life in and around the project area. The survey and
collection of factual information would lead to an
assessment of future interaction between wildlife and
the project. The study would include observations of
animal densities, use of habitat, local movements and
migration routes. The objective of the study is to
indicate ways to minimize adverse reciprocal effects
between the wildlife and the project.



ANNEX 12
Page 7
(e)  Organization and management
The conclusions of the Bura Project Planning Report would
be extrapolated to the East Bank study in respect of the
following considerations:
(i)  size of holdings;
(ii)  management units, block areas, etc;
(iii)  alternative systems of agricultural administra-
tion, etc;
(iv)  research and extension services required;
(v)  methods of recovering project costs from the farmers
by land and water charges, taxation, etc;
(vi)  cost of management services, including capital
charges and annual recurring costs;
(vii)  recommendations for training project staff and farmers;
(viii)  organization of local government and provision of
social services (including public health and education),
town planning, etc.; and
(ix)  selection of settlers and provision of settler housing.
(g) Economics of the project
A full economic and financial assessment would be made
of the project including:
(i)  cost of the works including a detailed time schedule
of the investments, duration and year to year expenditure;
(ii)  a split of the investments item by item and from year
to year over local and foreign currency components;
(iii) estimates of the gross annual yield and annual agri-
cultural cost incurred by the farmer including costs
of spraying, ploughing, etc., including farm budgets
demonstrating the farmer's capacity to repay project
costs without losing his incentive to produce;



ANNEX 12
Page 8
(iv)  an estimate of the net benefit of the irrigated
agriculture compared with the estimated net benefit
from the existing agricultural and livestock production;
(v)  an estimate of the annual recurring charges including:
irrigation maintenance and operation, agricultural
management and services, including maintenance of roads
and buildings;
(vi)  calculation of the economic and financial internal
rates of return;
(vii) the net benefits of the project to the Government's
revenue taking into account Government's cost re-
covery from water and land charges, taxation, etc.,
and its annual recurring charges on the project;
(viii) the net effect of the project on the national
economy, its capital output ratio, etc.; and
(ix)  the net benefits of the project to the country's
balance of payments, increases in exports and/or
import substitutes, increases in imports of raw
materials, etc.
The Government's investment and recurring costs would be shown
separately as well as the farmers' capital and operating costs.
In addition to the internal economic rate of return, a sensitiv-
ity analysis would be made, in respect of foreseeable risks
which might affect the project's economic viability. The Govern-
ment's expenditure and receipts associated with the project
would be shown in a cash flow projection covering the first 15
to 20 years of the project.
(h)  Additional studies
The consultants would identify in outline any additional
studies which they may recommend should be completed prior
to initiating the implementation of the project, e.g. a
project planning report.
(i)  The feasibility report
The feasibility report would record the results of all the
investigations enumerated above, and would be supported by:
(i) layout plans of the main and major canalisation; and
(ii) outline designs for the major irrigation, drainage
and river control structures.



ANNEX 13
Table 1
ENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
8uarvof Pro eat Costs
(ten 050oo
Foreign        7%
77/78      78/79       79/80      80/81       81/82      Total       E.coanse       Taxes
I.  IRRIGATION WORKS
(a)  River Works                             _       17,710      35,000      7,000         -       59,110
(5)  Temporary Pumps                       1,030      3,650         -          _           _        4,680
(a)  Supply Canal                         5,110      22.640       8,910        -           -       36,660
(d)  Main Canal                           4,750       4,750       2,109        -           -        11,609
(s)  Irrigation Network                   3,650      11,000      11,000      4,248         -        29,898
(f)  On-Farm Development WorKs               -       11,690      10,225      1,211         -        23,126
Sub-Total I                          14,540     71.440      67.244      12.459        -       165.683        55           10
II.  WILDLIFE CONSERVATION WORlS                  -           -        1.512         -           -        1.512         55           10
ITl. ROADS AND AIRFIElDS
(a)  Garisso-Gorseo and Nonigi Access    8,100        1,896         -           -          -         9,996
(b)  Mainteosoce of Roads                    365      1,048         855         -          _         2,268
(c)  Surfscirg of Schesia Roads              -          -           900         900        300       2,100
(d)  Landing Strips                          -                      -           365        475         840
Sob-Total III                         8.465      2.944       1.755     1265          775      15.204         50          10
IV. BUILDINGS AND IRFRASTRSCTURES
(e)  Settlers' Dwellings                     -          -         4,500      7,200       8,900      20,600
(b)  Village Infrastr-ctore                2,560     21,500      13,980      5,340       3,940      47,220
(c)  Education                                          -         1,440       2,260      1,800       5,500
(d)  Social Services                         -          -           931         612        866       2,409
(o)  Administration                          -          -         3,634      1,964       2,898       8,496
(f)  NIB Buildings                       10,165       8,240       6,985      8,032       3,455      36,877
(g)  Public Health                           745      2,275       2,110         378        -         5,508
(h)  Forestry, Wildlife, Misc. Bldg..       500       1,000       1,000       1,000        635       4,135
Sub-Total IV                         13.970     33,015      34.580     26.786      22.494    130.b45          33          10
V. PUBLIC HEALTH
(a)  Vehicles                                -          170         255         -          -           425
(b)  Salaries                                162        274         357         357        449       1,599
(c)  Opre.tion and Maintenance               170        710         751      1,166       1,166       3,963
Sub-Total V                             332      1.154       1.363       1.523      1.615       5.987         52          IO
VI. AFFOERSTATION
(C)  Capitol Costs                           570        500       4,610      8,840       7,820      22,340
(b)  Maintenance                             270        820         820      1,360       1,210       4,480
Sub-Total VI                            840      1.320       5.430     10.200       9,030      26.820         20           5
VII. VEHICLES AND EOUIPM8NT
(a)  Vehicles                                756        784       1,514      1,500       1,135      5,689
(b)  Farm Machinery                          -          -         3,800      3,623       1,365    10.191
(c)  Heavy Machinery end Equipment         2,546      4,422       4,172       1,200        -       12,340
(d)  Miscellaneous Eqoipment                 -          -         1,932         -          -        1,992
Sub-Total VII                        3.302       6.609      11.418      6 232       2,500    30.152           82          11
VIII. GINRERY                                     7.308      16.094      17,180        -           -      40.582          82           11
IX.  OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE - NI7.
(a)  Salariss                              1,096      2,201       6,133      8,142       8,142    25,714
(b)  Vehicles                                 72        201         453         763      1,045      2,534
(c)  Farm-Machinery                          -          262       1,216       2,468      3,308      7,354
(d)  Heavy Maintenance Equipaent             -          420         756       2,520      2,520      6,216
(e)  Miscellaneous Equipment                 -          -           168         252        252        672
(f)  Utilities                               252        252         924         924      1,176      3,528
Sob-Total IX                          1.420      3,336       9.650     15,069      16.443    45_918           51          17
X. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE - OTNER             420         420      1.589       2.268       2.947     7.644          15            9
XI.  INCREWNTAL FARM INPLTS                       -                    3.240       5.184       6.408    14.832          90            -
XII. CONSULTANCY SERVICES
(a)  Preliminary Planning and Design       2,710        -           -           -          -        2,710
(b)  Project Coordination, Frocurement,
Constructian,supply                   6,600      5,700       5,700       5,690      4,600    28,290
C)  Stage II Feasibility Study             2,000      2,000         -           -          -        4,000
Sub-Total XII                       11.310       7,700       5.700      5.690       4,600    35.00            82           5
XIII.  AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT                      234       1.720       3.160      4.915       4.915    14.944          60            5
XIV. TRAINING                                      _           -          756         924       2.604     4.284         100           _
TOTAL BASE COST                           62,141    145.752    164.577       92.606      74,331   539.407          54           10
Physical Contingencies 1/                  7,515     20,625      23,130      12,525     10,020    73,815
Price Cootingencies 2/                     5,430      29 225     46,175      38 410     33,150   152.390
TOTAL. PROJECT COST                       75.086    1935602    735 .88'    143.541    1           765612           34           10
1/  2072 o river works, settlers' dwellings and afforestation, 157. on irrigation work., wildlife conservation works, roads and
airfields, public health buildingo and vehiclas and ginnery; and 1l/ on other costs.
2/  1977-79:  97. p.a. for civil works, 7.5b  for equipment and services; 1980-85:  87 for civil works, 7b for eqoipseet end
services.
May 17, 1977



ANNEX 13
Table 2
KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Costs of Settlers' Dwellings, Village Infrgstructure, Education
and Social Services Buildings
(Kah' 000)
Unit                                                                 Foreign    v
Cost    77/78   78/79   79/80   80/81   81/82               Total   Exchange Taxes
I. SETTLERS' DWELLINGS
Dwelling Units 1/                No.      -        -        -    1,125   1,800   2,225              5,150
Cost      4       -        -    4,500   7,200   8.900            20,600      20       10
II.  VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE
Water Supplies                   Cost           2,000  15,000   3,000   4,000 - 3,070              27,070      60      10
Drainage and Roads               Cost              -    5,500   5,980       900     870           13,250      50       20
Electricity Supply               Cost             560   1,000   5,000       440       -            7,000      58       11
Sub-Total                                       2,560  21,500  13,980   5,340   3,940             47,320
III.  EDUCATION
Primary Schools, double stream 2/  No.  -          -        -         6       9      10                 -
Cost    140       -        -      840   1,260  1,400              3,500      20       10
Secondary School 3/              No.        1      -                -        -        -                -
Cost  2,000       -        -      600   1,000      400            2,000      40       20
Sub-Total                                                        1,440   2,260  1.800              5,500      24       10
IV.  SOCIAL SERVICES
Social Halls                     No.       -       -        -        6        8       9                23
Cost     42       -               252      336    378               966
Main Office                      No.       -       -        -         1      -        -                 1
Cost    160       -       -       160       -       -               160
House - Social Dev. Officer    No.         -       -        -         1      -        -                 1
Cost    180       -        -      180       -       -               180
Houses, Asst. Social Dev.
Officer                     No.      -        -        -        3        2       1                6
Cost     63       -        -      189      126      63              378
Houses - Social Dev. Assts.    No.         -       -        -        3        6      14               23
Cost     25       -       -        75     150      350              575
Houses - Clerks                  No.       -       -        -        2       -        2                4
Cost     25       -       -        50       -       50              100
Houses - Subordinates            No.       -       -                  1     -        1                2
Cost     25       -       -        25       -       25               50
Sub-Total                                          -        -      931      612     866            2,409      40      10
T O T A L                                       2 560 21,500        5   15,412  15.S06            75.829      36      10
1/ Includes cost of materials and labor.
2/  Includes administrative block, 14 classrooms, school buildings, 3 sanitation units  1 headmaster's house. 14 teachers'
houses, 1 clerks' house, school equipment and furniture.
3/  Includes school building, headmaster and teachers' houses and equipment, and boarding accommodation.
May 13, 1977



ANNEX 13
Table 3
KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Cost of Administration Buildings
(Ksh'000)
Unit                                                  Foreign        Z
Cost    78/79   79/80   80/81   81/82  Total          Exchange    Taxes
I. DIVISION ADMINISTRATION 1/
Administrative Buildings         No.       -       -         1      -        -       1
Cost    365       -      365       -       -      365
House - Division Officer         No.      -        -         1      -        -       1
Cost   (310)             310       _              310
Houses - Assistant Officers    No.        -                 -        1       -       1
Cost    (180)    -        -       180       -     180
Houses - Other Staff             No.      -                 11       1        2     14
Cost    (63)      -      693       63      126    882
II.  LOCAL ADMINISTRATION 2/
Administrative Buildings         No.      -        -         1       1        1      4
Cost    100              100      100     200    400
Staff Houses 3/                  No.      -        -        4        5       1I     20
Cost    (35)      -      140      175     385    700
III.  POLICE
Police Station 1/                No.      -        -       -        -         1      1
Cost   (800)      -       -        -      800    800
House - Inspector                No.      -        -        1       -        -       1
Cost   (310)      -      310       -        -    310
Houses - Other Staff             No.      -        -       12       11        7     30
Cost    (63)      -      756      693     441  1,890
Police Posts 2/                  No.      -        _       -         2       1       3
Cost   (250)      -       -       500     250    750
Houses - Police Post Staff       No.      -                 5        1        2      8
Cost    (63)      -      315       63     126    504
IV.  POST OFFICE AND TELEPHONE
Post Office Building 1/          No.      -                  1     -       -       1
Cost   (400)      -      400       -       -    400
Postal Agency - Telephone 2/   No.        -        -       -         1       3      4
Cost    (50)      -       -        50     150    200
Housing                         No.       -        -        7        4      12     23
Cost    (35)      -      245      140     420    805
Total Costs                                             3_634   1,964   2,898:496            30          10
1/ Corresponds to an administrative service area of 90,000 inhabitants.
2/ Corresponds to an administrative service area of 30,000 inhabitants.
3/ One chief, six assistants per post.
May 13. 1977



KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
National Irrigation Boord Buildings Costs
(Ksh '000)
Unit                                                                                                                                  Foreign %
Cost            77/78            78/79            79/80            80/81             81/82                              Total         Exchange          Ta xes
1. STAFF HOUS ING
Principal Staff                  No                                            1                2                 1               -                 -                                   4
Cost                                       310               620              310                -                                                1,240
Senior Staff                     No                           -               14               12                 5                4                -                                  35
Cost                       180           2,520            2,160               900              720                -                               6,300
Junior Staff                     No                           -               20               30                50               80                35                               215
Cost                         63          1,260            1,890             3,150            5,040            2,205                              13,545
Other Staff                      No                           -               45               51                62               68               44                                270
Cost                         25          1,125            1,275             1,550            1,700             1,100                              6,750
Sub-total   1                                                           5,215            5,945             5,910            7,460             3.305                             27,835           30              10
II. ADMINISTRATIVE AND TECHNICAL CENTERS
Village Units I/                 No                           -               -                  1                5                7                10                                 23
5/      Cost                        (15)                              15                75              105              150                                345
Workshop and Buildings           No                           -               -                 -                -                -                 -                                   1
Cost                                       600            1,200             1,000              467                -                               3,267
Sub-total   II                                                             600            1,215            1,075               572              150                              3,612           30              10
III.   ADVANCE HOUSING:  CONSULTANTS AND RESEARCH
Houses                           No                            6              20                6                -                -                 -                                  26
Cost                       180           3,600            1,080                -                                                                  4,680
NIB Guest House 6/               No                           -                I                -                        -                          -                                   1
Cost                       750             750                -                -                 -                -                                 -50
Sub-total    III                                                        4,350             1,080               -                 -                _                               5,430          30               10
TOTAL                                                                  10,165           8_240              6,985            8,032             3,455                             36,877          30               10
1/ Agricultural Economist, Project Accountant, Senior Accountant, Accountant, Assistant Irrigation Enginner, Assistant Agricultural Manager, Assistant Section
Managers, Assistant Civil Engineer - Maintenance, Assistant Workshop Engineer, Supply Officer, Assistant Stores Supervisor, Pests and Disease Control Officer,
Personnel Officer, Senior Settlement Officer, Settlement Officers, Welfare Officer, Agricultural Research Officers, Assistant Ginnery Manager, Assistant
Mechanical Electrical Engineer, Assitant Cotton Classifier.
2/ Head Cashier, Cashiers, Asoistant Accountants, Assistant Mechanical Supervisor, Irrigation Officers, Draftsmen, Vermine Control Officer,
Building Foremen, Community Development Officer, Clerks.
3/ Field Assistants, Pest Control Assistants, Water Guards, Vermin Control Guards, Artisans, Mechanics, Drivers, Fitters.
4/  Village units provide for night storage of tractors working in the vicinity of the village, lubricants and fuel.  They include a fenced area and a
house for  a Fadman.
5/  Does not include workshop equipment.
6/ To provide accomodation for up 12 field staff and visitors.
May 13, 1977



KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Health Care Delivery Capital Costs
(Ksh'000)
Unit                                                           x Foreign        X
Cost      77/78       78/79    79/80    80/81        Total      Exchange      Taxes
I. BUILDINGS
Health Sub-Centers      No                   -           -          3      -              3
Cost     195         -          -         385                  585
Health Centers          No                   -            1        -       -              1
Cost   1,350         -       1,350        -       -          1,350
Senior Houses           No                     1          2         1      -              4
Cost     180         180       360        iso     -            720
Junior Houses           No                     5          5        20       6            36
Cost      63         315       315      1,260    378         2,268
Equipment                    Lumpsum         250        250        85      -            585
Sub-Total                             745     2,275      2,110     378        5,508          40         10
II. VEHICLES
Four Wheel Drive        No                   -            2         3       -             5
Cost      85         -         170        255      -           425          60         35
Sub-Total                            -          170        255      -           425          60         35
TOTAL                                745      2,445                378        5,933          41         11
Note:  Village health units are incorporated in school buildings or multi-purpose halls as appropriate.
I -
LA U.



KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Health Care Delivery - Operating Costs 1/
(Ksh'000)
Unit                                                                                           Foreign             %
Cost      77/78         78/79          79/80         80/81         81/82         Total         Exchang    _          Taxes
I.  SALARIES
Public Health Officer    Cost        25         25            25            25            25            25            125
Clinical Officers         No         -           1             1             1             1              3            -
Cost      25         25            25            25            25             75           175
Community Nurses          No         -          -              3             4             4             4
Cost      13         -             39            52            52            78            221
Health Assistants         No         -                         2             4             4              4
Cost      10         -             20            40            40            40            140
Family Planning Officers No.         -          -             -1             2             2             2
Cost      10         -             10            20            20            20             70
Laboratory Technicians   No          -           5             5             5             5              5
Cost      10         50            50            50            50             50           250
Statistical Clerk         No.        -           1             1             2             2              5            -
Cost       7.5        7.5           7.5          15            15            37.5           82
Village Health Water       No        -           6             6            10            10             20            -
Cost       2.5       15            15            25            25             50           130
Driver                    No.        -           2             2             5             5              5
Cost       7.5       15            15            37.5          37.5           37.5         142
Unskilled Labor            No.       -           6            17            17            17              9            -
Cost       4         24            68            68            68             36           264
Sub-Total I                                    162           274           357           357           449         1,599             _               8
II.  OPERATING AND MAINTENANCE
Buildings Maintenance 2/             -          -             -             21            46            46            113
Pre-Development Costs                -         170           290           125           125            -             710
Drugs and Supplies 3/                -          -             40            85           100           100            325
Molluscicides 4/                     -          -            170           250           625            750         1,805
Malaria Control                      -          -            170           170           170            170           680
Vehicle Operation                    -          -             40           100           100           100            340
Sub-Total II                                   170           710           751         1,166         1,166          3,963           90              10
T 0 T A L                                      332           984         1,108         1,523         1.615          5,562           52               10
1/  For a community of about 60,000 at full development.
2/  2% of construction cost per year.
3/  For nealth centers, sub-centers and dispensaries.
4/  Calculated on the basis of Ksh 68,000 per 5,000 people, annually.
May 13, 1977



KBNYA                                      ANNEX  13
Table 7
D1JA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Vehicle and Equipset:' Capital Costs
(Nsh. DOG0)
Unit
VEHICLES                                    Cost        77-78         78-79        79-80         80-81        81-82         Total
Nairbi Office               No                           1            -            -             -             1             2
Cost           57           57           -             -            -             57          114
4 wheel  Drive Vehicles  No                              3             4            9             9            5            30
Cost           85          255          340           765          765           425         2550
Pick-ups                    No                           2             2            3             3            4            14
Cost           43           86           86           129          129           172           602
Lorries                     No                           2             2            2             1             1            8
Cost          116          232          232           232          116           116           928
Motorcycles                 No                          -             -            15            22           19            56
Cost            6           -            -             90          132           114           336
Bicycles                    No                          -            -             46           106           59           211
Cost             1          -           -              46          106            59           211
Spares                                                 126          126           252           252          192           948
Sub-total                                           756          784         1514          1500          1135         5689
FARM MACNINERY
Tructors 70 HP              No                          -              5           13            13            5            36
Cost           85           -           425         1,105        1,105           425        3,060
Traotors 0  P               No                          -              5           13            13             5           36
Cost           93           -           465         1,209        1,209           465        3,348
Ploughs 3 furrow            No                          -              3            6             6            1            16
Cost           10           -             30           60            60           10           160
Ploughs 4 furrow            No                          -              3            6             6            1            16
Cost           13           -            39            78            78           13           208
Narrows                     No                          -              4            6             6            1            17
Cost           13           -            52            78            78           13          221
Lad Planes                  No                          -              1            1             2            1             6
Cost           43           -            43            43           86            43           258
Ridgers                     No                          -              3            8             6             2           19
Cost             6          -            18            48            36           12           114
Digger Shakers              No                          -              1            2             2            2             7
Cost           17           -            17            34            34           34           119
Trailers                    No                          -              4            9             9            4            26
Cost           20           -            80           180          180            80           520
Mobile Workshop             No                          -             -             1            -            -              1
Cost          179           -            -            179           -             -           179
Mobile Lubrication Unit  No                             -             -             1             1           -              2
Cost          153           -            -            153          153            -            306
Spares and Tools                                          -            234          633           604          227         1,698
Sub-Total                                           -          1,403        3_800         3,623        1,365        10,191
HEAVY MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT
Oragline                    No.                         -                          (1)           (1)          -             (2)
Tost        1,000           -                      1,000         1,000            -         2,000
Crawler-Excavator           No.                         -             (1)          -             -            -             (1)
Cost          590           -           590            -            -             -           590
Cutter-Dredger              No.                         -            -             (1)          -             _             (1)
C.ost       1,050           -            -         1,050            -             -         1,050
Bulldioer-DC                No.                         -             (1)          -            _             -             (1)
Cost          770           -           770            -            -             -           770
Co-pactor/Vibrator          No.                         -            -             (1)           -            _             (1)
Cost          228           -            -            228           -             -           228
Loader-Excavator            No.                         (1)          -             -            -             _             (1)
Cost          306          306           -             -            -             -           306
Froot-End Loader            No.                         -             (1)          -            -             _             (1)
Cost          532           -           532            -            -             -           532
Grader                      No.                         (1)          -             (1)          -             -             (2)
Cost          640          640           -            640           -             -         1,280
Tipper-Wagon                No.                         (2)          _             (2)          -             -             (2)
Cost          180          360           -            360           -             -           720
Tractor                     No.                         (1)          -             -            _             -             (1)
Cost          100          100           -             -            -             -           100
Mobile Crace                No.                         -             (l)          -            -             _             (1)
Cost          789           -           789            -            -             -           789
Low Loader                  No.                         (1)           (1)          -            _             _            (l)
Cost          584           -           584           -             -            -            584
Land Rover                  No.                         -            -             (2)          -             -            (2)
Cost          100           -            -           200            -            -            200
Utility                     No.                         (2)          -             -            -             -            (2)
Cost           80          160           -             -            -            -            160
Tacker- 1,200 gals.         No.                         (1)          -             -            -            _             (2)
Cost          206          206           -            -             -            -            206
Taokis-Trailer 500 gal.  No.                            (2)          -             -                                       (2)
Cost           35           70           -             -                                       70
Water Pomp                  No.                         (2)          -             -            -            -             (2)
Coot            5           10           -             -            -            -             10
Mobile Workohop             No.                         (1)          -             -            -            _             (l)
Cost          200         200            -            -             -            -            200
Mobile Lubrication Unit  No.                            (1)          -            -             -            -             (l)
CooL           70           70           -            -             -            -             70
Mi-cellanoeos Equip=ent (lemp sum)         -            -           300           -             -            -            300
Ditcher                     No.                         -            (1)           -            -            _             (1)
Cost          120           -           120           -             -            -           120
Pertl  and Tools                           -           424          737          694           200           -          2,055
Sub-Total                                        2,546        42            4,172        1_200            -        12,340
M_SCELANE9USf EIPMENT
Telecommunications                         -            -            -           644            -            -            644
Hydroel-ctric/Meteorological
Network                                 -           -                         644            _            -           644
Workobop Machinery                         -            -            -           644            -            -           644
Sub-Total                               -           -             -         1,932           -             -         1,932
T o T A L:                              -        3,302        6,609        11,418        6,323         2,500       30_152
May 14, 1977



KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Vehicles and Equipment: Operating Costs 1/
(Ksh'OO0)
Unit        77/78         78/79          79/80         80/81         81/82         82/83
Cost                                                                              Onwards
I. VEHICLES
Nairobi Office 2/                 No.                     (1)           (1)           (1)            (1)           (2)           (2)
Cost       10           5            10             10            10            15            20
4-Wheel Drive Vehicles 3/         No.                     (3)           (7)          (16)          (25)           (30)          (30)
Cost       20          30            80           230            410           550           600
Pick-Ups 3/                       No.                     (2)           (4)           (7)          (10)           (14)          (14)
Cost      20           20            60            110           170           240           280
Lorries 4/                        No.                     (1)           (2)           (4)           (6)            (8)           (8)
Cost      20           10            30            60            100           140           160
otorcycles 5/                    No.                     (7)          (14)          (29)           (44)          (56)          (56)
Cost        2           7             21            43            73           100           112
Sub-Total I                                               72           201           453           763         1,045          1,172
II. FARM MACHINERY
Tractors 6/                       No.        -                         (12)          (44)           (72)          (80)          (80)
Cost       40          -            240         1,120         2,320          3,040         3,200
Other Machinery                   Cost                                  22            96           148            168           168
Sub-Total                                                              262         1,216         2,468         3.308         3.384
III. HEAVY MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT
Cutter-Dredger Operation          Cost                                                50           200            200           200
Maintenance of Irrigation Works Cost                                                 286         1,480         1,480          1,480
Maintenance of Roads              Cost                                 420           420           840            840           840
Sub-Total III                                                          420           756         2,520         2,520
IV.  MISCELLANFOUS EQUIPMENT                                                                    168           252           252            252
V.  UTILITIES                                                      252           252           924           924         1.176          1,176
T O T A L                                                324   1,135               3.516 7                                    8,504
1/  In May 1977 prices, including taxes and duties.
2/  20,000 km per year per vehicle, Ksh 0.5 per km.                                                                                                             H
3/  20,000 km per year per vehicle, Ksh 1 per km.  See also Footnote 2/ of Table 7.                                                                             a
4/  20,000 km per year per lorry, Ksh 1 per km.
5/  5,000 km per motorcycle, Ksh 0.4 per km.                                                                                                                    O
6/  iractors operate 1,300 hours per year, cost per hour is Ksh 30, including fuel and parts.  Operating cost per year rounded to
Kshi 40,000.
May 12, 1977



UKttl 9
883  uuoerit t.O  errtemn  83t3CT
Itrretrie. Ge Nri ntrse   Crt4t - IIDStP S        SrI   elrrirr j/
Usit         77/78          78/79          79/S0          80/81          81182
C5t                                                                     ead,
1.  B0UA PlOJBCt CPOUII8NATSS t"ICE
Pcojret C-rdip tor                        CPet           120          120            120            120            120            120
Pbtlic ReletIee  OMfficer                  Cp.t           72            72             72            72              72            72
Adeircet ptIrigttee letterer               Cpet           72            72             72             72             72             72
sipply Officer                             CoPt           48           48             48             44             4U             48
treftce                                    CPet           40            40             40             40             40            40
Plericel end Othere (3 "ple y         -)   CPet          108           108            188           108             108            1t0
S4-Tort1 I                                                            4t 460                                       460             460
II   MIeJISCT rANA tr
AOrtic-lt-rl NPee_et
.  Adrietetrattee
Projoct Director                      Crec          114            -             114            114            114            114
Ageniot-Irrl Eceeretet                Core           96            _                             96             96             96
Prtject ACcotat                       PeCe           72                           72             72             72             72
Sector Aecoubt                        Cpt            72            -              36             72             72             72
Accctct                               N..                                          (1)           (13             (2)           (2)
Coet          4U                           24             48             84             06
tred CPrtier                          Core           42            -              -              42             42             42
Cehtier                                o.            -             -                              (1)            (2)           (2)
Cort           36                          -              36             72             72
Ak.ietet A.ecceteBte                  No.             -                                           (3)            (4)            (4)
Cort           36                          -             108              4            144
Sub-lt-.  (1W26                                                                                 5t              0
Aertrpt Irrig tieP igipara            CPet           72            _                             72             72             72
Adei.tert Agritclt-rl   ..a..r    Cort               72            _              72             72             72             72
"oiet-ac Sentire t-,ere               N               -            -               (3)            (3)           (3)             (3)
Coet          48            -              -             144            144            144
Arrirtcet Civil Ergierer (nipt.) Co-t                48            _               24            40             4              48
Ari-te nr  erkbep Egi-er               Co-           4U                           24             40             48             48
Aerieteet Ncheictl Superel-e   No.                    -                            (1)            (2)            (3)           (3)
CPet           36           .              18             72            106            108
Srply Offi.rr                         Port           48            -              24             48             40             48
As.ireseptOSter  Sep-riore             Cest          48            _              24             48             48             48
Adr. P.tr   & li.ee  Coat. Offt. Port                 48            .             24             48             48             48
Ptoree     Officer                    Core           48            -              24             48             48             46
Irriititier Offierre                   e.                                         (2)           (18)           (18)           (18)
Cont           36                          36            648            648            648
creft_err                             tio             -            -              (1)            (1)            (Z)            (2)
Port           38           -              38             38             76             76
Vrr.in CoetreI OfftI  r               Cr t            468                                        48             48             48
Fi.ld Aristec                          r..           -             -             (12)           (74)          (1041          (2P4)
Cort            8,4          -            101            622            874            874
Pe-t Ptncrnl AJir-tarer                W.            -                            (5)           (20)           (301           (30)
CPos            8.4         -              42            168            252            252
Wrtar iurdr                            to.            -            -              -             (12)           (40)           (40)
CPot            8.4                                      t O 136                       336
VerSe Poetree irerde                  tie.t           -            -              -              (z)            (6)            (6)
-  Port.        8.4         -              -              17             50             50
Beildieg    r                          ie            _             -              -              (2)            (2)            (2)
Cont           Si 36-                                     72             72             72
Arcirree                              Neo             -            -              (6)           (15)           (3D)           (30)
Cort           12                          36            196            360            360
tirepice                              O. No          ~-                           (6)           (20)           (40)           (40)
Port           12           -              36            240            480            480
Seb-Tetel itt)                                                                   523          2.782          3.880          3.80
Seetlr   re d   Ielfere
9eecer Se-tl_rt Officer               Poe            72            72             72             72             72             72
SrclIrect Officers                    O.             -             (1)            (1)            (1)            (2)            (2)
Pore          48            48             48             48             96             96
WelIeve Officer                        Pore          48            48             4U             48             48             40
Po.eity Pevelop_nt Ofrierer    Or.                   -             (2)            (2)            (2)            (1)            (3)
Port           36           72             72             32            10t           1J8
Seb-etel (W)                                                      24        0           240                    324            324
Seerertire St.rf
Cletirel red Other                    No             -             (8)           (10)           (12)           (16)           (16)
Cort           36          288            360            432            576            576
faive-e                               N. .                         (6)           (25)           ()4)          (104)          (104)
Cort           12           72            300            808          1.248          1.248
C-l Leber                             SO.            -            (10)           (20)           (30)           (30)           (W8)
Poet            3.6         36             72            108            106            Joe
Seb-Tetrl (d)                                                     396            i_ 1428                     1.932          1.932
0.4-Tete) 11
111. 40172ATCIIt0L 55086389
AkrtielItr-l  eree-th Offier               Or .           -             -                             (1)            (2)            (2)
Poet           72           _                             72            144            144
field AM.irec tN.                                         -                                           (7)           (14)           (14)
Port            8.4         -              -               59          1i1             118
Cle-icel red Other                          o             -             -              -              (3(            (5)           ()
Coet           36                                        t -  106       180            180
Snb-Totel Ill                                                                                       239            442            42
IV   GIN0ERY
Aeirttit GiPtrry 0r-Wer                    Cost           72            -                             72             72             72
AeltectZ t rctteeicrl/Ele rclrle
Eiigiter                            CPot            48                    -                     4U             48              8
Arietee t CPtter Pleerifier               CPet            48            -                             4              45             O8
Flttrar (4)                                Port          1             -                            48             45             4S
Clea ter) _d ether (4   wlyeer)           Port           30            -              -            144            144            1i4
Cree.l Lrber (10 ewloyrer)                 Port            3 6            -                           36             36             36
leb-Tetel IV                                                                                         396           304            396
0 O T A L                                                           1.096          2.201          6.133          8.14)          8 142
1/  Selrrirr i-nledo tee- C l          cer. -tc.  J ray 1977.
7I  Reed reircecece  -rte ret Ie-re        d reter J3r-y 1904/85.
VrY  13. 1977



KENYA
EURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Salaries for Administrative Services, Education and Social Services
(Kah' 000)
Component                                        Unit Cost           77/78          7S179         79180           80/81         81/82           Total
District Administration
Division officer                No.                                               1              1              1               1
Cost            35                -             35             35             35             35
Assistant Officer               No               -                 -               1              2             3              3
Cost           25                 -             25             50             75             75
Subordinates (Clerks,           No.             -                                 2              3              5              5
Drivers, etc.)               Cost             8                -              16             24             40             40
Local Administration
Chief                           No.              -                 -               2              3             4               4
Cost           14                 -              -             28             42             56
Assistant                       No.              -                                                7            16             19
Cost             7                -              -             49            112            133
Police
Police Inspector                No.             -                  -               I              I             1              1
Cost.          25                 -             25             25             25             25
Sergeants                       No.             -                  -               1              3             4              4
Cost             9                -               9            27             36             36
Corporated Constables           No.             -                  -               3            16             27             27
Cost             6                -             18             96            162            162
Clerical                        No              -                  -               1              1             1              2
Cost             7                -               7              7             7             14
Post and Telephones
Postmaster                      No.              -                                                I _  1        1               1
Cost           20                 -              -             20             20             20
Other Staff                      No              -                 _               1              5             9             11
Cost           10                 -              10            50             90            110
Education
Primary Schools                  Cost            -                 _                           605          1,080          1.600
Secondary Schools               Cost            -                  -             -              -             125            264
Social Services
Senior Cosnunity Dev. Offr.  No.                -                  -               1              1              1              1
Cost           32                 -              32            32             32              32
Ast. Co= . Dev. Offr.            No              -                 -               2              5              5              5
Cost           20                 -              40           100            100            100
Commn  Dev. Assistants          No.             -                  -               3            19             19             19
Cost          14                  -             42            266            266            266
Clerks and Subordinates         No.             -                  -               1              3              3              3
Cost             7                -               7             21            21             21
Temporary Utilities, Setter
Transport  etc.                 Cost            -                420            154            154             -              -
A T A                                                                420            420          1,589          2,268          2947           7.644
May 13, 1977



ANNEX 13
Table 11
KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Cost of Farm Inputs - Incremental Costs
(Ksh'000)
Costs for a typical farm shown in Annex 19, Table 1 average
Ksh 3,680. However, in the calculation of total costs for the project,
costs of services and transport have been deducted (Ksh 800) because
they have been accounted for in "NIB Operating Costs."
INCREMENTAL COSTS
1979/80 1980/81 1981/82
No. of Farm Units:  Annual    1,125    1,800    2,225
Cumulative   -      2,925    5,150
Total Cost: (Ksh'000)
Annual    3,240    5,184    6,408
Cumulative   -      8,424   14,832
May 13, 1977



KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Cost of Consultancy Services
(Ksh'000)
% Foreign
1977/78         1978/79         1979/80         1980/81          1981/82                          Total         Exchange
A. Preliminary Planning and Design Services 1/
Project Planning Report                   2,400             -                -               -               -                             2,400             80
Review of Designs and Documents             310              -               -               -                -                               310           100
B. Proiect Coordination, Procurement,
Supervision of Construction
Project Coordinator's Office                600             600              600             600             600                           3,000             80
Procurement and Supervision of
Construction 2/                        6,000           5,100           5,100            5,090           4,000                          25,290             80
C.  Stage II Feasibility Study 3/                   2,000           2,000              -               -               -                             4.000             80
Total                     11,310           7.700            5 700           5690            4.600                                             82
1/ Costs derived from Agreement for Consulting Services, November 1976.
2/ Costs derived from Consultants' Proposal dated July 1976, comprising:
Ksh'000
Procurement and engineering services for
Irrigation Works, excluding design                              2,400
Construction supervision (general)                                 4,200
Supervision fee                                                    2,000
Site supervision @ Ksh 18,000 per man-month                       11,000
Architectural and engineers' services for
buildings and houses                                            2.200
Additional work oi. infrastructure, etc.                           3,490
Total                                              25.290
3/  Costs derived from Consultants' Proposal dated July 1976, less topographical
and soil surveys expected to be undertaken by Covernment with Netherlands x
technical assistance.
May 12, 1977



KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Management
1977/78      1978/79       1979/80       1980/81        1981/82       Total
A.  Agricultural Management Staff
Man-Months)
Project General Manager              6             12            12            12            12
Irrigation Engineer                 -               6            12            12            12
Agricultural Manager                -              12            12            12            12
Civil Engineer, Maintenance         -              -              6            12            12
Workshop Engineer                   -                            12            12            12
Mechanical Supervisor               -              -             12            12            12
Project Accountant                  -              12            12            12            12
Senior Research Officer             -              -             -             12            12
Cotton Research Officer             -                            -             12            12
Pest and Disease Control Officer  -                -             -             12            12
Head Office Support                 -               2             3             6             6
Total                     6             44            81           126           126
B.  Cost Estimate (Ksh'000)            234          1,720         3,160         4,915         4,915        14,944
May 12, 1977



ANNEX 14
KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Financing Plan
(US$'mtl1ion)
Foreign          Local                                                                            IBRD/
Excnange         Cost         Total          Holland          EDF         CDC         ODM          IDA           GOK
1   IRRIGATION WORKS
a.  River Works
b.  Temporary Pumps
c.  Supply Canal
d.  Main Canal
e.  Irrigation Network                        )    15.9             13.0        (24.9                             8.0                                 16.0          0.9
f.  On-Farm Development                       )                                 ( 4.0                                         4.0
2.  WILDLIFE CONSERVATION WORKS
3.  ROADS AND AIRFIELDS
a.  Garissa-Garsen & Nanigi Access
b.  Maintenance                               )      1.3             1.2           2.5            2.2                                                                0.3
c.  Surfacing
d.  Landing Strips
4.  BUILDINGS AND INFRASTRUCTURE
a.  Infrastructure (Villages, Town Center))         3.0              4.7          7.7             5.9                                                                1.b
b.  Education
c.  Settlers' Dwellings
d.  Social Servicee                           )      4.5             8.8          13.3                            4.0                                  8.0           1.3
e.  Administration
f.  NIB Buildings
g.  Public Health
5.  PUBLIC HEALTH
a.  Equipment
b.  Salaries
c. Operations & Maintenance                   )      0.6             0.           1.2                                                    0.1           -            1.1
6.  AFFORESTATION
a.  Capital Costs                             )      1.1             4.3           5.4                                                                 3.2          2.2
b.  Maintenance
7.  VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT
a.  Vehicles
b.  Farm Machinery
c.  Heavy Maintenance Equipment               )     3.9              0.9          4.8             0.7                                     3.4                       0.7
d.  Miscellaneous Equipment
8.  GINNERY                                              5.2              1.3          6.5                                                                 5.2          1.3
9.  OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE - NIB                      4.1             4.0           8.1                                                                 6.2          1.9
10.  OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE - OTHER                    0.2              1.2          1.4                                                                              1.4
11.  INCREMENTAL FARM INPUTS                              2.3             0.3           2.6                                        2.5                                   0.1
12.  CONSULTANCY SERVICES
a.  Project Planning Report
b.  Review of Designs and Documents           )     4.1              0.9          5.0                                                    5.0
c.  Deputy Project Coordinator
d.  Procurement and Supervision of
Construction
13.  STAGE II FEASIBILITY STUDY                           0.5             0.1           0.6                                                                 0.6
14.  AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT                              1.8             1.1          2.9                                         2.0                                   0.9
IS. TRAINING                                               .8              -             .8                                                                 0.8
lb.  INTEREST DURING CONSTRUCTION -
NIB CONTROLLED WORKS
a.  CDC Loan                                  )     1.0               _           1.0
b. IBRD/IDA                                   )   .L7                             5.7           -                -           -          -            -            .oL2
56.0            42.4         98.4             8.8           12.0         8.S         8.5         40.0          20.6
May 14, 1977



ANNEX 15
Page 1
KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
The National Youth Service
A. Background
General
1.        The National Youth Service (NYS) is a department of the Ministry
of Labour. It was established in 1964 to provide training for young citizen
volunteers, aged between 16 and 30 years, in a disciplined environment while
executing useful development projects. By participation in the program,
young men and women contribute directly to the development of Kenya's economy
while at the same time enhancing their own opportunities for continued pro-
ductive employment in later life.
2.        The NYS is controlled by a Directorate based in Nairobi.  In the
field, major Units are deployed under the charge of a Commandant, while
Sub-Units and Projects are commanded by Senior Training Officers and Training
Officers. Below them, each Company (consisting of one hundred servicemen
or women) is commanded by a Section Commander or Section Officer. Many of
the present senior officers began their careers as volunteer servicemen
or women, and have risen from the ranks.
3.        The NYS is considered to have been successful in achieving its
objectives. Over the years of its existence, it has enrolled 21,844 young
Kenyans (20,172 men and 1,672 women). The only constraint upon recruitment
has been the finance available - since the enthusiasm of the country's youth
is such that there are commonly fifty applicants for every place available.
Intakes are drawn proportionately to population from all the Provinces of
Kenya, and every member serves in at least three different Provinces while
in the Service. As a result, all members acquire a national outlook and the
NYS has a positive effect in building unity and mutual understanding. Its
morale, despite the fact that the members earn no salaries but receive only
a small volunteer allowance, is reported to have been consistently high.
Training Activities
4.        The NYS is designed as a training community, fostering the good
attitudes and habits that are fundamental to success in a career. The
Service is so constructed that it must constantly provide training in job
skills, both formally and "on the job", in order to function efficiently.
For example, it possesses a fleet of 568 vehicles and pieces of plant,



ANNEX 15
Page 2
but it employs only 159 drivers and plant-operators in permanent posts or
in positions financed from works funds. Thus continual training must take
place to fit volunteers to operate the great majority of the machines, and
to provide a constant flow of replacements for the trained men and women re-
turning home at the end of their period of service. Most formal training is
done at the Vocational Training Unit at Mombasa, where 400 men a year receive
intensive courses in General Engineering (Fitting and Turning), Woodwork,
Masonry, Automobile Maintenance, Plumbing and the Electrical trade. Standards
at this Unit are high; its trainees are reported to have consistently achieved
a pass-rate of between 75 and 85% in their first attempts at the Government
Grade III Trade Tests. After obtaining their Trade Test Certificate, the men
are obliged to serve for a further six months, gaining practical experience
in their trades, before they are permitted to leave the Service to take up
salaried work in industry. More advanced levels of vocational training for
mechanics, fitters, turners and electricians are being created in association
with the Service's Central Workshops in Nairobi. For girls, formal courses in
garment-making, typing and telephone-operating are provided, in addition to
a grounding in domestic science.
5.        Training is also carried out on five farms owned by the NYS, total-
ling 4,869 hectares. All servicemen and women spend part of their service
period on these farms. Those who show a particular interest in agriculture
go on to take a six-months' Farmers' Training Course (by December 1975, 786
volunteers had successfully completed this course).
6.        In addition to the vocational training described above, centralized
educational facilities have been created at Gilgil so that, in rest periods
between postings on farms and projects, the volunteers may further their
formal education in such subjects as M4athematics, English, Swahili, General
Science and Civics. Some are given teacher-training, to fit them for eventual
employment with the Teachers' Service Commission.
7.        Since its inception, the NYS has placed over 7,000 men and women
directly from its ranks into salaried employment. That so many jobs have
been offered to Service is an indication of the confidence that employers
have in its standards of discipline and character-training.
Works Undertaken by the NYS
8.        Projects so far completed include:
(a) 3,200 hectares of bush clearing for tsetse fly
control at Yala River and 4,000 hectares at Port
Victoria;
(b) airport earthworks at Embakasi;
(c) 56 kilometers of road linking Kiambu and Nyandara
Districts across the Aberdares;



ANNEX 15
Page 3
(d) 16 kilometers of road in the Tsavo National Park, and
112 kilometers of road to give access to the Kindaruma
Hydro-electric Scheme;
(e) embankments for flood control on the Nzoia River;
(f) roads, dams and fencing in Nairobi National Park;
(g) 55 kilometers of new road between Thika and Kitui;
(h) 100,000 trees planted on the Kinangop;
(i) demarcation for settlment at Gedi and Shimba Hills;
(j) construction of airfields at Namanga, Ferguson's Gulf,
Amboseli, Nanyuki, Archer's Post, Samburu and Malika;
(k) 662 kilometers of road to serve settlement schemes west
of the Rift Valley;
(1) the construction of demonstration housing at Likoni; and
(m) access roads for the Geothermal Project near Naivasha.
9.        The Service's largest and most difficult project, completed in
eight years, was the desert highway linking Kenya with Ethiopia (480 kilo-
meters). Another large project was 414 kilometers of road in the second
phase of the Settlement Roads Scheme (comprising the Timboroa, Burnt Forest,
Turbo, Dundori and Kinangop areas and the Western Kenya complex). The total
value of all works undertaken up to December 1975 was about Ksh 23 million
(about US$3.2 million).
10.       Financing.  Of the above works, the Bank Group financed the con-
struction of 425 km of tertiary roads in settlement areas under the Third
Highway Project (Loan 639-KE), and the settlement roads (para 9) under the
Fourth Highway Project (Credit 276-KE). The total cost of the works under-
taken by NYS under this Bank/IDA financing was about US$3.6 million equiv-
alent. Financing of the other projects was provided either under bilateral
agreements or by appropriations-in-aid from the Ministries and parastatal
bodies concerned. Much of the equipment, valued at Ksh 52.6 million
(US$7.4 million), was financed by USAID.
11.       NYS Performance on Bank/IDA Financed Works.  Early Bank super-
vision missions (1970/71) reported adversely on NYS performance on the
road construction entrusted to them under Loan 639-KE, drawing attention
to weaknesses in organization and work scheduling. By October 1971 these
weaknesses had been remedied, mainly as a result of close supervision and
management assistance provided by the project consultants. Performance
for the remainder of the works was satisfactory. For the works undertaken



ANNEX 15
Page 4
under Credit 276-KE, the NYS again encountered initial organization dif-
ficulties and delays but recovered quickly with assistance from the project
consultants and for the remainder of the works produced very satisfactory
and economic results.
Staffing of NYS
12.       As at November 1975, the NYS staff consisted of:
Uniformed officers                       109
Servicemen and servicewomen            3,400
Civilian staff                           325
Expatriate experts and volunteers         38
3,872
All servicemen and servicewomen and a high proportion of the expatriate
experts are volunteers. Uniformed officers and civilian staff are salaried
employees, either engaged on the permanent establishment or paid from funds
allocated to works. The expatriate volunteers are provided by national
volunteer agencies.
B. The Proposed NYS Participation in the Project
13.       It has been proposed that the NYS would undertake all or part of the
following works under the Project (see Annex 3 for details):
(a) the construction of the road system;
(b) the excavation of canal and drain earthworks;
(c) the construction of structures in the irrigation
and drainage systems;
(d) on-farm development works;
(e) the transportation of materials; and
(f) the construction of advance requirements of
junior and settler housing.
The estimated total cost of the works including contingencies would be about
Ksh 75 million (US$9 million). The road works would have to be completed
in five years; the irrigation and drainage and on-farm development works would
in four years. The average annual cost of the road works would be Ksh 3.3
million (US$400,000) and that for the irrigation and drainage works and
on-farm development works would be Ksh 8.1 million (US$970,000).



ANNEX 15
Page 5
NYS Capability as a Construction Agency for the Project
14.       Judged by its performance to date on other Bank/IDA-financed proj-
ects, the availability of its staff and equipment, and its serious approach
to the probems of construction involved, the Bank considers that in principle
the NYS would be a suitable agency to undertake construction of roads,
excavation of irrigation and drainage distribution systems and on-farm develop-
ment works. However it is necessary to recognize that for the Bura Project
not only would the scale of the works be much larger than previous NYS under-
takings, but the nature of the works as an integral part of a complex develop-
ment project would impose obligations on the NYS for completion of the works
in accordance with a strict implementation schedule. These are obligations
which it has not previously been called upon to assume.
15.       In order to minimize the risk that NYS would be unable to ful-
fill its obligations in a timely manner, particular attention would need
to be paid to:
(a) adequate definition and preliminary planning of the
works and their scheduling;
(b) a formal undertaking by the NYS to execute the works
in accordance with specifications and schedules;
(c) the provision of management assistance to NYS by an
experienced agency;
(d) the provision of adequate professional and technical
staff within the NYS organizational structure for the
works (para 17);
(e) as additional backup technical assistance, the provision
by an experienced agency of a small number of mechanical
supervisors experienced in the maintenance and repair of
contractors' equipment in large undertakings under com-
mercial contracting conditions;
(f) the provision of adequate spare parts for equipment; and
(g) obtaining an undertaking from the Government that it would
intervene to strengthen NYS's implementation capacity in
the event that the NIB reported that NYS was falling
significantly behind schedule.
16.       NYS staff.  In order to undertake the works proposed to be allocated
to it under the Project, NYS has recruited a number of additional qualified
expatriate staff, and has obtained a commitment for others to be provided
under bilateral technical assistance.



ANNEX 15
Page 6
17.       NYS Equipment Status.  NYS possesses sufficient equipment (see
Appendix 1) with adequate remaining life to undertake the Project road works
and bush clearing without supplementation by additional equipment. For the
canal works, drains, and on-farm development works other than bush clearing it
is about to award contracts to procure additional equipment financed under
bilateral aid from the Federal Republic of Germany. Assurances were obtained
from Government at negotiations that the NYS would maintain an adequate stock
of spare parts for all of its construction equipment and vehicles employed on
Project works.
18.       Review of NYS Construction Capacity.  Before a decision is made as
to the extent of the work suitable to be performed by NYS under the Project,
NYS and NIB, assisted by the project consultants, would undertake a joint
review of NYS construction capacity, in relation to productivity, staffing and
equipment requirements for the various categories of work. Any allocation of
works to the NYS would then be made in accordance with these findings, taking
into account also any arrangements NYS may undertake to make to strengthen its
capacity. In this regard NYS has indicated its willingness to employ consultants
as necessary to improve its management.
19.       Decision on the Extent of NYS Participation.  It was agreed at
negotiations that the final arrangements for NYS participation in the construc-
tion of the Project works would be subject to the approval of the Bank/IDA.
In particular it was agreed that the work to be performed by NYS would be
performed in accordance with specifications, charges and an implementation
schedule all of which should be satisfactory to the Bank/IDA. In addition it
was agreed that in the event that NIB reported to the Government that NYS were
falling significantly behind the agreed schedule for implementation, the
Government would provide to NYS any additional funds, facilities, services and
other resources necessary in order to meet the agreed schedule.



ANNEX 15
APPENDIX 1
KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
National Youth Service
List of Equipment allocated to Works 1/
Diesel truck, 7 ton cargo                                   50
Diesel truck, 7 ton 5 cu. yd tipper                         44
Bus 38 seater                                               14
Pick-up Land Rover                                          38
Station wagon staff car                                     30
Farm tractor                                                 8
Bulldozer Caterpillar D-8                                    8
Bulldozer Caterpillar D-7                                    I
Bulldozer Caterpillar D-6                                    5
Bulldozer Caterpillar D-4                                     I
Motor scraper Caterpillar 621                                8
Motor grader Model 140                                      10
Front-end loader 920 and 977                                 8
Transporter truck/tractor                                   10
Low-bed trailer 35 ton capacity                              3
Low-bed trailer 20 ton capacity                              3
Recovery vehicle and mobile crane                            5
Vibro-compactor Hyster C200 B                                5
Motor roller                                                 6
Water trailer 400-600                                       17
Water semi-trailer 5,000 gallons                            12
Mobile workshop                                              4
Mobile lubrication unit                                      6
Mobile diesel generating set    15 kw                        10
Fuel water tanker 1,200-1,500 gal on chassis                15
1/   as at December 1975



ANNEX 16
KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$'million)
Bank/IDA Fiscal Year         Cumulative Disbursements at End of Quarter
and Quarter                         Bank                IDA
1977/78
September 30, 1977                        -                 0.5
December 31, 1977                          -                1.8
March 31, 1978                             -                3.5
June 30, 1978                             -                 5.2
1978/79
September 30, 1978                       1.6                6.0
December 31, 1978                        4.0                6.0
March 31, 1979                            6.5               6.0
June 30, 1979                            9.3                6.0
1979/80
September 30, 1979                      12.1               6.0
December 31, 1979                       14.9                6.0
March 31, 1980                          18.0                6.0
June 30, 1980                           21.1                6.0
1980/81
September 30, 1980                      23.1               6.0
December 31, 1980                       24.8                6.0
March 31, 1981                          26.5                6.0
June 30, 1981                           28.5               6.0
1981/82
September 30, 1981                      30.0               6.0
December 31, 1981                       31.5               6.0
March 31, 1982                          33.0               6.0
June 31, 1982                           34.0               6.0
May 13, 1977



ANNEX 17
KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Consultancy Services
1.        The National Irrigation Board (NIB) is currently (May 1977)
employing, to assist it in the preparation of the Project, one firm of
consultants and one consortium of consultancy firms. The firms, and their
respective responsibilities, are:
(a) ILACO
ILACO (The Netherlands) which, financed mainly under
Netherlands bilateral assistance, has been carrying out
investigations and studies for the development of the Tana
River Basin for many years and was responsible for the pre-
paration of the Bura Project feasibility study (June 1975),
is currently completing an assignment to undertake topo-
graphic and soils studies and prepare detailed designs for
the irrigation and drainage layout, together with tender
documents for irrigation works to be tendered for interna-
tional competitive bidding (ICB) and specifications for
irrigation works to be undertaken by the National Youth
Service (NYS); and
(b) Sir M. MacDonald and Partners and Associated Firms
A consortium of firms, comprising Sir M. MacDonald
and Partners - UK, Eunting Technical Services Ltd. - UK and
East African Engineering Consultants (Kenya) - Kenya, has
been employed by NIB since December 1976 to prepare the
Project Planning Report (PPR), review the design and tender
documents for ICB and the design and contract documents for
NYS work (see (a) above) and assist NIB with financing nego-
tiations as and when required. The consortium is referred
to hereinafter as the Project Consultants.
2.        NIB has undertaken, in its agreement with the Project Consultants,
to employ them also to undertake the following additional services for the
Project, on terms and conditions to be agreed, in the event that NIB decides
to proceed with the implementation of the Project within two years of the
submission of the PPR:



ANNEX 17
Page 2
(a) the engineering and procurement services for the
Project including, where necessary, preparation of
designs and documents, evaluation of tenders and
supervision of construction or supply for:
(i) irrigation works;
(ii) road works within the Project area; and
(iii) vehicles and equipment.
(b) the whole or part of the engineering, architectural and
planning -:ervices for Project buildings and village
infrastructure including water supplies, as follows:
(i) review (and if necessary modification) of designs
or preparation of designs;
(ii) preparation of tender documents for local or ICB
contracts; and
(iii) supervision of construction.
3.        The additional work specified in paragraph 2 above would not be
sufficient to meet all the Project's needs for consultancy services. It
would therefore be necessary to ensure that the Project Consultants would
be retained to undertaken further responsibilities. These are:
(a) the preparation of manuals on the operation and maintenance
of the Project facilities;
(b) the provision of assistance to the NIB for project coordina-
tion and to the NYS for construction works; and
(c) the preparation of feasibility studies for Tana River East
Bank development (Annex 12).
4.        It would be a condition of loan/credit effectiveness that the
Project Consultants had been employed, under terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank and IDA, to provide the services specified in paragraphs 2 and 3
(a) and (b) above. In respect of para 3(c) above, it was agreed at negotiations
that NIB would employ consultants acceptable to the Bank/IDA to carry out a
preliminary feasibility study, under terms and conditions of employment
satisfactory to the Bank/IDA, on or before October 31, 1978.



ANNEX 18
Page I
KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Project Organization and Management
1.        The development of the Project can be considered in two distinct
phases, the contruction phase and the agricultural production phase.
2 ~    Construction:  During the construction phase (Chart, World Bank
17463), the Bura Project Coordinator's Office (BPCO) to be established in
Nairobi would undertake the planning, coordination and implementation of the
Project.  The responsibilities of the BPCO would include:
(a)  planning and coordination of the inputs required
for engineering works, agriculture, housing and
settlement, education, welfare, security, health
and nutrition and ensuring that they are provided
in a timely manner to meet the needs of the Project;
(b)  procurement whether by international competitive
bidding, local competitive bidding or force
account (NYS, Forestry Dept. and NIB), of all the
facilities required such as engineering works,
on-farm works, housing and buildings for NIB
and other Ministries and organizations, and
vehicles and equipment;
(c)  planning and coordinating the supply of farm Inputs
such as seeds, fertilizer and chemicals;
(d)  planning, arranging and coordinating training
programs;
(e)  planning and arranging for settlement of tenants
and coordinating settlement with construction;
(f)  planning and taking steps to ensure the harmonious
integration of the indigenous population of the
Project area with the Project;
(g)  coordination of the various research projects and
base line surveys necessary for monitoring and
evaluation;



ANNEX 18
Page 2
(h) monitoring and evaluation of farm production economics,
and advising on farmers' repayment capacity and the
optimum method of levying water and land charges;
(i) arranging for such studies and reports as may be
necessary on such items as agricultural machinery
requirements, crop processing and marketing develop-
ments, soil changes and ground water movement, etc;
(J) procurement of services required to undertake tasks
not detailed elsewhere or special undertakings not
detailed in the development program;
(k) planning and financial control of the funds required
for the Project, including detailed estimates, annual
budgets and cash flow statements, disbursement pro-
cedures under Bank/IDA and other loan and credit
agreements;
(1) monitoring progress of development and preparation
of reports according to the reporting procedures of
Government, Bank/IDA and other co-financiers;
(m)  supervising the preparation of feasibility studies
for irrigated development on the east bank of the
lower Tana River.
3.        A Project Coordinator would be in charge of the BPCO and would have
a deputy experienced in the integrated development of irrigated agricultural
projects. Other staff would be appointed on a full time basis to carry out
the above duties; they would be supported as necessary by the part-time
assistance of specialists.
4.        In order to ensure coordination between the various Ministries
and agencies, a Bura Project Steering Committee would be formed, comprising
senior officers from the participating agencies; the Committee would be
chaired by the General Manager, NIB. In view of the large number of agencies
involved, the Steering Committee would have an Executive Committee, consisting
of not more than six members elected by the Steering Committee, to act for the
Steering Committee in day-to-day matters.
5.        Agricultural Production:  The second phase of the development -
agricultural production (Chart, World Bank 17464) - would be undertaken on
behalf of NIB by a firm or organization specializing in the management of
agricultural projects. This organization, expected to be the Commonwealth
Development Corporation, would undertake corporate management of the agricul-
tural production phase. It would provide a Project Manager and essential
supporting staff under terms and conditions of employment acceptable to the
Bank/IDA. Additional supporting staff would be seconded to the organization
by NIB.



ANNEX 18
Page 3
6.        The Project Manager would be responsible for the following
activities:
(a) Agricultural production: Supervision of all cropping
and irrigation activities, tenants husbandry practices,
management of mechanization services, pest and
disease control, agricultural research and soil monitor-
ing;
(b) Engineering: Operation and maintenance of the irrigation
and drainage system, building maintenance, maintenance
and repair of agricultural machinery and heavy plant;
(c) Accounting and Administration: Procurement of supplies
and control of stores and preparation of tenants' and
Project accounts; personnel and staff administration,
statistics and office administration, training of staff
and tenants, tenant relations (post settlement); and
(d) Settlement: Tenant reception, feeding and induction,
orientation, initial organization of villages
(communities), establishing contact with local ad-
ministration, and social services.
7.        Bura Development Council:  A Bura Development Council constituted
under the District Commissioner (DC) would be established to provide liaison
between the various Government agencies involved in the implementation of
the Project. The members of this council would be the DC, the Bura Project
Manager, the Community Development Officer, and the District Officer (Bura
Project) who would act as Secretary. Sub-committees would be established
under the Development Council to deal with such matters as education, welfare
security, health and nutrition and resources (forestry, etc.)
8.        Duties of Project Manager:  The Project Manager would be appointed
at an early stage in the Project's implementation. He would reside initially
in Nairobi, so as to allow him to participate in the functions of the BPCO.
During this period he would:
(a) advise on site requirements and programs for buildings,
farm machinery and other facilities concerned with
agricultural production;
(b) determine final staff requirements and select and
appoint suitable staff according to a phased
program;
(c) prepare programs and make arrangements for training
of management staff whether in Kenya or outside
Kenya prior to their employment for work on the
Project;



ANNEX 18
Page 4
(d) prepare procurement schedules for farm inputs and
arrange for their delivery to site; and
(e) prepare programs and arrange for the recruitment
and training of field assistants, tractor drivers
and workshop personnel.
The Project Manager would arrange for the early establishment of the Bura
Project Manager's office at the Project Headquarters. It is envisaged
that this office might be in temporary buildings until the permanent structure
has been constructed. Initially the office would be under the control of the
Deputy Project Manager, who would be resident on site during the construction
phase.
9.        Duties of Deputy Project Manager:  The Deputy Project Manager
would be responsible to the Project Manager in Nairobi and would under-
take the following duties and responsibilities:
(a) liaise with the DC and other local officials of the
Government ministries and agencies;
(b) ensure that the BPCO's requirements are being met
on site in accordance with advice, advanced planning,
information and instructions from the BPCO;
(c) participate in settlement procedures, and arrangements
for the provision of health, education and welfare
facilities;
(d) liaise with the Chief Resident Engineer in charge of
construction and provide a bridge between construction
and local administration and services;
(e) organize agricultural training programs for settlers;
and
(f) arrange for the handing over of buildings and
facilities to local officials appointed to deal
with health, education, welfare, security, etc.
May 15, 1977



KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION FOR CONSTRUCTION
MINISTRIES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION
BOARD                                                     *......
l                              ~~~~~~~~STE ER ING
NAIROBI                                              GENERAL                                        COMMITTEE
HEADQUARTERS                                         MANAGER                                     Executive Committee
I       ~~DEPUTY
GENERAL MANAGER
BURA PROJECT CO-ORDINATORS                                                      NIBHEADQUARTERS
OFFICE                                                                 TECHNICAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE            A
DIV ISIONSA
PROJECT                     Project Co-ordinator
AREA                        Deputy Co-ordinator
Bura Project Manager*
CHIEF RESIDENT                            BURA PROJECT                           TANA DISTRICT
ENGINEER                              MANAGEMENT                              ADMINISTRATION
Supervision of                           Settlement
Construction                             Training
Co-ordination with other
Government services
World Bank-17463
* BURA Project Manager transfers to project area before settlement commences.






KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION FOR OPERATION
NATIONAL IRRIGATION BOARD                     *  MINISTRIES: DISTRICT ORGANIZATION
HEADQUARTERS                              l     lll                            l
HEADQUARTERS
NAIROBI
TECHNICAL                                       ADMINISTRATIVE &                       DISTRICT
DIVISIONS/SECTIONS                             ACCOUNTING SECTIONS                  COMMISSIONER
.....S.. .....a ..                                                                       ......... 
(   GINNERY        |      _          BURA PROJECT MANAGEMENT
Project Manager
..........................         Deputy Project Manager                                   Standing Committees:
Education, Welfare,
Security, Health &
Nutrition and
SETTLEMENT*         |                                                                               Resources
PROJECT
AREA
Accounting &                            Agricultural
Administration                          Management                              Engineering
Accounts, Stores,                 Crop Production &                           Irrigation &
Personnel, Training,              Protection, Mechanization,                  Water Supply,
Office Services                   Research and Extension                      Plant & Workshops,
Office Services                                                          Buildings
Temporary - during tenant "settlement" phase only.
World Bank-17464






ANNeX 19
KCENYA                                                              Table 1
BURA  MRRIGATION SETTLMNIT PROJECT
F?rm !udsets It
(lah) 2/
YERAS                                -              2                         4             5                10
A.     COTTON
Gross Revenue                                   10,015        10,400       10,815       11,200        11,585            12,000
Production Costs:
Mechanical Cultivation  3/                      365           365          365          365           365               365
Fertilizer  4/                                  590           605          625          645           665               780
Seed  5/                                         35            35           35           35             35               35
Aerial Spraying,Rerbicides,Insecticides   1,700             1,700        1,700        1,700         1,700             1,700
Collection                                      155           155          160          170           175               180
Total Production Cost                    2,845         2,860        2,885         2,915         2,940            3,060
Net Revenue from Cotton                  7,170          7,540        7,930        8,285         8,645             8.940
B.     GROUONrUTS
Gross Revenue                                    -             -            -           200           220               580
Less: Private Consumption                        -             -            -           155           180               270
Gross Revenue after Private Consumption          -             -            -            45            40               310
Production Costs
Fertilizer  6/                                   -             -            -             8             8                16
Seed                                             -             -            -            20            20                40
Harvesting  7/                                   -             -            -             9             9                18
Total Production Cost                                                                37            37                74
Net Revenue after Private Consumption            -             -            _             8              3              236
C.     MAIZE/COWPRAS (in Association)
Gross Revenue
Maize                                        1,070          1,335        1,495        1,380         1,515             1,320
Cowpeas                                         375           500          500          500           500               500
Sub-Total                                1,375         1,835        1,995        1,880          2,015            1,820
Less: Private Consunption of Maize           1,070          1,090        1,090        1,090         1,010             1,090
Private Consumption of Cowpeas           375           375           375          375                            375
Gross Revenue after Private Consumption          -            370          530          415           550               355
Production Costs
Fertilizer  8/                                 235            260          280          255           275               315
Herbicides and Insecticides  91                 155           155          155          130           120               105
Seed  10/                                        50            50           50           40            40                35
Cultivation Charge 11/                         120            120          120          100            90                80
Total Production Cost                      560           585           605          525           525              535
12j
Net Revenue after Private Consumption          (560)         (215)         (75)        (110)          (25)            (180)
D.     0AR01N AREA  13/
Sales                                          350            350          350          350           350             350
Private Consumption                             350           350          350          350           350              350
e.     MISCELLANEOUS COSTS (tools, bags,repairs)          280            280          280          280           280               280
F.     OPERATING CASH INCOME                            6,680         7,395         7,925        8.253         8.693            9,066
G.     MISCELLANEOUS CHARGES
Land and Water Charges                        2,080         2,080        2,080        2,600         2,600             3,640
Rouse Repaymenta  14/                           -             205          190          175           165               110
Interest on seasonal advance  15/                90           100          100          100           100               100
Sub-Total                               2,170         3,85         2,370        2,875          2,865
H.     NET INCOME (after Private Consumption)           4,510          5,010        5,555        5,378         5,828             _.216
I.     NET INCOME,  including value of Private
Consumption                       6,300          6,820        7,365        7,188         7,638             7,026
1/ Revenues from production are extracted from Annex 8.
2/ In January 1977 constant prices.
3/ Kish 290 per ha.
4/ An inoum Sulf. (21%) requirements increase from 286 kg/ha in year 1 to 380 kg/ha in year 10 and thereafter. Cost of Amen-
nium Sulf. Ktsh.1640/ton including handling and transportation.
5/ Ksh 25 per ha.
6/ 48 kg/ha of ammonium s-1f.
7/ Narvesting Cost: Ksh 10/ha
8/ Ammonium Sulf. (21%) requirements increase from 240 kg/ha in year 1 ts 480 kg/ha in year 10 and thereafter.
9/ t;sh 260/ha for herbicides and insecticides.
1O/ IKsh to /ha for meize and cospeas seed.
11/ Cultivation charges Ksh 100 per ha
12/ Food requirements during the first year are met by the World Food Program.
13/ Garden production 350 kg per year valued at Ish 2/kg.
14/ fsh 3600 repaid in 15 years starting in year 2, i.e. Bsh 240 in current terms. Amounts show  in the table are discounted at 8Z
to value annual paysents in constant terms.
15/ Interest on farm costs at 11% per seaum.



ANNEX 19
Table 2
KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Labor Requirement per 1.25 ha Tenancy
Requirement per Decile          Man-Month
First   Second   Third         Equivalent 1/
 ---------(man-days)-----------------
January                       9         10        6             2
February                      5          3        4              1
March                         6          8         7             1
April                        10          8        6             2
May                           9          8        8              1
June                         11         17       18             2
July 2/                      28         28       27             4
August 2/                    24         20       16             3
September                     7          5        7             1
October                      10         10       10             2
November                      7          6        6             1
December                      5          4        9             2
Total man-months:                                         22
1/   It is assumed that family labor would work no more than 8 days in
any ten-day period.
2/   The peak requirement occurs at cotton harvest (3,750 kg seed cotton
to be harvested in 60 days; i.e., 62.5 kg per day, equivalent to the
output of 3 pickers @ 21 kg per day).



ANNEX 20
KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Cost Recovery a/
Income to                  Total
Rent and Cost Recovery Indices                               Beneficiaries                Project
Ksh                  Ksh million
1.  Gross value of farm production at farm
gate ex-sales taxes./                                       13,900
2.  Less production (cash) costs                                 4,149
3.  Equals net cash income /1 - 27                               9,751
4.  Less - depreciation                                             400
5.       - imputed value of family labor (Ksh/day)               1,719
6.       - imputed value of management services b/                  695
7.       - allowance for risk/uncertainty c/                     1,390
8.       - general taxes                                            -
9.  Equals rent/surplus                                          5,547
10.  Rent as a percentage of net cash income /9 . 37                  57
11.  Volumetric water charges d/                                  3,640
12.  Benefit taxes
13.  Total direct charges/taxes /11 f 12,7                        3,640                     465 V
14.  Rent recovery index /13 . 9/ c/                                  66                     -
15.  Public sector outlays_(capital f 0 & M) e/                      -                      852 e/
16.  Cost recovery index /13 . 15/  c/                               -                        55
17.  Farmers' net income per capita, in year 10,
at full development                                        745
18.  Estimated national per capita income, same
project year                                          1,850
a/  Items 1 through 16 are incremental, discounted values at constant year-prices, or ratios
derived from them.
b/  5% of gross production.
c/  10% of gross production.
S/  Based on Ksh 2,800/ha
e/ Total project costs, including capital and operating and maintenance; discounted at 10%/annum
(see Annex 22).
f/  Taxes and duties, land and water charges, margin on cotton exports and farmers repayment
for dwellings, discounted at 10%.
i/  Includes the value of private consumption.
May 19, 1977



ANNEX 21
Page 1
KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation
Objectives
1.        The problems of monitoring and evaluation are increased both in
quantity and complexity by the wide range of activities and the number
of organizations involved in the Project.
2.        In broad terms the objectives of the monitoring and evaluation
program would be as follows:
(a) To assess the technical and physical achievements
of the development program and thereafter the
progress of activities involved in its continued
operation and maintenance.
(b) To carry out regular evaluation of financial
and economic performance during the life
of the Project.
(c) To assess the extent to which an integrated
community is created at Bura and to evaluate
the sociological aspects of the program as
well as its impact on the rural economy of the
surrounding area.
3.        To achieve the above objectives effectively, the monitoring and
evaluation program should include not only base-line studies, to establish
the present situation in the area, but also an interpretation of actual
development problems and patterns in terms of future action and adjustments
required to the development program.
Areas to be Covered by Monitoring
4.        Details of the areas to be covered and actual requirements are to
be given in the Project Planning Report. The following is a brief summary
of the main areas involved and their requirements:
(a) Soils. Physical and chemical changes as well as productivity
of all the main soil types particularly the S2 and G2 classes:
the requirements would be covered by a sampling procedure
involving two percent of all tenant holdings.



ANNEX 21
Page 2
(b) Forestry. Changes in the riverine ecosystems and the
extent of the riverine forests; the afforestation
program requires recording and assessment of growth
survival rates, water use data, costs analyses
and felling data.
(c) Wildlife and Ecology. Both terrestial and aquatic
ecological systems must be considered and will
require pre-development base-line studies; game numbers,
concentration and migration patterns; ecto-parasite and
other invertebrate population as well as the occurrence
of rodent pests; fish populations including their
ecology and migration in the Tana river before and after
the weir is built; vegetation composition and regenera-
tion and associated fauna in the riverine and other areas
and the occurrence of pesticide and chemical residues
in drainage waters, vegetation and fauna of the Project
area.
(d) Settlers. The process of settlement, and the sociology of
settler life and communities will require studies over a
period of at least 5 years. Allied to these aspects are
questions of population growth and the impact of the Project
on the surrounding rural economy and its associated communities.
(e) Irrigation and Drainage System. Water quantity, quality
and silt loads should be recorded for the main supply
system and branch canals; similarly quantitative records
of the drainage system including regular measurements
of groundwater levels throughout the Project area are
required. Continuous evaluation would be undertaken
of irrigation practices related to agricultural
production at the field level.
(f) Agricultural Production. In conjunction with the soils
monitoring work and assessment of crop production, objective
studies and records covering crop husbandry practices,
mechanization and pest control services, and the use of inputs
and outputs from the scheme as a whole are essential.
(g) Training. The number of people and types of training
given under the Project training programs should be
considered in relation to their performance in the
development of the Project.
(h) Health. Data on disease endemicity in the Project com-
munities would be collected by village health staff
supplemented by specific epidemiological surveys of



ANNEX 21
Page 3
important diseases and other aspects such as nutrition,
births and deaths. Similarly, surveillance of disease
vectors and animal reservoirs will be required in the
Project area.
(i) Economic and Financial Aspects. At the farm level, incomes
and resource use would be assessed and linked to broader
studies of the overall economic performance of the Project
and returns to the resources employed. The financial aspects
studied would cover both the utilization and flow of funds
on the Project and the impact of its development on the
NIB's financial situation and status.
Data Collection, Documentation and Reporting Systems
5.        The assembly of the required data and statistics would require
specific action by the organizations involved in the Project, including the
following:
(a) reporting on a regular basis: daily, weekly, monthly
and annually according to the nature of the activity.
As far as possible these reports would follow a standard
presentation of information to facilitate assessment
of progress, summarization, and further evaluation;
(b) the development of an integrated management information
system covering all activities involved in the Project
implementation and operation. The aim would be cover
all aspects of Project formulation, planning, budgeting,
current management information and information storage.
It would incorporate a standardized framework for all
Project formulation and documentation following on
from the PPR; and
(c) preparation of regular financial statements and analyses
for each fiscal year and at intervals within the year by
the NIB, NYS, Forestry Department, Wildlife Department,
Ministry of Health, Ministry of Works and any other
organizations or Ministries responsible for expenditure
of funds under the Project. The format and detail of the
statements and the analyses required would be determined
by the Project Coordinator and his staff in consultation
with the organization involved.
Organization Requirement
6.        Effective monitoring and evaluation of the Project would require
careful formulation of procedures for reporting and documentation and
responsibility for interpretation of assembled information. Responsibility



ANNEX 21
Page 4
for this should lie with the NIB, with the BPCO being given the job of
setting up the necessary framework and coordinating its operation.
7.       'Fe staff required to carry out the work involved would include
engineering, agricultural and sociology disciplines, with one individual
being assigned overall responsibility under the Bura Project Coordinator.
8.        Considerable liaison and coordination with the Ministries and
organizations involved would be necessary and close working arrangements
would be established with the Project Management at Bura. It is also
envisaged that organizations such as University of Nairobi would be closely
involved in the monitoring and evaluation program, particularly with regard
to the interpretation of data collected.
Specific Studies Required
9.        A number of specific studies would be needed to establish base
line data against which later measurements would be compared or for use in
continuing studies of various aspects of the Project. The more important
would be as follows:
(a) Kenya Soil Survey (Ministry of Agriculture): soils
analysis and monitoring of changes.
(b) Research Division of the Wildlife Conservation and
Management Service and the Kenya Rangeland Ecological
Monitoring Unit: wildlife and livestock counts and
monitoring of vegetation changes.
(c) University of Nairobi: sociological studies and
surveys of the rural economy of Tana River
District.
(d) Ministry of Health: health surveys and evaluation
of data collected via health centers as well as
surveillance of the village health program
generally and conditions in the surrounding area.
(e) National Agricultural Laboratories: pesticide
residue monitoring.
(f)  National Environment Secretariat:  biology and
ecology of the section of the Tana River affected
by the Project.
May 15, 1977



KENYA
3'JRA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Governtent Cash Flos 1/
(Ksh'mfillion)
77/78    78/79    79/80    80/81    81/82    82/83    83/84    84/85    85/86    86/87    87/88    88/89    89/90    90/91    91/92    92/93    93/94    94/95    26/27 sad
Thereafter
SOURCES OF PUNDS
A.  Internal Sourcea
Taxes and Duties                        7.5      19.6     23.4      14.4     11.8       6.7       6.7      6.7       6.7       6.7      6.7      6.7       6.7       6.7       6.7      6.7       6.7       6.7           6.7
Transfer from NIB                        -         -       2.9       9.1     18.4        -         .        -         -         -                2.8       2.7       2.6       2.5       2.3       2.1      2.1           2.1
Margin on Cotton Exports 2/              -         -        -        1.4      8.3      17.9      24.4     25.3      26.2      27.1      27.6    27.6      27.6      27.6      27.6      27.6     27.6      27.6          27.6
Other Sources 3/                         -         -        -        0.3      0.9       1.5       1.5     11.5       1.5       1.5       1.5     1.5       1.5       1.5       1.5       1.5       1.5      1.5           1.5
Sub-Total                               7.5      19.6     26.3      25.2     39.4      26.1      32.6     33.5      34.4      35.3      35.8    38.6      38.5      38.4      38.3      38.1     37.9      37.9          37.9
B.  External Financing
IDA 4/                                 43.4       6.7       -         -        -         -         -        -         -         -         -                 -        -          -         -                  -             -
Bank 5/                                  -       77.7     98.5      61.8     45.9
Holland 6/                             14.1      28.1     18.7       7.7      5.0
EDY 7/                                  9.5      37.2     35.9      11.8      5.7        -              -        -         -         -        -        -         -        -          -         -       _     _
CDC 8/                                  0.3      18.8     22.9      14.5     14.5        -         -         -        -         -         -       -         -        -          -         -        -         -             _
ODM 9/                                 16.6      15.6     17.8      12.9      8.0        -         -         -        -         -         -       -         _        _          _         _        _         _             _
Sub-Total                              83.9    184.1      193.8   108.7      79.1        -
TOTAL SOURCES OP FUNDS                 91.4    203.7      220.1   133 9    118.5       26.1      32.6      33.5     34.4      35.3      35.8    38.6      38.5    38.4        38.3      38.1      37.9     37.9          37.9
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
A. Project Costs
Funds Transferred to NIB               61.4    168.1    199.6    113.7        93.2      7.9       6.6      4.8        2.8      1.0       1.0                     -                        -         -         -             -
Funds to other Agencies 10/             0.8       1.7      7.8      12.2      16.0     16.0      16.0      16.0     16.0      16.0      16.0    16.0      16.0    16.0        16.0      16.0      16.0      16.0          16.0
Total Project Costs                    62.2    169.8    207.4    125.9    109.2        23.9      22.6      20.8     18.8      17.0      17.0    16.0      16.0    16.0        16.0      16.0      16.0      16.0          16.0
B. Debt Service
(a)  IDA:  Principal 4/                  -         -        -              -        -         -         -        -              -        0.5     0.5       0.S      0.5        0.5       0.5      0.5       0.5            -
Service Charge               -        0.3       0.4      0.4       0 4      0 4       0 4       0.4       0.4      0.4       0.4      0.4       0.4     0.4        0.4       0.4       0.3       0.3            -
(b)  Bank: Principal 5/                  -         -        -         -       9.2      18.3      18.3     18.3      18.3      18.3     18.3    18.3       18.3    18.3        18.3      18.3      18.3     18.3
Interest                     -         -        6.4     14.4      19.5     22.5      21.0      19.5      18.0     16.5      15.0    13.5       12.0    10.5        9.0       7.5       6.0       4.5            -
(c)  Other Agencies                      -        0.5      3.1       5.7      7.1      13.2      12.8     12.4      15.2      14.7      16.7    16.2      15.6    15.2        14.7     14.2      13.7      13.2            -
Total Debt Service                       -        0.8       9.9     20.5      36.2     54.4      52.5      50.6     51.9      49.9      50.9    48.9      46.8    44.9        42.9      40.9      38.8      36.8            -
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS             62.2    170.6    217.3    146.4    145.4        78.3      75.1      71.4     707       66.               64.9      628    60.9         58.          9      54.8     52.8           16.0
Net Cash Flow                          29.2      33.1       2.8   (12,5)   (26.9)   (52.2)   (42.5)   (37.9)   (36.3)   (31.6)   (32.1)  (26.3)   (24.3)  (22.5)    (20.6)   (18.8)   (16.9)   (14.9)                    21.9
Cusaslative Cash Flow                  29.2      62.3     55.1      42.6      15.7    (36.5)   (79.0)   (116.9) (153.2)   (184.8) (216.9) (243.2)  (267.5) (290.0)   (310.6)  (329.4)  (346.3)  (361.2)                    -
1/ In current prices until 1981/82, in 81/82 constant prices thereafter.
2/ Ksh 950 per ton of seed cotton (ex-ginnery price of lint Ksh 11,048/ton; paid to farmers, Ksh 3.2 kg of seed cotton. i.e. lKCh 8.420/ton of lint equivalent.  CLSM8 costs KIh 120/ton) -
ginning outturn 381K.
3/ Fees to non-farming population for attribution of town sites for dwellings and miscellaneous revenues.  Total estimated at an average of Ksh 400 per family for 2,500 families.
4/ 0.752. service charge on capital outstanding, 10 years grace; repayment of capital 1%. per year during the first 10 years, 37. during next 30 years.
5/ 4-1/2 years grace, principal repaid over 15-1/2 years thereafter, interest rate 8.27% p.a.
6/ 8 years grace, principal repaid over 22 years thereafter, interest rate 3.757. p.a.
7/ 10 years grace, principal repaid over 40 years thereafter, no service charge.
8/  S years grace, principal repaid over 15 years thereafter, interest rate 87. pa.M
9/l Grant,
10/ Public Health and Other services.
May 19, 1977



KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLENENT PROJECT
NIB Cash Flow 1/
(Ksh'million)
77/78    78/79    79/80    80/81    81/82    82/83    83/84    84/85    85/86    86/87    87/88    88/89    93/94 and
thereafter
SOURCES OF FUNDS
A.  Project Revenues
(a)  Land and Water Charges 2/        -        -         1.4       4.7       8.8     11.1      11.9       13.2    14.6      15.9      17.3    18.6          18.6
(b)  House Repayments 3/              -         -        -         0.1      0.4       0.7       0.8       0.7      0.7       0.6       0.6      0.5          -
(c) Farmers' Payments for Culti-
vation Services 4/            -        -         -         1.S      2.8       3.4       3.4       3.4      3.4       3.4      3.4       3.4          3.4
(d)  Sundry Revenues 5/               -        -         0.5       0.4      0.4       0.4       0.4       0.4      0.4       0.4      0.4       0.4          0.4
Total Project Revenues           -         -        2.3       6.7      12.4     15.6      16.5      17.7     19.1      20.3    20.3       22.9         22.4
B. Funds from Government 6/              61.4    144.2    158.4       83.6      63.4       5.4      4.5       3.3       1.9       0.7      0.7       -
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS          61.4    144.2    160.7       90.3      75.8     21.0      21.0      21.0      21.0     21.0    21.0       22.9         22.4
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
(a)  Capital Costs                   59.7    140.0    147.9       67.2     45.7       -         _-                 -         -         -         - 
(b)  Recurrent Costs 7/               1.7      4.2      10.5      16.4     17.6      21.0      21.0     21.0      21.0      21.0      21.0    21.0          21.0
(c)  Transfer to Government           -        -         2.3       6.7     12.5       -         -         -        -         -        -         1.9          1.4
TOTAL  P1.4    144.2    160.7                                90.3       5       21.0      21.0      21.0     21.0      21.0    21.0                    22.4
1/  In constant 1977 prices (this cash flow does not include any debt service).
2/  Ksh 2,800/ha at full development, in 1977 prices.  See Annex 19, Table 1.
3/  Ksh 240 per year per farmer, in current terms, repaid in 15 years starting year 2; amounts shown are discounted at 87 p.a. to value
repayments in constant terms.
4/  Cultivation charges as shown at Annex 19, Table 1 (about Ksh 660 per farmer at full development).
5/  Electricty  and water charges to non-farming population (assumedequal to the operating costs of facilities).
6/  Capital and recurrent cost during investment period for all items shown at Annex 13, Table 1, except "Public Health" and"Operation
and Maintenance - Other", and "Farm Inputs", and occasional subsidies from 82/83 to 87/88.
7/  Including replaevents.
May 16, 1977



ANNEX 24
Page I
KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
Rates of Return
1.        The basic assumptions used in the internal economic rate of return
analysis were:
(a) The economic life of the Project was assumed to be 50
years - the expected life of the main capital investments.
(b) Price contingencies, taxes and duties were excluded from the
cost estimates.
(c) Physical contingencies (about 13% of base cost) were in-
cluded in the cost estimates.
(d) Foreign exchange has been shadow-priced at a value of
Ksh 11.0/US$1.0 (compared with the current rate of
Ksh 8.35/US$1.0) and salaries have been costed at actual
wage prices.
(e) Costs were based on January, 1977 prices and include:
(i) 100% of the costs of irrigation and wildlife con-
servation works, roads and airfields, buildings for
the NIB, and vehicles and equipment;
(ii) 75% of the costs of village infrastructure, of settlers'
dwellings, of the public health component, of the
costs of administrative services and social
services buildings, and of education.
(iii) 100% of the operating costs of NIB, farm inputs, and
consultancy services excluding the Stage II Feasibility
Study; and
(iv) 25% of other operation and maintenance costs.
(v) the marginal value product of farm labor, which
was estimated at US$50 per year per family.



ANNEX 24
Page 2
It will be observed that in (ii) and (iv) above only certain percentages
of the cost of some items have been considered appropriate for inclusion.
This has been done on the basis that the excluded portions of the costs
would have been incurred irrespective of the Project.
(f)  The only benefits attributed to the Project were those from the
projected agricultural production and afforestation. Yields
and output were estimated on the basis of yields already
achieved on the Hola Scheme. Groundnuts, cotton and maize
were valued at export prices, and cowpeas and garden crops
were valued at market prices. Benefits generated by the
economic activity of the large number (up to 30,000) of
persons other than settlers who are expected to be attracted
to the Project area (traders, artisans, etc.) are not
quantifiable and were not included.
2.        Rates of return have been calculated for the following cases:
Case I:   Base ROR.  Project area 6,700 ha.  The whole cost of
river works, supply canal and main canal has been in-
cluded, representing the situation that would exist in
the event that further experience and studies showed
that further development in the Lower Tana area was
not feasible either by an extension of the Project to
12,000 ha in the Bura area or by development on the East
Bank. Other assumptions as listed in para 2.
ROR = 13%
Table 1 gives details of the computation. (If the cur-
rent foreign exchange rate of US$1.0 = Ksh. 8.35 were
used instead of the shadow rate (para 2), the ROR would
be about 11.5%).
Case II:  Same as Case I, but the costs of the river works, the
supply canal and the main canal have been prorated
according to the areas they are designed to command.
Hence only 13% of the cost of river works has been
included, since the Project area is 6,700 ha (18%) of
a possible total net area of about 37,000 ha commanded
by the river works on the east and west banks. Similarly
the structures for the supply and main canals could com-
mand 12,000 ha and therefore only 56% of their cost is
included.
ROR = 14.5%
If the foreign exchange rate of US$1.0 = Ksh 8.35 were used,
the ROR would be 12.5%.



ANNEX 24
Page 3
Sensitivity Analysis
3.        A sensitivity analysis has been made for Case I only.
(a) An increase of overall project costs of 10% would reduce
the ROR by 1.5 percentage points from 13% to 11.5%.
(b) An increase of overall project costs of 20% would reduce
the ROR by 3 percentage points from 13% to 10%.
(c) A decrease in benefits (due to lower yields and/or lower
prices) of 10% with costs at their original value, would
decrease the ROR by 1.5 percentage points from 13% to
11.5%.
(d) A decrease in benefits of 20%, with costs at their original
value, would decrease the ROR by 3.5 percentage points
from 13% to 9.5%.
(e) A delay of one year in the realization of benefits, without
accompanying delay in project costs, would reduce the ROR by
1.5 percentage points from 13% to 11.5%.
A separate analysis of the effect of independent variations of individual
cost items has not been made; this effect would be small, because individual
cost items represent small fractions of the total project cost.
May 18, 1977



KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Project Rate of Return Calculation
(Ksh'million)
1         2         3         4         5         6         7         8          9         10         11          12-50
I. PROJECT COSTS
1.  Irrigation Works                                15.3      75.2      70.8      13.1         -         -         -         -          -          -          -            -
2.  Roads, Airfields, Wildlife
Construction Works                               8.8       3.0       3.4       1.3       0.8        -          -         -         -           -          -            -
3.  Buildings and Infrastructures                   13.5      27.8      28.6      22.9      18.3         -         -         -          -          -          -            -
4.  Public Health                                    0.1       0.3        0.4       0.4       0.4       0.4       0.4       0.4      0.4          0.4        0.4          0.4
5.  Vehicles, Equipment, Electrical Supply           3.4       6.8      11.8       6.5        2.6        -         -         -          -          -          -            -
6.  Operation and Maintenance, NIB                   1.4       3.3        1.7     15.1       16.4      20.0      20.0      20.0    20.0          20.0       20.0         20.0
7.  Operation and Maintenance, Other                 0.1       0.1       0.4       0.6       0.7        0.7       0.7       0.7      0.7          0.7        0.7          0.7
8.  Farm Inputs                                       -          -        2.3       7.5      14.4      17.5      17.7      17.8    18.0          18.2       18.4         18.6
9.  Consultants, Management, Training               11.8       8.0       6.0        6.0       4.8        -         -         -        -            -           -           -
10.  Family Labor                                      -          -       0.3       1.5       2.2        2.2       2.2       2.2      2.2          2.2        2.2          2.2
11.  Afforestation                                    1.0       1.5       6.2      11.6      10.3        2.4       2.4       2.7      3.0          3.6        4.0          2.2
Total Costs. F.E. not shadow rated              55.4    126.0    131.9        86.5      70.9      43.2      43.4      43.8    44,3          45.1       45.7         44.1
Total Costs, F.E. shadow rated                  64.8    147.4    154.4    101.4         83.3      50.8      51.1      51.5    52.1          53.1       53.8         51.9
II. PROJECT BENEFITS 1/
1.  Crop Production                                   -         -        1.3      11.5      43.3      86.4    115.0    119.6   124.2            128.2      130.5        130.7
2.  Forestry Production                               -         -         -         -         -          -         -         -        -           9.6       10.3         13.0
Total Benefits, F.E. Shadow Rated                 -         -        1.3      11.5      43.3      86.4    115.0       119.6   124.2        137.8       140.8       143.7
Total Benefits. F.E. Not Shadow Rated             -         _        1.0       8.6      32.5      64.8      86.3       89.7    93.2        105.8       108.2       111.0
1/ To take account of the lag between planting of cotton, which occurs in one fiscal year, and its harvesting, which occurs in the following fiscal year,
the benefit stream corresponding to the benefits from cotton has been moved forward by six months in the calculation of the rate of return.
May 18, 1977



KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Economic Value of Project Crop Production
(Ksh'000)
CROP YEAR                             1         2        3         4         5        6         7         8         9         10         11 and
Thereafter
I.  COTTON
Area Cropped (ha)                            -        437    2,262    4,782    6,440    6,440    6,440    6,440    6,440    6,440               6,440
Average Yield (ton/ha) 1/                   -        2.50      2.52     2.58      2.64      2.74      2.84     2.93      2.98       3.0           3.0
Seed Cotton Production (ton)                -       1,092    5,703   12,319   16,996   17,640   18,284   18,844   19,208   19,320              19,320
Value of Production (Ksh'O00) 2/            -       6,420   33,530   72,440   99,940  103,720  107,510  111,040  112,940  112,600             113,600
TI.  MAIZE/COWPEAS 3/
Area Cropped (ha)                           403    1,344    2,554    3,023    2,866    2,631    2,464    2,328    2,204    2,104                2,059
Average Maize Yield (ton/ha)                2.0      2.15      2.31     2.57      2.90      3.20      3.47     3.64      3.70      3.70          3.70
Average Cowpeas Yield (toll/ha)            0.50      0.53      0.57     0.64      0.73      0.83     0.92      0.98      1.00      1.00          1.00
Maize Production (ton)                      810    2,890    5.900    7,770    8,300    8,410    8,550    8,480    &-,150    7,780               7.620
Value of Maize Production (Ksh'000) 4/    710    2,560    5,220    6,880    7,350    7,440    7,560    7,500    7,530    6,890                  6,800
Cowpeas Production (ton)                    200       710    1,450    1,920    2,100    2,190    2,270    2,280    2,200    2,100               2,060
Value of Cowpeas Production (Ksh'000) 5/  340    1,210    2,470    3,270    3,570    3,720    3,860    3,880    3,750    3,580                  3,500
III.  GROUNDNUTS
Area Cropped (ha)                                     -         -         -67      224       459       626      762       886       986         1,031
Average Yield (ton/ha - unshelled)           -        -         -       1.40      1.46      1.55      1.69     1.84      1.94      1.99          2.00
Groundnut Production (ton - shelled) 6/   -           -         -         61       212       463      689       913    1,115    1,273           1,340
Value of Production (Ksh'000) L/            -         -         -         145      505    1,105    1,645    2,180    2,660    3,035             3,195
IV.  GARDEN CROPS 8/
Area (ha)                                     17       90       150      260       260       260       260      260       260       260           260
Value of Production (Ksh'000)               240    1,260    2,100    3,640    3,640    3,640    3,640    3,640    3,640    3,640                3,640
TOTAL ECONOMIC VALUE (Ksh'000)            1,290   11,450   43,320   86,375  115,005  119,625  124,215  128,240  130,520  130,745              130,735
l/  Settlera' arrival is phased over time, and settlers do not have the same yields in the same year.  See Annex 8 "Cropping Pattern, Production and Farm
Revenues"for development of yields on a typical holding.
2/  Economic price of seed cotton Ksh 5,880 per ton (Table 3).
_/  Cowpeas are planted in association with maize.
4/   Economic price of maize - Ksh 885 per ton (Table 3).
5/  Economic  price of cowpeas - Ksh 1.700 per ton (local market price).
6/  Shelled nuts are 65% of unshelled nuts in weight.
7/  Economic price of groundnuts - Ksh 2,385 per ton (Table 3).
8/  500 m2 per farmer.  Economic value is based on a yield of about 350 kg of product per farmer and a value of Ksh 2 per kg                                                                 - x
NOTE:  Year 1 corresponds to fiscal year 1979/80.                                                                                                                                              I')
May 13, 1977



--Ir 44
Table 3
KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Commodities Prices
Economic           Financial
Prices   3/        Prices   6/
Cotton
Lint, Mexican SM - 1/16" c.i.f. Northern Europe 1/                                     70 #/lb.           70 /lb.
Lint, Mexican SM - 1/16  c.i.f. Northern Europe 2/                                  1,543 $/ton        1,543 $/ton
Less:  Insurance and freight Mombasa - N. Europe                                      163 $/ton          163 $/ton
Mombasa price                                                               1,380 $/ton         1,380 $/ton
Lint, f.o.b. Mombasa 3/                                                            15,180 Ksh/ton    11,523 Ksh/ton
Less:  Transportation from Bura                                                       475 Ksh/ton        475 Ksh/ton
Ex-ginnery price                                                                  14,705 Ksh/ton    11,048 Ksh/ton
Seed, local market ex-ginnery                                                         900 Ksh/ton        900 Ksh/ton
Seed cotton value based on:
Lint 38% (90% AR and 10% BR grade) 4/                                         5,590 Ksb'-n        4,200 Ksh/ton
Seed 61%                                                                        550 Ksh/ton        550 Ksh/ton
6,140 Ksh/ton      4,750 Ksh/ton
Ginning cost 5/                                                                 262 Ksh/ton         224 Ksh/ton
Net value seed cotton                                                         5,878 Ksh/ton       4,526 Kah/ton
Groundnuts (Decorticated)
C.i.f. Northern Europe 1/                                                            460 $/ton           460 $/ton
Less:  Insurance and freight to Mombasa                                              200 $/ton           200 $/ton
F.o.b. Mombasa                                                                        260 $/ton          260 $/ton
Groundnuts, f.o.b. Mombasa 3/                                                      2,860 Ksh/ton       2,170 Ksh/ton
Less:  Transportation to Bura                                                        475 Ksh/ton         475 Ksh/ton
Farm gate price                                                                    2,385 Ksh/ton       1,695 Ksh/ton
Maize
F.o.b. Mombasa                                                                     1,360 Ksh/ton      1,360 Ksh/ton
Less:  Transportation from Bura                                                      475 Ksh/ton        475 Ksh/ton
Farm gate price                                                                      885 Ksh/ton        885 Ksh/ton
1/   Commodity Prices Forecasts Memorandum dated November 23, 1976 shows 53 i/lb for cotton
lint and 348 $/ton for groundnuts in 1974 prices for 1985. These prices are inflated
by 32% to reflect 1977 'rices.
2/   1.0 m. tons = 2,204 lbs.
3/   Converted using shadow exchange rate US$1.0 = Ksh 11.0.
4/   BR graee is valued at 50% of AR grade.
57   Ginning Cost estimated on basis of ginnery costs in Annex 4 (Table 4) as follows:
Economic                 Financial
Price                     Price
Operating Costs (per bale of
lint; 1 bale weights 182 kg)
182 kg)                      Ksh 129                   Ksh 110
Cost per kg of lint                Ksh 0.60                 Ksh 0.71
6/   Converted using actual exchange rate US$1.0 - Ksh 8.35.
May 18, 1977






KENYA
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1977                   1978                   1979                   1980                    1981          L        1982                    1983
J       ii          DiJ        JJ          DJJ        J           DiJ         JJ         DJ                      D[J         JIJ        DiJ         Ji 
FY 1977          FYl1978                FY 1979       -         FY 19B0                F 1981F   1982                                FY 1983            FY 1984
77                                                                                                           I/) /I""7
TARGETS/77                                                                                                                       '4     7777                       $//7'                                                       /14                              "s7
Land prepared (ready for plowing) - net ha-------------------------131----364-----------$----                                                           Z
Tenants migrated to project -----------. --A---25P$   - -------------------------- --I                                                                            "                     1 2E                    29725)$"
/7/7  /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~=114/
ROADS                                                                                                            /7               "     /- //7                             FIRTWTRlL                                                                             7$
Garsen - Garissa ----------------------------------------------- -                                                                                                         DELIVER7I77UPL'                                                                   777/
Access  to  Nanigi weir site - ------ - -- ------- --- - ---- -- ---- --------                                     ' -----'
Maintenance--- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- ---- --- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --- -- -- -- -- -7-- -- --                                                                                                                                                                           7/z
Surfacing of internal Project roads (1 70 km) ------------.-------------------------------~s                                                                                                                                                         7          7/ 
RIVER WORKS                                                                                                       /7A15)                                $         7            "17                                                      )                  ~
Diversion Structure, temporary dikes, ricer cutoff, closure, bridge, river bank protection - - - - - ----7------                                                               $        7<             /J     5$$/7  
DIKES AND OVERFLOW                                                                                               777             7                      "        /"'/'Z"i Z4                                  p/                         7            7           /$
Compacted embankments, masonry overflow protection, dissipator22                                                           -       1 t                  //                                              7      77                                              /77
CANAL EXCAVATION                                                                                                 77               7~/7                   7'                                                                                                          
Supply Canal including sand trap & part irrigation and drainage network (for 1800 ha ara                -          4' to           7h)-7                                                                                       7                               /7/
Temporary pump station                                                                                                          7)      '"                      77)                                                                     7                      7,7
Irrigation and drainage network ------------------------/----$--/--------------
STRUCTURES                                                                                                       $$               1        ~       ~             $)4 "'                                                                               " 
Supply   Canal---- --- -- --- -- --- -- -- --- -- --- -- ----- --- -- -- --- -"--- -- -/--- ---                  - -/
Main Canal-/.                                                                                                              -    C. XA/-/7                                                                                                                       '>             '
I rrigation and drai nage network, major structures & part minor structures for 1 800 ha-'--------......)..'.." -7------
initial development area.                                                                                                      /1      /7               / / 7                                         7      //                         >$                    ///
Irrigation and drainage network, minor structures-----/A--------------------7  /- /-7--                                                                                                                                               '/-- ....;.
ON-FARM DEVELOPMENT WORKS                                                                                         77/4A $$                                                     /1""7                   /                       1   7)5
Bush clearing, unit-feeders, -drains and -roads -----------------------------------------
Land  leveling--------- ------r------------ ---------------- -------- -------- ---/7
Gubid ed art acibe tesonstrcton:d eat'hue,piary schools             ,sdleris alte-                                                                                                   afS/]                                           ' '5)
/7/7  '',                         /7/7~~~~~~4       /I. /                                                '/            .0 I       770/
pubidealt faaciites, cosrctond   eary tschoolses,7pimar/schols,/ocia4ser/ces/aciliies/.........7/./.                                                                                                                                                                        /
PROCUREMENT OF EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS/7/                                                                                        /4       7$           /4   "$)in 4)$ 
Agricultural and 0. & M. equipment, vehicles, building materials, chemicals for public health, etc ...-..m.....                                                                                                               '       /7//7                  7               /7
TANA LEFT BANK FEASIBILITY STUDY-A../..............................77........... ..
LEGEND
/7777   Rainy season                                   IEIIEImIEEEI  Mobilization                                                        ICn  B contracts                        mmmi m   Guided Hlarambee construct'
eooooon0   Prequalification                                     m      mm       construction procured under                                      National Youth Service                  MW SSSA   Consultants
'r                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kenya Government procedures
May 1977                        wW NW          PrcrmnenigwtawrWolB






.. A                                                            > 7..                             LOAINA\  COMt4 W        SrbAT IQ  ; 
,  < ) > s ffi g:; _ 0 0 _ z (; 4         S  YW  O                                      _                                           _                                          d    .
i''i''%) FeogusonsGuIfX ,,, gyW .;Z ,VAhDERA / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A , DER
E4 '1 > - u  , S le l pX                                  E     r           I   r o
.  ;  z2   S 1      X      i   i    T        0           2                        MAk5A/1MA G PA                                                                             /
)                                  A    : "  5 E rr    t%        ~r Mrseb   E J   0 '  -                                   W  
a                          EI,rr SingrO.  erVfAL d
5 1A  E/
E                                                                              E                                                            A
-0'.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m
ANOA                        .                                                                     T         .                                        Oi
~~~~~~T                                                                           E      A             E      R   .N                             J BRA   ,,
Z v )                 .A        L    L      E    Y
(        0              S o   sr           -     W ; AH t)\X
- , , ,N. > e. zAgr.lrro56./ -N/ CAx                                                                                                  0 0
c T ~ ~ ~  ~         ~        ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       ~        I     TAIrW~
Q f; 0 ;~~~~~~~~~~~ C   -   c     - 0  A;    T;Cz4x1jj 3  - D00sr OC'V+PoEdfAN
. T 3 . SsJw .... ;.,5,. Cn C r>                                                              -0 i,' .    ,str'.' 'G              -   P o o r  h9rb dtry; 
_AAS                                           =D D  CrD UEr
4/ESTERN  bAsoi ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~~ NIArr--Do!eyeD
Or conDOr-..  IA                                                    Error ra ErIcerA~~~~~~~~A E              RA






IBRD 12226RI
/             r ~~~~~STATE                                                IfVER~M  7
KENYA                                                                                                  '//                                     I    S T         A 
BURA IRRIGATION SETTLEMENT PROJECT                                                                                             '/,1.                                                                                                  N LA PIOET
PROJECT FEATURES.                 EXISTNG FEATURES.                                                                                                                                    RUST         LAND             A
National Irrigation                                                                                      - 
Scheme Boundary                   State Land / Trust Land Boundory
Roads auth Brioge                                                                                                                             MAL/SEDIA 10 (SARSEN,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O AREN
Irrigated Area                    Roads with Bridge                                                                /TRUST                /NDI& MOM,ASA
_  Irrgation Canals                        Irrigation Canals
-o   r Siphons                            Seasonal Watercourses                                                                  LA                 R
Protection Dikes             _    Old River Bed
Road Realignment        -13-  Contours in Meters
_        Irrigated Afforestation   -, Riverine Forest
 IForest Reserves
L             D____
/TI                                                                     _ I                                       (N A
; ar; ,/ 0,;::T:;             /<0             g             g            /                     l              /        \          wOHv^l l%rd'ars         M~~~~~~~~I  ILE          Is                                 ',    4(1 X  i5q~<



