CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1449 KE
Loan Agreement
(Bura Irrigation Settlement Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 22, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 22, 1977, between REPUBLIC OF KENYA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter
provided;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Association to
provide additional financial assistance towards the financing of
the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between
the Borrower and the Association (hereinafter called the
Development Credit Agreement) the Association is agreeing to
provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount
equivalent to $6,000,000; and
(C) the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the credit provided for in
the Development Credit Agreement be disbursed on account of
expenditures on the Project before disbursements of the proceeds
of the Loan provided for in this Agreement are made;


﻿-2-
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modifications thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
Section 2.01 (11) is deleted and the following is substituted
therefor:
"ll. The term Project means the Bura Irrigation Settlement
Project for which the Loan is granted, as described in the
Development Credit Agreement between the Borrower and the
Association of even date with the Loan Agreement and as the
description thereof may be amended from time to time by agreement
among the Borrower, the Association and the Bank."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:


﻿-4-
(a) "Credit" means the credit provided for in the
Development Credit Agreement; and
(b) "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of
even date herewith between the Borrower and the Association for
the purpose of the Project, as such agreement may be amended
from time to time; and such term includes the General Conditions
Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the Association,
dated March 15, 1974, as made applicable to such agreement, all
agreements supplemental to the Development Credit Agreement
and all schedules to the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿- 5 -
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirty-four million dollars ($34,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to the Development Credit Agreement, as such Schedule may be
amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower
and the Bank, for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1984, or
such later date as the Bank shall otherwise establish. The Bank
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿- 6 -
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and two-tenths per cent (8.20%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in the Schedule to this Agreement.


﻿- 7 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
and Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Subject to subsection (b) of this Section,
Section 2.03 and Articles III and IV of the Development Credit
Agreement are incorporated in, and made a part of, the Loan
Agreement, provided that the terms "Association" and "Credit",
whenever they appear in such Section and Articles shall be read,
respectively, "Bank" and "Loan".
(b) So long as the Development Credit Agreement shall not
have terminated prior to the termination of this Agreement and
so long as the Bank has not given notice to the contrary to the
Borrower: (i) the obligations of the Borrower to consult with and
to furnish, or cause to be furnished, information, documents,
plans, reports, records and statements to the Bank shall be
satisfied to the extent performance in respect of such obligations
is rendered to the Association; and (ii) the obligations of the
Bank to consult with and to furnish information to the Borrower
shall be satisfied to the extent such'obligations are fulfilled by
the Association.
(c) Unless and until the Bank gives notice to the contrary
to the Borrower, all actions taken (including the giving of
approvals or the granting of waivers) by the Association pursuant
to the Development Credit Agreement shall be deemed to be taken


﻿-8-
pursuant to both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan
Agreement and in the name and on behalf of both the Association
and the Bank.
Section 3.02. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and


﻿-9-
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date; and (iii) any charges on the General Fund of the
East African Community (hereinafter called the Community) securing
a debt of the Community where the amount of the debt service on
such debt in any financial year together with other debt service
on other debt of the Community payable from such General Fund in
such financial year does not exceed 2% of the average of customs
duties and excise duties collected by the East African Customs and
Excise Department in the three financial years preceding such
incurrence. For the purposes of this paragraph, "debt service"
shall include payments of the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, debt; and any reference to incurring of debt shall
include the assumption and guarantee of debt and any renewal,
extension or modification of the terms of the debt or of the
assumption or guarantee thereof.


﻿- 10 -
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Bank
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 (k) of the
General Conditions, the events set out in Section 5.01 of the
Development Credit Agreement are specified.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof: the events specified in paragraphs
(a), (b) and (c) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of the Development
Credit Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the Genera' Conditions, namely,
that all conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement have been fulfilled.
Section 5.02. The matters specified in Section 6.02 of the
Development Credit Agreement are specified as additional matters,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions,
to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the
Bank.
Section 5.03. The date October 25, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Planning of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Treasury
P.O. Box 30007
Nairobi, Kenya
Cable address:                     Telex:
FINANCE                             22003
Nairobi
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-14-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By /s! J.P. Mbogua
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Hans A. Adler
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
beginning May 15, 1982
through   November 15, 1996                  1,095,000
On May 15, 1997                                   1,150,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 16 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                               1.25%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                                2.45%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                4.50%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                          6.55%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                          7.40%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                                8.20%


