CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 722 KE
Development Credit Agreement
(Bura Irrigation Settlement Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 22, 1977


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 22, 1977, between REPUBLIC OF KENYA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Bank to provide
additional assistance towards the financing of the Project and
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and
the Bank (hereinafter called the Loan Agreement) the Bank is
agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to thirty-four million dollars ($34,000,000)
(hereinafter called the Loan);
(C) the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this
Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures on the Project
before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan provided for in
the Loan Agreement are made; and


﻿-2-
(D) the Borrower intends to contract from: (1) the Kingdom
of the Netherlands a loan equivalent to about $8,800,000; (2)
the Commonwealth Development Corporation a loan equivalent to
about $8,500,000; (3) the European Development Fund a special loan
equivalent to about $12,000,000; and (4) the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland a grant equivalent to about
$8,500,000 to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms
and conditions set forth in agreements to be entered into between
the Borrower and such parties, respectively; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "CLSMB" means the Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board,
a body corporate established under the Cotton Lint and Seed
Marketing Act (Cap. 335);
(b) "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Bank for the purpose of the
Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time; and
such term includes the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, as made
applicable to such agreement, all agreements supplemental to the
Loan Agreement and all schedules to the Loan Agreement.


﻿-4-
(c) "Maize and Produce Board" means the body corporate of
that name established under the Agricultural Produce Marketing
(Maize and Produce Board Order), 1966 (L.N. 76/1966), as amended
by L.N. 228 of 1966, issued under the Agricultural Produce Market-
ing Act (Cap. 320) and subject to the Maize Marketing Act (Cap.
338);
(d) "NIB" means the National Irrigation Board, a body
corporate established under the Irrigation Act (Cap. 347);
(e) "NYS" means the National Youth Service, a department
of the Ministry of Labor, established under the National Youth
Service Act (Cap. 208);
(f) "Project Area" in relation to a national irrigation
scheme means the area designated or to be designated by notice in
the Gazette as a "national irrigation scheme" under the Irrigation
Act (Cap. 347) and in relation to a forest area means an area
declared or to be declared by notice in the Gazette to be a
"forest area" under the Forest Act (Cap. 385); and
(g) "Tenant" means the holder of a license granted pursuant
to the Irrigation (National Irrigation Schemes) Regulations, 1977
or the Trust Land (Irrigation Areas) Rules settled on and allo-
cated irrigated and other land for farming in the Project Area.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to six million dollars ($6,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1984 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-6-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a. service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing November 15, 1987, and ending May 15,
2027, each installment to and including the installment payable
on May 15, 1997, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropri-
ate agricultural, engineering and irrigation practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose,
(b) The Borrower shall carry out the Project through NIB
with support from the following agencies for the activities
indicated in general terms below: (i) storage and marketing of
seed cotton, lint and seed: CLSMB; (ii) upgrading and maintaining
the Garissa-Garsen road: Ministry of Works; (iii) operation of
health facilities: Ministry of Health; (iv) provision of social
services: Ministry of Housing and Social Services; (v) primary and
secondary education: Ministry of Education; (vi) forest conserva-
tion and afforestation: Forest Department of the Ministry of
Natural Resources; (vii) wildlife conservation: Wildlife Conserva-
tion and Management Service of the Ministry of Wildlife and
Tourism; (viii) extension services outside the Project Area:
Ministry of Agriculture; (ix) assistance in publicizing the
Project: Ministry of Information; (x) assistance in selection and
settlement of tenants in the Project Area: Office of the President
and Ministry of Lands and Settlement; (xi) operation of town and


﻿-8-
village water supplies: Ministry of Water Development; (xii) local
government services in towns and villages: Ministry of Local
Government; and (xiii) development of cooperative services:
Ministry of Cooperative Development.
(c) The Borrower shall ensure coordination among the
agencivs of the Borrower concerned in carrying out the Project ant
shall, to this end, establish a Bura Project Steering Committee
and cause NIB to establish a Bura Project Coordinator's Office.
Such office shall be provided with adequate staff and facilities
and shall be headed by an adequatev qualified and experienced
project coordinator. The Borrower shall inform the Association of
each proposed appointment of a project coordinator and afford the
Association the opportunity to comment thereon. The 3teering
Committee shall be chaired by the general manager of the NIB and
shall include the project coordinator and senior rea% nentatives
of the agencies concerned.
(d) Without limitation to the foregoing paragraph (a), the
Borrower shall provide to NIB as a grant the proceeds of the
Credit withdrawn for parts of the Project which are to be carriee
out by NIB.
(e) Witirut limitation to the foregoing paragraph (a), the
Borrower -ha.i onsure that a13 nccessrry funds for the effective
operation and -maintenance of the irrigation and settlement scheme


﻿-9-
under the Project are provided until the termination of this
Agreement.
Section 3.02. To assist NIB in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall cause NIB to employ consultants, experts and
managers, all of whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association:
(a) (i) to prepare designs and contract documents, under-
take procurement, evaluate tenders, supervise
construction and supply of civil works, buildings,
a ginnery, vehicles and equipment for the purposes
of Parts A, B and E of the Project; to provide
assistance to NIB for project coordination and
training to NIB staff;
(ii) to provide technical assistance to NYS; and
(iii) to carry out the preliminary feasibility study
described in Part F (2) of the Project on or before
October 31, 1978;
(b) to manage the irrigation system and agricultural produc-
tion in the Project Area, to carry out irrigated agricultural
research and to operate the ginnery included in Part B (3) of the
Project; and
(c) to determine policies which can be expected to maximize
harmonious cooperation among the various peoples in and around the
Project Area, including, inter alia, policies with respect to the


﻿- 10 -
integration of squatters in and around the Project Area into the
community and the prevention of misallocation of family income of
families in the Project Area;
With respect to paragraph (a) (i), the Borrower shall cause NIB to
employ a firm of consultants. With respect to paragraph (b), the
Borrower shall cause NIB to employ a management firm or organiza-
tion on or before December 31, 1978, or such later date as the
Association may accept, for a period of not less than six years.
With respect to paragraph (c), the Borrower shall cause NIB to
employ consultants or experts not later than December 31, 1977, or
such later date as the Association may accept, for at least 36
man-months during a period of five years; and
(d) before taking any final policy decision with respect to
matters referred to in Section 3.02 (c), the Borrower and NIB
shall consult with the Association on the findings of such consul-
tants.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.


﻿- 11 -
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request; and shall, in particular, furnish the Associa-
tion annual work programs by March 31 of each year during the
Project implementation period for the fiscal year next following
such date.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
in.luded in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Association, all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿- 12 -
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall take or cause to be
taken all such actions as shall be necessary to acquire as and
when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for the construction and operation of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause NIB, in cooperation with the
Wildlife Conservation and Management Service of the Ministry of
Wildlife and Tourism, to take all steps necessary to minimize the
destruction of wildlife in and around the Project Area arising in
connection with the implementation of the Project, and to protect
such wildlife from poaching and other unlawful interference.
(c) The Borrower shall declare, by September 1, 1978,
or such later date as the Association may accept, two areas
occupied by riverine forests along both sides of the Tana River
between Garissa and Garsen, and identified generally as the
Nanigi block and the Bura block and one area of forest identified
generally as the Milalulu block, as forest areas in accordance
with the Forest Act (Cap. 385). The precise boundaries of each
block shall be satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 13 -
(d) The Borrower shall provide, by July 1, 1979, or such
later date as the Association may accept, and maintain adequate
staff in the areas described in the foregoing paragraphs (b) and
(c) to protect the wildlife and forests included therein in
accordance with a program satisfactory to the Association.
(e) The Borrower shall ensure that adequate compensation is
paid to, or that other arrangements are made adequate to compen-
sate, persons having rights, to land or to access to the Tana
River, taken over by the Borrower to achieve the purposes of the
Project.
(f) Subject only to natural forces beyond its control, the
Borrower shall ensure that the flow of water in the Tana River at
the diversion structure described in Part A (1) of the Project is
adequate to meet the requirements of the Project and of water
users downstream from the Project Area.
(g) The Borrower shall ensure the effective control of water
abstractions from the Tana River and its tributaries by water
bailiffs of the Ministry of Water Development.
(h) The Borrower shall, upon request from NIB, make adequate
arrangements, in cooperation with the Maize and Produce Board, for
the marketing of any surpluses of maize, groundnuts and cowpeas
produced in the Project Area.


﻿-14-
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall ensure that NIB:
(a) undertakes continuous and systematic tests of the
groundwater levels in the Project Area in accordance with a
program satisfactory to the Association;
(b) carries out Part B of the Project in accordance with
planning, design and construction standards satisfactory to the
Association;
(c) owns and operates the ginnery described in Part B (3) of
the Project until 1987 or such earlier date as the Association may
accept;
(d) designs by December 31, 1978, or such later date as the
Association may accept, and carries out a training program satis-
factory to the Association for staff to be engaged in managing and
operating the Project facilities and other large scale irrigaLion
schemes;
(e) is assigned full responsibility for agronomic and
water management research in connection with irrigation schemes of
the kind NIB operates; and
(f) levies total charges (A) on Tenants for land, water use
and management services equivalent to (i) 1,600 Kenyan shillings
per hectare of irrigable land per year starting at the end of the
first year of a Tenant's cotton production; (ii) 2,000 Kenyan
shillings per hectare of irrigable land per year starting at the


﻿- 15 -
end of the third year of a Tenant's cotton production; and (iii)
2,800 Kenyan shillings per hectare of irrigable land per year
starting at the end of the eighth year of a Tenant's cotton
production; and adjusts such charges periodically based on costs
and the Tenant's ability to pay, having regard to maintenance of
adequate incentives to agricultural production by the Tenant; and
(B) on all persons in the Project Area engaged in commercial or
other profitable activities sufficient to recover a portion of the
costs attributable to the services provided to said persons. The
level of all charges shall be reviewed by the Borrower, the
Association and NIB by December 1979 and periodically thereafter.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, all roads constructed or improved under the Project in
accordance with sound engineering practices and shall make adequate
budgetary provision for this purpose in its recurrent budget.
Section 3.08. (a) For the purposes of strengthening CLSMB and
improving its cotton industry, the Borrower shall, by December 31,
1977, or such later date as the Association may accept, and except
as the Association may otherwise agree, take or cause to be taken
the actions described in Schedule 6 to the Development Credit
Agreement (Integrated Agricultural Development Project) between
-           the Borrower and the Association dated July 9, 1976.


﻿- 16 -
(b) The Borrower shall cause CLSMB to implement programs
for the purposes described in paragraphs 4 (c), (d) and (e) of
Part B of the said Schedule 6 and shall, in particular, establish
seed cotton prices which shall be paid to all cotton growers in
Kenya in each calendar year and shall publish such prices not
later than January 1 of the year in question. Such prices shall
be set at levels adequate to maintain incentives to farmers to
grow cotton, and by 1980, based on cotton prices realized at
auction, the Borrower shall cause CLSMB to introduce a system of
premiums taking into account higher grades of cotton and varieties
produced.
Section 3.09. (a) The criteria and procedures for selection
and retention of tenants to be settled in the Project Area shall
be as set out in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, unless the Borrower
and the Association agree otherwise.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the initial period of tenancy
in the Project Area to be of a period of not less than fifteen
years and from year to year thereafter. The Borrower shall on or
before January 1, 1980, or such later date as the Association may
accept, review, and consult with the Association on, the effect on
existing irrigation schemes of the Trust Land (Irrigation Areas)
Rules and the Irrigation (National Irrigation Schemes) Regulations,
1977.


﻿- 17 -
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall establish by February 1,
1978, or such later date as the Association may accept, and
maintain in the Project Area and in the area immediately adjacent
thereto a public health and disease control program acceptable to
the Association.


﻿. - 18 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause NIB to maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices the operations and financial
condition of NIB.
(b) The Borrower shall cause NIB, NYS and the Forestry
Department to maintain separate accounts with respect to the
Project, and shall cause NIB, NYS and the Forestry Department to:
(i) have their respective Project accounts and financial statements
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year, (A) certified copies of said Project accounts
for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by
said auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Association


﻿- 19 -
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Associa-
tion such other information concerning the respective Project
accounts and audits thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c) The Borrower shall cause NIB to: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of
NIB and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause NIB to:
(a) take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for insurance
against such risks and in such amount.s as shall be consistent with
appropriate praztice;


﻿- 20 -
'3)  a;rc' its operations ard affair3 in accordance with
sourd Oz-,ncial, agricultural and engineering standards and
practices, with qualified management and personnel;
(c) maintain all its assecs and the irrigation schemes under
its control in accordance iith sound agricultural and engineering
practices; and
kd) provide, or ensure the provison of, adequate agricul-
tural cred:t at a rate of interest &f 11% per annuw, inputs and
market.Ln iaciiities in the Iroject Area.


﻿- 21 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the Irrigation Act (Cap. 347), or any subsidiary legis-
lation thereunder, or the Trust Land Act (Cap. 288) or any sub-
sidiary legislation thereunder, has beep amended, repealed or
promulgated in such a manner as to affect materially and adversely
the ability of NIB to carry out those parts of the Project for
which it is responsible;
(b) the Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Act (Cap. 335), or
any subsidiary legislation thereunder, has been amended, repealed
or promulgated in such a manner as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of CLSMB to comply with its obligations
under Section 3.08 of this Agreement; and
(c) (i) subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the grant or any of the loans
referred to in paragraph (D) of the Preamble
to this Agreement shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the respective
agreement providing therefor, or


﻿-22-
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof, or
(C) the Borrower shall have failed to obtain
the right to withdraw the proceeds of the
grant and all such loans by December 31,
1977.
(ii) subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that: (A) such suspension, cancel-
lation, termination or prematuring is not caused by
the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement, and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions consis-
tent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof: any event specified in paragraphs (a),
(b) or (c) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement.


﻿- 23 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a) the area to be occupied by the works described in Part A
(1) of the Project, the area to be inundated by the diversion
structure described therein and a reasonable margin surrounding
such areas has been designated as a national irrigation scheme by
notice in the Kenya Gazette in accordance with the Irrigation Act
(Cap. 347) and so much of such area as is trust land under the
Trust Land Act (Cap. 288) has been set apart by the Borrower or
where such land has been set apart by and vested in a County
Council has been leased by NIB for at least 66 years from the
appropriate County Council;
(b) evidence satisfactory to the Association of the avail-
ability of the grant and the loans described in paragraph (D) of
the Preamble to this Agreement has been provided;
(c) NIB has employed an adequately qualifiod and experienced
project coordinator for the purposes described in Section 3.01 (c)
of this Agreement;
(d) NIB has employed consultants in accordance with Section
3.02 (a) (i) of this Agreement; and
(e) the Borrower has defined quantitatively by categories of
use the water requirements downstream of the diversion structure.


﻿-24-
Section 6.02. The following events are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that (a) NIB has been
granted the right to withdraw an amount of water (to be specified
in such opinion and which shall not be less than eight cubic
meters per second) from the Tana River at Nanigi for purposes of
the Project; and no other party has been granted rights to withdraw
water from the Tana River upstream from Nanigi which will interfere
with such right of NIB; and the exercise of such right by NIB will
not interfere with any rights of water users downstream from
Nanigi; and (b) a license granted pursuant to the Irrigation
(National Irrigation Schemes) Regulations, 1977 and the Trust Land
(Irrigation Areas) Rules may be terminated only for good cause.
Section 6.03. The date October 25, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles
III, except Section 3.01 (e), and IV of this Agreement and the
provisions of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
M7
shall terminate or on a date fifteen years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿- 25 -
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Planning of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Treasury
P.O. Box 30007
Nairobi, Kenya
Cable address:                      Telex:
FINANCE                             22003
Nairobi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
1.


﻿- 26 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties thereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By Is/ J.P. Mbogua
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ Hans A. Adler
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit and of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of such proceeds to each Category and
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) Irrigation and con-            14,000,000      65%
servation works, ex-
cluding on-farm de-
velopment
(2) Construction of                 7,000,000      60%
buildings and sup-
ply of building
materials for Parts
B (1) and B (2) of
the Project
(3) Afforestation under             3,000,000      60%
Part D (2) of the
Project
(4) Operation and main-             6,000,000      80%
tenance expenditures
for NIB for the Project
(5) Supply, erection and            5,000,000      80%
construction of gin-
nery and auxiliary
facilities


﻿- 28 -
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
.(6) Studies and staff              1,000,000      100% of foreign
training program                              expenditures
under Part F of                               and 80% of
the Project                                   local expendi-
tures
(7) Unallocated                     4,000,000
TOTAL          40,000,000


﻿- 29 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" mean3 expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country otheT than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in ccoq-
pliance with the policy of the Association and the Bank that no
proceeds of the Credit or the Loan shall be disbursed on account
of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any
such taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan decreases or increases,
the Association and the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as re-:quired to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Association and the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 30 -
In addition, except as the Borrower, the Association and
the Bank shall otherwise agree, and until all amounts of the
Credit shall have been withdrawn or committed, no withdrawals
.shall be made from the Loan Account except under commitments
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit and
of the Loan or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table
in paragraph 1 above, if the Association and the Bank have, or
after full withdrawal of the entire amount of the Credit the Bank
has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit and of the
Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Association or the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required
to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit and of the
Loan which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association or the Bank are not needed to meet
other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further with-
drawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 31 -
6.   If the Association and the Bank shall have reasonably
determined that the procurement of any item in any Category is
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan and the Association and
the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Association and of the Bank under
the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, by notice
to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit and the Loan as,
in the Association's and the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit and the
Loan.
7.   In support of applications to withdraw proceeds of the Credit
or the Loan with respect to expenditures undertaken by force
account under Categories (1), (2) and (3) and expenditures under
Category (4), the Borrower shall submit certificates of a com-
patent official of the ministry or agency involved, and of the
consultants involved if appropriate, in each case certifying the
amounts expended and the purpose of such expenditure. The documen-
tation in support of such expenditures shall be retained for
review by representatives of the Association and the Bank.


﻿- 32 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of irrigating about 6,700 hectares net,
settling about 5,150 families on holdings of about 1.30 hectares
each and preparing such land for growing annual crops of cotton on
about 6,450 hectares in the Project Area and other crops which do
not interfere with such cotton crops, and carrying out related
works and activities including the following:
Part A:   Irrigation Works and Roads
(1) Construction of a diversion structure having a spilling
capacity of about 3,500 cubic meters per second on the
Tana River near Nanigi, a temporary pumping station, a
supply canal of about 46 kilometers from the diversion
structure to the area to be irrigated and other canals,
drains and facilities adequate to irrigate about 6,700
hectares net, essentially as shown on Map IBRD 12226RI.
(2) Upgrading the Garissa-Garsen road to standards
satisfactory to the Association which permit year-round
use to the completion of the Project; constructing an
access road from such road to the diversion structure
described above and roads and airfields within the
Project Area.


﻿- 33 -
Part B:   Facilities in the Project Area
(1) Construction and operation of offices for NIB and
central and local government agencies, workshops, stores
and warehouses, a secondary school to accommodate about
700 pupils, 20 village health units, not less than three
health sub-centers and a health center to provide health
and family planning services and housing for NIB and
Government staff.
(2) Construction with tenants' assistance and operation
of about 25 primary schools for about 14,000 pupils,
social halls, housing for teachers and other housing
facilities required for a population of about 36,000.
(3) Construction and operation of a cotton ginnery having
the capacity to process 20,000 tons of seed cotton in a
24-week period.
(4) Clearing and levelling land in the Project Area for
agricultural and communal use.
(5) Providing town and village infrastructure comprising:
(a) water supply facilities, including a central water
treatment plant with a distribution system; (b) an
electrical generation and distribution system for the
town, ginnery and water supply facilities; and (c) com-
munity sanitary facilities, including pit latrines,
washing facilities and showers, and recreation ponds.


﻿- 34 -
Part C:   Agricultural Services
(1) Provision of agricultural inputs, on credit as required,
and marketing facilities for crops to be produced in the
Project Area (primarily cotton, maize, groundnuts and
cowpeas).
(2) Strengthening extension services to indigenous
pastoralists and agriculturalists in the areas
surrounding the Project Area.
(3) Establishing by July 1, 1981, an agricultural research
station in the Project Area to carry on continuing
research on crop production and on methods of improving
yields from the various classes of soils occurring
in the Project Area, which station shall be maintained
as the principal research station for irrigated agri-
culture in the Tana River District.
Part D:   Forests and Wildlife
(1) Protection of existing riverine forests on the Tana
River upstream and downstream from the Project Area.
(2) Establishing within a ten-year period a forest of up
to 4,000 hectares to provide fuelwood and building
poles in the vicinity of the Project Area.


﻿- 35 -
(3) Construction of facilities to minimize disturbance
of wildlife affected by Project works and protection
of such wildlife from poaching and other unlawful
interference.
Part E:   Vehicles and Equipment
Providing vehicles and equipment to support the effec-
tive implementation of the Project.
Part F:   Training, Studies and Technical Assistance
(1) Training NIB staff in the establishment and management
of large-scale irrigation schemes, and staff of agencies
of the Borrower providing supporting services in the
Project Area, including, but not limited to, staff
providing health services.
(2) Carrying out feasibility studies of the development
of a similar irrigation and settlement scheme on the
east bank of the Tana River near the Project Area.
(3) Carrying out studies concerning the production of
vegetables, fruits, fish, livestock and forests in
the vicinity of the Project Area.
(4) Carrying out additional studies as necessary and
providing technical assistance and management and
consultancy services for the Project.


﻿- 36 -
Part G:   Monitoring and Evaluation
Monitoring and evaluating the Project, including, but
not limited to, soils, groundwater, agricultural manage-
ment and training, health services, settlement and
community development, in accordance with a program
satisfactory to the Association to be submitted by
July 1, 1978.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1982.


﻿- 37 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Part A of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), including the pertinent provisions of the
General Introduction thereto, on the basis of international
competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   Bidders for the main works included in Parts A (1) and B (1)
of the Project shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3
of Part A of the Guidelines.
3.   The contract for the ginnery and auxiliary facilities
included in Part B (3) of the Project shall be a turn-key contract.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for fuels and lubricants; and contracts for other
goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent; and
contracts for construction of civil works estimated to cost less
than $200,000, may be awarded following local competitive bidding
and in accordance with the Borrower's applicable procurement
procedures.


﻿- 38 -
2.   Contracts for items not subject to bulking or bulked packages
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent may be awarded
pursuant to such competitive procedures as are appropriate under
the circumstances, provided, that the aggregate cost of contracts
so awarded shall not exceed $500,000 equivalent.
3.   NIB may construct tenants' and teachers' housing, primary
schools and social halls by force account.
4.   NIB may enter into an arrangement with NYS for the construc-
tion of roads, land clearing, canal and drain earthworks and
related structures, and minor irrigation and drainage works,
provided that such arrangement, and other arrangements to ensure
that NYS will perform its obligations, shall be satisfactory to
the Association.
5.   Planting of forests may be carried out by the Ministry of
Natural Resources by force account.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance
with local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,


﻿- 39 -
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Kenya may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Kenya if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Kenya equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Kenya.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.


﻿- 40 -
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compak'e
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose oi this furthei-
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt impo :er would
have to payJ fcr the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a. result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 41 -
D.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preference
for Domestic Contractors
With respect to any contract for civil works included under
Category (1) of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to the Credit
Agreement and to be procured in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 of this Schedule, the Borrower may grant
a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a) Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A of this Schedule and applicants for qualification
applying also for such preference shall be asked to provide, as
part of the data for qualification, such information, including
details of ownership, as shall be required to determine whether,
according to the classification established by the Borrower and
accepted by the Association, a particular firm or group of firms
qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding documents shall
clearly indicate the preference and the method that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect
to such preference.
(b) After bids have been received and reviewed by the
Borrower, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
~i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and


﻿- 42 -
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. The
list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and, where applicable, of their eligibility for
domestic preference under Part D.1 above and of the reasons for
the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification and for such
eligibility shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association
for its comments before the applicants are notified of the
Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such additions
to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the
Association shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $300,000 or more:


﻿- 43 -
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, Lhe
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the
consultants referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award of the said consultants and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿- 44 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.


﻿-45 -
SCHEDULE 4
Tenant Selection, Settlement and Retention
Criteria and Procedures
(Section 3.09)
1.   Tenant families chosen for participation in the Project
shall have the following characteristics at the time of selection:
(i) the Tenant shall be landless, unemployed or underemployed, or
shall be earning a return far below the average for the area;
(ii) the age of the head of the tenant family shall be between
approximately 25 and 45 years; (iii) the Tenant shall preferably
have had previous experience in farming and shall have an aptitude
for irrigated farming; (iv) the Tenant shall not have demonstrated
any social habits which might adversely affect his ability to
carry out his proposed responsibilities in the Project Area; (v)
the Tenant and his family shall be physically fit to undertake
farm work; and (vi) the Tenant's family shall be able to provide
four adult equivalents of labor.
2.   The Project will be adequately publicized throughout
Kenya so as to attract qualified applicants from areas presented
in the attachment, who shall be settled in the Project Area in
a phased fashion, substantially in accordance with the schedule
set out in Annex 1 to this Schedule.
3.   Tenants shall be fully informed as to the objectives and
characteristics of the Project, location and climate of the


﻿-46-
Project Area, crops to be grown, potentially attainable incomes
as well as fees and charges, land tenure system and settlement
rules, including their responsibilities, rights and liabilities
under the Irrigation (National Irrigation Schemes) Regulations 1977
and under the Trust Land (Irrigation Areas) Rules, housing and
educational provisions and other services to be provided, including
times for briefing and transportation to the Project Area.
4.   Selection of Tenants shall be implemented by a District
Settlement Committee, chaired by a District Commissioner and
composed of the following members: the District Agricultural
Officer, the District Community Development Officer, the Chairman
or Clerk of the County Council, a representative of the Ministry
of Health, and two community representatives not in the civil
services. The duties of the Settlement Committee will include: (i)
coordinating selection and settlement matters with the Settlement
Officer of the NIB; (ii) informing the local inhabitants as to the
nature of the Project, and the Tenants of the objectives and
characteristics of the Project as provided in paragraph 3 above;
and (iii) preliminary selection of Tenants according to the
criteria established in paragraph 1 above.
5.   The NIB would have overall control over the Tenant
selection process and will have the right to reject proposed
Tenants subject to the overall allocation provided per Province.


﻿-47 -
These affairs will be reviewed by an adequately qualified and
experienced Settlement Officer within NIB.
6.   Tenants will pay NIB a non-refundable committment fee of
KShs 20 upon acceptance for settlement in the Project Area. No
application or other fees will be charged prior to acceptance.
7.   An adequately qualified and experienced Migration
Officer within the NIB will head the overall transfer program,
including the establishment of transportation schedules and pickup
centers, and the coordination of transportation arrangements with
the District Settlement Committec.
8.   NIB will provide for the storage of sufficient quantities
of food for sale to Tenants until such time as they are able to
meet their own food needs.
9.   The Tenants shall assist in the construction of their
own homes on basis of a daily salary to be paid by the NIB.
The Tenants shall maintain their homes and pay a charge over a
period of 15 years to meet the cost of the house. Subject to
the recommendations provided for by the sociological studies, the
cotton seed proceeds of the Tenants shall be paid on a pro rata
basis throughout the year. To ensure proper nourishment of the
family a portion of the proceeds shall be paid directly to the
household member (usually the wife) responsible for feeding and
raising the children.


﻿-48-
ANNEX 1
Allocation of Tenants by Province
% of
Total         Total
Province                                Allocation     Allocation
Central Province                            700           14%
Coast Province*                           1,290           25%
Eastern Province                          1,290           25%
North Eastern
Province                                   130            2%
Nyanza Province                             700           14%
Rift Valley
Province                                   240            4%
Western Province                            700           14%
Others                                      100            2%
TOTALS                          5,150          100%
*    Approximately 75% of the allocation of Coast Province
is expected to come from Tana River District.


