I-/V   L 8/ 7J --- A/L
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10468-ME   Type: (SAR)                    Report No. 10468-ME
ROGER, NIE/ X38720 / I8 181/ LA2C1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MEXICO
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
APRIL 30, 1992
Country Operations Division I -- Mexico
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in Ibe performance of
their offlciil duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      -       Mexican Peso (Mex$)
US$1                       MexS3,087
MexSI million              US$324
(April 1992)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                       3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)            =    0.62 mile (mi)
1 hectare (ha)                    10,000 m2 . 2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (km2)    -    0.38 square miles (mi2) = 100 ha
I metric ton (m ton)        -    2,205 pounds
Main Abbreviations and Acronyms
CENAM       Centro Nacional de Hetrologia; National Center of Metrology
CONACYT     Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Technologia; National Council of Science and
Technology
DGDT        Direccion General de Desarrollo Technologico (SECOFI);  Directorate General of
Technology Development.
DGN         Direccion General de Normas (SECOFI); Directorate General of Standards
FIDETEC     Fondo de Investigation y Desarrollo para la Modernizacion Tecnologica; Research
and Development Fund for Technological Modernization
GATT        General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
GOM         Government of Mexico
IMPI        Insrituto Mexicano de la Propiedad Industrial; Mexican Institute of Industrial
Property
ISO         International Organization for Standardization
NAFIN       Nacional Financiera; National Development Bank
NAFTA       North American Free Trade Agreement
NIST        US National Institute of Standards and Technology
PACIME      Programa de Apoyo a la Ciencia en Mexico; Program for Support of Science in
Mexico
PTB         Phy8akalisch-Technische Bundesanstalt
R&D         Research and development
SECOFI      Secretaria de Comercio v Fomento Industrial; Ministry of Commerce and Industrial
Development
SHCP        Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publica; Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
SNC         Sistema Nacional de Calibration; National Calibration System
SNI         Sistema Nacional de Investigadores; National Registry of Researchers.
WIPO        World Intellectual Property Organization
Map: IBRD 23547 dated February 1992



FOR OMCIuL USE ONLY
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
I* INTRODUCTION     .  .. ...................                            1
A.  Recent Economic Developments   ................   1
B.  The Public Sector Role In Science and Technology   . . . . . .  2
II. THE SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY SECTOR ..............    4
A. Developments over the 19809  .. . . . . . .. .. .. ... .  4
B.  The Government's Science and Technology Policy S_atements  . .  5
C.  CONACYT's Science Programs   .          . . . . . . . . . . .  7
1.  Th6 New Programs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . *   .      7
2.  Experience with the Pilot Programs in 1991  . . . . . . .  9
D.  Industrial Technology Infrastructure   . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
III.    THE  PROJECT  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 1  16
A.  Rationale for Bank Involvement   . . . .  . * . .    . . . . .  16
B. Lessons from Experience     . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
C. Project Objectives   . . . *       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
D.  Project Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
1.  Science Research and Equipment Programs   . . . . . . . . 18
2, Metrology         **...............19
3.  Standardization Program   ..............  .  20
4. Intellectual Property Protection  . .    o . . . . .       21
E.  Project Cost, Financing, Procuremont, Disbursement and
1.  Project Cost  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
2. Financing Plan  . . . .                                    23
3.    Procurement  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   24
4. Disbursements   6     . . . . . . . . .           .        26
5.   Administration  . . . . . .              . . . . . .    27
F. Project Administration                                27
1.  Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . ....   27
2. Loan Supervision  .....                           ..  .  28
G. Environmental Matters  ..28
H.  Project Benefits   . . . . .  . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . 29
I.  Project Risks         .       .  .  .   .   . . . . . .        29
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TEXT TABLES
1.  Federal Expenditures on Science and Technology   . . . . . . . . . 5
2.  Participation of Principal Institutions in Federal Budget for
Science and Technology -- 1986-1991  . . ......  . . . . . . . 6
3.  CONACYT's Expenditures for Science, 1991   . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
4.  Research Projects by Science Area, 1991  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
5.  Equipment Projects by Science Area, 1991   . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
6.  Project Total Coat        .. ..............   23
7.   Pr ject Financing Plan   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
8.  Project Casts by P_ccurement Methods   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
BOXES
1.  The Social Benefits of Research  ......    ..             ..        3
2.  Basic Definitions in Standardization   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
3.  Highlights of 1991 Law on Industrial Property Rights   . . . . .  15
This report is based on the findings of a World Bank appraisal mission
which visited Mexico City from January 20 to 31, 1992. The mission was
composed of Neil Roger (Task Manager), Kathleen Di Tullio and Ivan Rizo of
the Bank, Stephen Carpenter of the US National Institute of Standards and
rechnology, and two consultants, Aror Kuppermann and Daniel Newlon.
Country Department Director, Rainor Steckhan. Division Chief, David de
Ferranti.



ANNEICES
11.1  National Policy fir Science and Technology Modernization
II.2 Administrative Restructuring of CONACYT
II.3 The Rules of Operation of PACIME
II.4 The National Metrology Center (CENAM)
II.5  Standardization 'reogram
11.6 Mexican Institute for Industrial Property (IMPI)
II.7 Key Activities for Technology Infrastructure
III.1  Impact of bcience and Technology
III.2  Detailed Project Cost and Financing
III.3  Estimated Disbursement Schedule
111.4  Auditing Requirements
III.5  Implementation Indicators
III.6  Key Areas to be Addressed in the Mid-Term Review
DOCUMENTS ON PROJECT FILE1'
1. Rules of Operation of PACIME, April 1992 (CONACYT)
2.  Project for the National Center for Metrology, april 1992 (CENAM)
3.  Standardization in Programs, January 1992 (SECOFI, DGN)
4. Project for the Mexican Industrial Property Institute, April 1992
(SECOFI, DGDT)
5. Evaluation of CONACYT's 1991 Programs
1/Available on request.



PROPOSaD SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Nacional Financiera S.N.C. (NAPIN)
Guarantot:            United Mexican States
Executing Aaencies:   Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnologia (CONACYT);
Centro Nacional de Metrologia (CENAM); Secretaria de
Comercio y Fomento Industrial, Direccicou 'koeral A.
Normas (SECOFI/DGN); and Instituto Mexicano de li
Propiedad Industrial (IMPI)
Beneficiaries:        CONACYT, research institutes and researchers; CENAM
and industrial firms; SECOFI/DGN   d industrial
firms; IMPI, and industrial firms
Loan Amount:          US$189 million equivalent
Terms:                Repayment in 15 years, five year grace period,  *
standard variable interest rate
Prolect Otiectives:   The main objectives of the proposed projec- , 3:
(i) Ratioralize public sector funding by sup-.--'rting
increased public spending for (a) grants for basic
scientific research proje!ts and equipment
infrastructure projects, with improved allocation on
a competitive basis to generate relevant researc annd
train scientists; and (b) technology infrastruct*e
in the areas of metrology, standards and quality
assurance, and intellectual property protection to
improve services to industry, thereby encouraging
modernization and enhancirg competitiveness, and
increasing attractiveness for foreign investment; and
(ii) DeveloD institutions by supporting the
restructuring of CONACYT, and development of
institutions providing support to industry in
metrology (CENAM), standards and quality assuran#4
(SECOFI/DGN), intellectual property protection
(IMPI), to improve the efficiency of public support
in these areas.
Proiect Components:   The proposed project would have four components:
(i) Science Programs (estimated total cost of US$765
million). This component would support the first
four years of CONACYT's new science research programs
beginning in 1992. The main programs fund individual
research projects and equipment infrastructure
projects open to universities and other research
institutions, both public and private. The programs
stress scientific merit rather than particular



- ii -
sectors or applications. Award of the grants is on
t!he basis of transparent, competitive pear review by
evaluation committees, including foreign scientists,
in eight broad areas. The research project grants
mainly fund equipment, materials, visiting
researcheis, and dissemination costs, but the
sponsoring institutes fund the affiliated researchers
salaries and overheads. The scientific equipment
infrastructure projects are intended to strengthen
institution's capacity for carrying out research, and
are funded co-operatively with the institutions.
CONACYT would implement this component, and Bank
funds would disburse for scientific equipment and
materials;
(ii) Metrology (US$63 million). This component would
support the start-up of a new metrology center
(CENAM) to provide primary metrology services to
industry, and facilitate the development of a private
system to provide secondary metrology services.
CENAM would implement this component, and Bank funds
would disburse for scientific equipment, technical
assistance training and promotion;
(iii) Standardization Programs (US$17 million). This
component would support building capacity for
metrology's standards, testing, certification and
quality assurance in industry. DGN has prepared an
indicative "privatization" program which would
transfer the primary role for standards and quality
assurance to the private sector. SECOFI/DGN would
implement this component, and Bank funds would
disburse for training and promotion; and
(iv) Intellectual Provertv Protection (US$41
million). This component would support the start-up
of an Institute for Industriql Property (IMPI) to
implement the new intellectual property law which was
passed in July 1991. IMPI would implement this
component, and Bank funds would disburse for
international consultants, computer systems, data
bases and training.
Costs an.4
Financin  Plan;        The estimated total cost of the proposed project is
US$886 million, consisting of a base cost of US$853.5
million, price contingencies of US$30 million and
physical contingencies of US$2.5 million. The Bank
loan would provide US$189 million (and US$1.5 million
is being provided from previous loans), the
Government US$404 million, participating research



- ili -
institutions US$287 million, and private sector
industrial firms US$4 million.
Benefits:             The science component would help rationalize public
sp.nd4ng on research project and equipment grants,
.aad str?.%gthen the responsible public institutions,
thus gererating relvvant research and modernlzing
Mexico's science and technology capability. The
technol *+i infrastructure components would improve
&ervices to industry, enhancing competitiveness and
attractiveness for foreign investment. By their
nature the benefits of the proposed project are
broad, dispersed and hard to quantify. It is not
feasible to estimate an ex ante economic rate of
return, but studies have shown high ex post social
rates of return to spending on basic science in
industrial countries. CONACYT and the Bank are co-
operating to develop an approach to economic
assessment of the new science programs.
Risks:                The main risk for the science component is that the
llocatton mechanism would become politicized and
f'ragmented again, arnd reinforce past patterns of
science research rather than looking to future needs.
R: e,oer, the new PACIME rules are clear and there
.ems to be a strong commitment to the new allocation
.Atem on the part of both the authorities and the
sciunce community, which should make a return to
preiv:ous practices unlikely. The main risk for the
technology infrastructure components is that the
close links required between the responsible public
sector agencies and private industry to build
confidence in the programs would still be lacking and
the services would be poorly used. However, the
authorities are cognizant of this and have built
institutional mechanisms and strong teams with close
consultation between all interested parties to ensure
successful implementation.



- iv -
ESTIMATED PROJECT COST
(US$ million)
Proiect ComDonents
Local     Foreign      Total
Science Programs               387.6       351.7        739.3
Metrology                       15.3         42.7        57.9
Standardization Program          8.2         8.5         16.7
Intellectual Property           31.5         8.1         39.6
Total Base Costs                    442.5        411.0       853.5
Price Contingencies             14.8         15.0        29.8
Physical Contingencies           2.5          -           2.5
Total Prolect Costs                 459.8        426.0       885.8
Financins Plan
Government                     299.1       105.2       404.3
Bank                             4.6       185.9        190.5,
Research Institutions          152.5       134.9       287.4
Private Sector                   3.6         -            3.6
Total Financing                     459.8        426.0       885.8
Estimated Disbursement Schedule (USS million)
BANK FY            1993     1994      1995     1996      1997     1998
Annual               28       44        48       32        22        15
Cumulative           28       72       120      152       174       189
V Includes US$1.5 million from Loans 2747-ME and 3047-ME.
Note: Taxes and duties are excluded. Retroactive financing: costs of no
mc-;e than US$18.9 million incurred after January 1, 1992 in the
science component vaould be eligible. Special Account of US$15
million. Rate of return: not applicable.



I. INTRODUCTION
A. Recent Economic Developments
1.          Mexico's economic reform program since the well-known crisis of
1982 stands out as a success story in Latin America. The success of the
program of stabilizing, liberalizing and privatizing the economy, begun by
the administration of President de la Madrid and carried on by the current
administration of President Salinas, has seen a return to positive income
per capita growth in the last three years (1989-1991), a reduction in
inflation from 200 percent at the height of the crisis to less than 20
percent in 1991, rapid capital inflows a-id a return to international
capital markets. With plausible assumptions regarding the external
environment, particularly for oil prices, US growth and international
interest rates, Mexico appears set for sustained private sector-led growth
of about five percent per year.
2.          The cornerstone of the economic success has been 1he program of
macroeconomic stabilization, which dramatically reduced inflation and
restored confidence in the Mexican economy. The fundamental shift from
deficit (about eight percent of GDP in 1981) to surplus (of nearly eight
percent of GDP for the last four years 1988-1991) in the primary fiscal
balance, was achieved mainly through cutting public expenditure. This
orthodox fiscal retrenchment was supported by heterodox temporary wage,
price and nominal exchange rate controls engineered by a social pact known
as the Pacto (later the PECE) which provided crucial political support and
social acceptance for the program. The Pacto/PECE has been extended
several times most recently until January 1993, but the Government has
relaxed price controls such that now more than three quartere of private
production is free of regulation.
3.          The main structural reforms were a fast and far-reaching trade
liberalization to open the economy to international competition, and a
major program of privatization to enhance domestic efficiency. In the
early 1980s, almost all international trade was subject to quantitative
control, but now less than 20 percent of tradeables production is protected
by quantitative controls on competing imports, the maximum tariff is 20
percent and he weighted average tariff is 12.5 percent. Mexico has gone
from being a -irtually closed economy to one of the more open economies in
the world.  The ongoing negotiatior    a North American Free Trade
Agreement (NAFTA) with the US and -ada can be expected to improve market
access, further open the domest$- ionomy and, importantly, give permanence
to the reforms. Mexico's rapid 4.-egration into the world marketplace has
placed increased competitive pressure on domestic industrial firms, but at
the same time the improved access to imported capital and intermediate
goods has allowed them to improve efficiency.
4.          The Government has also reassessed its role domestically and
more than two-thirds of state enterprises have been liquidated or
privatized, and many of those remaining are being increasingly run on a
profit basis. The land-mark privatization of the telecommunications and
banking sectors has been crucial for increasing competition in services.
The Government has also implemented important structural reforms, including
deregulating the financial sector, improving foreign investment regulation,



-2-
removing technology transfer rules and strengthening intellectual property
protection.
5.          The challenge for economic leadership now is to maintain the
macroeconomic stabilization and complete the structural reforms. Rapid
economic reform brings a new set of concerns, including, inequitable income
distribution, environmental degradation and political opening which the
Government is beginning to address. The Government is firmly convinceo
that the private sector must be the locomotive for sustained growth. The
basic building blocks of macroeconomic stabiXity, well-structured
incentives, transparent regulatory framework, and confidence in the
economic leadership are largely in place. The severe curtailment of public
investment in the 1980s has created an enormous need for investmeor in
physical and human infrastructure to support continued economi -owth.
This is the economic perspective for the proposed project.
B. The Public Sector Role In Science and Technology
6.          Technological progress has accounted for much of the
improvement of standards of living in the world. Innovation allows
countries to produce a wider range of goods and services, and to produce
existing goods and services more cheaply. International trade in ideas
allows countries to take advantage of innovations in the rest of the world.
7.          Traditional models of growth and trade have tended to view
technological change largely as a force outside the economic system. For
example, economic growth was seen as being determined partly by
technological change, but in turn this was seen as depending on non-
economic factors such as the exogenous rate of scientific discovery rather
than economic forces. The so-called new growth literature retains the
emphasis on technological change as determining growth, but accords
economic forces and thus economic policy a role in encouraging
technological change and thus overall growth.
8.          Scientific research and technological development generate
knowledge and understanding which are important for their own sake and to
expand production and consumption possiktlities. Carrying out R&D also
provides all important practical educatiLn and on-the-job training and
skill maintaining experience for scientists and technologists. While
Mexico can import technology, and acquire human capital skills offshore,
domestic scientific and technological capability is needed for research on
uniquely Nexican issues, and to tirjose between technologies on the
international technology shelf, adapt them to M xican needs and operate
them in Mexican industry.
9.          Basic scientific research and technology infrastructure have
special characteristics as economic commodities -- they are known as
"public goods". Once researcn has been successfully undertaken, the
marginal cost of providing the results to potential users is generally low
and many parties can use them simultaneously. Indeed, it may be very
costly for researchers to exclude potential users from the benefits of
their research. Thus the market may fail to produce sufficient research



- 3-
because of these broadly avallable ezternal benefits or "spillovers", and
private agents may not be *ble to appropriate enough of the benefits to
make Lheir investmens worthvhile. Public provision of research can
improve the overall efficiency of both production and consumption of
research where apprwmriability ia difficult, typically in research.
Private provision would still occur where private beneCits were sufficient,
typically in more applied R&D. Technology infrastructure such as metrology
services and intellectual property protection are "impure" public goods.
Collective action is required for socially efficient production, but
private consumption can be rationed with appropriate cost recovery.
10.         Because of their nature, it is difficult to quantlfy the broad
and dispersed social benefits of public goods like bgasc resealch, although
svail3ble studies for industrial countries suggest high social returns to
public spending (see Box 1). Further, it is similarly ditficult to
establish an effic4ent level of public spending on public goods.
Box ls Thc Soclal Benefits of Research
(Au Extract (coi Nansfield, E. "Acado,aic Research Industrial
Innovation", Science Policy, 20, 1991, North Holland.
~ea~e            U:=~ ta4i4   e  awbae.             ' . ' ..yeum~t
an  1*i~ #ae*  inaetl =tb.'~adwdeped   . 
4ifcl  oi^iiyadma~ _het 1^k bewe                                          ..deicreea
.sg 4   di Sw-....ri...... ...tt.o..... ...Th......................t..,..ap.....r..............   IS S; 
fIrtti 4a zi:w-L~ab e~e.eo iw rd~ 
gf~~ thtkiEdg zSth   oatw fica Eaul o w
bendvl~d~~                 uaaxi4da)  ute abec  of ree
Qnw Ni4i~   Ne~   tha  I..b+ut o,tet  ig h    ip                  n
'S~~~~~a~   197 X-- tt' =..f~m
I  4*±g |4~t.q'pot ;-uLia. .'i  tt -m--'                 t iM 
_p~~~ad0   utIss                       7~4..n a.~p a~oa (lbu



II. THE SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY SECTOR
A.  Develonmenta ovor tho 1980.
11.         Public spending on science and technology in Mexico declined in
real terms over the decade of the 1980s with fiscal austerity, from 0.45
percent to 0.26 percent of GDP (see Table 1). This was lower than in
comparable middle-income developing countries and far lower than in
industrial countries. Preliminary information suggests that private sector
spending declined as well over the period.11 The effectiveness of the
public institutions implementing science and technology policy also
declined over the 19809 from an already fairly weak base, and they lost
credibility with the scientific community. They were over-staffed and
overly bureaucratic, and administrative costs consumed much of the funds
available. The mechanisms for science project funding were increasingly
politicized, and were aimed at achieving multiple and sometimes conflicting
objectives. The public R&D centers became isolated from the private
marketplace. The direct support programs for private funding of technology
development were poorly focussed and implemented. TechnoJogy
infrastructure institutions providing metrology and intellectual property
protection were run down, and provision of services lagged behind
comparable developing countries.
12.         The Lesult was a deterioration or both human and physical
science and technology capital, and importantly a decline in the
productivity of scientists and technologists, at a time when continuing
technological change in the rest of the world, and rapid unilateral
opening-up of the Mexican economy (and the prospect of further opening-up
with the NAETA) were greatly increasing the need for local science and
technology capability.
!1CONACYT is currently conducting a study of private sector spending
on science and technology over the 19809, to be completed by November 1992
which will be discussed in the first annual review of the proposed project.
The study is being financed under the Industrial Technology Project
(Ln. 2747-ME).



TABLE 1: FEDERAL EXPENDITURES ON SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Constant Federal     Change   |                  Share of
Expenditure         from         GNP         Programmable
Year        (1980 US$M)         '81         Share      Federal Budget
(Percent)
1980          19,193             -13.0         0.45          1.66
1981          22,058               0.0         0.48          1.56
1982          20,026              -9.2         0.42          1.56
1983          14,532             -34.1         0.32          1.33
1984          17,775             -19.4         0.37          1.52
1985          17,488             -20.7         0.35          1.59
1986          16,422             -25.6         0.35          1.60
1987          15,407             -30.2         0.32          1.58
1988          13,100             -40.7         0.27          1.45
1989          13,600             -38.3         0.26          1.47
1990          15,900             -28.0         0.30          1.66
1991          19,100             -13.4         0.32         n.a.
1992          22,200               0.0         n.a.         n.a.
Source:  Analisis de Los Recursos Federales Destinados a Ciencia Y
Technologia, Barros Sierra Foundation, September 1990, updated
by CONACYT.
B. The Government's Science and Technolonv Policr Statements
13.         The Government set out a new policy framework, which represents
a sharp change from the previous one, in the National Program for Science
and Technology Modernization 1990-94, and the National Program for
Industrial Modernization 1990-94. At negotiations, agreement was reached
on the Government's policy letter on science and technology modernization,
which sets out implementation actions over the period of the proposed
project, and which is contained in Annex II.1 (see para. 85(a)). Any
significant changes in these policies during implementation of the proposed
project would have to be acceptable to the Bank. As outlined in the policy
letter, the Government has placed high priority on rebuilding Mexico's
science and technology capability to facilitate modernization of the
economy and integration in the world marketplace. The Government plans to
increase budgetary resources for science and technology with the objective
of achieving expenditures in both the public and private sectors of one
percent of GDP in 1994 and two percent of GDP in 2000.
14.         CONACYT, the public institution responsible for overall science
and technology policy (and about 16 percent of the science and technology
budget), has been restructured and revitalized (see para. 16) and now has
been relocated to the Ministry of Public Education. Public funding for
basic scientific research is being increased (see Table 2), with funding



-6-
for CONACYT's four new science programs to be allocated on a transparent,
competitive basis by peer review.   Tho relative burden for investment in
technology development is being shifted from the public to the private
sector. The public R&' centers are being rationalized. CONACYT is
replacing the two existing programs for assisting technology development by
private firms with a pilot program (FIDETEC) of loans, in co-operation with
NAFIN, for "pre-competitive" technology development.
TABLE 2: PARTICIPATION OF PRINCIPAL INSTITUTIONS IN FEDERAL BUDGET FOR
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY -- 1980-1991
(Percent)
INSTITUTIONS             | 1986 | 1987 |_1988   1999 | 1990 |B99P J
National Autonomous University of Nexico  12    14       15     11     19       20
Mexican Institute for PetroLeum           13      9      10     11     12       13
CONACYT                                    9      9      10      9     10       16
National Institute or Forestry
Agriculture and Livestock Research                   10     10      8        7
Institute for Etectrical Research         2       2      2       5      5        4
Ministry for Agriculture and Hydraulic
Resources                                             2     12      3       (a)
Metropolitan Autonomous University         2      2       4      2      3        3
National Institute for Nuclear Research                   2      3      3        3
Center for Research and Advanced Studies   3      3       3      2      3        3
C IPN)
National Polytechnical Institute                          1      1      2        4
College of Postgraduates                                  2      2      2        1
Mexican Institute of Steet Research                       3      2      2     n.a.
Center for Scientific Research and
Higher Education (Ensenada, B.C.)                     1      1      1        1
Mexican Institute of Social Security                      1      1      1        1
College of Mexico                                         2      1      1        1
Ministry of Fisheries                                     1      1      1        1
Other                                                    31     26     24       22
TOTAL                               100    100    100    100    100       100
P1   Preliminary
Ca) Less than 1X
n.a. Not available
Source: SPP.
15.           The Government is developing new programs and strengthening
institutions with the objective of bringing Mexico in line with world
practice for metrology, standards and quality assurance services, and
intellectual property rights protection.



-7-
C. CONACYT's Science Proarams
1. The New Programs
16.         CONACYT has been substantially restructured, including
consolidation of overlapping functions, major reductions of staff and
upgrading of analytical capability. CONACYT has also been relocated in the
Ministry of Public Education to rationalize government operations and
policy on science and technology, and improve resource allocation. Total
staff of CONACYT has been reduced from 1140 in 1990 to 360 in 1992, and
administrative costs have been lowered to less than 10 percent of the
budget. The CONACYT restructuring, which has enhanced efficiency and
capacity to carry out its role, is described in Annex II.2. The budgetary
decline of the 19809 has been reversed and overall Government spending on
science research has been increased such that in 1992 for the first time
spending in real terms will be higher than in the early 1980s. CONACYT's
share of total Government spending on science and technology has been
increased from about 10 percent in the late 1980s to more than 15 percent
in 1991 and 1992. In the science area, CONACYT will implement four new
programs aimed at enhancing scientific capacity in Mexico from 1992 --
Research Projects, Equipment Infrastructure Projects, Retention and
Repatriation of Researchers, and Chairs of Excellence described below. The
evaluation of project proposals and allocation of funding is by a process
of transparent, competitive peer review using evaluation commlttees,
including foreign sciontists, in eight broad scientific areas.a' This
process has come to be known as the PACIME process. The "Rules of
Operation of PACIME" dated April 1992 are on the Project File and are
summarized in Annex II.3. The Government intends to increase the share of
science and technology spending allocated br the competitive process over
time. Some other institutions, for example, UNAM, the largest university
in Mexico, which receive public monies for research directly, are also
beginning to allocate these monies competitively. CONACYT also has several
other initiatives in the science area, for example the scholarship
programs, but funding is not ailocated according to the PACIME process (and
thus these activities are not included in the proposed project).
17.         Allocation of CONACYT's research monies.  The PACIME allocation
process stresses scientific merit of projects rather than choosing
particular sectors or applications. Scientific merit is established by the
process of transparent, competitive, peer review evaluation by committees,
including foreign scientists, in eight broad science areas. An initial
allocation is made of the bulk of the monies among the eight committees
according to a formula which accounts for existing research capacity and
average research costs in each of the areas. There is also separate
provision for inter-disciplinary research and emerging areas. However, the
system provides for flexibility and allocations will not necessarily be
spent as designated initially (in the 1991 pilot, some area committees
2/Exact Sciences, Natural Sciences, Chemical Sciences, Applied
Sciences, Human and Behavioral Sciences, Social Sciences, Health Sciences
and Earth Sciences. See para. 12 of Annex 11.3.



- 8 -
approved few projects). CONACYT considers that the competitive system will
generate high quality, relevant research and human resource development,
and doubts the merits of trying to pick "winners" in terms of particular
sectors or applications. The distinctions between particular sciences, and
between basic and applied research, are becoming less important with time.
Different countries have taken different approaches to allocation of
research monies. The Mexican approach is used by the US National Science
Foundation, but many other industrialized nations use directed schemes.
18.         Science Research Proiects.  The PACIME program funds science
research projects open to scientists in universities and other research
institutions, both public and private. The grants are multi-year and
mainly fund equipment, materials, visiting co-operative researchers, and
dissemination costs. The sponsoring institutions fund affiliated
researchers' salaries and overheads, which can amount to about one-half of
total project cost. The maximum amount for equipment under a research
project grant is US$50,000. Projects with equipment needs of more than
US$50,000 are considered in the Equipment Infrastructure Program. Mega-
projects with total costs exceeding US$2.5 million are subject to more
extensive review including more foreign referees. The initial allocation
research projects for 1992 is about US$32 million, and it is expected that
this will be increased by 20 percent in real terms each year thereafter.
19.         The Rules of Operation of PACIME specify that the results of
CONACYT-funded projects will be public, and any intellectual property such
as a patent would accrue on a refusal basis first to CONACYT, then to the
sponsoring institution, and then tv the researcher. International
experience suggests that the intellectual property is rarely valuable
enough to cover the transaction costs of public institutions and only the
researchers are likely to carry through the patenting process.
20.         Scientific Equipment Infrastructure.  The main objective of the
program to strengthen infrastructure of research and academic institutions
to enhance their ability to undertake research. Matching funds from the
institutions are required: the CONACYT contribution will in no case be
larger than 70 percent and CONACYT will aim for an average contribution of
about 50 percent. As noted above, the Program also funds equipment
requirements over US$50,000 for individual research projects. The initial
allocation for 1992 is about US$45 million, and it is expected that this
will be maintained in real terms thereafter.
21.         Repatriation and Retention of Mexican Researchers.  The
Retention and Repatriation Program is available for Mexican institutions to
integrate excellent researchers living abroad, or new postgraduates into
their programs. The support offered will be temporary, until such time
that the institution finds the researcher a permanent post or until the
researcher qualifies for membership in the National Registry of Researchers
(SNI). For graduate students, the assistance will continue until the
student finishes the thesis and the institution offers a permanent post.
The initial allocation for 1992 is about US$20 million, and it is expected
that this will be maintained in real terms thereafter.



-9-
22.         Academic Chairs of Excellence.  The Chairs of Excellence
Program funds the creation of about 10 Chairs annually. The Chair. will be
al) ated through competition, and the nominees will choose the institution
to dhich they lend their services. The person will renounce other
remuneration. Fifteen chairs for visiting professors will be financed, for
nationals and foreigners that are interested in carrying out activities in
a Mexican institution for a period of between one to three years. The
initial allocation for 1992 is about US$14 million, and it is expected that
this will be maintained in real terms thereafter.
23.         These programs will benefit the 140 or so institutions with
scientific research activities in .1exico, and the active scientific
community of some 6,000 researchers. The great majority of the
institutions belong to the public sector, mainly to higher education
institutions, and most are concentrated around Mexico City. The top five
are:  UNAM, INIFAP, IIE, CINVESTAV and UAM which account for about 40
percent of Federal government expenditures on science and about half of the
SNI members.
2. Experience with the Pilot Programs in 1991
24.         During 199i, CONACYT became the second major source of funding
for scientific research in Mexico. CONACYT's share in the federal budget
for science and technology, which had been maintained around 10 percent
from 1988 to 1990, increased to 16 percent in 1991, surpassed only by the
National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM) with 20 percent.
25.         CONACYT's new programs were introduced on a pilot basis in
1991. The programs worked well, demonstrating the efficacy of the
competitive peer review process for allocation, and the experience is
feeding into the 1992 programs. CONACYT's science expenditures by program
(excluding the scholarship program) are shown in Table 3. The new science
research and equipment programs account for 77 percent of total
expenditures.
26.         The science program funded 275 research projects for an amount
of US$8.35 million equivalent.  Fifty-three res.arch institutions were
involved, most of which (98 percent) were public. Seventy percent of the
funds were spent in institutions located in the Distrito Federal (DF).
There were 38 infrastructure projects for an amount of US$15.85 million.
Sixteen institutions were involved, all public. Sixty percent of the funds
were spent in institutions located in the DF. Table 4 shows the breakup of
research projects by broad area of science.
27.         Importantly, the impact of the new PACIME allocation process on
reducing wasteful fragmentation of research projects can be readily shown
in the 1991 out-turn. Compared with 1990; while only about half the number
of projects were approved (275 versus 535), the average size of a project
increased by more than four times (nearly US$50,000 versus US$10,000).



- 10 -
TABLS 3:  CONACYT'S EXPENDITURES FOR SCIENCE. 1991
No. of
Program                    Amount  Approved       No. of
US$=   Project.   Scientists
Science Research                              8.35      275
Infrastructure Equipment                     15.85       38
Chairs of Excellence                          0.83                   25
Retention and Repatriation                    1.30                   74
Post-Graduate Studiesi1                       2.70
Other                                         1.14
Total                          30.17      313          99
&' Largely related to science research projects
Source: CONACYT
TABLE 4: RESEARCH PROJECTS BY SCIENCE AREA. 1991
In         Amount
Area          Applications   Approved    Referral        (US$m)
Applied                      91          28           32         0.66
Health                      121          52           55          1.26
Earth                        35          13           13         0.50
Exact                        73          54           10         2.10
Human & Behavioral           54          19           23         0.49
Natural                     283          90          133         3.22
Social                       60          19           29         0.26
TOTAL                 717        275           295         8.35
28.         The infrastructure and equipment program for strengthening the
scientific and technological infrastructure of the national research
centers and universities funded 38 projects for a total amount of US$15.85
million equivalent, and including the research institutions co-financing a
total of US$27.26 million. Sixteen research institutions received grants.



- 11 -
29.         Table 5 shows the breakup of equipment projects by broad area
of science.
TABLE 5t ESUtPHENT PROJECS8 BY SCIENCE AREA. 1991
In     CONACST
Area       Applications  Approvals  Referral   Amount   Total.1
US$.Q    UB$3.
Health                 18          3        9         0.44    0.57
Earth                   4          3        1         -        1.99
Natural                13          8        5         2.96    5.66
Applied                15          4        8         3.07    3.86
Social                  2          2        -         0.39    0.83
Exact                  20         18        2         10.62   16.03
Human &                 1          -        -         -          -
Behavioral
TOTAL             73         38       25         15.85   27.26
11llcludes cofinancing from institutes.
30.       The program for creating chairs of excellence and attracting
visiting professors to either teach at Mexican universities for at least a
period of one year or to write a highly specialized textbook in Spanish
funded fifteen visiting professors, and ten textbook writing applications
for a total of nearly US$1 million.
31.       The retention and repatriation of scholars program for creating
incentives for Mexican scholars to remain in Mexico, or to attract Mexican
scholars who are either teaching or doing research in foreign universities
funded 74 scholars at a cost of US$1.3 million equivalent.
D. Industrial Technologv Infrastructure
32.       The Administration is pursuing investment and trade policies to
encourage the growth and development of the industrial sector in Mexico and
to increase manufacturers' export share. In the past, Government used
product standards as a control device on domestic industry and trade, and
as a non-tariff barrier to constrain imports. Under these protectionist
policies, consumers were not accustomed to demanding quality and producers,
for the most part, strived to meet only the minimum regulatory requirements
for sale on domestic markets. With the deregulation of trade, Mexico's
joining of the GATT in 1986, and the entry of Mexico into international
trade agreements, the environment for industry changed dramatically.
33.       Liberalization of trade forced industry to react rapidly in order
to maintain and increase market share at home and abroad. The largest
enterprises in practically all industries adopted internationally
recognized product and process standardization and quality control systems.
It was done first in the automotive industry and spread to petrochemicals,
machinery and equipment, steel, oil, food processing and paper. More
recently, quality assurance is also gaining adherents in service



- 12 -
industries, construction and government operations. The larger firms draw
on their international partners and contacts to keep abreast of the latest
technologies, and many have invested in developing sophisticated in-house
facilities for quality systems, product testing, calibrations, and research
And development. Of the 18 accredited calibration laboratories in Mexico,
15 are in-house operations. Of the 90 accredited testing laboratories,
more than 40 are fac:l.ities within major companies. These laboratories
seldom mike their faci±ities available to outsiders, and indeed potential
clients for such specialized testing services may often be competitors.
34.       The great majority of enterprises do not have access to the
necessary industrial services to improve standardization, or, due to lack
of exposure, they are not aware of the benefits vf standardization and
quality assurance for increased trade. However, as larger enterprises in
Mexico make significant advances, there is a cascading effect to demand
higher quality from their suppliers, many of which are small and medium
enterprises. In addition, Mexican entrepreneurs report that increasingly
European clients and associated trananational companies are passing on
their requirements to comply with international standards, e.g.
specifications derived from the published series of the International
Organization for Standardization (ISO), as a condition of sale.
35.       The Administration is supporting several programs for the
improvement and expansion of the technology infrastructure to help meet the
requirements to achieve high competitive levels for national production.
(Refer to Box 2 for some basic definitions used in the discussion of
technology infrastructure.) A primary requirement for maintenance of high
levels of competition is the ability of the producer to control the quality
of production processes; and, to optimize control, measurements are
necessary during the different production phases. To compete on
international markets, national measurements must be maintained at a degree
of accuracy that is traceable to international standards. In 1980,
Government established the National System of Calibration (SNC) to accredit
laboratories to guarantee the quality of their measurement services.
However, the system did not flourish due in part to lack of technology
leadership in the fields of metrology and in part to the low level of
demand from industry that was not exposed to serious international
competition until later in the 1980s. With a view to revitalizing SNC to
meet the challenges of the adjustments in the economy, in 1988 Government
created the National Center for Metrology (CENAM). Further studies'/ were
done to determine an appropriate structure, and in December 1991 the Board
of Directors and.the senior management of CENAM were appointed. The
objectives of CENAM are to provide advanced-level technical services in
metrology, to include research and development, training, scientific
exchange with international organizations, and dissemination programs to
help establish closer ties between industry and the SNC to improve
measurement levels throughout the country. The start-up of CENAM would be
supported under the proposed project and is described in the "Project for
alFinanced with the assistance of the Bank under the Industrial
Technology Project (Ln. 2747-ME).



- 13 -
the National Center for Metrology" dated April 1992, which is on tho
Project File and summarized in Annex 1I.4 (seo para. 50).
36.      Another legacy of past pollcies i8 that in Mexico the initiative
has been primarily with the public sector in writing and issuing of
standards, accreditation of testin8 laboratories, verification of the
conformity of products and processes, and certification. Private sector
participation in the system and links with industry were limited, resulting
in a lack-lustre development in these services in the past. Federal budget
constraints during the 1980s also meant that Mexican membership and active
participation in international agencies on standardizatio.g were reduced to
a minimum.
lox 2: Basic Definitions in Standardization
:.:::s:::1:?&Bfaa::>11a:;sl&f1>OaNssSSgv Thl fsagt4  aa  el.s asmenta la  .g8 Lw  puiebdcitr
S& thS 'ed.         'texo "- 'trt:Ec:t:a  bdp S . at& test4::::&)&a
1r O1f1S-oferi4~  ~yma =f M L                     oe.ificat  o
Io~omt.w~~     of=noiytt    rdc   r.rk   ti
coz~~fcrm~~.t ~ Ei~* .pod± utn.r : r ;: .: hia - ..:e:..if. :  :at1:... o:s..a
:ff~~   ~~ :.:::fS:lfRf7>    f   ..:s   the::.   :::: i .:rp rt1 o   of:-::  tibe 7e~ e r .:    ::  ::.:a- -:..    .
gSw{d .B th g~ #R'R.S.. ............................. 'g t,S .1ne ...... a.: ....'- '.



- 14 _
37.       The Administration's new approach on the development of the
system of standardization and quality assurance is a reflection of its
broader policies on economic liberalization and privatization. The goal is
to "privatize" the system of standards in Mexico, that is, to redefine the
Government's roleAl in favor of transferring the initiative to the private
sector. The new role of Government will be to establish guidelines for the
conduct of services by private interests, e.8., Government will establish
the requirements to qualify to be a recognized accreditation agency or a
certification service. SECOFI/DGN will also assist with coordination among
agencies, disseminate information on the value of these services to trade
and industry, and work to increase international cooperation. In order to
realize these goals, a consensus must be built up between the Government
and the private sector on the respective roles of the public and the
private sectors and on the overall standardization framework that they
would develop in co-operation. SECOFI is reinforcing its programs to
sensitize enterprises on the advantages of standardization and quality
assurance, for example, through redesign and promotion of the National
Quality Award which is presented annually by the President to recognize
quality in production and services. For the majority of small and medium
enterprises, however, a srsttaned educational effort on the merits of
standardization and quality assurance for increased trade will be required,
accompanied by incentives to undertake appropriate training of personnel,
to install and manage quality control systems needed in the production
process. In addition, investment in upgrading and expansion of the
technology infrastructure, including testing and calibration laboratories
and quality assurance services, will be required to adequately service
industrial enterprises and other consumers.
38.        SECOFI is working with national and international exrerts to
create a program, based on a consensus between public and private
interests, to achieve the policy objective of transferring the major part
of the system of standards to the private sector. The "Standardization
Program" (Program for the Modernization of the System of Metrology,
Standards, Testing, Certification and Quality Assurance) dated April 1992,
which is on the Project File and summarized in Annex II.5, would be
supported under the proposed project (see para. 53).
39.       Deregulation of the transfer of technology and foreign investment
have complemented trade liberalization measures in Mexico. The
administrative and regulatory controls tnat served effectively as barriers
to the transfer of technology have been removed and the foreign investment
regime has been made more attractive. In addition to regulatory barriers,
inadequate coverage of property rights also suppressed the import of new
technologies as well as investment in domestic innovation. The period of
*/This does not refer to legal metrology and obligatory standards
where Government has a legal obligation, although services that are
required to enforce the regulations, e.g., control of weights and measures
used in commerce, may be considered for "privatization" under the studies
being carried out.



- 15 -
validity of protection was short (seven years for patents, from time of
application), while the administrative process for granting of rights
tended to be very long (up to two years). Moreover, eligibillty for rights
was limited for some key industries such as pharmaceuticals, chemicals and
biotechnology. Thi. area has also undergone fundamental change. Box 3
contains highlights of improvements in the law governing industrial
property rights.
Box 3: HifU4lihts of 1991 Law on Industrial ProDertv Riatat
a1      v. Pa0tt  gLv.: *t2    ar   otis   ltye. o
SsWxvSt±ae Sin     bi,te _n_LL gy;           L zoor -:    :mes
ve$.t. B h maetes phatiaam.uiaal j-s odwi..-.. iedici-:: i .:
a     3<t1t1t  oest.isttdt  poatsml   r:   isz
B$~nisIy~i~ m1.eterri                                   3s1~th
S"S ~b4uatria..l aud Qo.                    '.iu  Wert  prote,.tad
1o~ttv  aigse                                 . enepr=a .o.~aL cofEg
a      P  'ect:.u of reSfu.Sjad t.4ma...E:fc :extne  t:ii B0B.~
Mu, .wtv  ,4 ,,. B'               r "'     'i;we ' r  , 'ntwxe  fo   r  . ::-:S:
$ ef'.c,, ar-ist u'$'0 cometition   
t4ghg50KgtslBt; ofid*$- M^t1i X**?r,s,
40       SaIn 187  amenatments wer   made to  imroenthebsl  1976e lao eon
patents and trade marks, and in June 1991 a conclusive step was taken with
the passage by Congress of a completely new Law for Development and
Protection of Industrial Property. The new legislation has been welcomed
as comparable to protection given in industrialized countries, and as a
model to be followed b,y other countries. Mexico is also activating
membership in international treaties for multilateral cooperation in the



- 16 -
area of industry property, such as the Treaty of Cooperation on Patents
(PCT) and the Madrid Regulation for the International Registry of Trade
Marks.
41.         The next step will be to crelate an admainistrative structure
with the capacity to apply the new law proyerly. For this purpose, the
1991 Law provides for the creation of the Mexican Institute of Industrial
Property (IMPI). SECOFI's Directorate of Technology Development (DGTD),
that functions as Mexico's patent office, has been working with the World
Intellectual Property Institute (W.I.P.O., Gensva) in planning the creation
of the new institute.11 The new institute's principal functions as the
new patent office wili be to provide consultative services and technical
support to SECOFI in matter* pertaining to industrial property; to render
services to the public in :his area; compile the cumulative records of
inventions published within the country and abroad and keep them up to
date; and to undertake studies and carry out state-of-the-art searches.
The start up of IMPI is described in "Project for the Mexican Industrial
Property Institute" dated April 1992 which is on the Project File and is
summarized in Annex I1.6 and would be supported by the proposed project
(see para. 57).
III. THE PROJECT
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement
42.         The proposed project conform:. -ith the Bank's overall ,:rategy
for Mexico, which is designed to suppc,:v t:ae Government's efforts to
redefine and rationalize the role of tt- public sector, and to lay the
foundation for private sector-led grow.h.  Basic science research and
technology infrastructure are "public goods", where government involvement
may improve both production and consumption efficiency.
43.         The Bank has been involved in dialogue and lending for science
and technology initiatives through previous projects. The Industrial
Technology Project (Ln. 2747-ME), approved in 1986, provided directed
credit for technology development by firms, and funding for strengthening
R&D centers and metrology services. The Industrial Sector Policy Loan
(Ln. 3087-ME), approved in 1989, supported policy improvements in foreign
investment regulation, technology transfer rules and intellectual property
protection. Both loans supported studies which contributed to the design
of the proposed project. The previous projects have been implemented
satisfactorily but because they were focussed on technology policy and
development, the experience has little relevance for the proposed project
which is focussed on basic science research, with only a secondary focus on
technology infrastructure. The Bank's role in the proposed project has
been largely catalytic, encouraging and facilitating the timely
implementation of programs to which the Government is publicly committed.
The Bank has mobilized international consultants with extensive experience
!'The study done for SECOFI by WIPO was financed under Loan 2747-ME.



- 17 -
in other countries and other Bank projects on science policy and funding,
public assistance for technology development, metrology, standards and
quality assurance, and intellectual property protection to assist with
preparation of the Government's program and the proposed project. The Bank
has also prepared in parallel an Agriculture Technology Project which was
approved earlier this month. That project will use the PACIME rules of
operation for allocation of funding under a small research component.
B. Lessons from Exoerience
44.         The proposed project has benefitted from lessons learned in
similar projects.- For the science component, the proposed design
addresses problems identified particularly in implementation of the Brazil:
Science Research and Training Project approved in 1S90. The rules for
alloca .ion of science research and equipment grants are clearly defined to
limit administrative discretion in allocation. They have been widely
publicized to gain broad acceptance in the active scientific community.
The grants are comprehensive and multi-year to avoid wasteful
fragmentation. Strong emphasis has been placed on dissemination and
interaction with the industrial sector. CONACYT has strong management and
administrative capability to implement the pro3rams as demonstrated by the
success of the pilot programs in 1991. Specific provision has been made
for availability of resources for equipment training and maintenance in the
research institutions. Both CONACYT and the institutions have systems for
careful monitoring and evaluation of research results.
45.         For the technology infrastructure components, the proposed
design stresses the involvement of the private sector in the definition of
the programs to ensure they are tailored to their needs. International
experts were brought in to ensure conformity with international norms and
ongoing technical co-operation agreements with corresponding institutions
on industrialized countries will facilitate incorporation of best
practices. The institutional strengthening is aimed at ensuring
credibility and sustainability of technological services.
C. Proiect Objectives
46.         The overall objective of the proposed project is to support the
Government's new programs aimed at strengthening science and technology
capability in Mexico. The specific objectives of the proposed project are
to:
(i) Rationalize public sector funding by supporting: (a) increased
public spending for grants for scientific research and equipment
projects, with improved allocation on a competitive basis to
generate relevant research and train scientists; and
(b) technology infrastructure in the areas of metrology,
5/See "World Bank Lending for Science and Technology: General
Operational Review," PHREE Background Paper 42/51R. By Joshua A. Muskin
(Consultant). March 1992.



- 18 -
standards, testing, certification and quality assurance, and
intellectual property right protection to improve services to
industry, thereby encouraging modernization and enhancing
competitiveness, and increasing attractiveness for foreign
investment; and
tii) Develop institutions by supporting the restructuring of CONACYT,
and the development of institutions providing support to industry
in metrology (CENAM), standards and quality assurance
(SECOFI/DGN), intellectual/industrial property right protection
(IMPI), to improve the efficiency of public support in these
areas.
D. Proiect Description
47.         The proposed project would have four components:  scientific
research and equipment; metrology; standardization; and intellectual
property protection.
1. Science Research and EcuiDment Programs (USS725 million)
48.         The proposed project would support the first four years'
(CY1992-1995) implementation of CONACYT's new science programs:
(i) research projects; (ii) equipment infrastructure; (iii) repatriation
and retention of scholars; and (iv) chairs of excellence, which use the
PACIME process of transparent, competitive peer review for allocation of
funding. The Bank financing of US$150 million would represent about one-
fifth of total cost of this component. Any level of overall spending for
science is somewhat arbitrary, and the appropriateness of this particular
level is difficult to judge. This level will provide enough funds to get
research going again, while recognizing the "newness" of the programs and
allocation processes. CONACYT would implement this component, and Bank
funds would be used for scientific equipment and materials to be used in
research and equipment infrastructure projects.
49.         At negotiations, it was agreed that the Rules of Operation of
PACIME (see para. 16) would apply for implementation of this component, and
any significant changes in the rules during the proposed project would have
to be acceptable to the Bank (see para. 85(b)). The Bank would
periodically review the experience with using the PACIME process for
allocation of funding. To avoid concentration of Bank funds in the science
component, the cumulative total that could be allocated to any research or
equipment infrastructure sub-project would be limited to US$5 million.
CONACYT and the Bank will monitor a set of science indicators annually to
evaluate of the impact of the new science programs on the science and
technology capability in Mexico (see Annex III.1). CONACYT will provide
the baseline data for these indicators for the first annual review by
September 30, 1992. CONACYT and the Bank are co-operating in trying to
develop an approach to economic assessment of impact of the new programs.
Necessarily this evaluation will take place towards completion of the
proposed project, but it is crucial that the information building blocks
for the evaluation be set up during the project. The evaluation will be



- 19 -
reviewed in the annual project review prior to February 28, 1996 (see
para. 79).
2. Metrologv (USS63 million)
50.         The proposed project would suppo!t the start-up of CENAM (see
para. 35). The principal function of the Center will be to provide the
technical and scientific support for the national metrology infrastructure,
which is essential for high quality, productive and competitive industries.
It will be responsible for hig'a level training in the fields of metrology
and, in collaboration with SECOFI/DGN, for programs to restructure and
promote the National System of Calibration (SNC). The total cost of the
CENAM project is estimated at US$60.42 million in base costs, and US$2.18
million contingencies. Of the base cost, US$41.6 million will be for
investment and the remainder, US$18.8 million, will be in current costs.
Bank financing of US$31.0 million (including US$1 million from a previous
loan) would cover 50 percent of the total costs.
51.         There are four parts to the CENAM component:  (i) the
rehabilitation and adaptation of the former National Council of Fruit
Culture (CONAFRUT) installations in Queretero, about 200 km. from Mexico
City in the NE industrial corridor, to be used for CENAM's laboratories.
SECOFI is executing this phase which is scheduled for completion by end
1992.7/ A second phase of construction, at an estimated cost of US$3.5
million, will be executed by CENAM in 1993 to complete the administration
facilities and remaining laboratories. A total of 56 laboratories, grouped
into 13 divisions in the four major technical areas (mechanics,
electricity, physics, and materials) will be adapted. Bank funds from the
proposed project will not be used in the second phase of construction;
(ii) the program of professional training to build up the staff of CENAN
(US$4.9 million); (iii) the equipment program (US$26.6 million) for the
laboratories; and (iv) the operations of CENAM (US$18.8 million) which
includes promotion, research and development, commercial services, and
international cooperation (see Annex II.4).  SECOFI and CENAN are receiving
technical support and advice through national technical cooperation
agreements. Most notably, PTB (Germany), through its bilateral agreement,
is providing technical support and advice on the planning and construction
part of the project as well as other as aspects including staff training
and equipment. US NIST provided technical advice on institution
requirements and international practices during project preparation and
will continue to support the project through its bilateral agreement.
52.         Cost-recovery.  The start of operations of the laboratories is
planned for the second half of 1993. CENAM will implement a policy of
cost-recovery for services to industry that will require that a share of
annual operational costs be covered by fees. Some comparisons of
international practices show a range of 15-20 percent recovery as a share
2/The initial phase of construction (estimated cost of US$7.0
million) was started in 1991 and was financed with assistance of US$1.0
million equivalent from Loan 2747-ME.



- 20 -
of total operational costs.  CENAM is reviewing the costs of commercial
services it will provide, taking into account information from
international partner national centers on the methods and practices to
determine costs and fees. The goal for cost-recovery, to reach 15 percent
of current cost of operations in 1995, will be monitored under the proposed
project.
3. Standardization Program (USS17 million)
53.         The proposed project would support implementation of the
Government's program to strengthen the system of metrology, standards,
testing, certification and quality assurance. The indicative 1992-96
program is summarized in Annex II.5. The Administration's policy is to
reduce the government's role in these activities in favor of private sector
initiatives. A major objective of the component will be to assist SECOFI's
Directorate of Standards (DGN) to put in place a program of dissemination,
training, and incentives to encourage private sector participation in
upgrading and expanding the institutions and services that contribute to a
robust culture of standardization. The majority of private sector
enterprises, particularly the small and medium-scale firms, will have to be
educated on the role and advantages of standards and quality assurance.
Technical advisory services and training will also be needed on
installation and management of quality control systems. Promotion will be
needed to increase private investment in laboratories in calibration,
product testing, certification, information and related services. The
total costs of this program for the project period, is estimated at US$16.7
million in base costs, and US$0.6 million in contingencies. The Bank would
finance US$3.5 million (including US$0.5 million from a previous loan) for
the purchase of equipment for the upgrading of legal metrology,
documentation and computer work-stations for an information center (US$1.0
million); and promotion, studies, technical assistance and training (US$2.5
million).
54.          DGN is working through its plan of actions for 1992 to firm
up the annual programs that will be undertaken in close collaboration witb
private industrial and professional associations active on standardization
issues. DGN is engaging national and international experts to do two
studies to provide reliable data on the technical aspects of supply and
demand for technology services and to build a consensus with the private
sector on a set of institutions that is suitable for Mexico. DGN's 1992
preparation activities are estimated to cost up to US$500,000 and will be
financed through NAhIN under an ongoing loan (Ln. 3047-ME). Two major
studies are being contracted, based on terms of reference agreed with the
Bank (see attachments to Annex II.5). The objective of the first study,
"Policy of Privatization of Activities in Standardization and in
Verification and Certification of Quality", is to develop a consensus on a
plan for the privatization of the system of standards. The objective of
the second study, "Analysis and Alternatives for the Development of the
Laboratory Infrastructure in the Coufntry", is to survey the capacity and
technical level of staff and equipment in existing calibration and testing
laboratories and the demand for such technical services.



- 21 -
55.         The studies, based on an agreed timetable for outputs to allow
timely preparation of the 1993 program, are scheduled to be completed by
September 1992. The results will serve as inputs in the establishment of
the privatization program and the program to support the upgrading of
services and training of technicians to begin in 1993, and proposed to be
supported under this project. At negotiations, it was agreed that the
budget and .he implementation plan for 1993, the first year of the new
program, will be presented for review in November 1992 to reach agreement
with the Bank and to obtain Government approval of adequate bud3getary
resources for 1993 (see para. 85(c)). The provision of a program
acceptable to the Bank will be a condition of disbursement of Bank funds
for the component (see para. 87(a)).
56.         Cost-sharing. During the project period when functions will
be transferred to the private sector, enterprises will be expected to share
in the costs of the programs that have an output that can be directly
applied to the individual enterprise. The private sector share of costs
for management seminars and training of enterprise personnel is estimated
at US$3.0 million. Investments in upgrading and expanding laboratoriei and
other commercial services will be undertaken entirely by the private
sector. CENAM, in metrology, and DGN in other technical areas will provide
technical advice, and NAFIN would assist private investors through its
Program for Technolog. Development and related bank services.
4. Intellectual Propertv Protection (USS41 million)
57.         The proposed project would support the start-up of IMPI (see
para. 41), whose major objective is to improve the operations of the patent
office, which will be transferred from SECOFI/DGDT, and to build
institutional capacity for the efficient administration of the 1991
legislation for the protection of industrial property rights.
58.         The preparation for the creation of the national institute has
been done with the assistance of W.I.P.O. and financed by the Bank under
Loan 2747-ME. The improvement in the quality of services will require the
modernization of the equipment and information systems used by the patent
office. The qualifications and the productivity of the staff must also be
improved. The total base cost of the program is estimated at US$39.9
million. The Bank-financed part of US$6 million will help finance:
(i) purchase of equipment and computer hardware, software and software
applications (US$1.7 million) for installation of advanced automation,
(ii) purchase of equipment, documentation and data bases to modernize and
expand the information system and the inventories of specialized documents
(US$2.4 million); and (iii) a program of technical cooperation with
W.I.P.O. for assistance in staff development and technical advice on the
selection, installation and management of the automation and information
systems (about US$1.1 million). Contingencies amount to about US$1.0
million.
59.         Cost-recoverv.  The concession of property rights currently
generates fees that exceed the cost of operations of the patent office.
Tariffs were increased in 1991 to improve the financial prospects for the



- 22 -
creation and operations of IMPI. Income from fees levied on patent rights
and trade marks is estimated to increase significantly in real terms in the
future due to the increased schedule of fees and the increase in
applications.  Fees from the a-cumulated backlog of applications which is
to be cleared up during 1992 wili also improve income.
60.         Based on the estimated income from fees, INPI would generate
an annual net surplus, after deducting operating expenses and requirements
for its medium-term investment program, as shown in Table 1 of Annex I1.6.
The fees will tlow directly into the Treasury, and annual budget
allocations will be made.
61.         The 1991 Law for Development and Protection of Industrial
Property provitdes for the creation of IMPI as a decentralized autonomous
agency. At negotiations it was agreed that the decree for creation of the
institute will be submitted to the authorities for approval in 1992, and
that INPI will begin operations from January 1, 1993 (see para. 85(d)).
Issuance of the decree, appointment of the top management and their taking
up their positions, and confirmation of an adequate budget for the
development program to be undertaken in 1993 would be conditions of
disbursement of this component (see para. 87(b)).
E. Proiect Cost. Financina. Procuroment. Disbursement and Auditina
1. Pro1ect Cost
62.         The estimated total cost of the proposed project over CY 1992
to 1996 is US$886 million equivalent, consisting of a base cost of US$853.5
million, price contingencies of US$30 million and physical contingencies of
US$2.5 million. The total project cost includes investments and
expenditures to support: (a) CONACYT's new science research and equipment
programs; (b) development of CENAM; (c) building capacity for standards and
quality assurance in industry; and (d) development of IMPI.
63.         Table 6 shows the total cost estimates by project component
(CONACYT's science programs; CENAM; standards and quality assurance; and
IMPI). Detailed cost estimates for each project component are given in
Annex III.2, Tables 1 through 4. The base costs are estimated in September
1991 values. Physical contingencies were estimated for the remodeling of
CENAM's building and on equipment for IMPI. Annual price contingencies of
3.7 percent were added to cost estimates. The foreign costs component is
estimated at US$426 million equivalent, which represents 48 percent of the
total project cost excluding taxes.



- 23 -
TABLE 6: PROJECT TOTAL COST
(Figures in millon of US dollar:)
|COMPONENT    19        1993      1924      -1995    1996    TOA
CONACYTI    171.46   181.16    197.05   215.6        0.00   765.27
CENAM         15.46    18.87       15.76    12.51    0.00    62.60
STANDARDS      0.50      5.37       4.74     3.63    3.07    17.31
IMPT            0.00     9.61 I      28.90    9.74   12.35    40.60
TOTAL    187.42   215.01    226.45   241.48  -15.42   85.78
!'Commitment basis.
2. Financina Plan
64.      The financing plan for the proposed project is set out in
Table 7. The Bank loan would finance US$189 million equivalent as follows:
US$150 million to finance a four-year time slice to support CONACYT'9 new
science research programs; US$30 million for a period of four years for the
development of CERAM; US$3 million over four years for the standards and
quality assurance program; and US$6 million over five years for IMPI. (An
additional US$1.5 million is being financed from proceeds from the
Industrial Technology and Industrial Restructuring Loans). The Mexican
Government would fiuance US$404 million equivalent through budgetary
allocations to each of the executing agencies. Research institutions would
finance US$287 million equivalent in researchers salaries, benefits and
overheads and counterpart funds for the infrastructure program (public
research institutions are also financed by the GOM through budgetary
allocations). The private sector would contribute with US$4 million
equivalent in fees for services.
65.      CONACYT's new science programs and CENAM's development program
are fully funded in the Federal budget for 1&92. The preparation
activities during 1992 by DGN for the standards and quality assurance
program will be financed under the Industrial Restructuring Loan
(Ln. 3047-ME) with the assistance of HAFIN. Confirmation of Federal budget
allocation for IMPI during 1993 would be a condition for disbursement of
that component (see para. 87(b)). Assurance of the adequacy of funding for
the subsequent years for each component would be sought during supervision
and annual reviews under the proposed project (see para. 77).



- 24 -
TABLE 7: PROJECT FINANCING PLANS-'
(Figures in million of US dollars)
FINANCING       1992     1993      1994      1995      1996    TOTAL
WORLD BANK         49.20    52.49      49.92    36.24      2.65   190.50
GOVERNMENT         78.52    95.22      98.62   119.90    12.01   404.27
RESEARCH INST.     59.70    66.70      76.70    84.30      0.00   287.40
PRIVATE SECTOR      0.00     0.60       1.21      1.04     0.76     3.61
TOTAL        187.42   215.01    226.45   241.48    15.42   885.78
* Commitment basis.
66.      The Bank is expected to finance 21.5 percent of the total cost of
the proposed project. The estimated foreign costs component is about
US$426 million equivalent or 48 percent of the project cost. The Bank
would finance up to a 100 percent of the foreign expenditures and 75
percent of local expenditures for laboratory equipment, materials, computer
equipment; and 100 percent of the costs of studies, training, consultants,
materials, seminars and promotional services up to the amounts allocated
for each component. Detailed financing plans for each project component
are given in Annex III.2, Tables 1 through 6.
3. Procurement
67.      Each executing agency would carry out its own procurement
arrangements. The Standard Bidding Documents for Mexico agreed between the
Mexican authorities and the Bank would be used during project execution.
The participating institutions (CONACYT, CENAM, SECOFI/DGN and IMPI) would
have the responsibility for ensuring the competitiveness, in terms of price
and quality, of the items procured and their suitability for the purposes
intended. CONACYT, CENAM and IMPI do not have experience in procurement
under Bank loans, but they will be assisted by NAPIN which has extensive
experience.
68.      Procurement for science and technology infrastructure would
include laboratory equipment, computer equipment and machine readable data
bases, library items to support scientific research and technology
information centers, ancillary items and materials to support scientific
research and technological services.
69.      Scientific research and equipment projects to be supported under
PACIME would be large in number, dispersed in time over the period of the
project, implemented by different universities and research institutes, and
carried out by a large number of researchers who would require equipment
with particular specifications to meet the needs of their projects. For
these reasons, packaging of procurement across sub-projects in the science



- 25 -
research projects component of the project may be difficult. Packaging
should be feasible for the larger equipment infrastructure projects and
CENAM's equipment requirements.
70.      Procurement of goods under the proposed project would be as
follows (see Table 8 for details): (i) all contracts for equipment that
can be packaged to exceed US$250,000 equivalent would be procured on the
basis of ICB. (Equipment for larger equipment projects and the bulk of
CENAM's equipment needs would be expected to be procured under ICB. The
estimated aggregate Bank-financed amount is US$92 million); (ii) contracts
for equipment expected to cost US$250,000 or less, but more than US$100,000
equivalent would be procured under LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank
(the estimated aggregate Bank-financed amount is US$28 million); and (iii)
contracts for equipment expected to cost US$100,000 equivalent or less
would be awarded through local and international shopping obtaining
quotations from at least three different suppliers (the estimated aggregate
Bank-financed amount is US$27 million); (iv) specialized equipment, where
the number of manufactures world-wide is limited, would be purchased
through limited international bidding (LIB) (the estimated aggregate Bank-
financed amount is US$17 million); (vi) proprietary items (estimated
aggregate Bank-financed amount US$12 million) that would be procured
through direct contracting; and possibly (vii) specialized computer
equipment, databases, software and applications through the UN agency WIPO
for IMPI (estimated aggregate amount US$5 million). Under ICB, Mexican
manufacturers would be granted for bid evaluation purposes a preference in
accordance with Bank guidelines. The Bank's prior review would be required
for all contracts for goods being procured through ICB and LIB valued at
US$250,000 or more, the first two contracts for goods being procured
through LCB and LIB valued at US$250,000 or less but more than US$100,000,
and all direct contracting. The proposed prior review procedures would be
expected to translate into a coverage of above 50 percent of all Bank-
financed contracts for goods. In addition, the Bank would review ex ante
the first contract for goods to be procured by each implementing agency,
irrespective of its value.
71.      The selection and appointment of consultants for studies, works
supervision, and technical assistance would follow the Bank Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by the World Bank Borrower and the World Bank as
Executing Agencv, dated August 1981.



- 26 -
TAZL 5:  PROJSCT COSTS BY PROCURUUII HZTHOD8
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Project Zleent                         CB         LCB         Other      N.B.?.   Total Cost
1.  Works
1.1  Buildings Remodeling                          4.85                      5.00       9. e
l          .                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(1.00)61                (1.00)/II
2.  Goode
2.1  Laboratory Equipment and          92.00      28.00         58.20ki    204.80    383.00
Computers                      (92.00)    (28.00)       (58.20)               (178.20)
2.2  Laboratory Materials                                        4.52       28.40      32.92
(4.52)                 (4.52)
2.3  Vehicles                                                                0.30       0.30
3.  Administrative Expensesll                                                  388.31     388.31
4.  Consultancies
4.1  Studies and training                                        2.73       12.91      15.64
l(2.73)-i              (2.73)- 
4.2  Technical Assistance                                        1.68        0.00       1.68
(1.68)                 (1.68)
4.4  Seminars and Promotion                                      1.61       24.05      25.66
(1.61)                 (1.61)
4.5  Consultants                                                 0.76                   0.76
(0.76)                 (0.76)
5.  Miscellaneous                                                               27.66      27.66
Total                             92.00      32.85        69.50       691.43    885.78
(92.00)    (29.00)      (69.50)                (190.50)1'
Note:    Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts expected to be financed by the Bank loan.
N.B.F.: Not Bank-Financed.
a)  Financed under Ln. 2747-ME.
b)  Includes US$17 million equivalent to be procured under LIB and US$27 million under L/IS.
c)  Includes administrative expenses (salaries, benefits and overhead) incurred by research
institutions, CONACYT, CENAM, IMPI and SECOFI/DGN, and the Repatriation and Retention and
Chairs of Excellence Programs. These expenses are financed by the GoM through budget
allocations.
d)  Includes US$0.5 million from La. 3047-ME.
e)  Includes US$1.0 million financed under Ln. 2747-HE and US$0.5 million financed under Ln. 3047-HE.
4. Disbursements
72.         In order to facilitate project execution,  a Special Account
would be opened and maintained in US dollars, with an initial deposit of
US$15 million. NAFIN, as financial agent of the Government, would manage
withdrawals under the loan, including the Special Account. Disbursements
would be made on the basis of certified statements of expenditures (SOE)
for all contracts valued below US$250,000. The supporting documentation
for these expenditures would not be sent to the Bank, but would be retained



- 27 -
by the borrower and made available to Bank staff during supervision
missions. NAPIN would be required to submit to the Bank a monthly
statement of the transactions of the Special Account.
73.       The Bank would finance up to 100 percent of foreign cost and 75
percent of local cost of the laboratory equipment, computers, training and
consultancy services as described in para. 66, up to the amounts allocated
for each component. In the science component, to avoid concentration of
Bank funds the total that could be allocated to one research or equipment
infrastructure sub-project over its lifetime, would be limited to US$5
million equivalent. This would be a condition of disbursement (see para.
87(c)). The proposed loan is expected to be disbursed over a period of
about five years on the basis of: (a) 100 percent of eligible foreign
expenditures and 75 percent of local expenditures for materials and
equipment, including cost of installation where applicable; and 100 percent
of costs of technical assistance, training, seminars, educational
materials, studies, and consulting services. The final date for submission
of sub-project requests would be December 31, 1997, and the closing date
would be June 30, 1998. The expected disbursement schedule is set out in
Annex 111.3.
74.       Retroactive financing of eligible expenditures for the science
component incurred after January 1, 1992, is proposed up to a maximum of
ten percent of the loan amount or US$18.9 million equivalent.
5. Auditina
75.       NAEIN, CONACYT, CENAM, DGN and DGDT and IMPI would maintain
adequate records to reflect their operations and financial situation, in
accordance with sound accounting principles applied consistently. The
participating research institutions would only be required to maintain
"separate or identified accounts" of the grants awarded by CONACYT under
the science research and equipment programs. The accounts of the executing
agencies including those kept for the purpose of the proposed project, the
Special Account, and the statements of expenditure, would be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audit
t_,erts, with scope and format satisfactory to the Bank, including an
opinion regarding the supporting documentation for disbursements based on
statements of expenditures, would be submitted to the Bank no latter than
six months after the end of each fiscal year. At negotiations, agreement
was reached on the detailed scope of each audit report by institution,
which is presented in Annex III.4 (see para. 85(f)).
F. Proiset Administration
1. Proiect Implementation
76.       lAFIN would be the borrower of the loan, which would be
guaranteed by the Mexican Government. A signed agreement between NAPIN and
the Government for transferring the loan proceeds and signature of
contractual arrangements with CONACYT and CENAM would be conditions of
effectiveness of the loan (see para. 86). CONACYT would be the



- 28 -
implementing agency for the science component. SECOFI/DGN and CENAM would
be the implementing agency for the metrology, standards and quality
assurance component. SECOFI/DGTD and IMPI would be the implementing
agencies for the intellectual property component.  NAFIN would be
responsible for project co-ordination. Each of the executing agencies has
the capacity to implement the project and would draw on international
expertise where appropriate. The Government will maintain in each agency
functions and staff adequate for project implementation, and will inform
the Bank of any substantive changes.
2. Loan Supervision and Reviews
77.       Project supervision is expected to take place at least twice a
year to monitor progress with the proposed project. Supervision missions
at the appropriate point of the annual budget cycle would seek assurance of
the adequacy of funding requests for each component, which would be
confirmed in the annual reviews. Because of the technical nature of the
project components, supervision would need to include expert consultants as
well as Bank staff, and the supervision coefficient may well be higher than
average.
78.       At negotiations it was agreed that specific annual reviews, no
later than February 28, each year would consider progress in implementing
the Government's policy statement on science and technology infrastructure
(see para. 13) against project implementation indicators set out in Annex
III.5 and Annex II.7 (see para. 85(e)). The implementing agencies would
provide a report on progress with implementation of each component of the
project for the review. The second review, no later than February 28,
1994, would also be the substantive mid-term review of the project
components covering the key areas set out in Annex III.6. For the science
component, this would be the substantive review of the PACIME process, and
the Bank and CONACYT would agree on any changes in the Rules of Operation
to apply for the rest of the project. Prior to the second review, CONACYT
would provide a report on the experience using the PACIME system and
proposals for any changes in the Rules of Operation.
79.       Impact monitoring.  As part of the specific annual
implementation reviews, CONACYT and the Bank will monitor a set of science
indicators to evaluate the impact of the new science programs on the
science and technology capability in Mexico (see Annex III.1). CONACYT
will provide the baseline data for these indicators by September 30, 1992.
CONACYT and the Bank are co-operating in trying to develop an approach to
economic assessment of the impact of the new programs. Necessarily this
evaluation will take place towards completion of the proposed project, but
it is crucial that the information building blocks for the evaluation be
set up during the project. The evaluation will be reviewed in the fourth
annual project review prior to February 28, 1996.
G. Environmental Matters
80.       The proposed project would incur no direct environmental costs
and has an environmental rating of "C". Multi-disciplinary research on



- 29 -
environmental issues has been identified as an area of emphasis under the
PACIME program. The Rules of operation of PACIME state that any research
involving high-risk tranogenic organisms would require a biosafety review,
with standards acceptable to the Bank, before such a sub-project could be
funded.
H.  Project Benefits
81.       The science component would help rationalize public spending on
research and equipment project grants, and strengthen the responsible
public institutions, thus generating relevant research and modernizing
Mexico's science and technology capability. Developing countries can
import technology, and acquire human capital skills offshore. But domestic
scientific and technological capability is needed for research on uniquely
Mexican isiues, and to choose between technologies on the international
technology shelf, and to adapt them to Mexican needs and operate them in
Mexican industry.
82.       The technology infrastructure components would improve services
to industry, enhancing competitiveness and attractiveness for foreign
investment. By their nature the benefits of the proposed project are broad
and dispersed and hard to quantify. While it is not feasible to estimate
an ex ante economic rate of return, various studies have shown high social
rates of return to spending on basic science ex post in industrial
countries. CONACYT and the Bank are co-operating to develop an approach to
economic assessment of the new science programs.
I. Proiect Risks
83.       The main risk for the science component is that the allocation
mechanism would become politicized and fragmented again, and reinforce past
patterns of science research rather than stressing scientific excellence
and looking to future needs. However, there seems to be a strong
commitment to the new allocation system on the part of both the authorities
and the science community, which should make a return to previous practices
unlikely.
84.       The main risk for the technology infrastructure components is
that the required close links between the responsible public sector
agencies and private industry to build confidence in the programs would
still be lacking and the services would be poorly used. However, the
authorities are cognizant of this and have built institutional mechanisms
and strong teams with close consultation between all interested parties to
ensure successful implementation.



- 30 -
IV. AGREIMENTS RE4CNZD AND RECOMMENDATION
85.      At negotiations, agreement was reached between che Bank and the
Government regarding:
(a) the Government policy statement on science and technology
infrastructure (see para. 13);
(b) any changes in the Rules of Operation of PACIME would have to be
acceptable to the Bank (see para. 49);
(c) the two preparatory studies on standards and quality assurance
will be discussed with the Bank in November 1992 to develop the
program to be implemented in 1993 (see para. 55);
(d)  the deciee creating IMPI would be issued in 1992 (see para. 61);
(e) the annual and mid-term reviews of progress in project
implementation and implementation indicators including assurance
of adequate Federal budget for the project (see para. 78); and
(f) auditing arrangements (see para. 75).
86.       Conditions of loan effectiveness would be receipt of a signed
agreement between NAFIN and the Government for transferring the loan
proceeds (see para. 76), and signed contractual arrangements with CONACYT
and CENAM (para. 76).
87.       The conditions of disbursement for:  (a) the standardization
component would be provision of a program acceptable to the Bank to begin
implementation in 1993 (see para. 55); (b) the IDPI component would be
issuance of the decree creating IMPI, appointment of the top management and
their having taken up their positions, and signature of contractual
arrangements between NAFIN and IMPI loan agreement with NAPIN, receipt by
the Bank of a eatisfactory legal opinion on them, and confirmation of
adequate Federal funding for 1993 (see para. 61); and (c) for the CONACYT
component would be that no withdrawals in excess of US$5.0 million
equivalent be allowed for any science research or equipment infrastructure
project (see para. 73).
88.       Recommendation.  With these agreements and conditions, the
proposed project would be eligible for a Bank loan of US$189 million
equivalent with a term of 15 years, including a three-year grace period.



- 31 -
Annex 11.1
Page 1 of 13
NATIONAL POLICY FOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY MODERNIZATION
In today's world, science and technology research is an
essential factor in enabling a country to achieve and maintain effective
social and economic development. A nation's development is largely
determined by its science and technology advances, which affect the
capacity of its society to improve its living conditions. The generation,
application, accumulation and dissemination of science and technology
knowledge are playing an increasingly significant role in enabling
companies, industries, and entire nations to improve their competitive
poFition.
In an internatiornal environment characterized by increasing
globalization, Mexico needs to take resolute action to promote research and
development in order to modernize its economy. The success of its economic
strategy will largely depend on the science and technology progress that it
makes during the present decade. To this end, it is vital to strengthen
and expand our country's scientific, academic and technology infrastructure
so that the quality of our research in those areas will meet international
standards.
Mexico's development has been boosted by the opening up of its
economy to internatlonal trade, reduction of its budget deficit, and
stabilization of its key economic indicators. Deregulation has been
extended to those sectors where enterprises needed to become more
competitive. All this, combined with thie Government's development
policies, has led to sustained economic growth and, with the expansion of
entrepreneurial capacities, to increased productivity.
The Federal Government realizes that to achieve these
objectives it will need to increase the amounts of public and private
resources for high quality science and technology activity, encourage
closer linIs with the private sector, and establish competitive and
transparent %valuation and allocation mechanlsms that will guarantee
efficient utilization of resources. The principal objective of the
Government's science and technology policy is to increase, in a substantial
way, the expenditures for this sector, through use of competitive and
transparent mechanisms aimed at achieving a better allocation of resources
under tAis scheme. This will encourage the use of these evaluation'
criteria and mechanisms in public and private research institutions so that
higher levels of quality can be attained.
The present Administration, aware of the importance of the
modernization process and of the role played in that process by science and
technology, established in the National Development Plan 1989-94 general
criteria governing the science and technology policy, which are rooted in
principles of quality, competitiveness and transparency. Based on these
policies, the Federal Government has formulated three complementary programs



- 32 -
Annex 11.1
Page 2 of 13
(1) The National Program of Science and Technology Modernization
1990-94 (PRONCYMT), originally the responsibility of the
Ministry of Programming and Budgeting, and currently being
executed by the Ministry of Public Education through the
National Council of Science and Technology (CONACYT).
(2) The National Program for Modernization of Education 1989-94,
prepared by the Ministry of Public Education.
(3) The National Program for Industrial Modernization and Foreign
Trade (PRONAMICE) 1990-94, being executed by the Ministry of
Commerce and Industrial Development.
The purpose of PRONCYMT i- to promote science development and
technology modernization, and to support the training of high quality and
productive human resources by increasing the resources allocated to science
research and technology development. The Program aims to achieve an
optimal and rational use of resources, through encouraging greater
participation by the productive sectors and by society in general.
The primary objectives of PRONCYMT are:
=     to bring about a gradual and sustained increase in public
resources allocated to science activities, and ensure greater
private sector participation through cofinancing arrangements
for research projects;
-     improve project evaluation systems, based on criteria of
quality and science relevance, to reinforce the competitiveness
through the financing mechanisms;
-     promote the training of high quality human resources and
excellence;
-     encourage  he return of Mexican scientists established abroad,
so that they can effectively be incorporated into groups
already existing in our institutions;
-     expand the country' infrastrucLure for the development of
science activity through modernization of existing research
centers and creation of new centers;
-     promote interinstitutional and interdisciplinary activity, both
within the country and with foreign researchers and
institutions, with a view to generating science cooperation and
exchange programs;
-     make the activities of the research centers relevant to the
demands of the national productive sectors.



- 33 -
Annex 11.1
Page 3 of 13
To achieve these objectives, the Federal Government has
undertaken to increase, in a substantial manner and in real terms, the
public funding allocated to this sector, which will promote greater
participation from the private institutions in the activities and will
permit the country to achieve a coefficient for total expenditures for
science and technology of 1t of GDP in 1994 and 2% in the year 2000. This
means achieving private sector participation of at least 50% by the end of
the century.
It is important to note that the possibility of increasing
public expenditure on science aad technology will depend on the country's
macro-economic conditions over the next few years, and on the system's
capacity to absorb resources, in keeping with established efficiency and
competitiveness criteria designed to maintain the levels of quality.
One of the objectives of the Federal Government's policy is to
steadily increase CONACYT's share of the overall science and technology
budget, so as to achieve an increase in the funding to this sector that is
allocated on a competitive basis.
To this end, as a result of the merger of the Ministry of
Finance and Public Credit and the Ministry of Programming and Budgeting, a
decicion was taken to relocate CONACYT in the Ministry of Public Education,
as part of the effort to rationalize Federal Government operations. This
will lead to greater congruence and homogeneity in the formulation and
execution of science and technology policies and programs, and improved use
of the resources allocated to the National System of Science and
Technology.
In addition, CONACYT will be in charge of coordination of the
system's 29 research and development centers, including the SPP-CONACYT
centers and those coordinated by the Ministry of Public Education, whose
budget for 1992 is in the neighborhood of Mex$500 billion.
Participation by CONACYT, as coordinator of the centers, will
ensure that allocation of federal funds to institutions within the system
will be subject to the criteria of competitiveness and excellence which
characterize CONACYT's other programs. It is planned that by the end of
1994 all of the research centers coordinated by CONACYT will be operating
on the basis of the criteria established for PACIME. This will ensure a
substantial increase in the share of competitively allocated funds within
total public expenditure on science and technology.
In step with the new Science and Technology Modernization
Policy, the Planning Commission on Technology and Science Development has
introduced a new budget programming structure, that permits clear
identification of the amount allocated to the promotion of science research
and support of technology modernization.



- 34 -
Annex II.
Page 4 of 13
In 1991, this sector had a Mex$2.8 billion budget to construct
a solid basis for achievement of the planned objectives, which represents
an increase in real terms of 20% over 1990. This allowed for the recovery
of levels of expenditure similar to those recorded before the financial
crisis of the eighties. In 1992, the Federal Government will allocate
Mex$3,686.6 billion to the National System of Science and Technology, which
represents an increase of 16.3% in real terms over 1991.
CONACYT's share of the 1991 Federal Budget (Mex$293.3 billion)
reflects a 23% increase in real terms over 1990. An additional Mex$200
billion was allocated that year by presidential order to the creation of
four Science and Technology Support Funds:
(1)   Fund for the Strengthening of Science and Technology
Infrastructure. Participation by this trust fund in
infrastructure projects is subject to cofinancing from the
applicant institutions. This is to ensure that che research
centers design their budget in such a way as to strengthen
their science infrastructure.
(2)   Fund to Retain and Repatriate Mexican Researchers.  This will
be used to strengthen the country's corps of active
researchers.
(3)   Fund for the Establishment of Chairs of Excellence.  This will
be for highest level profesiors and researchers, to assure them
of sufficient income to maintain standards of living
appropriate to academicians of national and international
repute.
(4)   Fund to Strengthen Strategic Capacities.  This will support the
establishment of research centers.
With its 1991 budget supplemented by these Funds, CONACYT will
see a real increase in its resources of 106% over 1990, and hence an
increase in CONACYT's share of public expenditure in the sector from 10% to
16%. For 1992, the budget allocated directly to CONACYT, not including the
Presidential Funds, is Mex$393.5 billion, representing a real increase of
22% over the preceding year.
Where the presidential funds are concerned, the Federal
Government intends to strengthen these in order to pursue the following
activities:
Strengthening of the science and technology infrastructure of
the country's research centers. In 1991, 38 applications were
approved, for 17 institutions, in the amount of Mex$48,356
million. With the cofinancing amounts from those institutions,
the infrastructure support furnished through this Fund in 1991



- 35 -
Annex 11.1
Page 5 of 13
totaled Mex$81,773 million. A total of Mex$139,700 million has
been allocated to this fund for 1992.
-     Retention and repatriation of Mexican researchers.  In 1991 and
1992, support was provided faz the repatriation of 125
researchers. It is planned to have 500 recearchers repatriated
by 1995. The total expenditure for this F"nd for 1991 was
Mex$5,274 million. The budget for 1992 it. Mex$42,000 million.
-     The establishment of faculty Chairs for the purpose of
promoting and enhancing independent work by researchers. In
1991, 73 such positions were created, 12 of which could become
life tenure positions. The total budget, not counting the
actuarial reserve, was MexS4,524 million. The budget for 1992
is MexS56 billion.
With a view to the effective implementation of the new policy,
CONACYT carried out a thorough restructuring of its administrative and
operational organization, with a view to ensuring optimum resource
utilization and achievement of its objectives. This resulted, in 1991, in
a significant reduction in CONACYT'e payroll, with a 24% cut in middle-
level management and a 33% cut in operational staff. This reduced the
proportion of administrative expenditure in the total budget, which fell
from 20% in 1990 to less than 9% in 1991. In the industrial countries,
this proportion is around 5%, and the Mexican Government's medium-term
objective is to come down to a similar level.
As part of its restructuring process, CONACYT redesigned its
resource allocation criteria and mechanisms, basing them on considerations
of quality and excellence and placing them within a framework of
competitiveness and transparency. These served as a basis for preparation
of the Program in Support of Science in Mexico, PACIME, the main objective
of which is to make a significant improvement in both the quality and the
volume of science research in Mexico through more efficient resource
distribution. The Program provides that research projects applying for
resources from CONACYT shall be submitted to a selection process based on
evaluation by peer committees and a panel of referoes, who will hand down
opinions on the quality of the projects concerned. The evaluation
committees and panel of referees are composed of researchers of recognized
prestige, selected on the basis of proposals from the science community,
research institutions and higher education establishments, the productive
sector, and CONACYT's Advisory Board.
Significant among the specific actions carried out was the
design of a new Human Resources Training Program based on the same criteria
of quality and transparency. The objective of this Program is to channel
the funds earmarked for postgraduate fellowships to the best institutions
and to those programs classified as excellent. For this purpose, the
Committee for the Training of Human Resources in Science and Technology was



- 36 -
Annex II 1
Pago 6 of 13
set up. The committee, composed of noted experts from the academic and
science community, performed an exhaustive evaluation of Mexican and
foreign postgraduate programs in their particular field of specialization,
based on international criteria of quality and academic excellence
established by CONACYT and the science community, to provide a basis for
CONACYT's process of fellowship allocation. With this mechanism, the
selection process for granting fellowships has become transparent and
simple: a student's letter of acceptance for one of the postgraduate
programs included in the list is the only requirement for obtaining a
CONACYT fellowship.
The above measures will also be reinforced by action to
strengthen Mexican postgraduate studies. Once the initial evaluations have
been made of graduate programs to be included in the list, both those
accepted for inclusion and those not accepted can apply for support to
increase their capacity. To this end, resources were provided in 1991
totaling Mex$8,239.1 million, while Mex$14,785.4 million will be allocated
in 1992. In addition, institutions will be able to compete for the
remaining CONACYT resources.
The list will be continuously updated through a permanent
review of both the programs included and others not yet approved because
they do not meet the established quality criteria. This will be done to
encourage the institutions to upgrade their faculty, among other actions,
in order to qualify for the list. It must be emphasized that this
mechanism for selecting institutions has led to changes in some programs.
It represents a constant challenge to institutions to maintain their
quality and, academic standards and to CONACYT to continue channeling
resources for the strengthening of graduate programs.
It should be noted that in 1992 resources ._r graduate
fellowships will be increased by 22% over the previous year. It is planned
to grant 1,496 new fellowships and provide support for 4,274 already
committed, which will give a total of 5,770.
The main purpose of the new human resource training policy is
to strengthen the country's academic and research staffs, thus upgrading
science production both quantitatively and qualitatively. An essential
goal is to overhaul the science establishment in the course of this decade,
and it is hoped that the number of Mexican researchers registered in the
National Research System will increase from the 1991 level of 6,442 to
19,300 by the year 2000. This will require an annual rate of increase of
13%, and in order to achieve this, a standard of excellence in research
must be promoted on a competitive basis, while the Mexican education system
must be modernized through the introduction of competitive graduate
programs at an international level. To this end, it is necessary to invest
in new equipment and in physical infrastru.:ture for the research
institutions. All these factors will allow the country to have a broad



- 37 -
Annex II.
Page 7 of 13
base of science researchers who at the same time will contribute towards
the training of qualified personnel.
Another essential item in this policy consists of making
institutions specializing in science research and technology development
more relevant to the needs of the productive sector. To facilitate this
process, Government policy is designed to promote increased participation
by '.e private sector in the financing of such activities. To this end,
CONACYT has launched its Academic/Industrial Linkage Program, through which
participating enterprises will support cooperative programs with
universities. Similarly, privatization of IMMEC (Mexican Institute for
Mechanical Engineering Research) provides an example of the effective
transfer of technology development centers matching the needs of the
productive sector.
As a part of this policy for establishing links with the
private sector, the Federal Government will continue to promote attractive
schemes for achieving levels of participation similar to those found in
other countries. It is calculated that the public sector accounts for 85%
of financing for science and technology, compared with 50% in Brazil and
20% in Japan. In recently industrialized countries, the figure ranges from
50% to 60%. It is hoped that the public and private sectors will each
provide 50% of the financing for science and technology projects by the end
of this decade.
To this end, one of the Federal Government's actions will be to
promote the strengthening of research centers that can be privatized. It
will also establish the requirement that institutions applying for support
for infrastructure or technology development projects must provide
cofinancing, and it will support the establishment of new research centers
that satisfy the special needs of enterprises and strengthen existing
overall capacity, but which have not yet achieved a critical mass that
could be financed exclusively by the productive sector.
As regards technology modernization programs, the most
important of these are FIDETEC (Technology Modernization Research and
Development Fund) and FORCITEC (Fund for Strengthening Science and
Strategic Technology Capacities). These are specific mechanisms through
which CONACYT encourages the participation of industry in the country's
science research and technology development. For 1992, FIDETEC's resources
total MexS80,713 million. Assuming the industrial sector's average
participation this year will be 20%, its cofinancing contributions for
specific projects will total Mex$16 billion. FORCITEC's budget for this
year will be Mex$45 billlon.
FIDETEC is a trust fund whose purpose is to provide support for
technology development projects at the pre-competitive stage. To qualify
for financial support, projects must have already identified a private
enterprise that will be the flnal user and that has committed funds to



- 38 -
Anne L . 1
Page 8 of 13
cofinance project implementation. The trust fund is part of a program
operated jointly with Nacional Financiera, and is intended to strengthen
the technology development of Mexico's productive sectors.
The establishment of a joint program makes it possible to
maximize the capacity of each of the institutions, to provide a complete
range of support for technology modernization, and to facilitate industrial
development and the marketing of successful projects. Similarly, the
special features of this program eneourage cofinancing from the productive
sector for technology development projects.
In addition, the Federal Government, through PRONAMICE, has
established overall principles to govern the national policy for
modernizing of standardization and promotion of quality in Mexico. These
are consistent with the GATT Code of Technical Obstacles to Trade and also
establish a new approach to standardization and quality assurance. Among
other factors, the modernization policy clearly reflects the intention to
adopt international standards and promote quality from the standpoint of
development rather than regulation.
This will require a complete change in the State's role in such
activities, and it is therefore intended to promote the participation of
the industrial, social and private sectors in the preparation of official
standards to be used to provide benchmarks and support for the quality of
the goods and services available in the country.
In addition, it is intended to promote the establishment of an
integrated quality certification system, in which the traditional role of
the State as regulator and sole operator in such activities will be
replaced by that of coordinator, with the participation of institutions
that will provide enterprises with validation services in line with the
principles established by international standardization and certification
organizations.
In order to achieve these objectives, it is intended to
strengthen the National Accreditation System for testing laboratories and
the National Calibration System so that they become the twin pillars of the
strategy. These systems must be extensively promoted in order to encourage
the private sector to invest in equipment and personnel training, so that
technically reliable services can be provided in the specific fields and
geographical locations where there is a confirmed need, both domestic and
external, for certification of the quality of Mexican-made goods.
This modernization process applied to standardization and
quality has been accompanied by efforts to establieh a culture of total
quality, and to this end the National Quality Award has been reorganized to
serve as a basic instrument of promotion and as an example that will
support the efforts made by Mexican industry to enhance its
compatitiveness.



- 39 -
Annex 11.1
Page 9 of 13
Efforts are being made to consolidate the establishment of
quality control systems, based on the requirements of metrology,
standardization, testing and certification that are consistent with the
principles established and accepted by the relevant international agencies.
Making use of existing infrastructure and drawing on the results achieved
so far, SECOFI, through the Directorate General of Standards, is developing
a program for modernizing activities relating to standardization.
To this end, it is cooperating with the Nacional Financiera in
producing two studies entitled "Analysis of Mexico's Laboratory
Infrastructure and Options for Development" and "A Policy for Privatizing
Activities in Metrology, Standardization, Testing and Quality Assurance".
These will be produced in close cooperation with the private sector and the
relevant specialized agencies.
The objectives of these studies are to identify the existing
national structure for metrology, standardizatton, testing and quality
assurance in Mexico's public and private sectors; examine the systems
employed by other countries; and, determine which areas and aspects of
these activities could be privatized, opened up to a larger share of
private-sector participation, or reorganized. They will also propose
mechanisms for operating the structure whereby the new system will be
incorporated and for strengthening and promoting the accreditation systems
for testing and calibration laboratories.
It is expected that the studies will be finalized by mid-
November 1992. The results will be used to establish the schedule and plan
of activities for 1993-96, to identify the sectors to be involved, and to
define the operating mechanisms for introducing the new system.
Metrology is an essential element in a system of
standardization and quality assurance. For this reason, work has begun on
the installation of CENAM (National Metrology Center), a decentralized
agency of the Ministry of Trade and Industrial Development. The Center
will undertake tasks demanding extreme accuracy and will become the main
laboratory in which national standards of measurement will be established
and maintained.
The objective is to ensure that the measurements required for
industrial production meet international standards of accuracy and reliability.
CENAM, in coordination with SECOFI, will therefore become a key element in
strengthening the National Calibration System and supporting metrology
standardization activities designed to make Mexican industry competitive.
CENAM will provide metrology services at the primary level for
laboratories accredited under the National Calibration System and for producers
requiring high accuracy services. In this way, the foundation will be laid in
Mexico for a metrology infrastructure geared to industrial development and
capable of meeting competitive standards on domestic and international markets.



- 40 -
Annex lI.1
Page 10 of 13
The physical location for this Center was selected as a result of a
number of technical studies carried out to identify the best possible
conditions for its operation. As a result, it was decided to establish it in
the town of Los Cues, near the city of Quer6taro, on premises recently vacated
by the former National Commission for Fruitgrowing. The necessary construction
work to adapt the premises to CENAM's requirements began last December.
It is expected that this work will be completed in the second half
of 1992, and that acquisition of new equipment will begin. This represents a
substantial investment, given that the available equipment is scattered in
different locations and is insufficient.
In parallel, in 1992, hiring and training the necessary specialized
technical personnel will begin so that either by the end of the year or in
early 1993 the metrology infrastructure will be available to provide services
to secondary calibration laboratories included in the National Calibration
System; to the testing laboratories in the National Accreditation System for
testing laboratories;, and, to industries requiring high accuracy services. It
is expected that once CENAM is in operation, it will serve as a catalyst for
encouraging the private sector to invest in the establishment of a greater
number of secondary calibration laboratories, thus helping to establish an
equilibrium between the supply of services and the demand in the country mainly
in the industrial sector.
The establishment of CENAM will make it possible, inter alia, to
achieve consistency and provide support for modernization of the metrology,
standardization, certification and quality assurance system being promoted by
the Mexican Government; to help industry to improve its quality standards; to
provide the necessary technical infrastructure for making commercial
transactions more equitable and thus strengthening the domestic market; to
promote exports while protecting the environment, health and public safety;
and, to obtain greater international recognition for Mexican products.
Similarly, the activities planned in the 1989-94 National
Industrial Modernization and External Trade Program include upgrading of the
Mexican industrial property system through changes in legislation and
modernization of the administration of the system of concessions and
registration of industrial property rights. To this end, the Mexican
Industrial Property Institute will be established in 1992.
One of the most important overall objectives of the present
Administration is to provide incentives for technology innovation, foreign
investment, transfer of technology, and an increase in the competitiveness of
the productive sectors through improvements in the protection of industrial
property rights. The excessive regulations, which had become obstacles to the
transfer of technology and the development of industry, have been removed.
Adequate protection of intellectual property rights is essential
for encouraging increased private investment in the development of technologies



- 41 -
Annex 11 I1
Page 11 of 13
that will increase productivity and improve quality and design in industry.
Since mid-1991, therefore, the Federal Government has introduced far-reaching
changes in industrial property and copyright legislation to enable Mexico to
offer the same legal protection as more advanced countries.
With the approval of the new Law for the Promotion and Protection
of Industrial Property (June 1991), the pertinent legislation was modernized
and the opportunities were increased for Mexico to become a signatory to
multilateral treaties relating to this field, such as the Patent Cooperation
Treaty and the Madrid Agreement Concerning the International Registration of
Marks.
Mexico has thus become a pioneer in Latin America in the determined
protection of intellectual property, this being a further policy for
modernizing the country's industry and trade and raising its competitiveness to
international levels. The new Mexican legislation is being studied by other
Latin American countries, and some have even adopted the text of a number of
the important provisions contained in Mexico's laws.
The following are some of the most important measures adopted under
this legislation:
(1)   twenty-year patents are granted for practically all types of
inventions, including those relating to biotechnology, micro-
organisms, plant varieties, pharmaceuticals, medicines in general,
etc.
(2)   utility models are to be registered, as a means of protecting the
simple inventions often developed by small enterprises.
(3)   industrial and commercial secrets are protected, as a means of
supporting the competitive advantages of enterprises possessing
such confidential information.
(4)   protection for registered trademarks is extended to 10 years (on a
renewable basis), and the conditions applicable to their
registration and use are simplified considerably.
(5)   protection for industrial designs is extended to a period of 15
years, and registration is simplified.
(6)   the administrative and legal procedures providing protection
against unfair competition are strengthened.
Similarly, the following very significant legislative advances have
been made with respect to copyright:
(7)   a 50-year period of protection against the copying of computer
programs has been provided.



- 42 -
Page 12 of 13
(8)   rights are granted to the producers of recordings, to prevent
unauthorized use for profit.
(9)   the criteria for public performance of a protected work have been
clearly defined, in order to prevent unauthorized use.
(10)   the penalties for unfair competition have been increased.
The Law for the Promotion and Protection of Industrial Property
provides for the establishment of IMPI (Mexican Institute of Industrial
Property), a decentralized agency of the Federal Government formed to develop
the necessary infrastructure and personnel to manage the complex system of
protection of industrial property rights.
IMPI is designed to provide support and technical advice on the
protection of industrial property rights and to disseminate related information
and advice to the public, thus assisting the Ministry of Trade and Industrial
Development in the proper enforcement of the new law.
The development of this new technical institution specializing in
patents and trademarks and of the overall Mexican industrial property system
over the following four or five years will require strategic investment in data
processing equipment and databases relating to international patents.
Similarly, it will be necessary to provide training programs for
employees of the patent and trademark office, so as to bring their technical
and professional expertise up to a standard meeting the requirements of the
Government and ensuring proper application of the new legislation. In both
these activities (capital investment and training) an active program is planned
for exchanging experience, advice and technical assistance with other
countries, and mainly with the World Intellectual Property Organization.
Start-up and consolidation of the Institute will take place between
1993 and 1996. The main objectives will be to develop an investment program
for automating procedures, to modernize and expand the information systems and
databases on inventions and specialized patent documents, and to establish a
technical cooperation program that includes a program for developing human
resources and technical assistance for the selection and installation of new
systems, in order to make IMPI completely operational and automated.
By this means, it is planned to eliminate the patent backlog,
reduce the average time for processing patents from seven to two and a half
years, reduce the average time for processing trademarks from 12 to 2 months,
improve the file search system so that it will have at least 95% reliability,
upgrade the computerized database so that it will also have at least 95%
reliability, and establish windows for receiving applications and granting
industrial property rights in all SECOFI's offices and subsidiary offices
throughout the Mexican states. These actions will establish'the credibility of
government services and provide the necessary support for the work of



- 43 -
Annexx 11. 1
Page 13 of 13
innovation and research and development performed by the industrial sectors and
by reasarchers and scientists.
In the future it will be neceusary to consider establiuhing a court
specialized in industrial property rights. In many countries, the cost of such
courts is covered by the revenue received through the registration and granting
of industrial property rights.
The Government will implement policies of cost recovery and cost
sharing for technology infrastructure services. For CENAM, international
practices suggest a target range of around 15 percent recovery of operational
costs. For IMPI, fees for concession of property rights will more than recover
operational costs. For the standardization program, private firms will share
the costs of outputs that can be directly applied to the individual enterprise.
Mexico, DF, April 1992



- 44 -
Annex I. 2
Page 1 of 3
ADMINISTRATIVE RESTRUCTURING OF CONACYT
Backtround
1.          CONACYT's restructuring recognizes past institutional neglect
and stresses three national renovation processoss being implemented:
national modernization; government reform; and the rationalization of
federal public management. The rationalization actions for CONACYT
followed the guidelines of the National Development Plan 1990-1994 and of
the National Science Program and Technological Modernization 1990-1994,
with the purpose of making CONACYT an efficient institution and promoter of
science and technology. The restructuring program took place in two
phases: first, the rationalization of the organic structure, and second,
the reduction of personnel.
Diasnostic
2.          Prior to the restructuring CONACYT had too large an organic
structure, with 162 management positions, integrated by a General
Directorship, five Joint Directorships, 24 Directorships; 25 sub-
Directorships, 89 Department Chiefs, 10 Delegations and eight others. Its
organization presented several problems:
a)   Too many sections under the responsibility of the General
Directorship.
b)   Marked separation between the important Joint
Directorships for Scientific Development, Technological
Development and Training (Formation of Human Resources).
c)   Overgrading of some ranks and underutilization of others.
Functional Reormanization
a)     The following were discharged from the office of the General
Directorships One General Coordination of Delegations and two
Directorships (Organization and Systems and Information
Services), leaving under its control six Joint Directorships
(Directorships of Planning, Scientific Research, Technological
Modernization, International Affairs and Management and
Finance), Regional Scientific and Technological Development and
three Staff Directorships (Communication, Juridic and
Comptrollers Directorships).
b)     The Joint Directorship of Formation of Human Resources
(Training) was restructured, incorporating its functions into
the Joint Directorships of Scientific Research and
TechnologicRl Modernization, with the purpose of specializing
the academic training and linking it both to scientific
research policies as well as to technological modernization.



- 45 -
Annex 11 2
Pago 2 of 3
c)     Three separate Staff Directorships (Organization, Information
Services and Delegations) were incorporated in the Joint
Directorship of Management, which was t%duced to six
Directorships.
d)     International Affairs was promoted to Joint Directorship level,
with the purpose of reintroducing CONACYT in the international
information flows, exchange, cooperation and financial support,
all indispensable in the formation of human resources
(training), scientific research and modernization and
technological advance.
e)     Administrative Directorships which carried the function of
liaison between the Joint Directorships and those for
Management and Finance, their functions were canceled end
incorporated to the latter, thus avoiding duplicatior..
Ormanic Restructurium
3.          The restructuring allowed a reduction of higher and mid-level
positions of 542 globally.
a) 3ix Joint Directorships are maintained;
b) Directorships are reduced from 24 to 23 (42);
c)  Sub-directorships were increa -  from 25 to 43 (72Z)
d) Departments are reduced from 89 to zero (1002);



- 46 -
Annex II.2
Page 3 of 3
TABLE 1: RESTRUCTURING OF CONACYT
July    September   April
Area                               1991       1991        1992
Regional Scientific & Technological Dev.                                 8
Direction General                                29         25          19
Planning                                         33         25          11
Science Research                                 79         56          40
Technology Modernization                         83         69          21
International Affairs                            19         15          17
Administration & Finance                        453        292         174
Communication, Science & Technology              91         59          56
Legal Affairs                                    13         11           7
Controllers                                      15          7           7
Total Technical, Operations and
Admin. Staff                               815        559       360*
Managers                                        141        141         160
TOTAL                              956        700         520
* Excludes Regional Staff



- 47 -
Annex 11. 3
Page 1 of 12
THE RULES OF OPERATION OF PACINE
1.        The heart of CONACYT's new science programs is the transparent,
competitive, peer review process for allocation of funding which has become
known as the PACIE process. This annex spells out the process as it
applies to research projects, although the same basic process is used for
the other programs as well -- equipment infrastructure, retention and
repatriation of scientists, chairs of excellence.
General Characteristics of PACIME
2.        Any national institution which includes scientific research
among its main activities is eligible to sponsor proposals to compete for
the PACIE funds for specific research projects. Institutions that receive
public sector budget allocations exclusively for research and development
activities are not eligible to benefit from PACIE funds. These include
the Mexican Petroleum Institute, the Energy Research Institute, and the
institutes of the Ministry of Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources. On an
exceptional basis, proposals involving these institutes may be eligible if
the research is to be done in collaboration with an academic center or if
the research contemplates an important componant of formation of human
resources.
3.        In order for a research proposal to qualify for financing from
PACIME, and from other funds administered by CONACYT, it should incorporate
six basic characteristics:
a) high scientific quality;
b) active, well-known scientists;
c) important human resource formation;
d) establish broad cooperation among several researchers and
among national and foreign institutions;
e) seek to achieve significant scientific advances in the
respective area of science; and
f) multi-year project, preferably for three years.
Structure of PACIME
4.           The BOARD OF DIRECTORS is composed by "ex-officio" members, as
follows:
-   The Secretary of Public Education;
-   The Secretary of Finance and Public Credit;
-   The Director General of CONACYT;
-   The President of the Academy of Scientific Research;
-   The General Coordinator of the Consultative Council of
Sciences;
- The Deputy Director for Scientific Research of CONACYT, as
Technical Secretary of PACIME, in addition;



- 48 -
Annex 11.3
Page 2 of 12
- two representatives of the country's productive sector, who
will be elected for a term of two years by the other member.
of the group: one will be elected from a list of five
candidates proposed by the National Confederation of
Industrial Chambers (CONCAMIN), and the other will be the
President of the Asociacion Mexicana de Directivos de la
Investigacion Aplicada y el Desarrollo Tecnologico (ADIAT);
and
-   the presidents of the Area Evaluation Committees, who will be
elected for a two-year term by the ex-officio members of the
Board from a list of three candidates proposed by each Area
Evaluation Committee.
5.          The Board is presided by the Secretary of Public Education.  In
his absence, the presidency will be assumed by the Director General of
CONACYT. The "ex-officio" members will have the right to nominate
substitutes. The substitutes will have the same power as the regular
members during the voting.
6.          The main functions of the Board are the administration and
supervision of the achievement of the goals of the PACIME program. It will
make the annual budget allocations for the PACIME and it will approve the
recommended allocation of resources to specific research projects.
7.          The ADVISORY COUNCIL works as a supporting body to the Board of
Directors.  Within PACIME, its functions consist mainly of making
recommendations on possible emerging areas in science. It also
participates in the creation of the Area Evaluation Committees, by
proposing the integration of active, well-known scientists and by
recommending criteria to establish their operating rules. This Council is
a communication channel, within PACIME, with the scientific community of
the country to facilitate the adjustment of the Program to the community's
needs.
8.          The EVALUATION COMMISSION also serves as support to the Board
of Directors. It is constituted by six members of the Advisory Council of
CONACYT and five distinguished vepresentatives of the international
scientific community, appointed for three years. The national members of
this Co-mission are elected by the Board of Governors of CONACYT. The
international representatives are selected by the Board of Directors from a
list presented by the Director General of CONACYT and including candidates
proposed by the scientific community. Jor each of the five international
seats three candidates will be presented.
9.          These experts meet once a year, with the purpose of evaluating
the Program, and to suggest the policies for the following year. The
inclusion of the international expertise allows the opportunity for PACINE
to be evaluated by specialists with wide experience in this type of program
in other countries.



- 49 -
Annex II.3
Page 3 of 12
10.         The Commiesson analyzes and advises the Board on proposals for
financing of megaproject. (over US$2.5 million). Also, this group will be
responsible for identifying under-represented sectors of science in Mexico
which have possibilities of development and fcr creating "Ad-hoc"
Subcommittees in these new areas. The proposals by the Evaluation
Commission on these areas with potential demand will be supported by the
Area Evaluation Committees, based on the studies that the "Ad-hoc"
Subcommittees will have made.
11.         The members of the Commission receive remuneration to be
determined according to international standards.
12.         The AREA EVALUATION COMMITTEES have the operational
responsibility for the evaluation, selection, and monitoring of projects to
be supported by the PACDME Program. For implementation, the Program is
divided in eight general areas of expertise, and each area has an Area
Evaluation Committee as the main decision-making entity. The eight
Committees are:
1)     Committee on Exact Sciencess  Physics, Astronomy, Mathematics
and all relevant sciences.
2)     Committee on Natural Sciences:  Biology, Ecology, Oceanography
(biological aspects), Physiology and all relevant sciences.
3)     Committee on Chemical Sciences:  Biochemistry, Organic and
Inorganic Chemistry, Physical Chemistry, Pharmaceutical
Chemistry, Material Chemistry and all relevant sciences.
4)     Commlttee on Applied Sciences:  Electronics, Computers,
Engineering and all relevant sciences.
5)     Committee on Human and Behavioral Sciences:  Psychology,
History, Philology, Philosophy and all relevant sciences.
6)     Committee on Social Sciences:  Sociology, Economics,
Anthropology, Archaeology and all relevant sciences.
7)     Committee on Health Sciences:  All sciences related to health.
8)     Committee Earth Sciences:  Geophysics, Geology, Oceanography,
Seismology and all similar sciences.
13.         The committees are formed based on the recommendations of the
Advisory Council. In addition, to ensure the consensus of the scientific
community of the excellence of its area committee members, open
consultationsa*re held with research institutions, scientific societies and
registered academics in the Master List of evaluators of CONACYT.
Department of Science Research (DAIC) will make the final selection of
committee membera. Each committee will consist of:



- 50 -
Annex II.3
Pago 4 of 12
-      eight scientists of level II or III of the National Registry of
Researchers who are active in research and resident in Mexico;
-      two high level scientists living abroad; and
-      a non-voting technical secretary designated by the General
Directorate of CONACYT.
14.         The President of each committee is elected by the Board of
Directors from a list of thtae candidates submitted by the Committee. This
person should be a level III member of SNI with distinction in scientific
work.
15.         Committee members will be replaced, alternately, every two
years, without the possibility of repeating consecutive periods. The first
time both the president, and four of the resident scientists and one
foreigner, will be replaced after two and a half years. In the third year,
the four remaining resident scientists and the one foreigner will be
replaced. The term of the technical secretary will be decided by the
Director General of CONACYT.
16.         These committees meet once a month to analyze proposals, and
every six months to make resource allocations. The technical secretary is
responsible for providing detailed reporting on the progress of the project
evaluation process. The secretary ensures that the evaluation of projects
is completed within three months, and that at the bi-annual meetings the
results of the evaluations for all the proposals submitted with three
months anticipation are presented.
17.         All committee members are expected to attend the monthly
meetings, except for the two scientists living abroad, who make their
evaluations in their place of residence and mail them. Their physical
presence is required only for the semestral meetings in which the final
decisions are submitted. The Committee members are responsible for keeping
strict confidentiality with respect to the project proposals being
evaluated as well as about the participating researchers. In the same
manner, the names of the examiners should be kept cconfidential.
18.         The Committee members receive a monthly remuneration for their
participation and assistance, for an equivalent of two minimum Mexico City
salaries.
19.         The president of the Area Evaluation Committee may request the
Board of Directors to replace one of the members for unjustified absence,
for not fulfilling responsibilities or for other major causes. This
control mechanism will be an additional element to the annual evaluations
which will be done by the Evaluation Commission of PACIME.
20.         "AD-HOC" SUBCOMMITTEES may be formed by the Area Evaluation
Committees in the following cases where:



- 51 -
Annex 11.3
Pago 5 of 12
-      high demand exceeds the budgetary allocation for the area, and
projects must be prioritized;
-      complex projects with many components that require more in-
depth analysis; and
-      project cost exceeds US$2.5 million.
21.         "Ad-hoc" Subeommittees function according to the needs of the
Area Evaluation Committees, which designate members of the subcommittees
and their term. Members should be member. of SNI, but not necessarily
belong to the Area Evaluation Committee. Each "Ad-hoc" Subcommittee has a
technical secretary appointed by CONACYT and is presided by the
representative of that scientific field in the Area Evaluation Committee
who is responsible for supervising the implementation of PACIIE's general
guidelines.
22.         The members of the "Ad-hoc" Subcommittees receive a
remuneration for participation in each session that takes place, in an
amount that DAIC determines.
23.         All research projects proposed for financing by PACIME are
submitted to evaluation by five REFEREES selected from the list maintained
by CONACYT. The group includes three nationals and two foreigners. The
group of referees includes the members of the SNI level II and III and
researchers suggested by the research institutions. Only in exceptional
cases is participation of national examiners who do not belong to SNI
accepted. Foreign referees should have prestige in their area of specialty
and should be willing to cooperate with the development of science in
Mexico.
24.         DAIC makes a list of referees from Mexico and abroad and
indieetes in each case in which areas the person is qualified. The Area
Evaluation Committee selects the referees for projects from this list.
Referees may not belong to the same institution or work group of the
project sponsors.
25.         The referees will receive remuneration for evaluations
completed, the amount of which is set by DAIC.
Project Evaluation Criteria
26.         All proposals for scientific research projects will be
evaluated based on the following criteria:
(i)   scientific merit;
(ii)   formation of human resources;
(iii)   quality of the research group, based on previous scientific
research experience, level of researchers, professional
qualifications of the person responsible for the project and of
the other participants, and composition of the research group;
(iv)   the consistency of the budget with project objectives;



- 52 -
Annoex 11.3
Page 6 of 12
(v)   availability of required infrastructure and other conditions
that may affect the work plan viability; and
(vi) consistency of the duration of the project with goals.
27.         In the case of projects for creation of a new Research Center,
the evaluation should consider the following additional elements:
-      relevance of the scientific area of specialty of tha Center;
-      availability of human resources required;
-      justification to create a new institution or dependency instead
of using the existing ones;
-      linkage with the existing higher education centers in the
region; and
-      specific support committed for the creation of the center.
Proisot Selection Procoes
28.         CONACYT has a single window for receiving applications for
PACINE support of scientific activities. It periodically publishes
announcements nationally to invite submission of proposals for the
_ompetition, in widely circulated news channels and through printed
information sent to the academic and scientific research institutions
throughout the country. The requirements for participation as well as the
project selection process are stated in a clear and precise fashion. For
all projects where financing by PACIDE is requested, it is necessary to
attach a summary in English. In the case of megaprojects, it is mandatory
to submit the complete version in English.
29.                 PACIME funds are awarded twice a year, in April and in
September. The process of evaluation of the projects requires an average
of three months, so the allocations made in April and October will include
those proposals presented no later than in January and July, respectively.
30.         DAIC receives the proposals and channels them to the
appropriate Area Evaluation Committee. Each Area Evaluation Committee
selects a group of referees from the list made up by DAIC from the Master
List of Evaluators. The projects are sent to the referees for evaluation
according to the general criteria established.
31.         The referees do their analysis and fill in the special
evaluation form designed by DAIC for the projects. It is expected that the
referees evaluation will be done in a maximum of three weeks. The referees
results are submitted to the Area Evaluation Committee who review the
results in the monthly meeting of the Committee. In the event of
inconsistencies in budget or equipment requirements or other technical
questions, the representative of the Area Evaluation Committee qualified in
that field of science contacts the principal researcher to clarify the
points.



- 53 -
Annox 1I3
Page 7 of 12
32.         The Area Evaluation Committees decide on the proposals or
groups of proposals that require additional review by Ad-Hoc Subcommittees
before the decisions on the allocation of funds can be made.
33.         The Area Evaluation Committees review the projects based on the
information provided by the referees and by the Subcommittees. When the
evaluation results for a project proposal are unanimous and favorable on
all the basic criteria, the Area Committee gives its approval for the
project, unless it has an adequate justification to change the decision.
If the opinions of the evaluators are polarized, the Committee makes its
own evaluation. When the difference of opinion persists, additional
external examiners are considered.
34.         The decisions of the Area Evaluation Committees are sent to
DAIC who informs the principal researcher in writing of the result. of the
evaluations. For projects that are rejected, the principal researcher has
the right to appeal the decision or to re-submit the proposal, and the Area
Evaluation Committee will be responsible for the final decision.
35.         Megaprojects.  The evaluation of a project proposal with a
total cost of over US$2.5 million requires a parallel examination by at
least five international experts who will make up an Ad-hoc Subcommittee.
These experts submit recommendations to the Area Evaluation Committee who
send both the results of the evaluations of the Subcommittee and the
Committee's own report on the project to the Board of Directors of PACIME,
who are advised by the Evaluation Commission on the final decision.
Allocation of the Annual Budget
36.         The budget of the PACIME Fund will be distributed by the Board
of Directors as follows:
Cate,torv                                           2 Share
Infrastructure and Research Projects under US$2.5 million    82
PACIME Board, to support
- projects over US $2.5 million
- creation of centers and research groups
- approved projects for which insufficient funds
available in the area                                    10
Emerging areas of science considered important and
not represented in Mexico                                 5
Other areas
- remunerations and travel costs of committee members       1
- prizes for productivity                                   I
- special studies                                           I
After the first year of operation, adjustments may be made be in the shares
depending on the experience gained and needs in the different areas.



- 54 -
Annex 11.3
Page 8 of 12
37.      The budget for research projects vill be distributed among the
eight Area Evaluation Committees. However, the needs of each of the
science areas differ and a method for adequately allocating resources among
the areas has been established. The variables used to measure need in each
area are the:
- number and level of researchers in SNI;
- number and level of postgraduate students matriculated in
programs approved by CONACYT; and
- the average cost/research project in the area
They were developed as follows.
38.      Averaxe cost of iroiect. The average costs of developing a
project in each of the eight areas was estimated from a sample of 552
applications submitted to CONACYT between January and August 1991.
39.      Advanced level of researchers.  The SNI registry is indicator of
the number of active researchers at the public universities .1   The PACIME
methodology gives consideration to the number and the level of advancement
of the researchers in SNI in the different areas to guarantee quality of
the projects.
40.      The weight that is assigned to each of the components is based on
the level of scientific quality that is hoped the projects will have. The
researches that ore at level II and III in SNI are considered "mature"
scientists, based on their experience and prestige in the national and
international science community. In principal, the majority of research
projects with high merit will be proposed by investigators in these
cat .gories. The members of SNI in category I, as well as the candidates,
are for the most part young researchers with about three years experience
in scientific research. Also, this includes very active scientists that
do small projects because that do no have adequate support to undertake
larger ones. It is important to encourage their participation.
41.      Number of araduate students.  The number of master degree and
doctoral students in the approved postgraduate programs are taken into
consideration to provide an incentive to students to participate in
research projects and to encourage them to conduct their own research and
thereby achieve the level required to register in SNI.
11For researchers at private universities and institutes, the
institution must cover the cost of the membership in SNI, which has been a
constraint on enrollment of qualified researchers in the private sector.
The use of the SNI registry in the CONACYT formula is thought by some to be
an added incentive for the private researchers to enroll in their field in
SNI.



- 55 -
Annex I1.3
'ago 9 of 12
42.      Lesa weight is given to the number of graduate students as their
experience in quality research is limited. Nonetheless, their
participation in the proJects plays an important role in their development
and as this serves the purpose to advance human capital formation and
thereby increase the qualitative and quantitative national science
community.
43.      Based on the above considerations, the variable A(i) in the budget
formula is calculated for each of the eight science areas as follows:
A(i) - (0.4 Bi + 0.4 Ci + 0.1 Di + 0.1 Ei) x CPi
Sum (0 4Bi+0 4ci+0 lDi+O.lc)xCPi
where,  CP -  Average cost/ project in the area
B  -  number of SNI researchers at levels II and III
C  -  number of SNI researchers at level I and candidates
D  -  number of doctoral students in the area
E  -  number of master degree students
For 1992, the formula vas applied using available 1991 data on the
membership of SNI, the number of graduate&students and the requirements for
support. Using these data in the formula the further breakdown of the
distribution of the total budget of research projects destined for the Area
Evaluation Committees is as follows:
Budget Share for Eight Area Evaluation Committee
Science AREA                 X Share
Exact                          11.64
Natural                        15.64
Chemical                        6.88
Applied                        27.32
Human                          11.10
Social                         10.61
Health                         12.57
Earth                           4.24
100.00
44.      Budget reiterations are done to ensure full allocation of
resources on a competitive basis. In the case that the approved projects
exceed the financing capacity of the different areas of science, the Area
Evaluation Committee creates Ad-Hoc Subcommittees to prioritize the
approved projects for financing out of an assigned budget, distributed as
follows. The Area Evaluation Committee retains 15 percent of its assigned
budget (i.e. its share of the budget as shown above) and distributes the
remaining 85 percent among the number of Subcommittees created, using their
best judgement to decide how much money to give to each of them.



- 56 -
Annex 11.3
Page 10 of 12
45.      The Subcomlttees list the approved projects which they have been
assigned in hierarchical order and allocates the budgeted resources to
them. If the budget is not large enough to support all the projects, those
projects that do not obtain financing will be turned over to the Area
Evaluation Committee, which reviews them and decide which projects to
finance, using 15 percent of the Committee's resources. During this
reiteration process, the Area Evaluation Committees are not authorized to
modify the order or priority for the allocation of resources recommended by
the Subcommittees, unless they have the authorization of the Board of
Directors.
46.      The remaining projects which have not yet received financing are
turned over to the Board of Directors for review and for the Board to
select the best ones of all sectors.
47.      PRIZES for PRODUCTIVITY.  Research projects distinguished by the
high quality of results may be recommended by the Evaluation Committee to
the Board of Directors for prizes.
48.      ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS.  Owe percent of annual budget covers
remunerations for the referees, members of the Area Evaluations Committee,
and members of the Evaluation Commission of PACIME, as well as the expenses
that the latter generate to hold the annual evaluation. The other
administrative expenses of the Program are covered by the regular budget of
CONACYT, which provides the physical and administrative infrastructure for
operations.
49.      SPECIAL STUDIES. Another c..,e percent will be devoted to the
implementation of studies of the national scientific system situation, and
of the policies in science in the country. Among the studies that are
being contemplated are:
-  mechanisms for the promotion of young researchers;
-   equipment needs for research institutions; and
-   scientific productivity in Mexico.
Procurement
50.    Procurement of equipment will be in accordance with World Bank
guidelines.
Project Follow-U,
51.      The principal researcher is required to submit an annual report or.
the project to be analyzed by the Area Evaluation Committee to determire
its situation with respect to the work program originally proposed' When a
research project is approved for financing, the Area Evaluation Committee
appoints one of the referees that participated in the evaluation of the
project to be the project advisor. The advisor has the responsibility of
reporting periodically to the Area Evaluation Committee on the progress of



- 57 
Annex 11.3
Page 11 of 12
the project and of visiting the place where it takes place at least once a
year.
52.      In the case of lack of fulfillment of responsibilities or
unjustified delays in the progress of the project, the flow of resources to
the project for the following year is reconsidered. However, if the
project requires a longer period for its conclusion without implications of
additional funds, the original term can be extended and the authorized
budget reprogrammed.
53.      In situations beyond control such as the principal researcher's
forced absence, strikes, natural disasters or anything else that may cause
the abandonment of the project not due to the institution or its
researchers, the Area Evaluation Committee may decide the future of the
project in coordination with the principal researcher and the examiners.
When an examiner takes a sabbatical year, a replacement should be
designated.
54.      The administrator of the sponsoring research institution, or its
respective branch, is responsible for sending CONACYT annual reports
relevant to two aspects of the project:
-   accounting status of the project; and
-   financial progress of the project, with the purpose of confirming
the correct application of the resources and determining the
calendar of flow of resources.
The reports are integrated into the report made by the Evaluation
Commission, with the purpose of measuring PACIME's its global performance.
With this information, DAIC writes the documents which will serve as a
basis for the elaboration of the ex-post evaluation.
55.      The maintenance of equipment acquired with PACIHE funds is
financed by the budget assigned for the project. When the research project
is completed it is expected that participating researchers promote other
research projects that require the utilization of acquired equipment. In
this case, maintenance will be financed by the sponsoring institution.
56.      DAIC will be in charge of disseminating the results of the
projects through the news mechanisms, such as electronic mail and
pamphlets.
Intellectual Property
57.      The results of research projects will be public, and any
intellectual property such as a patent would accrue on a refusal basis,
first to CONACYT, then to the sponsoring institution, then to the
researcher.



- 58 -
Anex 1.3
Page 12 of 12
Monitordum of the PACIHE Lund
58.      At the end of the three first year. of execution of PACIME,
CONACYT and the World Bank will carry out an evaluation of the Impact of
PACINE on the scientific, economic and social development of the country.
This report will be based on the annual assessments coordinated by the
Board of Directors.



- 59 -
Annex II. 4
Pogo 1 of 5
TE NATIONAL METROLOGY CENTER (CENAH)
Backaround
1.          Metrology plays an essential role in modern industry and
commercs. Industrialized countries need a well-established metrology
infrastructure to enable companies withi!1 the country to competently carry
out measurements at the required degree of accuracy and to have the
confidence that their measurements are consistent with all other similar
measurements made throughout the country and abroad. Mexico now has one of
the most open economies in the world, and Mexican industry is experiencing
keen competition in both domestic and international markets. High quality
metrology services will greatly benefit producers in their efforts to
increase efficiency and quality in production and in their bid for more
recognition in international markets.
2.       Due in large part to Mexico's past protectionist policies and the
isolation of domestic producers, there is a general lack of awareness of
the importance of accurate measurements and the need to calibrate
measurement instruments periodically. This is the case particularly among
the medium and small industrial firms. The general practice among large
companies who are aware of the need for such calibrations is to call upon
the original equipment supplier to recalibrate their equipment, usually in
the U.S.A., even though this practice is expensive and the shock and
vibration of shipping and handling could affect the instruments accuracy
prior to being put back into service. Other companies depend on quality or
calibration consultants, although the authenticity and traceability of
their standards are not always guaranteed. Calibration laboratories
belonging to private industrial enterprises normally use laboratories in
the United States for their primary metrology references. This practice is
expensive, but the companies consider it a good investment as they are able
to demonstrate traceability to the prestigious United States National
Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). The linkage to NIST is very
important because it is recognized as and accepted by their export
customers.
3.          In industrialized countries, metrology has evolved over a long
period of time from joint efforts between government and industry.
Experience in newly industrialized countries, e.g., Korea and Taiwan, shows
that the building of the necessary technology infrastructure similarly has
come from joint efforts between government and industry. In this same
fashion, the Mexican Government is supporting the revitalization and
modernization of the country's standardization system, which includes
establishment of a national metrology center with worldwide credibility and
with staiidards traceable to international measurement standards to serve
the needs of competitive industry.



- 60 -
Annex I1.4
Page 2 of 5
Development of The Metroloav Infrastructure
4.          In 1980 Government established the National System of
Calibration (SNC) to give a framework to the organizations having the
responsibility for legal, scientific and industrial aspects of metrology in
Mexico. These organizations included: the Directorate of Norms (DGN) in
SECOFI, the metrology division of the Research and Advanced Studies Center
of the National Polytechnic Institute (CINVESTAV), and secondary metrolo-y
laboratories. DGN had responsibility for legal metrology (officially
regulated weights and measures); CINVESTAV, provided secondary calibration
services and was responsible for scientific research and some primary
metrology; and, the commercial metrology laboratories provided secondary
calibration services to enterprises and other consumers. Under SNC,
Evaluation Committees, composed of independent experts in the field, were
created to take responsibility for issuing technical guidelines used in the
evaluation of laboratories and for making recommendations to DGN for
approval of laboratories which apply for official accreditation.
5.          Currently there are in operation 18 accredited calibration
laboratories: four are government facilities, nine belong to large
industrial enterprises, two to universities and three are independent
enterprises. The good specialized metrology laboratories in Mexico, (e.g.,
the laboratory of the National Electrical Commiosion (CAFE) and the ones
belonging to large industrial enterprises) focus only on their particular
needs. The government-owned laboratories are not well located and have
poor physical facilities. They also have difficulties in retaining
qualified staff owing to salaries that are not competitive with the private
sector. The independent laboratories tend to offer services of varying
quality and thus have little credibility. The major weaknesses of the
Mexican metrology system have been the lack of a high calibre primary
laboratory with physical standards with traceability to international
standards and the absence of a technically competent coordinating body.
The system, in effect, has been a loosely coordinated group of private and
publicly owned secondary laboratories to carry out measurements within
narrow limits in the fields of metrology.
Creation of the National Center for Metroloev11
6.          To support the competitiveness of Mexican industry in the home
market and abroad, and to coordinate the activities of the existing
metrology institutions, the Government, by law published January 26, 1988,
created the National Center for Metrology (CENAM). It is a decentralized,
autonomous institution the objectives of wL_ch are to: (a) establish the
traceability of measures, and to provide the most important units of
'/The pertinent documents on file include:  (a) the Federal Law tn
Metrology and Standardization, 1988; (b) Project: National Center for
Metrology, Mexico, 1992; and (c) Statutes, National Center for Metrology.



- 61 -
Annex I1.4
Page 3 of 5
measure in the International System of Units; (b) guarantee the reliability
of measures that are used in health, human safety and environmental
protection; (c) protect the national consumer, through an accurate system
of measurement; (d) guarantee that the precision in measurements required
by international trade are met by Mexican producers; (e) provide technical
support to resolve possible legal matters that might arise from the lack of
compliance with national and international standards; and (f) provide a
traceable and reliable base for calibration services to secondary laborato-
ries.
7.          Institutional structure.  CENAM is managed by a Board of
Directors, which is composed of top Government officials plus the
institution's Director General. The Chairman of the Board is the Minister
of SECOFI. Other members include the vice-ministers of Education, Science
and Culture and of Mining and Parastatal Industry, and representatives of
U-NAM, the Polytechnic Institute (IPN), the Director of the Council for
Science and Technology (CONACYT), the Director of DGN and representatives
from industry.
8.          SHCP approved nine management positions for 1992.  The Director
General and three of his team were appointed in December 1991. The rest of
the nine positions will be filled during the first months of 1992.   The
hiring and training of technical staff will begin also in 1992.
9.          Demand for Services.  The demand for CENAM's services in
primary metrology originates from the need to improve quality in domestic
and international markets, and from the need to comply with norms of
quality control based on the international standards for quality management
systems (the ISO 9000 series) which are becoming prerequisites for doing
business in many areas of the world, particularly Europe. These norms
require that all instruments involved in manufacturing processes be
calibrated and certified. Another source of demand is the supplier's
validation and certification programs initiated in mid-1990 in different
sectors involved in manufacturing. The success of this program depends on
progress in the certification of secondary laboratories which calibrate the
instruments used for measurements. There is also a demand from industry
for specialized training in fieJ.ds of metrology through programs in Mexico,
e.g., short courses, seminars, workshops and laboratory trainees.
10.         CENAM will carry out an aggressive awareness and promotional
campaign among enterprises, emphaoizing the need to produce quality
products to compete in domestic as well as in foreign markets. As part of
this campaign, CENAM, in collaboration with NAFIN's program for technology
development, will strongly promote the establishment of private secondary
laboratories.  CENAM's association with, and support from PTB, NIST and
collaboration with other primary metrology centers recognized worldwide, is
expected to provide the necessary technical support and credibility for
CENAM's success.



- 62 -
Annex II.4
Page 4 of 5
11.         The first phase of CENAM's start-up is expected to last three
years. CENAM vill assume the scientific metrology functions which are
being carried out by CINVESTAV-DGN and strengthen those areas of greater
demand for secondary calibration services. A principal function of CENAM
will be to support the network of independent laboratories providing the
secondary calibration services as well as product and materials inspection
services. In a second phase, CENAM, will direct its effort to its
consolidation as the primary institution of the national metrology system
and to the development of a unified system with traceable national
standards.
12.         Cost-recovery.  The start of operations of the laboratories is
planned for the second half of 1993. CENAM will implement a policy of
cost-recovery for commercial services that will permit a share of Center's
total annual operational costs to be covered. Some comparisons of
international practices show that a normal range is 15-20% recovery as a
share of total operational costs. Based on preliminary estimations, cost-
recovery will reach 15Z of current cost of operations in 1995. CENAM is
also planning to do a detailed study on the costs of commercial services it
will provide and propose an appropriate fee schedule to its Board.
International practice and price comparisons will be considered to help
determine costs and fees. A Document on Services will be issued at the end
of April 1993 to reflect the agreed fee schedule.
Proiect Coct and Financina
13.         The total cost of the CENAM project is estimated at $59.42
million in base costs, and $2.18 million in contingencies. Of the total
base cost, $40.6 million will be for investment in rehabilitation of
laboratories, equipment, training, and technical assistance, and the
remainder, $18.8 million, will be in current costs. Bank financing of
$30.0 million would cover 48.7Z of the total costs. There are four parts
to the CENAM project: (i) the construction for rehabilitation and
adaptation of the former CONAFRUT installations in Queretero, about 200 km
from Mexico City in the NW industrial corridor. SECOFI is executing phase
one which is scheduled for completion by end 1992.21  A second phase, at
an estimated cost of $3.5 million, will be executed by CENAM in 1993 to
complete the administration facilities and remaining laboratories. A total
of 56 laboratories, grouped into 13 divisions in the four major technical
areas (mechanics, electricity, physics, and materials) will be adapted.
Bank funds from the proposed project will not be used in the construction.
(ii) the program for technical assistance and professional training to
build up the staff of CENAM ($4.92 million); the equipment program ($26.6
million) for the laboratories; and (iv) the operations of CENAM ($18.78
11The initial phase of construction, started in L)91, was financed
with assistance of US$1.0 million equivalent from the Induutrial Technology
Project (Ln. 2747-ME).



- 63 -
Annex 1I.4
Page 5 of 5
million) which includes promotion, research and development, commercial
services, and international cooperation.



- 64 -
Annex 11.5
Page 1 of 6
STANDARDIZATION PROGRAM (MODERNIZATION OF THE SYSTEM OF METROLOGY.
STANDARDS. TESTING. CERTIFICATION AND QUALITY ASSURANCE INDICATIVE PROGRAM
Background
1.          Mexico's trade agreements and negotiations vith the United
States and Canada and the EC countries amphasize the importance of
developing a national system of standards, product testing and quality
assurance that corresponds to international practices. In the past,
Government agencies were given the lead in these areas. The protectionist
environment, combined with austerity federal budgets in the 1980s, resulted
in an outmoded infrastructure and inefficient services. This
Administratic a's policy is to encourage the private sector to take on the
dominant role in the system of standardization, while reorienting public
agencies that'continue to provide industrial services to play an iffective
supporting role. Under this policy, appropriate Government functions would
include coordination of private sector interests to build a national
consensas on standardization and representation of Mexico in international
forums.
2.          SECOFI has several initiatives in progress on the legal aspects
of Government divesting itself of certain functions. Draft legislation to
revise sections of the Law on Metrology and Standards is being prepared and
special studies are being done on the requirements for companies engaged in
verification and certification of products and processes. SECOFI is
working on a timetable to complete all the initiatives by end 1992. The
output from this work will serve as inputs into the implementation of the
privatization program to be started in 1993.
3.          In parallel, SECOFI's Directorate of Standards has developed an
indicative program of activities for the revitalization of the existing
system of standards, product testing, and quality assurance. The drafting
of the indicative program, assisted by consultants during project
preparation, vas based on a diagnosis of the current situation. The
program will be further amplified based on more detailed studies and in
collaboration with private firms and professional associations in Mexico in
industry and trade. Bilateral and international institutions in the field
have also been asked to provide advice and assistance. The objective of
the first study, "Policy of Privatization of Activities in Standardization
and in Verification and Certification of Quality", is to develop a
consensus on a plan for the privatization of the system of standards. The
objective of a second study, "Analysis and Alternatives for the Development
cf the Laboratory Infrastructure in the Country", is to survey the capacity
and technical level of staff and equipment in existing calibration and
testing laboratories and the demand for such technical services. The
agreed terms of reference for the two studies are shown as Attachment I to
this annex. The studies are scheduled to be completed by end-September
1992. The results will serve as inputs in the establishment of the
privatization program to begin in 1993, and proposed to be supported under
this project.



- 65 -
Annex 11.5
Page 2 of 6
The Indlcative Proaram
4.          The discussion of the indicative program is organized under
three headings: metrology; standardization; and testing, certification and
qu&lity assurance. The final section discusses the next steps in
preparation of the program, the timetable, and the estimated budget
re'uirements.
Metrology
5.          The National Center for Metrology (CENAM) will provide
metrology services at the primary level to ensure traceability of
measurements to international norms. CENAM vill also help SECOFI support
the National System of Calibration (SNC) which provides accreditation of
laboratories that offer secondary calibration services to industry. A
major problem in metrology is shortage of authorized laboratories to meet
the demand for secondary services. There are only 18 authorized
laboratories in tile country, and 16 of them are in-house operations that
serve only their own group of enterprises. Aleo there is the lack of
awareness, especially among small- and medium-size firms, of the importance
of maintaining reliable and accurate measurements in the production
process.
6.          Proposed actions in this area are:  promotion of private
investment in secondary laboratories, dissemination of information to
enhance industry awareness of the importance of accurate measurement in the
production process, and encouraging growth of the pool of professionals.
The program would be carried out by DGN and CENAM, in their respective
areas of responsibilities. In addition, they would collaborate with the
Mexican AFsociation of Metrology (AMAC, A.C.), a non-profit professional
associat'-on whose members are made up of metrologists from more than 300
enterprises. ANMAC has a program to certify professionals in the field and
to promote their services. AMMAC, industry associations, and universities
will be relied upon to help survey needs and implement the program for
improvement of training and metrology services. NAFIN would also
contribute to a collaborative effort focussing on private enterprise
investment, and links with CONACYT would help meet the training objectives.
The planned activities include:
(i)   preparation of pr-%ject packets by professional metrologists
in key areas of dtiand for calibration services;
(ii)   organization of advisory technical services to potential
investors or groups of enterprises;
(iii)   promotion campaign to raise consciousness of the value of
accurate calibration among higher level enterprise
managers; educational seminars, drawing on international
expertise, to follow-up the promotional campaign;
(iv)   establishing a Scholarship program for training in the
fields in metrology;



- 66 -
Annex II.5
Pago 3 of 6
(v)   creation of an information center, accessible to
enterprises and professionals in the field; and
(vi)   a program for modernization of legal metrology at the
federal level and in the 32 delegations.
Standa-ds
7.          Given the distances that separate buyer and seller in
international trade, and the difference in national customs and language,
woll-written standards have great value as they define the requisite level
of quality and eliminate potential causes of misunderstanding and dispute
about performance testing and inspection. In the case of manufactured
goods it may often be impossible to enter world markets without complying
with accepted standards and demonstrating the existence and effectiveness
of a program for quality assurance. Moreover, a reputation for complying
with standards and assuring quality can increase market share for exported
primary commodities, processed products and manufactured goods. Product
certification (compulsory or voluntary testing coupled with the use of a
certification mark) can also help a country break into new markets.
8.          Government's exaggerated use of obligatory norms as a
regulatory tool in the past led to confusion among enterprises in
distinguishing between obligatory norms and voluntary norms. The use of
voluntary standards continues to be limited due to the lack of exposure to
the benefits of standards. In addition, the federal budget constraints of
the 1980. seriously weakened DGN. Its staff was reduced by one half, and
DGN continues to operate with limited resources. This has contributed to
poor performance in carrying out its coordination function with the private
sector and to difficulties in reaching national consensus on standards. In
addition, the infrastructure for establishing and overseeing the adherence
to norms has been neglected.
9.          In adopting the GATT code on standards, Government has shown
its intention to reform past protectionist policies. Government has raised
its profile in different forums at the international level. However, there
are still excessive responsibilities for standards in the hands of
government and the effects of the past polices have not been overcome.
Hence, the privatization program of Government.
lO.         Proposed actions included in the Indicative Program are aimed
at assisting DGN to broaden its perspective on the role of standardization
in the national context and to strengthen its abilities to promote and
coordinate a new distribution of responsibilities in this area in which the
private sector will be the majority actor. Established groups that would
participate in implementing the program include The Commission of the
Presidents of the Consultative Committees (COPRECCON) and the National
Chamber of the Transformation Industry (CANACINTRA). The activities
include:



- 67 -
Annex 11.5
Page 4 of 6
(i)   promotion of the formation of technical and professional
societies that would be responsible for forming qualified
standards committees made up of majority private sector
membership;
(ii)   creation, by the societies or individual standards writing
committees, of a self-financing system for diffusion of
standards and related information for use by industry;
(iii)   update the national holdings of documents with national and
international standards to be managed initially by an
appropriate office of DGN;
(iv)   strengthening of the relationship with foreign standards
institutes; activate representation in IEC, ISO, and CODEX
Alimentarios;
(v)   study trips for Mexican specialists, with appropriate
technical background and positions in companies, to
standards and trade associations in the private sector in
North America to learn their structure, administration and
operations;
(vi)   participation in international technical committees by
Mexican experts from industry and standards associations;
and
(vii)   establish a small unit in DGN, with potential for eventual
privatization, to manage links with international
organizations and coordinate activities at the national
level dissemination of information for enterprises to
assist them in establishing internal standards programs
Testina. Certification and Qualitv Assurance
11.         Quality assurance is the final product of standardization.
Mechanisms to ensure quality guarantee to the buyer that the product or
service conforms to a given standard.  In general terms, quadity
certification may be appl4ed at any level of standardizatior., at the level
of the enterprise, association, national, regional or international,
depending on the market involved. In the last few years there has beer. a
tendency at the international level to define standards for products and
services, and also for the systems of quality that are in operation during
production. To date, recognition has been given to the standards of the
IS09000 series and its European version, series 29000. In Mexico these
series have been adopted under the initials NOM-CC.
12.         Due to past protectionist policies in Mexico, enterprises ant
the population in general were less accustomed to being concerned about
quality, except to meet requirements of government or those of the
relatively limited export markets. The liberalization of trace however has



- 68 -
Annex 11.5
Page 5 of 6
forced industry to react rapidly to adapt to the new conditions of
competitive markets. The largest enterprises in practically all industries
have adopted standardization and quality control. It was done first in the
automotive industry and spread to petrochemicals, machinery and equipment,
steel, oil, food processing and paper. More recently, quality assurance is
also gaining adherents in service industries, construction and goveranent
operations.
13.         There is also a clear trend that as large enterprises in Mexico
make significant advances, there is a cascading effect on their suppliers
which turn are pushed towards higher quality. Many suppliers are medium or
small enterprises. In interviews with Mexican entrepreneurs, it is
reported that European clients and associated transnationals are passing on
their requirements to comply with specifications derived from the ISO 9000
series to their Mexican suppliers as a condition of sale. Some large
firms, notably in the automotive industry and communications, have
established sophisticated systems of administration of quality and many use
advanced techniques such as statistical control of processes and the
Taguchi design of experiments. However, the great majority small and
medium firms, require assistance to install IS09000 systems, which
constitutes a base for development of more sophisticated systems such as
total quality control.
14.         In addition to enforcing compliance with obligatory norms,
there are a number of programs for quality assurance under DGN management.
They include authorization of use of the Off_cial Seal of Guaranty;
promotion and coordination of the National System of Accreditation of
Testing Laboratories (SINALP), and promotion and coordination of the
National Quality Award.  SINALP was created in 1980 to accredit testing
laboratories based on international norms issued by the International
Conference on Accreditation Testing Laboratories-ILAC and Guide 25 issued
by ISO-IEC). To date, 90 laboratories have been accredited, the majority
in construction, metal mechanics and electricity and electronics and a
smaller group in chemistry, food, and textiles. Most of the laboratories
are in-house operations which only rarely offer services outside their
group of companies. Rough estimates indicate that there may be 1500
laboratories in the country, of which 500 are independent. The small
number of accredited testing laboratories is a major problem, along with
the situation that enterprises and consumers are not sufficiently aware of
the value of quality assurance.
15.         Proposed actions included in the Indicative Program are aimed
at raising the level of awareness among enterprlses on the value and
benefits of standardization; education on the mechanisms that are available
to enterprises to install quality assurance systems; and, creating of a
national system of sufficient credibility at an international level to
register and certify those enterprises that comply with given standards.
The agencies that would contribute to carrying out the program include
NAFIN in areas related to data gathering and promotion of private sector
investment, SINALP, The Center of Quality of the Technology Institute of
Monterrey (ITESM), The Mexican Quality Association, the Confederation of



- 69 -
Annex II.5
Page 6 of 6
Industrial Chambers (CONCACMIN), CANACINTRA, and the Consultative Committee
for Standards on Quality Systems. Activities include:
(i)    establish a business or professional association to
administer and promote accreditation;
(ii)    forming a small unit in DGN to be responsible for a program
of training of national groups of auditors in international
institutes specialized in application of IS09000;
development of four teaching modules and training of
instructors for training of small and medium enterprises;
and
(iii)    establish program to subsidize the training and technical
advice to small and medium enterprises.
(iv)    define a strategy to work towards gaining international
recognition of the Mexican accreditation programs;
(v)    promote private investment, by individuals or groups of
companies, in testing laboratories;
Preparation Timetable
16.         The two preparatory studies  are to be underway by
negotiations. Based on the output of these studies and on the results of
the other SECOFI initiatives being undertaken in 1992, the program for 1993
will be prepared for discussion with the Bank in November 1992, to :oincide
with the budget season for the next fiscal year. Agreement between the
Bank and SECOFI on the program for 1993 will be a condition of disbursement
for the funds from this component. DGN would be assisted by local
consultants and by international experts and national institutions in
standards.
Financial Recuirements
17.         The estimated budget for the indicative program is presented in
Annex III. The DGN program for 1992, estimated at about $500,000, is being
financed, in conjunction with NAFIN, under an ongoing industrial loan
(Ln. 3047-ME). The estimated total cost of the 1992-96 program of DGN is
US$16.71 million in base cost and $0.60 of contingencies. It would be
supported by a combination of budgetary funds (592), Bank funds (202), and
private sector funds (17x). DGN will also draw on resources available
through its bilateral and international technical cooperation agreements.



- 70 -
Annex II.S
Attachent 1
Page 1 of 4
Terms of Reference
(Informal Translation from Spanish Original)
A. Title of the Study
Policy for Privatization of the Activities in Standardization,
and Verification and Certification of Quality.
S. Objectives
The Mexican economy has been restructured and in this process
many functions of the State have been redefined to give a greater role to
private sector initiatives. In this sense an important effort at
deregulation has been achieved, by eliminating excessive government
participation in production aspects of the economy.
Clearly, standardization is of interest to enterprises. In
fact, even though it has been a function assigned to the State,
atandardization work is done by technicians of companies. Therefore, the
modernization of the standardization system a d the verification and
certification of quality in Mexico should start from a process of
privatization of those activities which are typically the responsibility of
the private sector, assigning to the State only those functions that the
directly interested parties cannot carry out, for instance, those in regard
to compulsory guidelines related to health, security, and environmental
protection.
Up until now, all activities in standardization and
verification and certification of quality have been the responsibility of
the Directorate General of Standards of SECOFI. If it meant a great deal
of work in the past, at present it would be impossible to carry out these
activities efficiently, since trade liberalization has increased
substantially Mexico's need to be internationally competitive.   The
Directorate General of Standards has promoted the National System of
Calibration (SNC) and the National System for Accreditation of Testing
Laboratories (SINALP), through which the respective services are provided
by accredited laboratories. However, their development has been
insignificant, because under conditions of protected markets, the quality
aspects of production did not gain the needed importance.
Thus, the study's objective is to analyze the current national
structure on standardization, verification and certification of quality, as
well as schemes in other countries and to determine which aspects of these
activities are good candidates for privatization. On the basis of this
information, a framework under which the new system could be implemented
will be proposed.



- 71 -
Annex XX.5
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 4
C. Relevant Aspects of the Study
To make a proposal on privatization policy, the study will
consider the following aspects:
1. description of the current structure for elaboration,
revision, and implementation of standards, as well as the
systems of verification and certification of quality, both
in the public and private sectors.
2. study of schemes of standardization, verification and
certification of quality in other countries: JSA, Canada
and the European Common Market, among others. A comparison
will be carried out among the different systems, and the
assets and liabiliti.es of each of these systems will be
analyzed.
3. analysis of a scheme of privatization of standardization,
verification and certification of qutality in Mexico. In
this section a new system will be proposed to carry out
these activities.
4. definition of the State's responsibility, clearly
specifying the activities that it will continue to manage
on this matter. It will, in principle, include only
functions legally in the public sector, such as the
activities related to Mexican compulsory official
standards, leaving in the hands of private initiative those
activities that it could or should achieve.
5. ways to provide incentives to the private sector to invest
and actively participate in the new system.
D. Activities
To achieve the proposed objectives of the study in a reasonable
time, it is necessary to have a close collaboration with the private sector
in Mexico and the organisms responsible for these activities in other
countries. The necessary information to carry out the comparative analysis
will be obtained through a small questionnaire and personal interviews. In
order to work in close collaboration with the national private sector,
representatives of various chambers and associations will be invited to be
members of the Technical Committee, which will include NAFIN & DGN
personnel, and other experts in fields of interest to the public sector
(for examples health or ecology). Interviews will be carried out with
officials and directors responsible in both the public and private sectors,
in order to get to know the advantages and disadvantages of the current



- 72 -
Annex 1S.S
Attachment 1
Page 3 of 4
structure. To locate the necoesary information from countries such as USA,
Canada and the European Community, inquiries will be made tnrough existent
agreements in these fields, with the respective embassies and chambers of
commerce or representatives groups of each country.
A deucriptive analysis of the current system of
standardization, verification and certification in Mexico will be presented
in a draft report, along with a proposal for privatization and an
implementation plan will be defined. The draft proposal will be discussed
with employers, merchants, contractors and public institutions in order to
reach consensus on the system for Mexico. Based on these meetings, the
draft document will be revised avd be presented to the Technical Committee
for review. Finally, the incentive mechanisms for the private sector to
participate in the proposed system will be developed and reviewed by the
Committee. The results will be submitted to SECOFI authorities for their
consideration.
3. Project Length
The final document will be ready by September 1992, as it is
the intention to begin implementation of the new poli9y in 1993.
F. Personnel Requirements
a national consultant with experience in the field of
standardization, verification and certification of quality and in leading
high level meetings, will be hired, full time, to take responsibility for
the coordination of the whole project under SECOFI's supervision. An
international consultant of experience in the same fields will be
contracted to advise the team.
The services of an international consultant will be requested
through the ongoing agreements of collaboration with prestigious
international institutions such as NIST, AENOR and PTB.
G. Expected Results
The main expected results are to obtain (i) a complete analysis
of the system of standardization, verification and certification of
quality; its deficiencies and problems compared to systems already
established in other countries; and its performance compared with the
requirements of national industry and (ii) a proposal for the mechanisms to
be developed in order to privatize and reorganize the current structure to
meet the needs of the system standardization, that our country requires, to
support privata sector led growth.



- 73 -
Annex 21,.5
Attachment 1
Page 4 of 4
COST OF THE PROJECT
Trips for the members of the                   USS    60,000
Technical Committee to other
countries to know the systems
(5 countries: 2 European, USA,
Canada and 1 from Asia).
Meetings for the presentation                         20,000
of the study and to obtain the
national consensus
US$    80,000
CALENDAR OF ACTIVITIES
1992
FEB    MAR   APR    MAY   JUN   JUL    AUG    SEPT
1) Study of the current
structure of standard-       *---   ----  ____*
ization and certification
of guulity verification in
the public sector.
- in the private sector      * ----  ____*
2) Study of the systems of
standardization,
verification and             *----  ----  ----*
certification of qualizy in
other countries (includes
trips)
l) Analysis of comparison                _      _*__*
4) Development of the
scheme of the Mexican
system
5) Submitted to national                                         *----  --*
consensus
6) Elaboration of final                                                 *----  -*
doc.                                                       _                _
7) Development of
mechanisms to incentive the                                      *----  ---
private sector



- 74 -
Annex II.5
Attachment 2
Page 1 of 4
Terms of Reference
(Informal translation from the Spanish original)
A. Title of the Study
Analysis and Alternatives for Development of the Infrastructure
of Calibration and Testing Laboratories in Mexico.
B. Background and Objectives
From the 1940s up to 1980. Mexico implemented economic policies
based on the development of activities for which the domestic market was
guaranteed. The country was isolated from foreign competition. This had
serious consequences in every economic aspect, one of them being the lack
of interest in quality aspects of the production of goods and services.
It became clear that the current model was loosing
applicability, and economic growth and improvement of living standards of
the population were not working. Additionally, Mexico had accumulated such
external debt that it was imperative to substantially increase exports. It
was under these circumstances that the process of trade liberalization
began. National industries are now subject to competition with overseas
trade as a mechanism to force them to become efficient.
Authorities are concerned about how to increase the
competitiveness of mexican industry up to international levels. They are
determined *o raise quality and to provide incentives to producers to
modernize industrial plants. For this reason in 1980, the National System
of Calibration (SNC) and the National System of Accreditation of Testing
Laboratories (SINALP) were established with the objective to obtain
uniformity and reliability of the measurements taking place in the country
and to help ensure quality production. These systems were raised to a rank
of law with the publication of the Federal Law on Metrology and
Standardization in 1988.
In 1989 a study was done with a loan from the WB, by two
consultant companies INFOTEC and RESOURCE, U.K., to assess the metrology
infrastructure. The study concluded that a major shortcoming in the system
was the lack of a primary laboratory to establish the international
traceability of the accuracy of measurements being made by laboratories in
Mexico. It argued for the necessity for creation of the National Center
for Metrology as the first and foremost link in the metrology chain and for
the development of the accreditation systems (SNC & SINALP) for the
establishment of a solid network of secondary laboratories that would
ensure quality calibration services in Mexico.
Work is being done to construct, equip and train personnel for
the primary laboratory, CENAM. However, it is still necessary to
consolidate SNC and SINALP, since their growth has been frankly modests



- 75 -
Annex 11.5
Attachment 2
Page 2 of 4
there are only 90 accredited testing laboratories in the different areas
(food, metal-mechanics, construction, power, electronics, chemistry and
textiles) and 18 accredited laboratories for calibration.
However, the fact that a reduced number of Jaboratories is
registered in these systems, does not mean that they are the only
laboratoUies in the country. There is a large number of laboratoriee in
indust-Ly, universities, institutes of superior education and research
centers and in different institutions in the public sector. However, there
are no good data on precisely how many there are, what kind of test and
measurements they do, or what is their technical condition and what is the
current or potential demand for the services they offer.
The general objectives of this study are: (i) to determine the
installed capacity in the country in laboratories for testing and
calibration, the specialties covered, and the technical level of services,
(ii) to estimate the current and potential demand for these services, and
(iii) to propose a program for development of SNC and SINALP systems.
Based on the results of the study, a plan for the following
actions will be drawn up. It will be presented to the Technical Committee
for approval. The promotional program will be undertaken as soon as
analysis of preliminary results permits, expecting to be in accordance with
the preliminary dates shown in the attached timetable.
-   launching of a wide campaign of dissemination and promotion
to increase awareness of the benefits of the services, as
well as the necessity to develop laboratories.
-   design of a program of incentives to establish laboratories
in the areas where demand exists.
- development of mechanisms to provide necessary
consultancies and technica] assistance for the
accreditation of the existing laboratories and for the
creation of new laboratories.
C. ASPECTS RELEVANT TO THE STUDY.
A Technical Committee will be formed, coordinated by DGN/NAPIN
and with the participation of national experts on the subject from DGN,
Nacional Financiera, CENAM, SINALP, SNC and representatives of the private
sector. The Committee will provide technical advice on the conduct of the
various phases of the work, review outputs, and guide the plan of actions
to take place based on the studies. For study of the supply and demand for
laboratory services, the primary source of information will be a survey of
laboratories that fit the SNC/SINALP profile of accredited or potentially
eligible laboratorie&. In addition, interviews and meetings will be
conducted with interest groups, e.g. chambers of industry, associations,



- 76 -
Annex II.5
Attachment 2
Page 3 of 4
national groups, public institutions and private enterprises, to obtain
information about their requirements. With the support of the Technical
Committee and the international consultant, the specific questionnaires and
guidelines will be designed to cover all the points to be investigated.
These questionnaires will be piloted, to detect problems that could arise,
before they go out in the field. All the field work will be strictly
supervised in order to guarantee the validity of the information obtained.
D. REQUIREMENTS FOR PERSONNEL
The study will be done with the assistance and experience of
the Technical Committee. A national specialist will be hired to take
responsibility for the coordination, organization, supervision and
direction of the different stages of the study under the Committee's
supervision. The national consultant should have experience with the
operation of systems of accreditation of laboratories. The national
consultant will work in close collaboration with the international expert
who should also have experience in systems of accreditation in other
countries and preferably should be supported by a competent firm with
international experience and recognition.
The surveys and promotion campaign will be carried out by firms
with expertise in the respective areas and experience in Mexico.
E. RESULTS EXPECTED
It is expected that the major results will be (i) the agreement
on a framework for development of the infrastructure for calibration and
testing laboratories to satisfy the requirements of internationally
competitive trade and industry (ii) increased awareness among potential
investors of business opportunities in technology services and
(iii) increased awareness among consumers of these services of the value of
technology services to help ensure quality production and gain greater
market shares for producers in Mexico.
F. LENGTH OF THE STUDY
The final documents will be ready by September 1992, to serve
as a major input into design of the new standardization program to be
started in 1993. Thie timetable for the work is given on the following
page.
G. COST OF THE STUDY
Estimates of the cost of the national consultant (to be
responsible for two major studies), the survey of laboratories and users,
and the promotional campaign are as follows:



- 77 -
Annex 11.5
Attechment 2
Page 4 of 4
National Consultant   US$2,250 x month (8 months)       18,000
Surveys                                                50,000
Advertising Strategy                                   40,000
TOTAL               US$ 108,000
CALENDAR OF EVENTS
STAGE                  LENGTH               CALENDAR
_______________________________                     START         END
a)  Establishment of the
technical committee and
agreements with all parties  3 weeks       Feb. 15        March 15
involved, national and
international consultant.
b) Short list of necessary
firms for the development    2 weeks       Feb. 15        Feb. 22
of the study.
c)  Invitation to participate    2 weeks       Feb. 28        March 8
d)  Evaluation of proposals,
selection and contract       2 weeks       March 22       April 5
e)  Survey execution             12 weeks      April 8        June 28
f) Analysis of supply vs.
demand.                      4 weeks       July I         July 31
g)  Analysis of partial results  3 days        August 1       August 3
h)  Short list Advertising Ag.   2 weeks       May 1          May 15
i)  Invitation to participate    2 weeks       May 16         May 31
J) Evaluation of proposals,
selection and contract       1 week        June 15        June 22
k)  Definition of strategies,
promotion                    8 weeks        June 24       August 24
1)  Integration of the study,
analysist implementation
and report of results,       2 weeks       Sept. 2        Sept. 17



- 78 -
Annex I1.6
Page 1 of 6
ME$ICAN INSTITUTE FOR INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY
Backaround
1.          Complementary to trade liberalization in Mexico have been the
Administration's deregulation of the transfer of technology and fundamental
revision of the system of industrial property rights. The overall
objectives of the Government are to bring about an improvement in the
productivity and technology in the productive sectors through providing
incentives for technology innuvation, foreign investment and the transfer
of technology. The administrative and regulatory controls that served
effectively as barriers to transfer of technology have been removed over
the last few years. Domestic innovation, as well as import of new
technologies, has also been inhibited by the inadequate coverage of
property rights in Mexico. The period of validity of protection was short
(e.g., seven years for patents, from the time of application) while the
administrative process for granting of rights tended to be very long (up to
two years). In addition, for key industries such as pharmaceuticals,
chemicals and biotechnology, eligibility for rights was limited.
2.          In 1987, amendments were made to improve the basic 1976 law on
patents and trade marks, and in June 1991 a conclusive step was taken with
the passage by Congress of a completely new Law for Development and
Protection of Industrial Property. The new legislation has been welcomed
as comparable to protection given in industrialized countries, and as a
model to be followed by other countries. Mexico is also activating
membership in international treaties for multilateral cooperation in the
area of industry property, such as the Treaty of Cooperation on Patents
(PCT) and the Madrid Regulation for the International Registry of Trade
Marks.
3.          The next step will be to consolidate an administrative
structure with the capacity to apply the new law properly. The typical
technical and legal tasks of an industrial property office, for the most
part, are highly specialized. Highly qualified professional staff are
required, with training in the evolution of the technologies being examined
as well as in the changing characteristics of international property
rights. Likewise, the supporting infrastructure for the efficient
administration of the national system of industrial property requires an
institution capable of giving flexible and efficient service to clients
from industry and trade and from the scientific and tec!nology research
community. For this reason, the 1991 law provides for the creation of a
Mexican Institute for Protection of Industrial Property (IMPI) as a public
decentralized agency with the capacity to develop the necessary
infrastructure and personnel to manage a complex national system of
property rights. The functions of the institute are to consult and give
technical support to SECOF as well as providing services to the public in
the area of industrial property.



- 79 -
Annex 11.6
Pago 2 of 6
Past Develorments of SECOFI's Industrial Proiertv Rights Office
4.          In 1988, SECOFI merged the Departments responsible for Transfer
of Technology and Inventions and Trade Marks and Technology Development
into a single Directorate of Technology Development (DGDT). DGDT functions
as Mexico's patent office: among its major responsibilities are to
receive, examine and research the applications for concessions and
registration of industrial property rights; grant property rights; resolve
cases of violations and apply sanctions; oversee use of inventions and
trade marks and inspect for infractions; and administer and maintain the
data bank for patents and the related technology.1'
5.          DGDT is organized into three major divisions (Patents, Trade
Marks, and Services and Technology Information) and an administration unit.
The office has about 270 staff in total, of which 21 are mid-level (9 in
trademarks and 12 in patents) and 249 operational staff (118 in trade marks
and 131 in patents). The overall technical-professional level is fairly
low, with only 27 with university training and only 4 with postgraduate
training. In the area of examination of patents, DGDT has only 19 staff,
of which 14 have professional degrees and five have general university
studies.
6.          DGDT. as in many other countries in Latin America, generates
fees from concession of property rights that exceed the costs of
operations. Hcwever, the fees flow into the general Treasury. DGDT's
federal government budget allocation in the past has barely covered the
basic costs of operations and it has been insufficient to allow the
modernization of the infrastructure and the improvement in professional
capacity and staff training. Costs were purposely held down during the
period of budget austerity in the 19809, and real salaries decreased.
Thus, the perspective for hiring better qualified staff was limited as a
result of the existing salary scales. Similarly, the increase in
operational efficiency has been seriously effected by the controls and
regulations that govern administrative posts in the federal government.
The resulting low quality of services has contributed to the limited use of
the national system of industrial property rights by the industrial and
commercial sectors. At this time there are about 25,000 applications for
patents and trademarks that are pending or in process. The technical areas
covered by the examiners are mechanical engineering, chemistry, electricity
and electronics. Expertise in other areas is lacking.
7.          In the last few years DGDT has had the support of a private
trust fund, the objective of which is to promote the protection of
!'Other functions include to promote use of patents that fall in the
public domain; promote invention activities; provide technical advice to
enterprises on selection, adaption, and development of technology;
administer payment of annual fees for rights; publish the monthly gazette
on inventionc and trade marks.



- 80 -
Annex 11.6
Page 3 of 6
industrial property and to eliminate the backlog in applications. The fund
is financed with contributions from private enterprises as well as the sale
of some services. The fund has also been used to cover the cost of
computer equipment and personnel to operate it. While this support has
been significant, it has been limited to the necessities of the operations
of the office.
8.          At the end of 1990, an internal program to increase efficiency
of operations was initiated in DGDT with the view to the forthcoming new
legislation coming into effect. Emphasis was put on the quality of service
to the public and the simplification of administrative processes. A highly
participatory approach was taken, through subcommittees at all levels, to
formulate proposals to improve procedures and -he organization of work and
to implement the agreed changes. The results thus far have been very
positive. In a relatively short time, proposals for improvements increased
in number and significance, and staff eagerness to implement the changes
increased. Moreover, the measures to streamline the administration are
being incorporated into the reglamento that is being drafted for the new
Law to give them legal validity.
9.          Progress has also been made in the modernization of DGDT's
information systems, with notable support from SECOFI's Department of
Planning and Information Systems.2- With the assistance of SECOFI's
Department of Federal Branches, the first stages of decentralization of
services have also been initiated. In addition, SECOFI is considering the
contracting of seven additional patent examiners, with competitive
salaries, for their future incorporation into IMPI together with the
existing examiners, for greater coverage of important areas of technology.
In parallel with the internal programs, from 1983 to 1990 DGDT, with the
technical cooperation of the World Intellectual Property Organization
(W.I.P.O., Geneva)'/, implemented a program to rationalize its functions
particularly in the areas of patents, trade marks, administrative
procedure., automation of operations and personnel training.
Creation of the Mexican Institute of Industrial Prolertv
10.         In 1991 DGDT engaged W.I.P.O. to undertake a preparatory study
for the establishment of IMPI along with an expanded network of technology
information services. The foreign exchange cost of the study amounting to
US$99,440 was financed by the Bank under the Industrial Technology Project
(Ln. 2747-ME). The preparatory assistance produced a diagnostic of the
situation of DGDT in 1991 and the administrative structure for the newe
institute. The work also covered the creation and functions of IMPI, the
1'Bank support to SECOFI under Ln. 2745-ME for upgrading and expansion
of information systems and network also assisted the modernization of DGDT
systems.
/1The total cost of the project was about US$142,000, financed by tho
Government and UNDP.



- 81 -
Annex It.6
Page 4 of 6
integrated automation programs, the acquisition of documentation and
creation of a network of services in technology information based on patent
documents, and the possible creation of a specialized court on industrial
property rights. An additional result was the preparation of a program of
technical cooperation and assistance for the implementation of the
development of the Institute. These results form the basis for the program
proposed to be financed by the Bank project.
11.         Under the 1991 Law for the Development and Protection of
Industrial Property, SECOFI is mandated to carry out the normative
functions pertaining to industrial property with respect to the granting of
concessions and recognition of rights, while the Institute will be given
the responsibilities for all the technical-administrntive functions
normally involved in the registering of industrial property. In addition,
it will provide assistance, for a fee, to clients (individuals,
enterprises, legal offices, research centers, and so on) that request help
in areas related to the registration of industrial property, such as
technical and legal library services and publications.
12.         There are indications that the future demand for IMPI services
will increase substantially and become more complex. The number of
applications (for trade marks, utility models, patents, etc.) are projected
to increase by as much as 10% annually, based on past rates in Mexico and
international experience'-. The estimated increase in applications is
attributed to the better legal protection offered by the new law, the
growth in the economy and expansion of trade and industry, and the
prospects of joining a free trade zone with the USA and Canada. The
applications will involve technologically more sophisticated processes than
in the past. For example, the new law provides for the granting of patents
for pharmaceuticals, agrochemical products, foods and beverages, alloys,
vegetable varieties, microorganisms and biotechnology. In addition,
confronted with the increasing international competition in markets in
Mexico, the pressure is building for efficient, high quality services and
efficacious application of the law in cases of controversy on property
rights.
13.         The improvement in quality of service will require basically
the modernization of the equipment and information systems of the office of
industrial property as well as the consolidation of the patent document
collections. In parallel, the qualifications and productivity of the etaff
of IMPI must be improved. The policy is to create permanent training,
professional development, and exchange programs with similar institutes to
take advantage of available local and international resources. A fund for
scholarships and personnel development is plannee to be created at the
*'During periods of slow economic growth such as is being experienced
in the United States and other trading partners of Mexico, applications for
patents and other industrial property riRhts concessions noxzally fall off.
Nonetheless, an increasing trend for Mexico is projected for the longer
term.



- 82 -
Annex _1.6
Page 5 of 6
start-up of IMPI to start immediately the build-up of a larger pool of
qualified personnel. Even more important in building good professional
capacity is an upward adjustment in salaries to permit IMPI to compete with
the private sector in recruitment of qualified candidates and to provide
incentives for candidates to build a more stable career in IMPI. A
proposal has been put forward to apply the salary scales in IDPI at one
level higher than the actual level of the post held. This and other
incentives, will be supported under the project to attract and keep good
staff.
14.         The preparatory study by W.I.P.0. included an international
comparative analysis of the structure of top-performing industrial property
offices and the requirements of a suitable office in Mexico. The divisions
of IMPI will include, as all of the industrial property offices, areas
concentrated int patents, trade marks, information (including technology
information) and administration. A characteristic of the Mexican system,
where the administrative authority serves as technical support for the
judicial system, IMPI will have a Division for Controversies. In
additional to the operating division, others of equal importance are:
Coordination of Institutional Relations, Internal Audit, Legal Consultancy
(including national and international legislation), etc. The total
personnel requirement is 310 staff, distributed as follows:
Management and Technical Support      60
Patents                               80
TradeMarks                            38
Information and Automation            52
controversies                         22
Administration and Finance            58
310
This number represents a total of about 40 new staff to be recruited during
the first four years of operations of IMPI.
Financint of IMPI
15.         Tariffs for concession and registration of property rights were
increased in 1991 with the idea of improving the financial prospects for
the creation and operations of IMPI. It is estimated that the income from
fees levied on patent rights and trade marks will increase significantly in
real terms in the future du_ to the increased schedule of fees and the
anticipated increase in volume of applications. An additional factor that
will have an impact on the improvement 4' income, in particular in 1992,
will be the fees from the accumulated backlog of applications which is to
be clared up during this year.
16.         Based on the estimated income from fees, the patent office
would continue to generate an annual net surplus, after deducting for
operating expenses. Fees generated wuuld also cover capital requirements
for its medium-term investment program, as shown in Table 1.  IMI



- 83 -
Ann.* 1I.6
Page 6 of 6
operations will benefit from SECOFI's centralized administration by
continuing to tap into the SECOFI branches in the States to decentralize
its services and by cooperatiou with the SECOFI information systems. These
transfers from SECOFI to the patent office are not incluided in the cost
estimates for IMPI. In the past, fees earned by DGDT wenlt directly into
the Treasury, and the industrial property rights operation received annual
allocations through the budgetary process. This arrangement is under
review by Government, in connection with the creation of IMP.
TABLE 1: BUDGET PROJECTIONS, 1992-96
(in billions of pesos)
Concept         199..     1993    1994      1995___1996
Income            55.8      58.4    59.3      67.3     70.9
Costs             21.7      24.8    24.8      24.8    28.1
Surplus           28.3      33.6    34.5      42.5     42.8
Source: DGDT
17.         IMPI's policy will be to modernize and maintain an advanced
national system for industrial property rights, including a good
information network. Under this policy, arrangements will be worked out
with SHCP whereby IMPI will be assured access to funds required for
operations, as well as its programs for human resource development, capital
improvements and technical cooperation and installation of total quality
management systems. Further study will also be done on the creation of
specialized courts for industrial property rights. In many countries the
cost of such courts are financed from the fees collected for property
riahts concessions.
18.         During the start-up of the Institute, from 1993 to 1996, the
goals will be (i) to implement the investment program for advanced
automation of procedures, (ii) to modernize and expand the information
system and the inventories of specialized documents and data bases, and
(iii) to carry out a technical cooperation program including staff
development and technical advice on selection, installation and running of
new systems. The program total cost for this period is estimated at
US$40.66 million, as shown in Table 3, Annex III. This includes proposed
Bank financing of $6.0 million for the purchase of equipment for
automation, upgrading of the information system and data bases, and
financing of the technical cooperation program.



Acex 11.7
Lt-g 1 of 4
I=ICO
SCIOCZ A   Tic  LOGR flOJUCT
U  ACTIVITIZs FO  TUCUULG  Ih1V*STK U
main Covernm ut            Prjoect Cc Qonent       Institstiou- lArrang  ents                                        Ti 18g Tartate
Objective                   Activities              and Regpoosibllit%eS    |  Ixpected Output/l f ct _   18trt/Cc plete D^t s
1.  Improve lnfrastruc-    -    lnvetment in
ture for technology          modernization and
services to                  expansion of
lndustry to                  infrastructure:
encourage                                                                                   Outmut
modernization.            i) laboratories in          1) SECOFI and CEAM.           i) 31 completed             Oct. 1991 - Dec. 1995
major areas of                                            laboratories, with
metrology.                                                equipment
ii) automation, infor-    iI) SECOBIIDkDT and             ii) fully automated          Jan. 1993 - Dec. 1996
mation and data              HPI.                         system to manage
bases for                                                 industrial property
management of                                             rights.
_.stem of
industrial
property rights.
iii) laboratory equip-    iii) SEOPFI/DCN                 IIi) Impraved labora-         Jan. 1993 - Dec. 1996
ment *nd                                                  tories; Improved &
infomatices for                                           expanded computer
legal metrology.                                          systems.
-    High quality
technology services
to serve demands of
modernized industry.



An-ex 11.7
Pagp 2 of 4
Mlin Covern ent           ProjeCt COWPaeent       Institutional Arrangements                              TIiming Targets
Oble2ctiv..                ActivLties              snd Respzsibilities         Expeted Output/mpact        (Stert/Coaplete Dates)
outnut
2.   Promote competi-      -    Pramotional,          SECOFIIDGN, CERAM             -    Promotional campaign   Sept. 1992 - Dec. 1995
tiveness among all         dissemination, and                                       through
size enterprises,          education                                                publications, mas
activities for                                          media, conferences
industry to                                             and seminars vith
increase Nareness                                       entrepreneurs.
of the value of
standardization                                              Impact
and quality                                        -    Increased awareness
management.                                              of the requiremuts
In production to
achieve quallty and
augment market
share; entrepreneurs
better informed on
the services
available in Mexico                                   co
to assist industry                                   U,
to meet these goals.



Anne I1.7
Page 3 of 4
main Governmt             Project Component    1Istitutional Arrangements                                         STilng Tarpts
Objectives                 Activities              and ResponibilitLes    j  Exected Output/Impact           (8tart/Complete Dates)
3.   Increase attrac-      -    Improvement In         - SECOFI|DGDT                           output
tiveness of Nexico         legislation for                                     -      ow legislation for    Passed June 1991
for foregn                 lnteflectual                                              industrial property.
investment                 property.
-    Provision of           - CERAK                      -    Publication of           April 1993
modern, high                                              schedule of tariffs
quality metrology                                        for metrology
services ln-                                             services.
country.                                            -    letrology services      Sept. 1993 - Dec. 1995
in operation.
Impact
- lfimore favorable
consideration by
foreign investors.
OD
4.   Develop inatitu-      -    Technical
tions to support           assistance for:
private sector-led                                                                        Output
growth.                i) Installation of          l)  CERAM                     i) CuEAm fully              Sept. 1993 - Sept. 1995
efficient                                                operational.
management sys-
tems L tecbnical
progr.ms in
metrol'gy.
ii) Installation of         ii) ItlPI                    l)  MIPI fully opera-        Jan. 1993 - June 1994
efficient                                                tional.
management sys-
tems, automation,                                             Impact
and library                                         -    confirmtion of
services for ln-                                         Goveroment
dustrial property                                        commitment to
rights.                                                  provide support to
private sector and
greater credibility
in domestic
technology services.



Annex 11.7
Page 4 of 4
Mein Government      |    Project '4mponent    | Institutional Arragents |                                   |     Timing Targets
Objective. s|              Activities              and Responsibilities         axpected Outputlimpact       (StartlCAcplete Dstes)
S.   Support for Lnsti-   -    Institution-
tutional & policy          building and
refozus.                   privatization pro-
gram, includinag:
output
1) strengthen sector       1) Joint SECOFI/            i) SEOOFIIDGR, private        i) SECOFI/private           April 1992 - Nov. 1992
ministry as                Private Sector              sector, professional          sector consensus on
coordinator &              study on insti-             and business                  program of
facilitator of             tutions and                 organizations.                privatization and
standardization            policies to reach                                         role of Goverasent
policies.                  objectives in                                             in standards system.
standardization
and quality                                         -    implementatic. of       Jan. 1993 - Dec. 1995
enhancement in                                           agreed annual
Mexican produc-                                          programs,
tion.                                                    coordinated by DGN
to support private                                   I
-    Technical                                                 initiatives.                                         0c
Assistance,                                                                                                    -J
promotion,
enterprise
training
ii) enlarge private        1i) Study to analyze        li) DGN with assistance       11) analysis of invest-    April 1992 - Nov. 1992
sector                     investment in               of CENA) and NAEIN.           ment and technical
participation in           laboratories in                                           requirements of
manging                    metrology,                                                sector and demand
technology                 accreditation and                                         projecticns.
services.                  product/process
certification.                                      -    model investment        Jan. 1993 - Dec. 1993
projects.
impact
-    better Informed
potential Lovestors.
-    private sector
taking initiative In
sector, with
effective Government
support.



- 88 -
Ann-x III.1
Page 1 of 5
IMPACT INDICATORS FORq PACINE
To quantify the impaet of the Program to Support Science in
Mexico (PACIME) on national science and technology capability, in quantity
and quality of the activities of scientific research, CONACYT will follow
the main indicators related to this sector. To establish the current
situation of science in Mexico, CONACYT will generate a database by
September 30, 1992, with the purpose of using these indicators as a basis
to analyze the impact of PACIME in the system on a short-, medium- and
long-term basis. In principle, the following indicators will be used:
A. SCIENCE FUNDING
i)     Financial Indicators
First, it is important to consider the amount of resources the
Federal government and the private sector allocate to scientific research
activities, and to compare their relative size to that of other countries
which have developed more in this sector. That will allow measuring of the
take-off that these activities require to reach international comapetitive
levels.
With this purpose the financial indicators will include the
total expenses in these activities, as well as their percentage with
respect to the size of the economy. This information will be identified by
academic or research institutions, by area of specialization and by project
type, thus allowing the familiarization with the current structure of the
system and its tendency. In the same manner, the information will be
classified by type of mechanisms followed for the resource allocation, with
the purpose of estimating the percentage of support provided under the
competitive scheme.
The basic parameters to be used at the beginning of operations of PACIME
are:
a)   National Expenditure allocated to scientific and development
activities
b)   National ExVenditure assigned to research and development activities
as a percentage of Gross National Product (GNP)
c)   Expenditures for Research and Development by agency, by area of
expertise and by project type.
d)   University budget allocated to activities for research and
development.
e)   Resources allocated thrcugh competitive mechanism" as percentage of
National Expenditure for Research and Development.



- 89 -
Annx 11Z. 1
Page 2 of 5
Ui)    Human Resources
As a core strategy to increase the quantity and quality of
research and development activities, it is indispensable to support the
high level development of human resources. In this context, PACIME seeks
to increase the total number of active scientists dedicated to research,
and am a percentag3 in relation to total population. Also, it is useful to
differentiate the level of professional preparation of the researchers, and
the type of activity they have.
On the other hand, to determine the potential increase in the
nt-0-ber of scientists dedicated to research activities, the number of post-
gradu&te studies in Mexico and abroad will be used as a basis as well as
their distribution by zone, and the number of doctorate theses they submit.
Additionally, the average of visiting professors will be
estimated in national academics and research institutions, to improve the
level of post-graduate programs and students participating.
The data to be used as a basis are:
a)   Number of active scientists and their percentage relative to total
population.
b)   Professional degree of active scientists, and type of activity they
hold.
c)   Number of researchers with doctorate studies who work in national
academic or research institutions. Due to the improvement of
conditions in research institutions, a growth of about 50% is
expected in three years: 10% the first year, 15% the second and 25%
the third year.
d)   The number of Mexican students registered in graduate programs in the
country and abroad, their distribution by zone, and the number of
doctorate theses they have submitted.
e)   Number of researchers with post doctorate degree.
f) Average of visiting professors invited to work in academi,p and
national research institutions.
iii) Resource Materials
The existence of an adequate infrastructure is a necessary
condition to carry out a greater number of high quality projects.
Therefore, CONACYT will coordinate a visit to the main academic
institutions and research centers, wJth the purpose of having a group of
experts of a Consultative Group determine the current status of the
existing infrastructure, and the need for equipment to make modern



- 90 -
AMnniex f.1
Page 3 of 5
laboratories that will ensure the good conditions to carry research at
competitive levels.
The basic variables to analyze the impact of PACIME in national scientific
infrastructure will be:
a)   Physical size and condltions for good functioning of research
laboratories.
b)   Quantity and quality of equipment and laboratory instruments, total
by zone, existing in the research centers.
c)   Purchase of equipment by institution and by area of expertise.
d)   Existing equipment and quality in support workshops as well as its
cruality.
e)   Bibliographic wealth by institution and quality.
f)   Salary levels of researchers in each institution.
S. QUALITI FACTORS
With the purpose of complementing the quantitative information
the scientific situation in Mexico, and the impact of PACIME on it, it is
necessary to consider the quality of scientific research activities, and
its level with respect to international standards. For this purpose, the
participation of Mexican researchers in high level international fora will
be analyzed, such ass congresses, articles in specialized magazines,
bibliographic references to works done by national scientists, members of
editorial bodies of international magazines, visiting professors in
academic institutions and foreign research institutions, among others.
Also, in order to use these indicators, a clasaification of the
main high quality scientific magazines will be necessary by area of
expertise as well as of the main academic and research institutions abroad.
The result of the analysis of the participation of Mexican
researchers in high quality international fora will permit the detecting of
competitive level of the national research with respect to that in other
countries and, particularly, the areas that require greater support for
strengthening.
The main quality indicators to be used aret
a) Articles by Mexican researchers published in high level international
magazines.



- 91 -
Annex III,l
Page 4 of 5
b)   Bibliographic references, in high quality magazines or articles, to
research works done by Mexican researchers (in Science Citation
Index).
c)   Conferences given by Mexican researchers in high level internatio.al
congresses, at the invitation of the organizing pane...
d)   Number of Mexican researchers participating in high level
international publications as editors or members of the editorial
bodies.
e)   Number of Mexican scientific magazines that appear in intcrnational
indexes and its impact factor (measured as No. of references/No. of
Articles).
f)   Analysis by area of expertise in terms of quality and the factor of
average impact of the magazines published by Mexican researchers.
g)   Number of articles by Mexican researchers published in the most
influential magazines such as Nature, Science, Physical Review
Letters, among others.
h)   Articles written by Mexican researchers in review to be published in
international magazines.
i)   Number of Mexican researchers who, during a sabbatical period, hold
positions as professors or visiting researchers in high level
academic and research institutions abroad.
j)   Number of high level textbooks written by Mexican researchers.
k)   Number and level of the members of the National Researchers System
(SNI).
1)   Number of research projects done by SNI members, in relation to the
number of research projects done by non-SNI researchers.
m)   Evaluations of the evolution of each area of knowledge as a result of
support politics to scientific activities, held by the same areas, by
external consultants and by international referees.
C. OTHER INDICATORS
Finally, it is necessary to know the link between research
activities and the private sector, with the purpose of determining in what
measure they respond to the newds of the national productive plant, thus,
allowing the establishment of mechanisms that promote an efficient
cooperation of these sectors for the development of joint projects that
give generic capacities.



- 92 -
A^nnx III.
Page 5 of 5
For that purpose, the following will be quantified:
a)   Patents granted annually to Mexican researchers for research works
with practical application, as well as thoue in progress.
b)   Number of projects held jointly by public institutions and members of
the private sector.



- 93 -
Annex I11.2
Pago 1 of 8
Detailed Proiect Cout and Financing
Project Cost
1.          The estimated total cost of the project over CY1992 to 1996 is
US$886 million equivalent, consisting of a base cost of US$853.5 million
equiva-ent, price contingencies of US$30 million equivalent and physical
contingencies of US$2.5 million equivalent. The proposed loan is projected
to be committed over four years (mid-1992 to mid-1996) and disbursed over
six years (mid-1992 to mid-1998). The proposed project would support four
components which would strengthen Mexico's science and technology
capability, and industrial competitiveness and development: (a) CONACYT's
new science research and equipment programs; (b) development of CENAM,
(c) building capacity for standards and quality assurance in industry; and
(d) the creation of IMPI.
2.           CONACYT's new science programs, with an estimated total cost
of US$765 million equivalent, include: (i) research projects;
(ii) equipment infrastructure; (iii) repatriation and retention of
scholars; and (iv) chairs of excellence. This cost estimate is based on
1992 budget allocations for each science program, annual growth of research
project expenditures of twenty percent in real terms, constant expenditures
in real terms for the other programs, and contributions from research
institutions over the life of the proposed project of US$88 million
equivalent as cofinancing for the equipment infrastructure program and
US$188 million equivalent in researchers' salaries, administrative expenses
and overheads, and contingencies. The breakdown of the cost of CONACYT's
programs is based on the uxperience with pilot programs for 1991. The two
main programs to be supported by the proposed project, the science research
and infrastructure projects, have an estimated total cost of US$629 million
equivalent, accounting for 82 percent of the total cost of CONACYT's
science programs.
3.           The CENAM component has an estimated cost of US$63 million
equivalent. The estimate of CENAM's development costs is based on
feasibility studies carried out by BIMSA and INFOTEC-RESOURCES, and
international experiences from PTB and NIST, which have been advising
SECOFI/DGN and CENAM on staffing, equipment and building requirements. The
Bank has r.lready committed US$1 million from the Industrial Development
Technology Loan (Ln. 2747-IE) for the remodeling of CENAM's building, which
is expected to be completed during 1992.
4.          The standards and quality assurance component has an estimated
-o:t of US$17 million equivalent, for training, promotion, studies and
materials. Preparatory studies amounting to US$0.5 million equivalent
would be financed under the Industrial Restructuring Loan (Ln. 3047-ME)
during 1992.
5.          The intellectual property protection component has an estimated
cost of US$41 million equiv&lent, which includes, start-up costs,
operational and administrative costs, the acquisition of hardware and



- 94 -
Annx III.2
Pag 2 of 8
software, and the development of an informat4on center and data bases. The
World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) assisted SECOPI/DGDT with
the preparation of the :asibility study for the creation of IMPI.
6.          Tables 1 through 4 show coot estimates for each project
component (CONACYT's science programs; CENAM; standards and quality
assurance; and IMPI). The base costs are estimated in September 1991
values. Physical contingencies were estimated for the remodeling of
CENAM's building and for equipment for IMPI. Annual price contingencies of
3.7 percent, were added to cost estimates.  The foreign cost component is
estimated at US$426 million equivalent, which represents 48 percent of the
total project cost excluding taxes.
Financing Plan
7.          The financing plan for the proposed project by components is
shown in Table 5. The Bank loan would help finance the cost of precision
instruments, specialized laboratory equipment, computers, materials,
studies and training to support CONACYT's research projects and equipment
infrastructure programs for a period of four years (mid-1992 to mid-1996),
and the development of CENAM, the standards and quality assurance program
and IMPI from 1992 to 1996. It is expected that the Bank would finance
21.5 percent of the project total cost. The balance would be financed as
follows: 45.6 percent by the Government through budgetary allocations to
the participating institutions, 32.5 percent by the research institutions
which are also financed by the Government through budgetary allocations,
and 0.4 percent by the private sector, which would be required to partially
p,y for the training services to be organized by SECOFI/DGN for
enterprises.
8.          The Bank would provide financing of US$150 million to finance
cost of laboratory equipment and computers to support CONACYT's research
projects and equipment infrastructure program. It is estimated that the
Bank loan would be committed over a period of four years and disbursed six
years. Participating research institutions are expected to provide US$88
million annually as cofinancing for the equipment infrastructure program
and US$188 million equivalent in researchers' salaries, administrative
expenses and overheads over the life of the proposed project. The rest of
the programs would by financed from CONACYT budgeted funds. CONACYT's new
science programs are fully funded for CY 1992.
9.          The Bank is expected to provide up to US$30 million over a
period of four years to finance the cost of laboratory equipment,
computers, training and promotional services to support the development of
CENAM. By 1995, about 15 percent of CENAM's operational costs would be
covered by fees charge to users, the rest would be financed through
Government budgetary allocations. CENAM's 1992 budget, which has already
been approved by the Government, provides full funding for its operations
and capital investments. The Bank would provide US$3.5 million over a
period of five years to finance the cost of studies, training and promotion
to support the development of the Standardization Program, this includes



- 95 -
hnn* 111.2
Pag 3 of 8
US$0.5 million equivalent financed under the Industrial Restructuring Loan
(Ln. 3047-HE) for preparatory *tudies during 1992. The Bank would provide
US$6 million over a period of four years to IMPI to finance the acquisition
of computer equipment, library facilities and data bases. Once in full
operations, IMPI is expected to cover operational costs through users fees.
Confirmation of adequate funding by the Government for IMPI's operational
costs and capital investments in 1993 would be a condition for disbursement
of this component.
10.          The estimated foreign costs component of the proposed project
amounts to US$426 million equivalent or 48 percent of the project total
cost. The foreign costs component of each project component is shown in
Table 6. The Bank would finance up to 100 percent of the foreign costs and
75 percent of local costs on laboratory equipment, including computer
equipment and materials; and 100 percent of the costs of studies, training,
consultants, seminars and promotional services up to the amounts allocated
for each component.
TABLC 1  POJD  TOT& COST -- CONACTT SCIENCE PROGRAMS
(Figures in million of US Dollars)
CONCEPT                      1992    1993    1994    1995   TOTAL
Researchar Assistance                     4.28    3.69    4.21    5.00   17.18
Retention/Repatriation of Scholars       20.00   20.00   20.00   20.00   80.00
Chairs of Excellence                      8.40    7.00    7.00    7.00   29.40
Visiting Professors                       4.20    4.20    4.20    4.2n   16.80
Texbooks Development                      1.40    2.60    2.80    2.80    9.80
Consumable Materials                      6.32    7.00    8.90   10.70   32.92
Seminars and Promotional Services         5.00    5.00    6.00    7.20   23.20
Laboratory Equipment and Instruments     78.85   81.00   84.60   88.90  333.35
Computer Equipment                        4.15    5.20    5.40    5.70   20.45
Administrative Expenses (a)              33.10   39.17   47.24   56.70  176.21
Price Contingencies                       5.76    6.10    6.70    7.40   25.96
TOTAL                      171.46  181.16  197.05  215.60  765.27
(a)  Includes researchers salaries, administrative expenses and overheads incurrad by
research institutions. These expenses according to international standards amount to
about 50 percent of the total cost of each research project. Plus CONACYT's
administrative expenses incurred in administering the programs
PROJECT TOTAL COST AND BANK FINANCING
TOTAL
Total Cost                              171.46  181.16  197.05  215.60  765.27
Bank Financing                           40.00   40.00   40.00   30.00  150.00
Govermnent                               71.76   74.46   80.35  101.30  327.87
Research Institutions                    59.70   66.70   76.70   84.30  287.40
Percentage of Bank Financing             23.331  22.082  20.30X  13.912  19.60X



96 -
Annex  III.2
Pago 4 of 8
TABLE 2i PROJECT TOTAL COST CE1W
(PIgur e In milllon of US Dollars)
CONCEPT                   1992         1993          1994          1995       TOTAL
Administrative Expenses           1.25          3.30         4.00          4.80        13.35
Operational Costs                 0.60          0.O5         0.80          0.82         2.97
Seminars and Promotion            0.70          0.64         0.59          0.53        2.46
Technical assistance              0.07          0.08         0.08          0.09        0.32
Studies and Training              0.96          1.34         1.13          1.17         4.60
Laboratory Equipment              6.52          8.49         7.00          4.56       26.57
Vehicles                          0.00          0.10         0.10          0.10        0.30
Building Remodeling(a)            4.85          3.50         1.50          0.00         9.85
Price Contingencies               0.51          0.67         0.56          0.44        2.18
TOTAL                  15.46        18.67         15.76        12.51        62.60
(a) Includes US$1 million committed In 1991 under the Industrial Technology Loan
(Lu. 2747-MZ) and physical contingencies.
PROJECT TOTAL COST AND BANK FINANCING
TOTAL
Total Cost                       15.46         18.57        15.76         12.51       62.60
Bank Financing                    8.70          9.20         7.90          5.20       31.00
Government                        6.76          9.67         7.86          7.31       31.60
Percentage of Bank Financing    56.272         48.752       50.13S        41.572      49.522



- 97 -
Annex III.2
Paso 5 of 8
TAILE 3, PROJ1W..: -TAL COST STANDARDS AM gUALITY ASSURANCE
(' 'ares In million of Us Dollars)
CONCDPT                       1992     1993      1994     1995     1996     TOTAL
Admnilstrative Expenses (a)               o.,       2.00     2.00     2.00     2.00     8.00
Cmaaultanto                               0.00     0.29      0.23     0.15     0.09     0.76
Trikning                                  0.00      1.46     1.16     0.73     0.50      . 85
S' lies, Semiara and Promotion           0.50(b)  0.69      0.55     0.36     0.22     2.32
Iatonm%tion Center                        0.00     0.29      0.18     0.16     0.15     0.78
Equir-                                    0.00     0.45      0.45     0.10     0.00     1.00
Con,     aleo                             0.00     0.19      0.7      0.13     0.11     0.60
TOTAL                      0.50     5.37     4.74     S.63      3.07    17.31
(a)   PreLimlnat7 astl  --a of WIN related salaries and benefits and cost of services, e.g.
obligatory standai ds confozi-ity
(b)   Financed u"der the Industrial Restructuring Loan (Ln. 3047-ME)
PROJECT TOTAL COST AND U*1K FIUWNCING
TOTAL
Total Cost                                0.50     5.37      4.74     3.63     3.07    17.31
Bank Flinancing                           0.50(a)  1.28      1.12     0.30     0.30     3.50
Govermuent                                0.00      3.20     2.50     2.50     2.00    10.20
Private Sector                            0.00     0.89      1.12     0.83     0.77     3.61
Percentage of Bank Financing            100.00Z   23.842   23.631    8.261    9.77Z   20.22Z
(a)  Financed under the Industrial Restructuring Loan (Ln. 3047-ME)



- 98 -
AsJ x 111.2
Pasg 6 of 8
TABLE 4a PROJECT COST lHP!
(Fngres la million of US Dollars)
COUCXPT             1993      1994       1995     1996      TOTAL
Administrative Expen.es (a)       7.60      8.00       9.00    10.00    34.60
Automation Program                0.86      0.30       0.30     0.19      1.65
InfouQtion Center                0.40       0.20      0.17      1.50      2.27
Teobatcal Assistance             0.43       0.20       0.16     0.27      1.06
Conting.ncla (b)                0.32       0.20      0.11      0.39      1.02
TOTAL                9.61      8.90       9.74    12.35    40.60
(a)  Includes salaries and benefits and operational cost
(b) Includes price and physical contingencies.
PROJZCT TOrAL COST AND BANK FINANCING
TOTAL
Total Coat                       9.61       8.90       9.74    12.35    40.60
Bank Financing                   2.01       0.90       0.74     2.35      6.00
Gover ment                        7.60      8.00       9.00    10.00    34.60
Percentage of Bank FSn-aclng   21.92!    10.11!        7.602   19.032   14.78!



- 99 -
MDIII.2
Page 7 of 8
TANIS 5s ZIUIInaI
(VIgures in million of Us Dollare)
Project Componento                  Private    Research                    World
sector   Institutea   Coversamnt(s  gau(kb) TOTAL
Retention/Repatriation of Scholars         0.00        0.00         80.00         0.00    80.00
Chairs of Excellence                       0.00        0.00          29.40        0.00    29.40
Visiting Professors                        0.00        0.00          16.80        0.00    16.80
Texbooks Development                       0.00        0.00           9.80        0.00      9.80
Laboratory Equipmnt and Instruments        0.00       88.00         109.92      161.90   359.82
Coniputer Equipment                        0.00        0.00          6.88        11.70    18.58
Consumable Materials                       0.00       12.60          15.80        4.52    32.92
Seminars and Promotional Services          0.00        0.00         24.05         1.61    25.66
Studies and Training                       3.61        0.00           9.30        2.73    15.64
Technical Assistance                       0.00        0.00           0.00        1 .8      1.68
Consultants                                0.00        0.00          0.00         0.76     0.76
Vehicles                                   0.00        0.00           0.30        0.00      0.30
Building Remodeling                        0.00)       0.00          8.85         1.00     9.85
Administrative Expenaes(c)                  0.00     176.20          73.14        0.00   249.34
Operational Costs                          0.00        0.00           2.97        0.00      2.97
Price Contingencles                        0.00       10.60          14.56        4.60    29.76
Physical Contingencies                     J.00        0.00          2.50         0.00     2.50
TOTAL                     3.61     287.40         404.27      190.50   885.78
PZRCEUTAGES                                0.41S       32.4$S         45.642     21.511  100.001
(a)   Includes Government budgetary allocations to CONACYT, CEAM, Standards and IMPI.
Cb)   Includes US$1.5 million from the Industrial Technology and Industrial Restructuring
Loans.
(c)   Includes researches salaries, administrative  opnses and overheads which are paid by
research institutions. Public research institutions are supported by the Federal
Covernme t through budgetary allocation . Administrative expenses paid by CONACYT are
also inc.laded.
PROJECT IOT   . -3T AND BSAM FUWING
1992      1993      1994      1995     1996     TOTAL
Total Cost                           187.42    215.01    226.45   241.48    15.42    885.78
Bank Financing                        49.20      52.49     49.92    36.24      2.65    190.50
Percentage of Bank Financing          26.25X    24.412    22.042   15.001   17.192    21.51Z



- 100 -
Ju    III.2
Page 8 of 8
TASME 6 PROJECT iOUXIz AyD LOCAL COST
(1iureo In *illion of ua Dollars)
Project Components               foreign        Local          Total
Retention/Repatriation of Scholars           40.00          40.00          80.00
Chairs of Excellence                          0.00          29.40
Visiting Professors                           8.20           8.20          iF
Texbooks Development                          0.00           9.80           9.60
Laboratory Equipment and Instruments        311.55          48.27         359.82
Computer Zquipment                            12.98          5.60          18.58
Consumable Materials                         24.02           8.90          32.92
Seminars and Promotional Services             4.34          21.32          25.66
Studles and Training (a)                      6.75           8.89          15.64
Technical Assistance                           1.68          0.00           1.68
Consultants                                   0.76           0.00           0.76
Vehiclel                                       0.00          0.30           0.30
5uilding Remodsling (b)                       0.00           9.85           9.85
Administrative Expenses (c)                    0.00        249.34         249.34
Operational Costs                              0.00          2.97           2.97
Price Contingencies                           15.30         14.46          29.76
Physical Contingencies                        0.00           2.50           2.50
TOTAL                      425.98        459.80         885.78
PERCENTAGES                                  48.091         51.901        100.00
(a)   Includes US$0.5 million from the Ind. Restructuring Loan (Ln. 3047-HE).
(b)   Includes US$1 million from the Ind. Tech. Loan (Lu. 2747-ME).
(a)   Includes researches salaries, administrative expenase  anJ overheads which are paid
by research institutions. Public research Institutions are supported by the
Federal Governrment through budget.Lry allocation.. Administrative expenses paid by
CONACYT are also Included.



- 101 -
MEXICO
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY IN1EASTUCTURE PROJECT
Entimated Schedule of Disbursemeutesi
(US$ million)
!:RD Fiecal Year                       Cpsrterly
and Quarter (Ending Date)                Dic1aureements       Cumulative
1993
September 30, 1992                      19                 19
December 31  1992                        3                 22
March 31, 1993                           3                 25
June 30, 1993                            3                 28
1994
September 30, 1993                      10                 38
December 31  1993                        10                48
March 31, 1194                           12                60
June 30, 1994                           12                 72
1995
September 30, 1994                      12                 84
December 31  1994                       12                 96
March 31, 1695                           12               108
June 30, 1995                           12                120
1996
September 30, 1995                       8                128
December 31  1995                        8                136
March 31, 1696                           8                144
June 30, 1996                            8                152
1997
September 30, 1996                       6                158
December 31  1996                        6                164
March 30, 1697                           5                169
June 30, 1997                            5                174
1998
8eptember 30, 199J                       5                179
December 31  1997-'                       4               183
March 30, 1698                           3                186
June 30, 1998s'                          3                189
1 This schedule is based on the average disbursement profiles with
adjustments for retroactive financing, and excludes the US1.5 million
financing from previous loans.
ki Terminal date for submission of subprojects.
LI Closi-g Date



- 102 -
Anmex I 41.
A&UDITING REOUIRZENMTS
A.   The Executirt Atencies (CONACYT. CENAN. DON, IPI)
The audit report should include an examination of an opinion on the:
(a) Basic Financial Statements
- Statement of financial position
- Statement of income (and retained earnings)
- Statement of changes in financial position, or statement of cash
flow.
The following special reports should also be presented to the Bank:
(b)  Comoliance Opinions.  Covering the loan's financial-managerial
covenants.
(c) Nanagogent Letter. As a complement to the audit of the financial
statements.      I
(d) Disclosure of the audit Drocedures utilized.
(e) SuDDlementary Financial Information. Should include a summary of:
(i) the budgetary execution and (ii) the financial performance of
the entity executing the project.
(f) Audit of the Proiect. This audit report covers the financial
execution recorded in the "separate or identified accounts" for the
proj-ct.
(g) Auditor's Ooinion on the Certificates of Expenditures. The scope
of the audit is an examination of the expenditures with respect of
which withdrawals from the Loan Account were made during the fiscal
year on the basis of statements of expenditures.
B.   The research institutions would only be re-uired to comply with (f)
C.   The Borrower
The Borrower would only Le required comply with (a), (C) and (h)
(h)  Audit of the Special Account.  This audit report covers the
movement and availability of funds in the Special Account. The
scope of the audit is an examination of and an opinion on: (i) the
statement of transactions and availability of funds, (ii) the
accounting, administration and control procedure., as well as the
system of authorizations maintained by the Central Bank.



- 103 -
Annex III.5
Page 1 of 9
IMPLEMENTATION INDICATORS
National Council for Science and Technoloav (CONACYT)
1.      CONACYT will have four programs under impiementation (Research,
Infrastructure, Chairs of Excellence and Repatriation), the first two of
which will be assisted under the project. Based on past experience, the
number and level of scientific researchers registered in the National
System for Researchers (SNI), and on an assessment of the capacities of the
various institutions, projections have been made of the number of projects
that will be approved annually, by area of science and by major
institution. Based on the same information, a prior annual allocation of
funds has been made by area of science. Projects having up to a three-year
duration will be eligible. A projection of the distribution of projects on
this basis has also been made. As more experience is gained, the
allocation of funds by area of science will be adjusted as well as
adjustments to the other parameters. These adjustments willi be reviewed
and agreed during the annual reviews of the project. (Tables 1 to 6
pertain to CONACYT.)
The National Center for Metrologv (CENAM)
2.      CENAMs metrology services will be organized into four divisions--
mechanics, electricity, physics, and materials--each with several
laboratories. Equipment will be purchased for 36 of these laboratories.
The laboratory staff will total about 150, including division managers
(13), specialists (105) and technicians (32). Over the four-year period,
1992-95, they will benefit from 1752 staff months of training, and will
attend approximately 213 professional conferences and seminars. Technical
assistance will consist primarily of visiting metrology specialists (57
staff months) who will work with and advise CENAM staff on the set-up and
operation of the new laboratories. The training and visiting specialists
programs will be implemented in the context of bilateral technical
cooperation agreements and international cooperative relations with
metrology organizations. The goal for the project period is to install,
test, and issue procedural manuals to enable the start-up of a total of 31
laboratories (Table 7). Indicators for output for the main services to be
provided by CENAM are shown in Table 8.
The Mexican Institute for Industrial Propertv (IMPI)
3.      The main elements of the IMPI investment project are the (i)
implementation of the automation program for processing patent examination
and other services, (ii) the expansion of archival materials, access to
data bases, and modernization of the information center for internal and
public use and (111) technical assistance for institution building,
training and improving efficiency in services. During the period 1993-96,
purchases for packages of hardware for the automation program will amount
to an estimated $800,000 and the cost of software and software applications
will total about $850,000. The purchase of equipment and office furniture
($56,000), documentation items, and on-line access to international data



- 104 -
Annex I11.5
Page 2 of 9
bases will total about $847,000. In 1996, equipment for a larger capacity
and more efficient information center for internal and public use is
planned ($1,410,000). Technical assistance will be provided in a
cooperation agreement with the World Intellectual Property Organitution
(W.I.P.O.). The agreement is, in effect, a package of services including
51.5 staff montha of international expertise in all areas covered by ar
industrial property institution (e.g., office management for industrial
property, system analysis, documentation, patent examination, etc.). The
other major component of the agreement includes staff training through
scholarships, seminars, and expositions, for a total of $247,000 over the
project period (Table 9). New staff recruitment and cost recovery are
included in Table 9.
Standards and Ouality Assurance
4.      Implementation indicators will be developed for this component as
part of the annual prog-ams which are to be agreed in the last quarter of
1992 for the start-up of the program in fiscal year 1993.



- 105 -
Annex III.5
Page 3 of 9
NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY (CONACYT)
TABLE 1: BUDGET. BY PROGRAM
(US$0008)
Program                       1992           1993            1994           1995            1990
Research                                  32.000         38,000          46.000         55.000         66.000
Infrastructure                            70.000         70,000_         70,000         70.000         70,000
Chairs of Excellence                      14,000         14,000          14,000         14,000         14.000
Repatriation                              20,000         2               20,000         20,000         20,000
TOTAL                               136,000        142,000         150,000        159,000         170,000
TABLE 2: NUMBER OF PROJECTS APPROVED. COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
(US$0008)
A. Research Projects
1992                 1993                  1994                 1995                  1996
Number   Amount   Number   Amount   Number   Amount   Number   Amount   Number   Amouni
Comi tments       485       34.000      500        45,831     529      50,755      550         57,848    635       67,366
Disbursements I32,000__                          38,000                46,000               55,000                 66,000 i
B.  Intcastructure Projects */
1992                 1993                  1994                 1995                  1996
Number   Amount   Number   Amount  Number   Amount   Number   Amount   Number   Amouni
Conin tments      219        70,000     190       70,000      165        70,000    144       70,000      138       70,000
Disbursements                70,000          .             .70,000     70,000                70,000                70,000_
The duration of projects in infrastructure normally will be one year or less.



- 106 
Annex 111.5
Page 4 of 9
TABLtS 3 N WMBR O' PROJECTS AIW AKOUNT OF DIBSURSEDNTS  BY AREA
(US$0003)
A. Research Projects
Aron of             1992                  1993                  1994                   1995                  1996
Solence
Number   Amount   Number   Amount   Numbwr  Anount   Numbu   Amount    Number   Amount
ApPl1ed               136    8.742       140        10.382        148    12.567         154    15.026         177    18.031
Health                64    4,022         66         4.777         69     5,782          72    6.914           84      8,296
Earth                 19    1,357         20         1,611         21     1,950          22    2.332           25      2,798
Exact                 47    3,725         48         4,423         52     5.354          54    6.402           61      7.682
Human                 61    3.552         63         4,218         66     5.106          69    6.105           80      7.326
Natural               71    5.005         74         5.943         77     7194           80    8.602           93    10.322
Social                57    3.3ff         59         4,032         62     4,831          64    5.836           75      7.003
Chemistry             28    2.202         29         2,614         27     3.165          29    3,784           33      4,541
TOTAL           483    32,000       499        38,000        522    46,000         544    55,000         628    66,000
B. Infrastructure Projects
Area of             1992                  1993                  1994                   1995                  1996
Science
Number   Amount   Numbwr   Amount   Number   Amount   Number   Amount   Numbwr   Amount
Applied               30      16.782      26        16,782         23    16,782          20    16,782       19        16,782
Health                92     13,730       80        13.730         69    13.730          60    13.730       58        13.730
Earth                 30      9,759       26         9.759         23     9,759          20    9.759        19         9,759
Exact                  8      4.863       7          4.863          6     4,863           5    4.863         5         4,863
Human                  3       1,312      3          1,312          2     1,312           2    1,312         2         1,312
Natural               30      10.970      26        10.970         22    10.970          19    10.970       19        10.970
Social                 15     2,012       13         2,012         11     2.012          10    2.012         9         2.012
Chemistry              11    10,572       10        10,572          9    10,572           7    10.572        7        10.572
TOTAL           219     70,000      190        70,000        165    70,000         144    70,000       138       70,000
-                    -           -                          -      rn             -     -



- 107 -
Annex 111.5
Pago 5 of 9
TABLE 4:3 DURATION OF RESKARCE PROJECTS'
1992                 1993                  1994                 1996                  1996
Number   Amount   Number   Amount  Number   Amount   Number    Amount   Number   Amouni
One Year           145        9,874     125         9 788     106       9,546      83         8.596      63         6,785
Two Years         194        13.210     175        13.704     158       14.228     138        14.292     127       13.678
Three Years       145         9,875     200        15,662     264       23,774     329       34,072      444       47,821
a/  The duration of projects in infrastructure normally will be one year or less.



- 108 -
Annex 111.5
Page 6 of 9
TABLE 5: NUMBER Or PROJECTS AND AMOUNT OF DISBURSEMENTS .BY INSTITUTION
(US$000.)
A. Research Projects
1992                  1993                  1994                   1995                  1990
Number   Amount   Number    Amount   Number   Amount    Number   Amount    Number   Amoun'
UNAN                  124      8,000      130         9,500        134    11,500         138    13.750          153    16,500
CINVESTAV              65      4,064       66         4,826         69      5,842         73    6.985            80      8,382
IPN                    19      1,152      19          1,368         22     1,656          23    1,980            32     2376
UAN                    17      1.152      17          1,368         20      1,656         22    1.980            30      2,376
LEGIO DE
SGRADUADOS           14        928      14          1,102         16      1.334         17    1.595            19      1.914
OTHERS                245     16,704      253        19,836        267    24,012         277    28,710          320    34,452
PRIVATE                14        640      59          3,800        112     9,200         198    19,250          254    26,400
PUBLIC                470     31,360      441        34,200        416    36,800         352    35.750          380    39,600
MEXICO, D.F.          296     19,520      290        22,040        288    25.300         296    29.700          341    35,640
STATES                188     12.480      210        15,960        240    20,700         254    25,300          293    30,360
B. Infrastructure Projects
1992                  1993                  1994                   1995                  1996
Number   Amount   Number    Amount   Number   Amount    Number   Amount   Number   Amouni
UNAM                   69     2           56         22.606         41    17,103          31      12,888         29    11,109
CINVESTAV              31     10,730      37         12,734         37    14,015          34     13,973          29    11.109
IPN                    19      6.234      25         8,485         28    10.761           25      9.708          23    10.642
UAM                    16                 16          5,060         19      6,508         16      5,94           16      6,174
LEGIO DE
SGRADUADOS            6      1.748       6          2,624          9     4,254           6      4,179           3     3,239
OTHERS                 78     22,230      50         18.491         31    17.359          31     23.308          39    27,727
PRIVATE                 9      3.122      19          6.872 _       22     8.596          25      9.708          24    10,910
PUBLIC                209     66.878      172        63,128        144    61,404         119     60.292         114    59.090
MEXICO, D.F.          100    31,997       87         31,715         84    36.284          72     32,040          61    29,457
STATES                119    38,003       103        38,285         81    33,716          72     373960          77    40,543



- 109 -
Annex III.5
Page 7 of 9
TABLE 6: REPATRIATION AND CHAIRS OF EXCZLLENCE
Total Number
PROGRAM                1992       1993       1994       1995        1996
Repatriation                     100         100        100        100         100
Chairs of Excellence               12         12         12         12          12
Postgraduates &                   20          20         20         20          20
Visiting Professors
Textbooks                         40 _       40         40          40         40



- 110 -
Annex III.5
Page 8 of 9
FATIONAL CENTER FOR METROLOOY (CERAM)
TALBZ 7t INVlSTHENT AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
UNIT              1992        1993       1994      1995
Equipment        $_Sll Purchased                        6.52         8.49        7.00      4.56
New Staff                     Number                     55           80       113        35
Training                      Staff Months               360         404       324       332
Professional Development    Meetings Attended            30           53        65        65
Technical Assistance          Staff Months                5           26        13        13
of Specialists
Laboratories                  Startup                     0           13         9         9
TABLE 8: OUTPUT PROJECTIONS. BY ACTIVITY
ACTIVITY                     NUMBER             1992   1993    1994    1995
Calibration Services           Instruments
Calibrated                    0      20     300     500
Technical Censultancies        Completed                    10      50     600    1000
Research Projects              Completed                     0       1       2        5
Technical Training Courses   Offered                         2       4      10       20
Laboratory Training            Persons                       0      10      20      40
Technical Reports              Published                    15      15      15       15
Scientific Publications        Per Area                      0       3      10       15
Technical Conferences          Per Area                      2       4       5        5
COST RECOVERY                  2 Operational Costs           0       2       6       15



- Ill -
Annex I11.5
Page 9 of 9
HtMICAh INDUPSRlAL PROPEMPTY INSTITUTE (IMPI)
TABLE  9' INVESTMENT MAD INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
UNIT            1993       1994     1993     1996
Automation
Hardward                       $000   Purchased        500      150       150       0
Software &
Application                  $000. Purchased          360      150       150      190
Information Center
Equipment                      $0005 Purchased         0.60                 0       1.500
Documentation & Data bases   $000s Purchased            340      2cr       170          0
Technical Assistance             Staff Months              23       11.0    8.0    10.0
Training                         $0008 Costs              110       35        35     70
New Staff                        Number                    10       10        10        10
Cost Recovery                    Z Operational            100      100       100    100
Coats



- 112 -
Annex IIT.6
MEXICO
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
KEY AREAS TO BE ADDRESSED IN THE MID-TERM REVIEW
The mid-term review of the implementation of the Science and
Technology Infrastructure Project would review progress towards achieving
the objectives set out in the National Policy for Science and Technology
Modernization, and specifically review the following areas for each the
project components.
A.  Science Proarams (CONACYT)
(i)    experience with the PACIME Rules of operation;
(ii)   impact of the new programs on science and technology capability
in Mexico;
(iii)  progress in increasing the share of public monies for research
allocated by transparent, competitive processes;
(iv)   experience with procurement arrangements.
B. Metroloav Center (CENAM)
i)    progress in institutional and operational development of CENAM;
(ii)   experience with cost recovery for services to induRtry.
C. Standards Proaram ISECOFI/DGN)
(i)    experience with increased private sector involvement in the
standards program;
(ii)   experience in re-orientation of SECOFI/DGN role in supporting
industry;
(iii)  progress in improving legal metrology services.
D. Intellectual ProDertv Protection (IMPIh
(i)    progress in institutional and operational development of IMPI;
(ii)   experience with cost recovery for services to industry.



emits
tSt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ E X                                                                                      I/ C\(  0AW
BAJA  Nogol~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~atoa aio
i  \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~-.  hihahuc ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Stae capitals
Ad  RIAt                                                                                                                              Nati\onal c A  H  * I  faI A  t i at
,A  MIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Dividad highways
Seetwed rk, oads
Railroads
Rivess
P Principal airp3rn
---------i -.                                                                                             - - ..  -- State .  .   _   ,, _    ,  ia r
P it k A N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,iir.aialhordre
CA5  C ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~CMEYt                                 /~
GUANA) ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ GAIML
PA C  f f C  OC-                                                                                                                                            HNDA N
s~~~~~~~~o.                        'V   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rmw                                l
of~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ERAY19



