Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 18763
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
(LOAN 3475-ME)
December 30, 1998
Finance, Infrastructure and Private Sector Management Unit
Mexico Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



(Exchange Rate Effective October 1, 1998)
Currency Unit = Mex$
Mex$10.16= US$1
FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
CCC              President's Science Advisory Council - Consejo Consultivo de Ciencias
CENAM            National Center for Metrology - Centro Nacional de Metrologia
CONACYT          National Science and Technology Council - Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnologia
DGN              Director General of Standards - Direcci6n General de Normas
FY               Fiscal Year
GDP              Gross Domestic Product
GFCYT            Federal Expenditure on Science and Technology - Gasto Federal en Ciencia y
Tecnologia
GOM              Government of Mexico
IACyT            Scientific and Technologic Activity Indicators 1996 - Indicadores de Actividades
Cientificasy Tecnol6gicas 1996, Mexico, CONACYT, 1997
IBRD             Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR              Implementation Completion Report
IADB             Inter-American Development Bank
IMPI             Mexican Institute for Industrial Property - Instituto Mexicano de la Propiedad
Industrial
INEGI            National Institute of Statistics, Geography, and Informatics - Instituto Nacional de
Estadistica, Geografia e Informatica
IPR              Intellectual Property Rights
ISI              Institute for Scientific Information
KIP              Knowledge and Innovation Project - Proyecto de Conocimiento e Innovaci6n
MSTQ             Metrology, Standards, Testing and Quality
NAFIN            Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
NAFTA            North American Free Trade Agreement
NIST             National Institute of Standards and Technology
NPSTM            National Plan for Science and Technology Modernization (of Mexico)
NSF              National Science Foundation
OECD             Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PACIME           Support Program for Science in Mexico - Programa de Apoyo a la Ciencia en Me'xico
R&D              Research and Development
SAR              Staff Appraisal Report
S&T              Science and Technology
SECOFI           Ministry of Commerce and Industrial Development - Secretaria de Comercio y
Fomento Industrial
SECODAM          Ministry of the Comptroller General
SEP              Ministry of Education - Secretaria de Educacion Puiblica
SHCP             Ministry of Finance and Public Credit - Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
SNI              National System of Researchers - Sistema Nacional de Investigadores
STIP             Science and Technology Infrastructure Project
WIPO             World Intellectual Property Organization
Vice President: Shahid Javed Burki
Country Management Unit Director: Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Management Unit Director: Danny M. Leipziger
Task Team Leader: Daniel Crisafulli



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONENTS
PREFACE ..........V
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...................                                                                                                                           vi
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .............................................................1                                                          I
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION  ......................                                           ....................................... I
B.  ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES .....................                                           ........................................ 2
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ............ ..............7
D.  PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY  ............................................................. 9
E. BANK PERFORMANCE .............................................................                                                                  10
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ............................................................. 11
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME .............................................................                                                              11
H. FUTURE OPERATION ..............................................................11
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED .............................................................                                                               12
PART  II:  STATISTICAL  TABLES  ............................................................. 14
TABLE  1:  SUMMARY  OF ASSESSMENTS ............................................................. 14
TABLE 2:  RELATED  BANK  LOANS ............................................................. 15
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE .............................................................                                                           16
TABLE 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL .............                                                            ................ 16
TABLE 5:  KEY  INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ...................................................... 1 7
TABLE 6:  KEY  INTDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION  .............................................................  1 7
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT .............................................................                                                 1 8
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS .............................................................                                                              19
TABLE 8B:  PROJECT FINANCING  ............................................................. 20
TABLE 9:  FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC COSTS AND  BENEFITS .......................................................   21
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS .............................................................                                                  21
TABLE  1 1:  COMPLIANCE WITH  OPERATIONAL MANUAL  STATEMENTS ...................                                                  .................... 22
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS .............................................................                                               22
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS ..................................                                                                              23
Annex 1: ICR Mission Aide Memoire ...................................                                                                                           24
Annex 2: Operation Plan for the Project ...................................                                                                                     27
Annex 3: Borrower's Contribution to the ICR ...................................                                                                                 33
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not, otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY INRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
(LOAN 3475-ME)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Mexico Science and
Technology Infrastructure Project, for which Loan 3475-ME in the amount of $189 million was
approved on May 26, 1992, and made effective on 15 October, 1992.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1998. A final supplemental disbursement of
US$1487.00 took place on September 3, 1998.
The ICR was prepared by Daniel Crisafulli, Task Manager, Private Sector Development
Department and John Daly, Science and Technology Policy Specialist. The report was reviewed
by Fernando Montes-Negret, Sector Leader of Finance, Private Sector Development and
Infrastructure Department and Maria Victoria Lister, Quality Assurance Officer, Latin America
and the Caribbean Region. The Borrower provided inputs to the ICR that are reflected in Part I
and II of the ICR as well as in Annex 3.
The Government, Borrower and Beneficiaries contributed to the preparation of the ICR
by exchanging views on all parts and phases of the Project including policy aspects, preparation,
procurement, implementation experience and related issues and by preparing its own contribution
to this ICR.
v



MEXCO
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
(LOAN 3475-ME)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The project was conceived during the implementation of the broad program of structural
adjustment undertaken by Mexico during 1986-1991 with support from the Bank. As Mexico
emerged from a period of high inflation and macroeconomic instability, it became clear that
strengthening of the basic science and technology infrastructure of the country would prove critical
in meeting the challenges posed by the newly opening economy. Negotiated in the same year as
the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), the project aimed to improve the
competitiveness of Mexican firms and attract foreign investment while embarking on a program of
long term institutional development.
Project Objectives
2.    The objectives of the project were to:
*  Rationalize public sector funding (for science and technology) by supporting increased
public spending for: (i) grants for basic scientific research projects and equipment
infrastructure projects, with improved allocation on a competitive basis to generate
relevant research and train scientists; and (ii) technology infrastructure in the area of
metrology, standards and quality assurance, and intellectual property protection to improve
services to industry, thereby encouraging modernization and enhancing competitiveness,
and increasing attractiveness for foreign investment.
*  Develop institutions through (i) supporting the restructuring of a science research program,
and (ii) development of institutions providing support to industry in metrology, standards
and quality assurance, and intellectual property protection to improve the efficiency of
public support in these areas.
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    Overall, substantial progress was made toward meeting these objectives. In the areas of
institutional development (all components) and increased attractiveness to foreign investment
(technology components), the project was largely successful in meeting the established goals. The
impact of the project on the competitiveness and modernization of Mexican industry appears
positive but is not yet fully realized. The project's impact on overall financing to science and
technology activities, however, is ambiguous as a result of the financial crisis of 1994-1995.
4.    The Mexican financial crisis of 1994-1995 strongly impacted the availability of funds for
project activities. In November 1995, the Government and Bank agreed to accelerate the
disbursement of funds through retroactive financing of US$80 million for activities associated with
vi



the project which were previously funded by the GOM. In spite of this reduction of funding, the
project was largely successful in meeting basic goals.
5.    The Scientific Research Component saw an increase in the number of Mexican scientific
research publications and their impact, a significant production of research-trained personnel, a
renewal of the Mexican research instrumentation infrastructure, the institutionalization of merit-
based peer review, and improvements in the efficiency of the National Science and Technology
Council (Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnologia - CONACYT).
6.    The project supported the creation of the Mexican National Center for Metrology (Centro
Nacional de Metrologia - CENAM). With 104 laboratories now operating, demand from industry
for calibration service has far outstripped projections. CENAM appears to be helping to attract
foreign investment and promoting the competitiveness of Mexican industry.
7.    The project supported the creation of the Mexican Institute of Industrial Property (Instituto
Mexicano de la Propiedad Industrial - IMPI), significantly reducing delays in award of patents,
increasing enforcement activities, and increasing inspections related to intellectual property
violations. Use of the system by Mexican firms and individuals has remained low, but this lack of
use is arguably the result of underlying weaknesses in the system of institutions and firms involved
in creation, diffusion, and application of industrially-useful knowledge in Mexico.
8.    The standardization component was intended to support the Directorate General of
Standards (Direcci6n General de Normas - DGN) of the Ministry of Commerce and Industrial
Promotion, but Govermment budgetary allocations were never made available for the component
activities. Funds were either cancelled (US$1 million) or reallocated to the CONACYT component
(US$2 million).' Despite the lack of disbursement under the loan, the DGN accomplished many of
the objectives agreed during Appraisal.
9.    Overall, the Bank performance in the implementation of the project is considered
satisfactory. Implementation costs were held low, and the considerable capacity of the counterpart
institutions was allowed to grow and be applied to the management of the project. Overall
performance of the borrower was satisfactory. However, disbursement was subject to initial delays.
The complexity of procurement and disbursement arrangements under the science research
component were the single largest weakness in project design, resulting in excessive delays and
burdensome procedures for beneficiaries and staff of CONACYT, NAFIN, and the Bank (para.
32).
10.   Project sustainability is likely to be strong, given the advances in institutional development
and likely future growth in demand for science and technology services in Mexico. The development
objectives (growth with stability, social development, and modernization of the state) of Mexico's
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) imply increasing demand for creation and application of
knowledge and technology, highly skilled scientific and technological human resources, technological
infrastructure (including metrology, standards, quality control, intellectual property rights protection),
and modernization of state institutions supporting science and technology. Conversely, reduced
prospects for fuiture growth - or renewed macroeconomic and budgetary instability - could undermine
'US$500,000 in studies under the component were supported under the Mexico Industrial Restructuring
Loan (3047-ME).
vii



institutional and other gains. The executing agencies have progressed rapidly under the proj ect, but
remain highly vulnerable to changes in their operating environment (particularly to funding levels and
staffing changes).
Summary of Findings, Future Operation, and Key Lessons Learned
11.   The project was largely successful in meeting the stated objectives of building a basic
institutional infrastructure in support of long-term scientific and technological development. This
success is particularly striking in light of the macroeconomic instability experienced during
implementation. Although this support for creating a supply of basic S&T infrastructure may be
considered appropriate given the chronic underinvestment during the 1980s, the project should
have incorporated measures to promote articulation of demand for S&T services and for linkage of
research to societal needs. Given the challenges facing Mexican firms during a period of rapid
trade liberalization, the project clearly should have aimed for a much more direct and immediate
impact on firm-level technological capabilities. A second failure in project design was the lack of
incentives to link research with teaching, thus potentially reducing the impact of research on the
formation of skilled human resources.
12.   The project enhanced the stability of scientific funding during the crisis of 1994-95, when
as so often happened in the past, research funding was threatened by fiscal cutbacks. The project
helped to sustain development of an R&D capacity in Mexico which would be hard to replace and
will likely prove increasingly important to future development.
13.    The Government requested a follow-on operation to support a second generation of reforms
to science and technology (S&T) policy. The Knowledge and Innovation Project (KIP), approved on
June 16, 1998, is designed to enhance the effectiveness of research support programs while increasing
linkages to user groups in society and industry. In addition, the KIP supports a restructuring of
CONACYT's programs to promote university-industry linkage and industrial technology
development. In parallel, SECOFI has initiated a series of studies to assess strategic options in
competitiveness policy with support of a Japanese grant.
14.   The project lessons include:
(i) institutionalization of a competitive mechanism for allocation of research funds in a
developing country can be feasible and beneficial, particularly with close participation of
scientific community in the planning and review process;
(ii) a well-designed system for support of science incorporates incentives for scientific
excellence and national developmental needs in an open, competitive, and transparent
manner. Especially desirable is some mechanism to strengthen fields of science and
technology that are significantly weaker than appropriate to national developmental needs
while maintaining incentives for excellence;
(iii) development of "one-stop shopping" mechanisms, which aim to reduce the
expenditure of time and effort of researchers in obtaining resources, is a difficult process
requiring a high degree of commitment by implementing agencies over the medium-term;
(iv) development of human resources for science and technology is perhaps the most
important output of this project, and this output could have been strengthened by more
viii



explicit incorporation of incentives for training of Masters and Doctoral students in
research grants. In addition, systems to support scientific research should include a
mechanism to ensure participation of highly-qualified young researchers in funding
programs;
(v) in tandem with the creation of a world-class metrology capability, policies to stimulate
private sector demand for services and formation of a private secondary metrology
network are critical to achieving significant medium-term impact on competitiveness of
local industry;
(vi) similarly, creation of a world-class intellectual property rights (IPR) agency is a
necessary but not sufficient condition for productive application of IPR for development.
In tandem with institutional strengthening, a systemic approach is needed to address
weaknesses in the judicial system and broader issues in the creation, diffusion and
application of technical knowledge in the country;
(vii) the project also confirms the truism that continuity in staffing at the managerial and
technical level is critical in assuring the successful creation or restructuring of an executing
agency. The high degree of stability in each executing agency across a change in
administration helped ensure rapid and sustained institutional development.
ix



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
(LOAN 3475-ME)
Part I: Project Implementation Assessment
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.    The objectives of the project were to:
* Rationalize public sector funding (for science and technology) by supporting
increased public spending for: (i) grants for scientific research projects and
equipment infrastructure projects, with improved allocation on a competitive basis to
generate relevant research and train scientists; and (ii) technology infrastructure in
the area of metrology, standards and quality assurance, and intellectual property
protection to improve services to industry, thereby encouraging modernization and
enhancing competitiveness, and increasing attractiveness for foreign investment.
*  Develop institutions through (i) supporting the restructuring of a science research
program, and (ii) development of institutions providing support to industry in
metrology, standards and quality assurance, and intellectual property protection to
improve the efficiency of public support in these areas.
2.    Given the broad program of structural reforms implemented by the Mexican Government
during 1986-1992, including rapid trade liberalization, privatization, and deregulation of
industry', the project's aim to strengthen the basic infrastructure for scientific and technological
development was well-directed and timely. The growing openness of the Mexican economy
required greater investment in scientific and technological systems to boost long-term
competitiveness of enterprises.
3.    The project supported the Government's National Program for Science and Technology
Modernization 1990-94 (NPSTM), which set the goal of increasing total public and private
expenditure for S&T from 0.32 percent of GDP in 1991 to 1.0 percent in 1994 and 2.0 percent in
2000 (Staff Appraisal Report - SAR, p. 5). In light of evidence from leading industrial countries,
the Government's goal was perhaps overly ambitious even in the absence of the financial crisis of
1994-1995.2
4.    At least one half of the total in 2000 was to be provided by the private sector; however,
neither the NPSTM nor the project supported explicit measures to incentivize private spending in
the sector. Although support for creating a supply of basic S&T infrastructure was appropriate
given the chronic underinvestment during the 1980s, the project should have incorporated
I   Mexico Country Economic Memorandum - Fostering Private Sector Development in the 1990s.
Report No. 11823-ME.
2   1993 public support for research and development in advanced economies ranged from 0.5 to 0.6
percent of GDP in Japan and Italy, to 0.9 to 1.1 percent of GDP in France, the United Kingdom and the
United States. Key determining factors included military R&D spending, Government strategy, and per
capita income.



measures to promote articulation of demand for S&T services and for linkage of research to
societal needs. Given the challenges facing Mexican firms during a period of rapid trade
liberalization, the project clearly should have aimed for a much more direct and immediate
impact on firm technological capabilities. A second failure in project design was the lack of
incentives to link research with teaching, thus potentially reducing the impact of research on the
formation of skilled human resources.
5.    The project was negatively impacted by the financial crisis of 1994-1995. In early 1995,
during the period of severe financial turmoil following the devaluation of the peso, the
Government requested a restructuring of the entire portfolio of Bank-financed projects under
supervision. A letter of amendment was signed November 17, 1995 to accelerate the
disbursement of funds under the Loan. The Bank agreed to accept retroactive financing of
US$80 million for activities associated with the Project (research scholarships, chairs of
excellence and repatriation grants) originally funded by the Government. The rationale for this
restructuring was to provide additional liquidity support to the Mexican Government at the time
of the financial crisis. Although the decrease in support to Project activities which resulted from
the financial crisis is unfortunate, the Bank and Government acted appropriately in response to
the financial stress experienced at the time.
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
6.    The project achieved a substantial positive impact toward meeting the stated objectives at
Appraisal. In the area of rationalization of public sector funding, substantial progress was made
toward creation of the competitive review mechanism for science research projects and in
creating a basic infrastructure in the areas of metrology and intellectual property protection.
Regarding the goal of increased attractiveness to foreign investment (technology components),
the project was largely successful in meeting the established goals. The impact of the project on
the competitiveness and modernization of Mexican industry is positive but not yet fully realized.
Finally, the project's impact on overall financing to science and technology activities is
ambiguous as a result of the financial crisis of 1994-1995.
7.    As is customary in science and technology projects, net present value, economic rates of
return and financial rates of return were not included in the Staff Appraisal Report for this
project, and it is not possible now to estimate the value of project benefits. While inefficiencies in
the procurement system reduced the positive effect of the project (para. 32), available evidence
suggests that the project did represent a low cost solution to the problems of increasing human
and material resources for science and technology.
Science and Technology Research Component
8.    The science research component supported the creation of PACIME (Programa de
Apoyo a la Ciencia en Mexico - Program to Support Science in Mexico) under the administration
of CONACYT. This component was successful in achieving the goals of supporting high-quality
research and human resource formation while building sustainable institutions. Several external
evaluations by international and Mexican experts have agreed that this basic goal has been met.3
3   Aron Kuppernann, Evaluation of PA CIME, April 1997; Dan Newlon, Evaluation ofPA CIME,
February 1997; Carlos Elizondo Mayer-Serra, PACIME: Algunos Criterios de Evaluaci6n, 1997; and J. M.
2



9.     Rationalization of Public Sector Funding. The project aimed to increase the creation of
scientific knowledge and formation of trained scientists. The number of publications by Mexican
authors in the ISI data base rose from 1,869 in 1991 to 2,619 in 19954 and 2,974 in 19965. This
59 percent increase in five years is a significant indicator of project success. Articles by Mexican
researchers in the natural sciences and engineering increased from 0.23 percent of the ISI data
base in 1992 to 0.32 percent in 19956, supporting the conclusion that Mexican scientific
production increased during the project. The average number of citations per paper for Mexican
papers was 1.91 in 1992-96, slightly improved from the 1980's, but was still far lower than the
three to five citations per paper found in advanced developed nations.'
10.   Public funding of science and technology (Gasto Federal en Ciencia y Tecnologia,
GFCYT) was 0.45 percent of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in 1981, but fell to a low of 0.25
percent of GDP by 1988 and 1989. The project was conceptualized when GFCYT was
recuperating. The percentage of GDP devoted to Federal expenditure on science and technology
increased to 0.41 by 1994, but with the budget pressures of the succeeding years again dropped to
0.35 percent in 1995 and 1996 returning to 0.41 percent in 1997. Thus, in spite of the setback of
the 1994-95 crisis, the project has been accompanied by increasing public funding for science
and technology. However, 1997 GFCYT had not reached the level of 1981, and the original
arguably unrealistic targets set by the Government of Mexico were not met. Despite this
shortfall, the project may have forestalled an even more dramatic reduction of public support for
science and technology under the budgetary pressures of 1995-96.
11.    The NPSTM targeted an increase of the number of Mexican researchers in the National
System of Researchers (Sistema Nacional de Investigadores - SNI) from 6,442 in 1991 to 19,300
in the year 2000 (SAR, page 36). The number of enrolled researchers was 5,969 in 1996 (IACyT,
page 84) and 6,278 in mid 1998 (Project Implementation Plan, Knowledge and Innovation
Project - KIP). However, the initial reduction in numbers of researchers appears to have been
largely due to reduction of the numbers of SNI Candidates, confined primarily to the category of
membership for engineers and technological researchers. Thus SNI shifted away from
technological research toward increased support for basic researchers. Survey results indicate
that well over 30,000 people were actively involved in research in Mexico in 1996. The 1,300
retention and repatriation grants made during the project, and the estimate of some 250 doctoral
students graduating per year in Mexico (many with CONACYT financial assistance for their
research) suggest that the project has made a substantial contribution to sustaining and increasing
human resources for research in Mexico.
12.   Institutional Development. The project has succeeded in institutionalizing a process of
allocation of resources for research and research infrastructure in CONACYT through merit
Rojo, PACIME Science Programme Report, April 1997 available in project file. Also see, Programa de
Repatriaciones: 1991-96: Parte L Resultados, Anailisis e Impacto, SEP-CONACYT, November, 1997.
4Indicadores de Actividades Cientificas y Tecnol6gicas, 1996: Mexico, Table HI..15, CONACYT, 1996.
5Uribe E., Misael and Hector Delgado A., Producci6n Cientif ca Mexicana 1980-1996 por Areas del
Conocimiento, Unidad de Apoyo para la Evaluacion de la Actividad Cientifica, CONACYT, undated.
6 Science and Engineering Indicators; 1998; Table 5-49, U.S. National Science Foundation, 1998.
7 "U.S. Share of World Papers Slides as Europe, Asia Rise", Science Watch, Vol. 8, No. 3, May-June 1997.
3



based competition judged by independent scientific review boards. This is a significant
accomplishment. Perfecting peer review is by its nature an ongoing process. The KIP supports a
second generation of reforms to the system. CONACYT also has established a science and
technology indicator program for the first time, and the data is widely available through hard
copy and Internet publication. This accomplishmnent is likely to help further rationalize
management of science and technology in Mexico.
13.   One objective of the project was to decrease fragmentation of CONACYT funding, both
concentrating resources in the best projects and allowing integrated support for research projects
(one stop shopping). The project did result in an initial increase in the size of research grants
provided by CONACYT, but the average research grant size peaked in 1993 at US$62,000,
dropped to US$35,000 by 1995, and returned to US$51,000 in 1997. Early progress in de-
fragmentation was interrupted at the time of the economic crisis and change in administration.
The infrastructure grants, which were the largest in the program, were reduced in number in
1994, and eliminated thereafter. Similarly, the numbers of projects per year strengthening
postgraduate education was reduced greatly in 1994 and thereafter. Several new modalities of
chairs of excellence grants were introduced, and the numbers of these grants increased in the
latter years of the project, as did the individual research grants. A new category of grants for
sabbaticals and postdoctorates was introduced and many such grants were made in 1996 and
1997. Overall, the program went from 1,306 grants in 1992 with a total value of US$32.1 million
to 1,796 grants in 1997 with a value of US$65.8 million. Thus overall, the average value per
grant rose faster than inflation, but was still less than US$37,000 in 1997. The KIP seeks to
continue the effort to provide "one-stop shopping" for Mexican researchers.
14.   During 1990-1995, CONACYT reduced staff by 21% while adding new responsibilities,
making the agency considerably more staff efficient, but less efficient than was planned in the
SAR. With 1150 staff positions in 1990, CONACYT reports 360 staff in the Joint Directorate for
Scientific Research (DAIC) and a total staff of 843 in 1992. There was a modest increase in
CONACYT staff in mid-project with the addition of two responsibilities: (i) administration of
SNI, transferred from SEP; and (ii) coordination of the SEP-CONACYT system of science and
technology institutes. Total staff is reported to be 912 in 1998. Prior to the 1992 reorganization,
CONACYT had 162 management positions. The SAR reported that higher and mid level
positions were reduced 54 percent in 1992, with 72 Directorships or Sub-directorships.
Retrospective data show that there were 76 such positions in 1992. The number of management
positions was increased to 172 in 1993, with the transfer of new responsibilities to CONACYT,
and remains at that level today.
Metrology Component
15.   Industrial Competitiveness and Foreign Investment. The CENAM component did not
include direct indicators of impact on either industrial competitiveness or attraction of inward
foreign investment to Mexico. However, project output indicators and firm interviews indicate a
positive impact on both areas. The calibration services provided by CENAM are indicative. The
SAR projected that CENAM would calibrate 820 instruments during project implementation
versus the actual figure of over 5700 during 1992-1997. Demand from industry for calibration
service has far outstripped projections. In addition, CENAM's client list includes a large number
of foreign-owned enterprises - an indication of perceived quality of CENAM services as well as
the agency's role in helping to attract foreign investment. The high demand for CENAM's
4



relatively high-cost services, however, indicates the weakness of the system of secondary
metrology facilities in Mexico (see para. 45 for further discussion).
16.   Institutional Development. The component was highly successful in achieving goals of
institutional development, especially in light of the budgetary reductions resulting from the
financial crisis. Following initial delays in construction, CENAM management moved rapidly to
establish a world-class facility with international recognition from peer organizations. CENAM
was selected to preside over the Interamerican Metrology System during 1995-98, a position
which involves coordination of five basic measures on a regional basis.
17.   In spite of the initial construction delays, CENAM achieved most Appraisal estimates of
investment and institutional development during the originally scheduled implementation period.
By 1995, end of the implementation period projected in the SAR, CENAM had established 83
laboratories versus 31 as planned. Expenditure on equipment during 1992-95 was only slightly
higher than Appraisal estimates (US$30.5 million versus US$26.6 million at Appraisal). This
increased number of laboratories was achieved primarily through a review of metrological
priorities and cost effectiveness of equipment purchases.
18.   After the financial crisis of 1995, budgetary allocations for component activities were
dramatically reduced (para. 5). Annual budgetary allocations, including Government and Bank
funding, fell from a high of US$32.1 million in 1994 to US$13.72 million in 1996. As a result,
loan disbursements were delayed. In October 1997, the Government requested the reallocation of
remaining funds of US$3.8 million for retroactive financing of activities under the CONACYT
component.
19.   Nevertheless, total financing for the component, including Government contributions,
reached US$111.9 million by 1997, versus US$62.6 million at Appraisal.8 US$11.8 million of
the increased cost was due to construction cost overruns during 1993 and 1994 resulting from
unforeseen redesign requirements for conversion of the facilities of a former horticultural
research center. CENAM reports that the remaining US$37.5 million in increased cost resulted
primarily from operational costs arising from the longer implementation period.
Intellectual Property Component
20.   Industrial Competitiveness and Foreign Investment. As in the case of the metrology
component, the SAR did not include explicit impact indicators in this area. Nevertheless,
institutional development indicators cited below, (e.g., reduced delays, improved enforcement)
imply that the component has supported incremental progress toward the goal of industrial
competitiveness. The overall system of intellectual property protection, however, continues to
experience weaknesses in two areas: (i) enforcement and (ii) utilization by Mexican nationals.9
Interviews with private firms indicated continuing problems in enforcement of intellectual
property rights due to inconsistent treatment by the judiciary. Increased training of judicial staff
sCENAM project cost includes US$1.0 million provided under the Mexico Industrial Technology Loan
(2747-ME) for building remodeling and physical contingencies.
9IMPI is responsible only for "industrial property", e.g., patents and trademarks. Other forms of IPR,
including copyright and plant variety protection, are undertaken by other agencies.
5



and the creation of a specialized intellectual property court are measures which could improve
enforcement activities. Use of the system by Mexican firms and individuals has remained low.
Only 116 patents were awarded to Mexican entities in 1996 out of a total of 3,186 (3.6 percent).
In 1992, by contrast, 9.1 percent of patents (out of 3,160) were awarded to Mexicans.
21.    Factors which may explain this reduction include the tighter requirements for granting of
IPR after legal reform in 1993, higher fees charged by IMPI, reciprocation agreements with the
United States and European Union, and the financial crisis of 1994-1995. The optimal level of
IPR protection accruing to Mexican firms is a complex issue, depending on the strength of local
technology institutions and openness to imported technology arnong other factors, and will not be
fully explored in this paper.
22.    The low level of IPR use is also a result of weaknesses in the system for generation and
diffusion of knowledge. Although selected Mexican universities and research institutes have
developed world-class scientific capabilities, incentive systems and regulations too often impede
collaboration with industry and utilization of IPR.
23.    With respect to foreign investmnent, the component supported strengthening of
intellectual property rights critical to the implementation of the North American Free Trade
Agreement (NAFTA) in 1994. The high proportion of intellectual property protection provided
to foreigners in Mexico (96.4% of patents in 1996) gives a clear indication to foreign investors
that Mexico is committed to providing intellectual property protection.
24.   Institutional development. IMPI has substantially met project objectives in terns of
institutional development criteria. Created by decree in December 1993, IMPI reduced delays in
award of patents from 6 years to 2.5-3.0 years by 1996, a performance level similar to worldwide
best practice. Enforcement activities have increased in tandem, from 886 resolutions/opinions
issued in 1994 to 1711 in 1997. Inspections related to intellectual property violations have also
increased, from 947 in 1994 to 1504 in 1997. This progress is largely due to two factors: the
improved quality of IMPI staff, through training and staffing renewal; and investment in
information systems (e.g., digital scanners, networked databases) which radically simplified
operations. Benefits of informatics use include eliminating the printing of over 23,000 document
pages per month, with corresponding reductions in processing time and staffing and storage
requirements.
25.    The SAR indicators focused on project inputs rather than results. IMPI surpassed the
sole operational indicator established at Appraisal. As estimated at Appraisal, IMPI's own
income from services was expected to cover 2.5 times the agency's operational costs. Actual
cost recovery averaged 3.2 times operating costs during implementation.'0
26.    Overall cost of the component, at US$32.1 million, was less than the Appraisal estimate
of US$40.6 million. Component investment in informatics was slightly greater than planned at
Appraisal, due to rapid obsolescence of computer equipment. In addition, the agreement with the
°0 IMPI pricing policy has remained constant in nominal terms since 1994, reducing the income/expense
ratio from 4.3 to 2.7 between 1994 and 1996 (versus an appraisal projection of 2.5). This real
reduction in pricing was justified due to (i) reduced demand which resulted from financial crisis; and
(ii) continuing difficulties in enforcement which reduce effective value of IPRs.
6



World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) was renegotiated in 1996, resulting in a savings
in technical assistance expenditure. Administrative expenses Were responsible for the majority of
cost savings for this component (US$26.2 million actual versus US$34.6 million SAR). The
Bank financed US$4.1 million in component cost, with the remaining US$1.9 million reallocated
to support CONACYT activities under the project.
27.   The financial crisis of 1994-1995 reduced IMPI's budget significantly during 1995-1996;
however, IMPI was able to meet project institutional development objectives through a greater
emphasis on information technology and reliance on bi-lateral relationships for information
sharing and technical assistance.
Standardization Component
28.   The standardization component was intended to support strengthening of the Directorate
General of Standards of the Ministry of Commerce and Industrial Promotion, with an appraised
cost of US$17.3 million. The project included US$3.0 million in Bank financing under Loan
3475-ME for equipment purchases, promotion, technical assistance, and training, plus an
additional US$0.5 million from a previous Bank loan to undertake two studies11. US$3.6 million
was to be recovered from the private sector, and the remaining US$10.2 million was to be
provided by the Government.
29.   The condition for disbursement under the component, completion of the two studies
according to terms of reference agreed with the Bank, was met in a timely manner. However,
Government budgetary allocations were never made available for the component activities and no
funds were disbursed. US$2 million of the funds were cancelled on July 14, 1995 at the request
of the Government. The remaining US$1 million were reallocated to support CONACYT
activities in October 1997.
30.   Despite the lack of disbursement under the component, the DGN accomplished many of
the objectives agreed during Appraisal. A variety of measures to rationalize the system of
industrial norms and increase private sector participation have been undertaken. These measures
include a strengthened role for private sector consultative committees, creation of an information
center, and launch of an internet site with full-text downloading of official standards issued since
1993.
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
31.   Considering the severe budgetary impact of the financial crisis of 1994-1995, the project
performed strongly during implementation. Following initial delays often associated with new
executing agencies, institutional development goals were generally met or exceeded. ",This
success was due to the outstanding effort of teams encharged with reform/creation of the
executing agencies and strong support provided by NAFIN to reverse systematic delays in
procurement.
1  The studies, "Policy of Privatization of Activities in Standardization and in Verification and
Certification of Quality" and "Analysis and Alternatives for the Development of the Laboratory
Infrastructure in the Country" were financed under Loan 3074-ME in 1992.
7



32.   Procurement/disbursement. The complexity of procurement and disbursement
arrangements was the single largest weakness in project design, resulting in excessive delays and
burdensome procedures for beneficiaries and staff of CONACYT, NAFIN, and the Bank.
Procurement arrangements entailed multiple review stages and an enormous paper flow between
participating universities, CONACYT, NAFIN and the Bank. The extreme degree of
centralization, predictably, produced long delays and increased the burden on beneficiaries in the
research community. The project did not take into account widely used best practices in
procurement of scientific equipment from OECD countries, which entail making the recipient
institution responsible and accountable for procurement activities. In addition, changes during
1996 in Government procurement procedures applicable under the General Procurement Law
resulted in further delays and additional burden for CONACYT, NAFIN, and participating
universities.
33.   In June 30, 1995, just prior to the restructuring of the project (para. 5) total disbursements
had reached only US$37.5 million versus Appraisal estimates of US$120.0 million.
Commitments were to have been complete by December 30 of the same year, at which time they
had only reached US$90 million.'2 The discrepancy between the Appraisal estimates and actual
numbers must be attributed in some degree to overly optimistic estimates in the Staff Appraisal
Report. For example, the SAR did not take multi-year research projects into consideration in
compiling disbursement estimates. A series of other issues also impacted disbursement. First,
available retroactive financing of up to US$18.9 million in projects approved by CONACYT in
1992 prior to loan effectiveness was not requested by the Government. In addition, the project
was designed so that loan disbursement was made against procurement of specific goods instead
of against grants for research projects. This design flaw resulted in excessive centralization and
ex-ante review by CONACYT, NAFIN and the Bank. Finally, further delays in disbursement
were experienced due to complexity of financial management system and initial start-up
problems within CONACYT and NAFIN.
Factors not Subject to the Borrower's Control
34.   The economic contraction resulting from the financial crisis of 1994-1995 caused a
reduction of budgetary support for all project activities. In response to the crisis, the Government
requested a restructuring of the project as described in para. 5.
35.   The CONACYT component was affected by the growing but still low demand of
Mexican industry and government for research services, and for hiring of staff with research-
based degrees from Mexican institutions. More positively, the strong economic performance of
Mexico just before and in the early years of the project and recently has contributed to the growth
of support for research from both the public and private sectors.
36.   Regarding the CENAM component, unforeseen design problems and construction delays
resulted in slippage of startup by approximately one year. Only one laboratory was launched
during 1993 versus a projected Appraisal estimate of 13. This delay was offset in 1994, as 51
laboratories were under operation versus SAR estimate of 22.
12 The reallocation of US$80 million for rapid disbursement in November 1995 enabled the original
closing date of June 30, 1998 to be met.
8



37.   The financial crisis negatively impacted industry demand for intellectual property
protection during 1995. Growth in demand for IMPI services returned in 1996 and continues to
expand rapidly.
Factors Subject to the Borrower's Control
38.   As in other projects in Mexico, annual delays in transfer of budget allocation to the
project affected the project adversely. Regarding the science research component, regulations
and procedures of the Mexican customs service were poorly suited for the importation of
scientific equipment, resulting in delays and damages. To this end, special rules were
promulgated in 1997 to facilitate importation of sensitive equipment.
39.    Customs procedures involved excessive delays. Researchers reported that physical
inspection practices too often resulted in damaged equipment. Financing of customs duties was
also problematic. Initially, customs duties were paid from a special fund endowed by the
Government. However, that fund was not replenished as it was used, and research institutes were
required to pay their own duties. In 1997, research equipment was granted an exemption from
customs duties. Despite this recent improvement, researchers and their institutions report that the
customs system remains responsible for continuing delays and onerous procedures.
Factors Subject to the Implementing Agency's Control.
40.   Continuity in staffing at the managerial and operational level has played a critical role in
assuring the successful reform/establishment of the executing agencies. Two of the agencies
(CONACYT and CENAM) received a new Director General following the change of
administration in 1994 but key operational staff remained in place. IMPI has maintained the
same leadership since its creation in January 1994. Changes in senior staff responsible for the
project were kept to a minimum by the Government. This stability has played a key role in
ensuring rapid institutional development of the entities.
D. Project Sustainability
41.   Project sustainability is likely to be strong, given the strong institutional development and
likely future growth in demand for science and technology services in Mexico. The development
objectives (of growth with stability, social development, and modernization of the state) stated in
Mexico's CAS imply increasing demand for creation and application of knowledge and technology,
highly skilled scientific and technological human resources, technological infrastructure (including
metrology, standards, quality control, intellectual property rights protection), and modernization of
state institutions supporting science and technology. Conversely, reduced prospects for future
growth - or renewed macroeconomic and budgetary instability - could undermine institutional and
other gains. The executing agencies have progressed rapidly under the project, but remain highly
vulnerable to changes in their operating environment (particularly to funding levels and staffing
changes).
42.    Science Research component. CONACYT's competitive review process appears
sustainable, enjoying a continuing high level of support from the academic community. A return to
the previous allocation system is highly unlikely. The follow-on Knowledge and Innovation Project
supports a second-generation of reforms to improve effectiveness and increase linkage of research
9



with potential users groups and applications. Bank financing is programmed to decline as a
proportion of total CONACYT funding to ease the transition to full counterpart financing.
43.   Metrology component. CENAM appears well-positioned to continue to serve the needs of
Mexican industry and society, with a well-trained technical staff and administration, state-of-the-art
equipment and strong demand for service from industry. Several areas of CENAM's strategy,
however, will be critical for the future health of the organization.
44.   Retention of highly trained technical staff and administrators isa top priority for CENAM.
However, there is evidence that salary levels for technical staff are non-competitive with
comparable positions in industry. Analysis of CENAM staff hired away by industry during 1996-
1997 indicates an average 60% increase in salary. Given the high expense, large time requirements,
and bi-lateral cooperation required to train technical staff, remuneration policy should encourage
long-term employment and career building within CENAM.
45.   In addition, CENAM's strategy for promoting the development of the network of private
secondary metrology facilities will be critical for achieving the long-term project objective of
industrial competitiveness. CENAM's Mesura program was established in 1995 to encourage
formation of a network of metrology service suppliers through technical assistance to laboratories
and end users. The continued evolution of this program will be important to assure long-term
project objectives of supporting industrial competitiveness are met.
46.   Intellectual Property Rights. Prospects for sustainability at IMPI appear strong as a result
of capable management and financial self-sufficiency. In order to meet the growing needs of
industry, IMPI has developed plans for expansion of services and capabilities. Beyond IMPI,
however, the broader system of intellectual rights protection requires additional development to
ensure the benefits of IPR accrue to Mexican industry and academia. Interviews with private
firms indicate that a greater specialization and expertise in IPR is required in the judiciary. In
addition, efforts of IMPI and CONACYT to diffuse information and strengthen IPR capacity
within universities and research institutes is an important element of an overall strategy.
E. Bank Performance
47.   Overall, Bank performance is considered satisfactory. Implementation costs were held
low, and the considerable capacity of the counterpart institutions was allowed to grow and be
applied to the management of the project.
48.   Preparation and Appraisal: The Bank had relatively little experience in support of
governmental institutions providing R&D funding and technological services outside of sector
specific mission contexts (such as agricultural research and development, or health research) and
therefore relied heavily on external experts for project design. As discussed in para. 3, several
targets related to the objectives of the project were perhaps overly optimistic. The Bank changed
the project team during negotiations, and some Mexican counterparts report difficulties in
continuity as a result.
49.   Implementation. The delays in procurement, described in para. 32, were partially the
result of normal start-up difficulties within new implementing agencies. However, the design of
procurement arrangements agreed with the Bank were clearly sub-optimal. Given the Bank's
relative lack of experience with funding of scientific research, lessons of worldwide best practice
10



for procurement of scientific equipment were not fully taken into cqnsideration. The successor
Knowledge and Innovation Project addressed this issue by (i) disbursing against individual grant
agreements vs. procurement of goods; and (ii) strengthening accountability and capacity at the
university level. Similarly, delays between disbursement of funds by the Government of Mexico
and disbursement by the World Bank occurred due to inefficiencies in the financial management
system. The Bank, as a participant in the design of that system, bears some of the responsibility
for the delays.
50.   A cadre of technical advisors was involved by the Bank in the design, implementation
and evaluation of the project. Counterparts in Mexico report a very positive experience with
these consultants and the continuity in project supervision they helped provide.
51.   The project was radically changed during the economic crisis of 1994-95. Bank effort to
quickly reprogram funds from existing projects to meet Mexican foreign exchange needs during
the crisis should be commended.
F. Borrower Performance
52.   Overall, the Borrower performed well in the implementation of the project. Despite the
unfavorable macroeconomic environment, most implementation indicators were met or exceeded.
CONACYT was successful in establishing a merit-based, competitive review process.
Evaluation committees were appointed quickly, and met frequently during the life of the project.
CONACYT staff developed a data base of some 3,000 scientific reviewers, and indeed involved
thousands in actual proposal reviews. CENAM attained a high level of operational effectiveness
and international recognition within a remarkably short time period. IMPI has also established a
solid record - in terms of operational effectiveness and impact on IPR protection - during a short
four-year history.
G. Assessment of Outcome
53.   The project contributed positively to the development of the scientific and technological
infrastructure critical for Mexico's transition to a higher-value added, knowledge-based
economy. Designed in the midst of Mexico's economic liberalization, this project should be
viewed as a direct compliment to the structural adjustment program. Creation of basic S&T
capability and institutions is likely to remain critical for the long-term competitiveness of
Mexican industry. Without well-trained human resources, intellectual property protection,
accurate measurements, and appropriate industrial standards, Mexico would be unable to attain
sustained economic growth necessary to boost real incomes and living standards. The direct and
immediate impact on productivity is not possible to measure given available information, and
would be difficult under any circumstances. However, evidence from institutional development
indicators and available impact indicators suggest a positive potential contribution toward
Mexico's long-term economic development. The project outcome is rated as satisfactory.
H. Future Operation
54.   The Government requested a follow-on operation to support a second generation of reforms
to PACIME. The Knowledge and Innovation Project (KIP), approved on June 16, 1998, is designed
to enhance the effectiveness of research support programs while increasing linkages to user groups
in society and industry. In addition, the KIP supports a restructuring of CONACYT's programs to
11



promote university-industry linkage and industrial technology development. In parallel, SECOFI
has initiated a series of studies to assess strategic options in competitiveness policy with support of a
Japanese grant.
I. Key Lessons Learned
55.   In tandem with a program of structural adjustment, a country assistance strategy should
address the longer-term development of the infrastructure necessary for creating higher rates of
sustained economic growth.
56.   It is possible to institutionalize competitive allocation of research funds in a country at
Mexico's level of development, and to do so using a merit-based approach which maintains the
proactive role of the researcher and involves the scientific community as the critical elements in
the review process.
57.    Standard peer review-based systems tend to reward the areas of existing strength in a
country. A well-designed system for support of science incorporates incentives for scientific
excellence and national developmental needs in an open, competitive, and transparent manner.
Especially desirable is some mechanism to strengthen fields of science and technology that are
significantly weaker than appropriate to national developmental needs while maintaining
incentives for excellence.
58.   In funding research grants programs, it is important to recognize the unique
characteristics of procurement of scientific instrumentation and supplies.
59.   Projects which support an organization with only partial control over resources used by
the direct beneficiaries must take this fact into account in various ways, including being willing to
share or donate the benefits of projects (e.g. intellectual property rights) with other providers of
resources, and to accept and exercise influence in the sector rather than control over it.
60.   Progress in development of "one-stop shopping" mechanisms, which aim to reduce the
expenditure of time and effort of researchers in obtaining resources, is a difficult process
requiring a high degree of commitment by implementing agencies over the medium-term.
61.   The development of human resources for science and technology is perhaps the most
important output of this project, and this output could have been strengthened by more explicit
incorporation of incentives for training of Masters and Doctoral students in research grants.
62.    Systems to support scientific research should include a mechanism to ensure participation
of highly-qualified young researchers in funding programs.
63.   Creation of a locally-available, world-class metrology capability is likely to have a
positive influence on competitiveness of local industry and attractiveness to foreign investment.
However, policies to stimulate private sector demand for services and formation of a private
secondary metrology network are critical to achieving significant medium-term impact.
64.    Similarly, creation of a world-class intellectual property agency is a necessary but not
sufficient condition for productive application of IPR for development. In tandem with
12



institutional strengthening, a systemic approach is needed to address weaknesses in the judicial
system and broader issues in the diffusion and application of technology in the country.
65.    This project also confirms the truism that continuity in staffing at the managerial and
technical level is critical in assuring the successful creation or restructuring of an executing
agency. The high degree of stability across a change in administration helped ensure rapid and
sustained institutional development.
13



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
Achievement of Objectives
Not
Substantial     Partial     Negligible    Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                                 X
Sector policies                            X
Financial objectives                                      X
Institutional development                  X
Physical objectives                        X
Poverty reduction                                                                     X
Gender concems                                                                        X
Other social objectives                                                 X
Environmental objectives                                                X
Public sector management                    X
Private sector development                                X
Project Sustainability
Likely                        Unlikely                        Uncertain
x
Bank Performance
Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory        Deficient
Identification                                                   X
Preparation                                                      X
Appraisal                                                        X
Supervision                                                      X
Borrower Performance
Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory       Deficient
Preparation                                                       X
Implementation                                                    X
Covenant compliance                                               X
Assessment of Outcome
Highly Satisfactory        Satisfactory        Unsatisfactory       Highly Unsatisfactory
x
14



TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS
Year of
Loan Tile                     Purpose                Approval          Status
Preceding Operations
Industrial Technology  Finance development of industrial   1987       Completed. PCR
Development (2747-ME)  technology upgrading; US$1.0 million           (Report #1327 1) issued
reallocated to support initial stage of        6/30/94.
CENAM construction.
Industrial Restructuring   Support for financial restructuring of  1989  Completed. PCR
(3047-ME)              industrial enterprises; US$0.5 million         (Report #14679) issued
reallocated to support preparatory studies     6/26/95
for DGN component.
Following Operations
Knowledge and          Support generation, diffusion and   1998       Effectiveness expected
Innovation Project     application of knowledge through               10/98
(4349-ME)              support for research, linkage of
universities with industry and industrial
technology development and application.
Competitiveness        Strategic assessment of support services   1997  Under implementation
Enhancement Japanese   for small- and medium enterprises
Grant
15



TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle              Date planned                   Date actual
Identification                         06/89                         06/89
Project Brief                           N/A                           N/A
Preappraisal                            6/91                         6/16/91
Appraisal                               9/91                         1/22/92
Negotiations                           4/6/92                        4/6/92
Board Presentation                      12/91                        5/26/92
Signing                               6/16/92                        6/16/92
Effectiveness                           6/92                        10/15/92
Project Completion                    12/31/97                      12/31/97
Loan Closing                          6/30/98                        6/30/98
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS:
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL ($ MILLION)
FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97  FY98  Total
CONACYT - Research  0.00   9.74   27.03  22.78   9.59   8.96   78.10
Equipment
CONACYT - Procurement 0.00   0.06   0.17   0.00   0.02   0.00    0.25
consultants
CONACYT - Scholarships,  0.00    0.00   0.00   80.00   0.00   0.00   80.00
Stipends
CENAM - Equipment 0.95    1.24   9.35   6.08   2.29   1.65   21.56
CENAM - Technical 0.00    0.62   0.92   0.54   0.71   0.24    3.03
Assistance
IMPI - Equipment 0.00   0.00   0.00   0.85   1.01   1.64   3.49
IMPI - Technical assistance  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.42   0.14   0.00   0.56
Totalbyyear  0.95   11.67  37.48  110.66  13.75  12.49  187.00
(1) Fiscal year (July-June)
16



TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
|Key Implementation Indicators in SAR     Unit           Estimated            Actual
CONACYT
Budget by Program
Research                              US$ Millions         237              218.97
Infrastructure                        US$ Millions         350              216.55
Chairs of Excellence                  US$ Millions          70               41.81
Repatriation                          US$ Millions          100             26.96
Duration of research projects                         Number Amount  Number  Amount
One year                            Number/US$000s    522    43,804    1,225    32,771
Two year                            Number/US$000s    792    68,434    2,693    121,291
Three year                          Number/US$000s   1,382   130,383    828        57,636
More than three years               Number/US$000s        -                 4        171
Repatriations and chairs of excellence
Repatriation                             Number             500              1,364
Chairs of excellence                     Number              60              1,886
Postgraduates/Visiting Professors        Number             100               253
CENAM
Equipment                             US$ Millions        26.57              34.59
New Staff                                Number            283                208
Training                               Staff Months       1,420             918.28
Technical Assistance                  Staff Months of       57               54.03
Specialist
Laboratories                             Startup            31                 104
IMPI
Hardware, software, equip, doc, databases  $000 purchased  2,362             3,894
Technical Assistance                   Staff months         52                 103
Training                                $000 costs         250              437.87
New Staff                                Number             30                 77
Cost Recovery                       % operational cost     500               1,525
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
Indicators for project operation not included in SAR. Please refer to Project Operation Plan,
Annex 2.
17



TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study                   Purpose              Status            Impact of Study
Analysis and Alternatives  Restructuring of  Completed by      Policy to develop private
for Development of      network of public    Covenant date of   testing laboratory network
National Laboratory    testing laboratories  November 15, 199:2
Infrastructure
Privatization of Standards  Increasing private  Completed by   Progress in increasing private
and Quality Testing and    sector role in    Covenant date of   sector role in standardization
Certification           standardization      November 15, 1992  began slowly, with greater
activities                             momentum since 1996
18



TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS ($ MILLION)
Appraisal Estimate                    Actual/Latest
Item                       Local     Foreign       Total        Local      Foreign      Total
CONACYT
Research Assistants   17.18      -         17.18        21.90         -          21.90
Repatriations   40.00     40.00       80.00        24.27        2.69       26.96
Chairs of Excellence   29.40     -          29.40        12.76         -          12.76
Visiting Professors   8.40     8.40       16.80         23.24       2.80        26.04
Postdoctoral Fellowship  -          -           -           23.34       13.30       36.64
Scholarship (Becas)  -           -           -           14.30       70.30       84.60
Text Books    9.80        -          9.80         1.31          -          1.31
Laboratory Equipment   44.72     288.63      333.35        39.88      209.54       249.42
Computing Equipment    6.16      14.29       20.45         16.65       71.00       87.65
Consumables    8.90       24.02       32.92        43.19         -          43.19
Seminars   19.28       3.92       23.20                 -                 -
Current Expenses    -          -           -           33.33         -         33.33
Consulting    -           -           -            -          0.56        0.56
Administrative Expenses   176.21     -         176.21       218.96         -        218.96
Contingencies   10.60     15.36       25.96           -           -           -
Subtotal   370.65    394.62      765.27        473.13      370.19      843.32
CENAM
Administrative Expenses   13.35      -         13.35         13.74         -         13.74
Operational Costs   2.97       -          2.97         39.28         -         39.28
Seminars and Promotions    0.49     1.97        2.46          0.56        2.23        2.79
Technical Assistance  -         0.32        0.32           -          1.94        1.94
Studies and Training    0.92    3.68        4.60          0.31        1.23        1.54
Laboratory Equipment    6.64     19.93       26.57         7.63        22.88       30.51
Vehicles    0.30        -          0.30         0.45         -          0.45
Building remodeling    9.85       -         9.85         21.66         -          21.66
Price Contingencies    2.18      -          2.18           -           -           -
Subtotal*   36.70      25.90       62.60        83.62       28.29       111.91
IMPI
Administrative Expenses   34.60      -         34.60         26.16         -         26.16
Informatics    3.14      0.78        3.92         4.26         1.06        5.32
Technical Assistance  -          1.06        1.06          -          0.58        0.58
Price/Phys. Contingencies    1.02     -          1.02           -           -           -
Subtotal   38.76      1.84        40.60        30.42        1.64        32.06
DGN
Administrative Expenses   -          -          8.00          -            -           -
Consultants    -          -          0.76           -           -            -
Training    -           -          3.85          -            -           -
Studies, Seminars, Prom.  -          -          2.32           -           -           -
Infonnation Center   -          -          0.78           -           -           -
Equipment     -           -         1.00           -            -           -
Contingencies    -          -          0.60           -           -            -
Subtotal*   13.69      3.62        17.31          -           -            -
Project Total*             459.80     425.98      885.78        587.17      400.12      987.29
*Includes financing from previous Bank loans, as follows: US$1.0 million from Industrial Technology
Loan (2747-ME) for CENAM component; and US$0.5 million from Industrial Restructuring Loan (3047-
ME) for DGN component.
19



TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING ($ MILLION)
Appraisal Estimate                      Actual/Latest
Component                 Local      Foreign      Total           Local      Foreign      Total
CONACYT
Bank    3.62        146.38      150.00          68.27       90.09       158.36
Government   214.53      113.34      327.87          140.84      238.74      379.58
Grant Recipient   152.50    134.90      287.40          264.02      41.36       305.38
Institutions
Subtotal   370.65     394.62      765.27          473.13      370.19      843.32
CENAM
Bank*    5.10        25.90       31.00             -         24.60       24.60
Government   31.60          -         31.60           83.62       3.69        87.31
Subtotal*   36.70      25.90       62.60           83.62       28.29       111.91
IMPI
Bank    4.16         1.84       6.00             2.41        1.64        4.05
Government   34.60          -         34.60           28.01         -         28.01
Subtotal   38.76       1.84       40.60           30.42        1.64        32.06
DGN
Bank*    1.00        2.50        3.50              -           -           -
Government    9.08        1.12        10.20             -           -           -
Private Sector    3.61       -         3.61              -           -           -
Subtotal*   13.69       3.62       17.31             -           -            -
Project Total
Bank*    13.88       176.62      190.50          70.68       116.33      187.00
Government   289.81      114.46      404.27          252.47      242.43       494.91
Grant Recipient   152.50    134.90      287.40          264.02       41.36      305.38
Institutions
Private Sector    3.61       -         3.61              -           -           -
Total*   459.80     425.98      885.78           587.17     400.12       987.29
*Bank financing includes US$ 1.0 million from Industrial Technology Loan (2747-ME) for CENAM
component and US$0.5 million from Industrial Restructuring Loan (3047-ME) for DGN component.
TABLE 9: FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
*No formal financial or economic cost benefit analysis was undertaken for this project.
See para. 7 for discussion.
20



TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Agreement   Section   Covenant  Status         Original        Revised     Description of Covenant            Comments
Type              Fulfillment Date   Fulfillment
Date
Guarantee      2.03        4         C                                    Counterpart financing
availability
3.01        10       NC                                    SECOFI/DGN                 No funds disbursed un
responsibilities under part C   DGN component.
of project
3.03        5         C                                    Creation of IMPI           Created in December:
3.05        10        C     11/15/92                       Completion of DGlb studies
3.06        5        C                                     Transfer of facilities to
CENAM
3.07        9         C                                    Annual reviews of DGN
program
4.01        1       N/A    Within six months               Audit reports of DGN       No commnitments or
of end of each                 accounts                   disbursement under
fiscal year                                              component.
Loan           2.03         3        C     6/30/98                        Closing Date
3.01 (a)     5         C                                    Subsidiary Agreement
between Borrower,
Guarantor, CONACYT and
CENAM
3.01 (b)     5         C                                    Subsidiary Agreement
between Borrower,
Guarantor and IMPI
4.01        1         C     Within six months              Audit of Special Account
of end of each                 and SOEs
fiscal year
Sch. 1,       5         C                                    Conditions of disbursement
3(d)                                                         for IMPI
CONACYT        4.02         1        C     Within six months              Audited financial statements
of end of each
fiscal year
CENAM          4.02         1        C     Within six months              Audited financial statements
of end of each
fiscal year
21



Covenant Types:                                                         Present Status:
I = Accounts/audits              8 = Indigenous people                  C = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue    9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting  CD  complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries  10 = Project implementation not       CP  complied with partially
3 = Flow and utilization of project  covered by categories 1-9          NC = not complied with
funds                         11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
4 = Counterpart funding              budgetary or other resource
5 = Management aspects of the        allocation
project or executing agency  12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6 = Environmental covenants          regulatory/institutional action
7 = Involuntary resettlement     13 = Other
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
There was no significant lack of compliance with an applicable Bank Operational Manual
Statement (OD or OP/BP).
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of project cycle     Weeks          US$
Through Appraisal           136.1       344,300
Appraisal-Board              6.1         18,700
(Negotiation)
Board-effectiveness           -
Supervision                 77.3        202,500
Completion                   7.3         25,800
Total                       226.8       591,300
22



TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Month! No. of  Days in   Specialized skills/a  Impl. Dev.  Type of
year  persons   field                      status obj. problems/
b
Through                 06/89    4        3
Appraisal               03/90    2        5
08/90    1        9            CSP
11/90    2        7        Ec, TM, CTP
01/91    6        17     Ec, TM, CSP, CTP
05/91    1        3             Ec.
06/91    8        11     Ec, TM, CSP, CTP
09/91    3        4           TM, Ec
12/91    3        11          TM, Ec
01/92    5        11          TM, Ec
Appraisal through Board   N/A
approval
Board approval through   N/A
effectiveness
Supervision             11/92    1        3             TM            2     2    PR, CI
02/93    4        11      TM, CS, TM, CT      2     2    PR, CI
07/93    3        4          TM, T, CT        2     2    PR, CI
08/94    3        7        TM, CTP, CSP       S    S    PR, PO
03/96    2        5           TM, TP          S     S      CF
02/95    2        5          TM, CTP          S     S    PR, CF
02/97    3        4        CSP, TM, CTP       S     S    CF, PO
Completion             06/98     2        7          TM, CSP          S     S
a/ CSP - Consultant Science Policy, CTP - Consultant Technical Policy Specialist, TM - Task Manager, CS -
Cons. Science, T - Technology, CT - Cons. Tech., Ec - Economist, TP - Technology Policy
b/ PO - Policy, CF - Counterpart Funding, PR - Procurement, CI - Construction, Installation Progress
23



ANNEX 1
ANNEX 1: ICR MISSION AIDE MEMOIRE
Mexico Science and Technology Infrastructure Project
Loan 3475-ME
Implementation Completion Mission Aide Memoire
July 7, 1998
1.    A World Bank mission visited Mexico from June 28 to July 7, 1998 to undertake the
final supervision mission for the Science and Technology Infrastructure Project (STIP) and to
initiate preparation of the corresponding Implementation Completion Report (ICR). The mission
was comprised of Daniel Crisafulli (Task Manager) and John Daly (technical advisor). The
mission team would like to extend the warmest appreciation to the staff of CONACYT, IMPI,
SECOFI/DGN, CENAM (executing agencies), NAFIN (the borrower), and SHCP (guarantor) as
well as members of the research community with whom they met during the mission.
2.    The mission was intended to evaluate implementation of the project since the previous
supervision mission in early 1997. In addition, the mission team discussed experience of
implementation during the life of the project with executing agencies and beneficiaries. The
mission also reviewed the information prepared in advance by the executing agencies as
requested by the Bank. All information requested by the mission has been made readily available
in a timely manner by the executing agents or has been agreed for early delivery.
3.    Overall experience under the project has been satisfactory, with significant positive
impact having been achieved in spite of the high degree of macroeconomic and funding
instability during the implementation period. The final disbursement was made prior to the
closing date of June 30, 1998. Experience under the four project components is discussed in
greater detail below.
4.    The mission discussed the overall structure of the ICR as required by the Bank along
with the timetable for preparation of Part II of the ICR by the Government. The content of the
Project Operational Plan (Annex), which outlines the Government's strategy for project
management following the completion of implementation, was also reviewed by the mission
team.
Timing
5.    The mission agreed with NAFIN and the executing agencies the following timetable for
preparation of the ICR:
-     Bank to send draft of Part I and Annexes to Government by July 31, 1998.
-     Govermment to provide Part II by September 15, 1998 (to be coordinated by NAFIN).
Audit Reports
6.    The Government has requested an extension of one month in the submission of the
Project's audit reports for 1997. The Director for Mexico will convey to NAFIN the decision
regarding the request for an extension via official letter.
24



ANNEX 1
CONACYT
7.    Current Status. Funds for the Science Research component executed by CONACYT had
been completely committed prior to 1997 and therefore no new activities were supported by the
project since the previous supervision mission. In March 1997, CONACYT began preparation of
the successor Knowledge and Innovation Project (KIP), approved by the Bank on June 16, 1998.
The KIP incorporates the experience gained during implementation of the STIP and supports a
second stage of reform to the system of support for science and technology in Mexico.
8.    Staff Reductions. The STIP included provisions for CONACYT internal reform and
staffing reductions as described in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR). CONACYT provided a full
description of the staffing changes undertaken since Appraisal.
9.    Initial Delay in Implementation. As is often the case with new executing agencies under
Bank projects, significant delays in project disbursement were experienced during project start-
up. These initial delays were the result of weak procurement and financial management systems
at the university level and within CONACYT and difficulties in interfacing with complex
requirements of the Bank, NAFIN, SHCP, and SECODAM. Bank procurement and
disbursement arrangements for the project were not well-suited to support science research
projects. In addition, the transfer of CONACYT from the Ministry of Planning and Budget (SPP)
to the Education Ministry (SEP) resulted in delayed disbursement of the Loan. The lessons of the
STIP were incorporated into the innovative implementation arrangements agreed under the new
KIP, which decentralized greater responsibility (with accountability) to the university level. The
mission would like to emphasize the importance of close coordination between CONACYT,
NAFIN, SHCP, and the Bank to ensure a smooth start-up period under the new loan.
Centro Nacional de Metrologia (C
10.   The mission reviewed the progress in implementation under the component durinig 1997-
98. Although disbursements rose slightly from the 1996 post-crisis low, CENAM was unable to
make use of approximately US$3.8 million (out of US$30 million in original category) due to
budgetary restrictions. The undisbursed balance for this component was reallocated to support
CONACYT expenditures.
11.   The mission is concerned that CENAM is not receiving a sufficient level of budgetary
support to cover the growing needs of Mexican industry for primary metrology services.
Although a highly technical subject, metrology forms one of the most basic elements of the
technological infrastructure of any country - and is one which continues to require a high level of
subsidy throughout the OECD. Despite extremely strong performance since start-up, CENAM is
a young organization which requires further investment in order to fulfill its mission. Currently,
CENAM covers only a fraction of the nation's metrological needs and should be grown
significantly in the medium-term.
12.   A second strong concern of the mission is the risk of loss of highly skilled (and
expensively trained) human resources due to non-competitive salary levels in CENAM. The
human capacity in CENAM was developed at great cost under the project and via generous bi-
lateral support. The mission views the Government's commitment to improve salary levels as
critical to project sustainability.
25



ANNEX 1
13.   The mission views that the organizational status of CENAM should be re-examined to
optimize decentralized decision-making and conditions for success.
14.   The strategy of CENAM has been to develop a strong primary metrology capability
while promoting demand in industry for metrological services and the creation of a private-sector
network of secondary laboratories through the Mesura program. The mission views this strategy
as appropriate, and that care should be taken to ensure that the program remains highly demand-
driven and tied to industrial needs.
Instituto Mexicano de Propiedad Industrial (IMPI)
15.   The execution of IMPI during 1997-98 has been exemplary, with disbursements
accelerating to approximately US$2.8 million. The growth in demand for IMPI services has
remained very strong, an indicator of IMPI's value to its clients. In addition, IMPI has been
requested by the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) to provide technical
assistance to other developing countries, a strong indicator of perceived excellence.
16.   Despite the institutional success of IMPI, the Mexican system for intellectual property
rights (IPR) remains highly problematic. Patent enforcement procedures via the judicial system
remain time-consuming and costly. Although the primary problem resides in the legal/judicial
community, IMPI has addressed the issue via increased hiring of inspectors, use of information
systems, and preparation of training materials/manuals for judicial staff. The lack of a
specialized court for intellectual property disputes is a critical constraint. Partly as a result of the
weak enforceability of patents granted, INPI has effectively frozen its tariffs since 1996.
17.   In addition, applications for IPR by Mexican nationals continues to decrease as a percent
of total applications. The small number and slow growth of Mexican patents is due to a variety
of factors, including the lack of tradition of patenting in the academic community. The mission
recommended that IMPI consult with CONACYT regarding IPR coverage in the new procedural
manual for researchers which is currently under preparation.
Direccion General de Normas (DGN)
18.   The original US$3 million allocation for standardization activities in Mexico was never
requested for disbursement, although all conditions for disbursement were met. At the time of
the 1994/5 financial crisis, US$2 million of the funds were cancelled at the request of the
Government. The remaining US$1 million were reallocated for use by CONACYT.
19.   Despite the lack of Bank financing, DGN has embarked on a strong program of activities
since 1996. These activities were oriented toward building the basic infrastructure for industrial
standards - including the promotion of greater leadership in standardization on the part of the
private sector.
20.   The recent accomplishments of DGN notwithstanding, standardization remains acutely
underdeveloped in Mexico. The mission recommends that the Government place a renewed
emphasis on standardization as a tool for the competitiveness of Mexican industry.
26



ANNEX 2
ANNEX 2: PROJECT OPERATION PLAN
Operational Plan for Science and Technology Infrastructure Project
CONACYT
The Secretariat of Education and the National Council for Science and Technology have
promulgated the National Program of Science and Technology 1995-2000 which is in turn
developed within the context of the National Development Plan, 1995-2000. The Program
includes a number of goals for science and technology, among the most noteworthy beingI:
"a. To orient resources of the society toward the financing of scientific and technological
activities so that the national expenditure on research and experimental development reaches 0.7
percent of the Gross National Product in the year 2000.
"b. To significantly increase during the six year period the number of scholarships which are
authorized each year and substantially increase the number of excellent graduate programs.
"c. To increase significantly the quality of research.
"d. To assure that, as far as possible, research is linked effectively to social and economic
development problems of the nation. With this objective, various studies are to be undertaken to
identify the themes of national interest in which science and technology can provide significant
support.
"e. To promote the development of practices in Mexican enterprises which lead to innovation and
continual improvement of quality.
"f. To increase the productive interchange between the scientific community and the
entrepreneurial community as much as possible.
"g. To promote the development of scientific and technological culture.
"h. to strengthen the process of decentralization of scientific activities and technological
modernization.
"i. To assure that the SEP-CONACYT system is an effective instrument for decentralization of
scientific and technological activities, as well as an effective medium for linking scientific
research with the technological and social necessities of the country.
"j. To assist the active and free participation of persons, groups of researchers and institutions
which propose projects of interest for the scientific and technological development of the nation.
"k. To increase international cooperation in science and to stimulate more intense contact of the
scientific and technological communities with the outside.
l http:H!www.main.conacyt.mx/procytl/intro.html
27



ANNEX 2
"1 to significantly increase the qualifications of the faculty of institutions of higher learning,
putting in place the necessary training programs to achieve this purpose.
"m. To achieve better coordination of the various actions promoting scientific and technological
activity, in order to perform tasks with greater reach as well as to resolve various deficiencies
which burden the national science and technology system."
Within the overall framework provided by this plan, CONACYT in the implementation plan for
the Knowledge and Innovation Project (KIP) has proposed to spend at least US$ 71.5 million per
year on its science programs for the next five years, with the following allocations:
Table 1. Total Estimated Budget of CONACYT for Science (UJS$ 1000s)
Subcomponent\Year       1998     1999     2000     2001      2002     Total
Research Support (KIP)    69,600   55,875   50,000   39,125   28,250   242,850
Field Development (KIP)   150    8,000    8,000    8,000    8,000    32,150
Administration, studies,   2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000    10,000
M&E (KIP)
Unallocated Resources                               5,000    10,000   15,000
(KIP)_                                                                      _
Total of Resources      71,750   65,875   60,000   54,125   48,250   300,000
included in KIP
Resources of CONACYT   0         5,875    11,750   17,625   23,500   58,750
not included in KIP             I
Total                   71,750   71,750   71,750   71,750   71,750   358,750
The KIP Research Support is itself further subdivided into Research Projects, support specifically
directed to young investigators, and programs for the dissemination of scientific and
technological information as follows:
Table 2. Support for Scientific Research (US$ 1000s).
Activity\Year      1998      1999     2000     2001     2002      Total
Research Projects    56,980   45,744   40,934   31,124   21,314   196,096
Program for Young   12,320   9,891    8,851    7,811    6,771    45,642
Investigators                        I        I_I                         I
Dissemination      300      241       216      190       165      1,111
Total              69,600   55,875   50,000   39,125   28,250   242,850
28



ANNEX 2
Further, the Research Projects from Table 2 are divided into individual and group/infrastructure
modalities as follows:
Table 3. Research Projects from the Knowledge Innovation Project (US$ 1000s).
Modality\Year      1998     1999      2000     2001     2002     Total
Individual Projects   40,361   32,402   28,995   20,588   12,181   134,527
Group/Infrastructure  12,000   9,634    8,621    7,608    6,595    44,457
Projects
Other   _          4,619    3,708   1 3,318    2,928    2,538    17,112
Total              56,980   45,744   40,934   36,124   31,314   196,096
The individual research projects will be three to four years in duration, with a maximum budget
of US$ 150,000 per project. The group and infrastructure projects will have a maximum value of
US$ 1 million each. The decreasing funding shown in Table 3 represents only the portion funded
by the Knowledge Innovation Project, and the added funding of CONACYT shown in Table 1 is
intended to assure that the Individual Projects continue at at least the level of US$ 40 million per
year, while the Group and Infrastructure Projects continue at US$ 12 million per year. The
allocation among project types is only indicative, and will vary as Evaluation Committees vary
the assignment of funds to project modalities, and as CONACYT varies the assignment of funds
to areas corresponding to Evaluation Committees.
CONACYT is initiating a new program to strengthen scientific and technological capacity in such
fields which are currently inadequate to Mexico's needs. This program is a result of the
experience of PACIME, and emphasizes stimulating development of new and emergent fields of
science and technology. The "Field Development" program will initiate support for some eight
new fields (and continue support for one field established on a test basis in 1997) according to the
following schedule:
Table 4. Funding for Field Development (US$ 1000s)
1998     1999     2000     2001      2002     Total
New Fields Selected     0        2             2             2        8
(number)
Funding (US$ 1000s)     150      8,000    8,000    8,000    8,000    32,150
Funding for Young Investigator Programs is also divided into several modalities as shown in
Table 5.
Table 5. Modalities for Young Investigators: Amount of Resources (US$ 1000s).
Modalities\Year    1998     1999     2000     2001      2002     Total
Research Projects   4,300    3,452    3,089    2,726    2,363    15,930
Installation       2,000    1,606    1,437    1,268    1,099    7,409
Postdoctorates     1,520    1,220    1,092    964       835      5,631
Repatriations and    4,500    3,613    3,233    2,853    2,473    16,671
Retentions
Total              12,320   9,891    8,851    7,811    6,771    45,642
29



ANNEX 2
The individual research project grants for young investigators will be 20 percent larger than those
in the general competition, and will represent special incentives for outstanding young
investigatoTs. Installation grants will be available to assist young investigators beginning their
careers to establish their research. Repatriation grants will be available to encourage Mexican
researchers abroad to return to Mexico, and Retention grants to encourage Mexican researchers
to relocate in Mexico rather than move abroad.
The financial resources would find substantial numbers of grants, as shown in Table 6.
Table 6. Expected Number of Projects to be Funded in 1998
Expected Number of
Projects
Individual Projects        600
Installation Grants        200
Young Investigator Grants    30
Group /infrastructure Grants   20
Further, CONACYT has proposed to continue its institutional development, implementing "one-
stop shopping" to allow researchers to seek more comprehensive support for their efforts through
a simplified proposal process. One-stop shopping is to be implemented by 1999.
The monitoring and evaluation system developed under PACIME will be strengthened, especially
through improved ex-post evaluation and follow-up of projects, and feedback of that infornation
into the proposal review process. The performance indicators used in the KIP project will also be
improved from those used in PACIME.
CONACYT has also proposed to complete several studies during the KIP project, including:
-  a study of sources of financing for research in Mexico;
-  a study on the use of research results;
*  a continuing survey of graduate students in science and engineering at the Masters
and Doctoral levels;
*  a study on scientific infrastructure and the maintenance of scientific equipment.
Centro Nacional de Metrologia (CENAM)
CENAM plays a unique role in Mexico's basic infrastructure for science and technology in
support of industry and commerce, academia, and government. Metrology plays a particularly
critical role in industry through quality assurance and standardization.
The growth of CENAM should correspond to the growing needs of industry and commerce, the
recognition of which is critical for continued economic growth. Based on the projected needs of
industry, CENAM proposes the following program of expansion during the period 1998-2001.
These figures are approximate and are under review by CENAM's Executive Council pending
submission for approval by higher authorities.
30



ANNEX 2
Area                     Investment         Additional Staff        Training
(Thousands of US$)                       (Thousands of pesos)
Mechanical                   4,977                 24                 7,128
Physical                     3,042                 22                 7,840
Materials                    4,175                 14                 9,066
Electrical                   3,845                 17                 4,266
Technological                  945                  4                 2,916
Services
Total                       16,984                 81                31,216
This investment plan was determined via benchmarking with national metrology labororatories in
Brazil (INMETRO) and USA (NIST), considering the expected demand for primary metrological
services from Mexican industry, academia and government.
In order to consolidate advances in CENAM, the following activities are planned: finalize
establishment of national patrones now in process; develop new patrones in magnitudes not
currently covered; increase endogenous capacity in basic metrological research and development;
and continue development of incipient field of chemical metrology and the production of certified
reference materials.
These activities require a high degree of specialization in CENAM's scientific, engineering, and
technical staff. Therefore, development of CENAM's human capital takes on a vital importance.
Instituto Mexicano de la Propiedad Industrial (IMPI)
IMPI was created by Executive Decree on December 10, 1993 as a decentralized public agency
encharged with protection of industrial intellectual property. The agency was given additional
legal responsibilities under the Ley Federal del Derecho del Autor (Federal Copyright Law),
which took effect in March 1997, to protect copyrights via administrative action.
As a result of the increasing importance of intellectual property protection, the demand for
services of IMPI have grown more quickly than projected at the time of Appraisal. IMPI reached
the 5-year projections for income generation and net return after only 3 years of operation, in
spite of the 1994-1995 financial crisis. Projected growth in demand for intellectual property
protection remains very strong due to several factors, including increased foreign investment and
mutual recognition agreements with other countries. The expanded mandate of IMPI, together
with rapidly growing demand for IMPI services, necessitates increased investment in the
Institute.
31



ANNEX 2
Due to rapid growth, and the need to offer high quality services comparable to other international
agencies, IMPI plans to undertake a three-year program of institutional strengthening. This
program includes the following elements:
*  Increase staff by an additional 295 positions from current total of 361 and expand to a second
location in Mexico City, creating a special division of copyright enforcement;
*  Establish four regional offices (North, Bajio, West, and Southeast) to better interface with
clients given increasing decentralization of industrial activity in Mexico;
*  Maintain state-of-art in information and telecommunication systems via necessary investment
in hardware and software;
*  Upgrade existing systems to obtain maximum output and extend lifespan;
*  Increase use of information technology in interface with clients, both in provision of services
and via electronic payment systems. The goal is a progressive elimination of paper in IMPI
operations.
32



ANNEX 3
ANNEX 3: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
[Translation of original Spanish version of Borrower's Contribution1]
CENAM
Accomplishment of objectives. The construction of CENAM has been clear since its
incubation as a project (1978): "to establish a national metrology center to support the
development of industry".
At the end of the project with the World Bank in 1997, the proposed objectives of the
original project have been surpassed. It can now be assured that Mexico counts with an
infrastructure to support the immediate need for meteorological activities of Mexican
industry. Also, this infrastructure has already gained international recognition.
The limits to future growth of CENAM will depend mainly of the industrial growth of
Mexico and on the continuity of government support for maintaining the quality of the
national standards and calibration laboratories that have been already established.
Problems Faced. The first problem that CENAM faced was the short time allocated to
adapt the buildings that would be occupied as metrology laboratories. Dividing
CENAM's development in two stages solved this problem. This also permitted to
overcome the financial crisis of 1995, which was the second important problem that had
to be faced.
As soon as the first stage was over in 1994, CENAM started to offer calibration services
and technical assistance to the national industry. It was detected that the National
Metrology System needed to be strengthened, so the development of special programs for
integrated metrology was undertaken, resulting in programs such as MESURA.
The special development stage was finished by 1997 with the completion of the building
for Chemical Metrology. This area will cover the growing demand for certification and
development of reference materials as well as for analytical services.
World Bank Performance. Since 1995, CENAM has been visited once a year by a
Supervision Mission sent by the World Bank. Information about the developing
activities as well as the budgetary details, were submitted to the Mission visits.
Although comments from CONACYT on the draft report were received and incorporated into this ICR,
the Goverrnent indicated that the Borrower's contribution (Annex 3) would not include a separate
section regarding CONACYT.
33



ANNEX 3
During each visit, the mission discussed the achievements that CENAM had reached as
well as the influence which the economic problems of Mexico could have in CENAM's
development.
Their advice has been of great value for CENAM, as indicated by the fulfillment of the
original objectives of this important project, although as it is expressed in the last
mission's Aide Memoire that "CENAM is a young organization which requires further
investment in order to fulfill its mission".
It is important to state that the final mission clearly understood that CENAM, in its
current stage, covers only a fraction of the nation's meteorological needs and should be
grown significantly in the medium-term.
IMPI
Attainment of Objectives
At the beginning of the project a number of general problems were identified, as
described below:
* The computer infrastructure at the beginning of the project did not allow the
development of new systems to increase the level of automation.
Objective reached: The computer infrastructure of IMPI was converted to an open
system with improved and more secure performance, acting as the base for client server
applications. At the same time, one computer for each administrative employee was
installed.
The low level of automation of internal operations resulted in delays and failed to
support the increasing demand for services by industry.
Objective reached: During 1996, 1997, and 1998 new systems and equipment were used
to improve operational efficiency. In trademarks, for example, the number of resolutions
per examiner increased from 250 to 300, while for industrial property protection the
capacity for emitting resolutions doubled.
* The method for consulting documents was not secure and was very slow. In addition,
the provisions for storing of supporting documentation were not adequate and were
only executed after the granting of legal property right.
Objective reached: A new method for inputting files using scanners was implemented.
This method has reduced the consultation of those documents in hardcopy and has
avoided the delays associated with microfilining (previous storage method).
34



ANNEX 3
* The local network did not meet the performance requirements to allow utilization of
modem, electronic data management systems.
Objective reached: The local network was completely converted to permit transfer of
data and images of files.
* No communication infrastructure was in place that allowed dissemination to the
public of information regarding industrial technology or the overall industrial
propriety system.
Objective reached: A new communication infrastructure based on the internet was
created. This system allows 80% of IMPI employees to have access to Internet, public
access via the IMPI web page, and dissemination of technological information. Diffusion
of information regarding trademarks will be underway soon.
* International standards for storage of massive volumes of information have
increasingly encouraged use of optical and compact discs for the purposes of storage,
information sharing with other property offices, and dissemination of information.
Objective Reached: The computer infrastructure was constructed for data storage,
organization, consultation and export (for production of databases or CD ROMs,
principally containing patent information).
- Initiatives of intellectual property institutes in other countries to upgrade and achieve
compatibility of systems increased the need for IMPI to incorporate international best
practices, in terms of technology and operations.
Objective Reached: New equipment has been installed (comparable to offices in Canada)
that reduced the resolution time of requests for trademarks and patents to international
standards of 3 months, and 2.5 to 3 years, respectively. Further reductions are likely once
the systems are fully operational.
* The ongoing establishment of new cooperation agreements, in which IMPI has
participated since its creation, obligates IMPI to develop new controls and standards
in the granting of trademarks and patents; in the storage and exchange of electronic
information, and in the editing process for official publications.
Objective Reached: As of today, IMPI fully complies with its international commitments
regarding the dissemination and exchange of information. In addition, IMPI has achieved
important savings in the cost of acquiring databases from abroad via increased
interchange activity with other industrial property agencies and has contributed to the
information resources available to other developing countries through donations.
35



ANNEX 3
IMPI has also reduced the time required for editing, production, and circulation of the
Gaceta de la Propiedad Industrial (Industrial Property Gazette) to 1.5 months after the
end of the month, compared to the 5 to 7 month delay previously experienced.
Problems Encountered
One of the primary difficulties encountered during the project was the lack of
administrative human resources for the project implementation, procurement procedures,
and most importantly the launch and future support of the new infrastructure.
As of today the demand for technical support outstrips the capacity of available
personnel.
Considering the above, it is extremely important for the project implementation to take
into account the nature of current capacity and be able to provide enough support during
the installation of the systems and equipment and until the end of the project.
Another difficulty pertained to the timing established by national laws and by the Bank
regarding the execution of the procurement procedures. In the case of tenders for which
no offer was received, the time available for the execution of the procurement processes
was exceedingly short (including time for repeat of tender, receipt, and installation).
Performance of the Bank during the project
In general the performance of the Bank during the project execution was satisfactory. All
activities were finished within the period established by the Bank and the information
was received on time with clear explanation of the procedures, policies, and norms.
Nacional Financiera (Financial Agent)
The loan was signed on June 16, 1992, however, the disbursement of funds did not begin
until 1994.
Under category 1-A of project 3475-ME, US$150 million was assigned for the
acquisition of scientific equipment, computers, laboratory materials. However, this
amount was reduced to $149 million, and the remaining $1 million was assigned for
hiring external consultant to provide guidance during the acquisition process.
Three private consulting companies were responsible for carrying out the national and
international competitive bidding procedure on behalf of the Research Institutes and the
Universities around the country.
This arrangement made enabled the researchers and consultants to jointly define the
technical specifications and conduct the process to award the contracts. In addition, the
36



ANNEX 3
World Bank authorized the standard bases that enabled Nacional Financiera (NAFIN)
and the Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnologia (CONACYT) to group international
competitive bidding packages and present them at Bank headquarters in Washington. The
various stages of local competitive bidding were reviewed and authorized by NAFIN.
It is important to mention the active participation of Mr. Stephen Carpenter, representing
the United States National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), who accepted
the responsibility for reviewing and approving the technical specifications and proposals
received.
Another advantage of hiring consultants [to support procurement] was the possibility to
attend to the full range of participating institutions and universities, which were spread
throughout Mexico.
The main activities, among others, undertaken by the consultants were: guiding the
researcher in the definition of technical specifications; preparing the bidding documents;
preparing and participating in the junta de aclaraciones jointly with administrative and
technical (researchers) staff of participating institutes and universities; supporting any
necessary modification of the bidding documents; participating in the opening of
proposals; participating in the evaluation of proposals; preparing the adjudication of
proposals; preparing the document explaining selection of winning proposals;
participating in the contract signing session; and interacting with the Financial agent
among others.
37



