I~~~~~~~~~~ I     SMP  ICT 
RESTRICTED
CIRCULATING COPY               Report No. P - 770
TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
IN CENTRAL FILES
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
AND
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO
THE GOVERNMENT OF CEYLON
FOR THE
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
January 7, 1970



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOP1ENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN AND DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF CEYLON
FOR THE MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Bank loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$14.5 million
and on a proposed credit from the Association in an amount in various
currencies equivalent to US$14.5 million, both to the Government of Ceylon,
for the Mahaweli Ganga development project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
20        The importance of the multi-purpose Mahaweli Ganga project for
Ceylon's economic development was identified by a Dank mission in 1961.
In July 1961, a study of a trans-basin diversion scheme was financed by
the U.S. Government. Following a second Bank mission in May 1962, which
recommended supplementary investigations both on technical and economic
aspects, a comprehensive irrigation and hydro-power study of the Mahaweli
Ganga basin and of Ceylon's north-central provinces was undertaken by
UNDP/FAO. This study resulted in the formu:lation of a M,'iaster Plan to be
implemented in three phases over a 30-year period, and a feasibility study
for the first stage of development. The Government approached the Bank
group for financial assistance for this first stage and the project was
appraised in February 1969. Negotiations took place in Washington between
December 8 and December 12, 1969. The Government delegation included
Mr. David Loos, Director of External Resources in the Ministry of Planning
and Economic Affairs, and Mr. T. Sivagnanam, Senior Assistant Secretary
of the Ministry of Lands, Irrigation and Power.
3.        Previou'ekdFikGroup assistance for agriculture and power in
Ceylon includes two IDA credits, aggregating $h.5 million, for lift
irrigation and land reclamation and drainage, and four Bank loans for
power, totalling $61.5 million, of which the first three have been
disbursed.



-2-
4.        The following is a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits
to Ceylon as of November 30, 1969:
Loan or                                               Amount   (US$ million)
Credit No. Year          Borrower        Purpose      Bank     IDA Undisbursed
101-CE      1954  Government of Ceylon   Power         15.9     -     _
209-CE      1958  Government of Ceylon   Power          7.3     -     -
283-CE      1961  Government of Ceylon   Power       lh.1      -     -
520-CE      1967  Development Finance    Industrial
Corporation of Ceylon Finance       4.o      -     2.6
121-CE      1968  Government of Ceylon   Irrigation      -     2.0    1.8
569-CE      1968  Government of Ceylon   Highways      4.9      -     4.9
133-CE      1968  Government of Ceylon   Highways        -     4.9   *L.9
634-CE      1969  Development Finance    Industrial
Corporation of Ceylon  Finance      8.0     -      8.0
636-CE      1969  Government of Ceylon   Power         21.0     -    21.0
168-CE      1969  Government of Ceylon   Land
Reclamation   -     2.5    2.5
Total (less cancellations)           75.2   9.4
of which has been repaid
to Bank and others                 11.L
Total now outstanding               63.8
Amount sold                3.3
of which has been repaid   2.6       0.7
Total now held by Bank and IDA      63.1    9.h
Total Undisbursed                    36.5   9.2    L5.7
5.        Ongoing projects are generally progressing satisfactorily.   Orders
are about to be  placed for equipment financed under the highway loan
and credit approved in 1968, and disbursements under the 1968 lift
irrigation credit (121-CE) have begun.
6.        No other lending operation in Ceylon is expected to be presented
in this fiscal year. A power transmission project will probably be
appraised in the §pring and could come up for consideration before the end
of the calendar year.
7.        IFC has not invested in Ceylon but recommendations will be
circulated shortly for both a loan and an equity investment in a textile
project, which would be financed jointly with the Development Finance
Corporation of Ceylon and the Bank of Ceylon. The uncommitted balance
of $1.2 million under the first DFCC Loan (520-CE) has been earmarked for
this project.



-3-
PART II  - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
AND DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
8.        Borrower:                Government of Ceylon
Amount:                  Various currencies equivalent to US$1l.5
million from Bank and US$1)j5 million
from IDA
Purpose:                 To assist in financing the first stage
of the Mahaweli Ganga Development Project,
wvhich includes the provision of additional
irrigation water for about 127,000 acres
in the dry zone of Ceylon and the
installation of a hO 14J of hydro power
generating capacity.
Amortization:            B?nk Loan: In 30 years including a 6 year
period of grace, through semi-annual
installments beginning February 1, 1976
and ending February 1, 2000.
IDA Credit: In 50 years including a 10 year
period of grace, through semi-annual
installments of i of 1% from February 1,
1980 through August 1, 1989, and of 1½.
from February 1, 1990 through August 1,2019.
Interest Rate:           7% per annum
(Bank Loan)
Service Charge:          3/h% per annum
(IDA Credit)
Commitment Charge:       3/b% per annum
(Bank Loan)
Estimated Economic
Return on Project:       12% per annum
PART III  - THE PROJECT
9.        An appraisal report entitled "Hahawveli Ganga Development Project,
Stage I - Ceylon" (PA-29a) dated December 30,1969,on the proposed project,
is attached.



10.       Agriculture is the largest sector in the economy of Ceylon,
accounts for 36% of the gross domestic product and 9P% of foreign exchange
earnings, and provides employment for well over half the labor force.
Since the expansion of major export crops is limited by world market
conditions, the Government has in recent years emphasized agricultural
production for the domestic market both to accelerate overall economic
development and to improve the balance of payments by reducing food imports,
particularly rice. Ceylon also has growring power neei3s. The capacity
of the system, including the works to be financed with Loan 636-CE of
August 1969, is expected to be able to meet demand up to 1974.
11.       Ceylon is climaticafly divided into wet and dry zones. At present
more than three-quarters of the population lives in the wet zone which
covers less than a third of Ceylon's total area. Although there is still
room for further improvement of agricultural productivity in this zone,
particularly through the adoption of improved farming practices, and
although some additional land may become available there when the total
area planted with tea is reduced, it is clear that major expansion of
production will have to take place in the dry zone.  The settling of
landless peasants on new land is also an important political and social
objective. The provision of reliable irrigation supply in the dry zone
is a pre-requisite and the Mahaweli Ganga, Ceylon's largest river, is
the major source.
12.       The Master Plan for the development of the Mahaweli Ganga
contemplates the progressive development of some 900,000 acres in the
dry zone, of which about 250,000 are already partially irrigated, as well
as the generation of about 900 MWI of hydro-electric power. Although further
studies will be required to determine the economic as well as the technical
feasibility of proceeding along the lines of the Master Plan, the proposed
project, which in any event is justified on its own merits, constitutes
an initial step in what may well become Ceylon's major development scheme
during the next decades.
13.       The main features of the works proposed for financing are two
major diversion schemes, one on the Mahaweli Ganga at Polgolla near Kandy,
and the other at Bowatenna on the Amban Ganga, which will enable the water
diverted at Polgolla to be directed toward two separate areas in the dry
zone of Ceylon. A 40 MW capacity hydro-power plant would be installed at
Polgolla which, upon completion, would be transferred to the Ceylon
Electricity Board, an autonomous authority created in July 1969 to handle the
generation, transmission, and distribution of electricity through most of
Ceylon. Under the proposed project, improved water supply would benefit
about 127,000 acres of land already under cultivation, including 4,000
acres planted to sugarcane, which would be improved under the project.



- 5 -
The main irrigation works, i.e., the diversion dams, tunnels, and main
canals, would, however, be designed to meet the irrigation requirements
of about 104,000 additional acres consisting essentially of new land
to be subsequently developed. The project would include feasibility
studies covering the next stage of development which would open up
about half of this new land as well as provide for further improvement
of existing land. As water becomes available, charges would be levied
at a rate to be determined, but in any event not less than Rs. 40 per
acre, which would be sufficient to recover the capital cost, without
interest, over 75 years.
14.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$h7 million
equivalent, of which the foreign exchange component would be $26
million. The proposed loan and credit would cover this amount together
with $3 million of interest and commitment charges on the Bank loan.
The balance would be provided by the Government. To the extent
practicable, the IDA credit would be disbursed first except for the
interest and commitment charges during construction which would be met
out of the Bank loan.
15.       The major civil works as well as the supply of equipment will
be subject to international bidding. The other civil works, which are
too small and scattered to attract international competition, will
either be carried out by Government agencies or let after local bidding.
A fifteen percent preference for local manufacturers has been allowed,
but local bids are expected only for the supply of about $100,000 worth
of vehicles. Ceylon's tariff system provides for Commonwealth preference
which will be applied in evaluating foreign bids. Since the beginning
of the current fiscal year, exchange transactions by Government departments
have been brought under the Foreign Exchange Entitlement Certificate
scheme which, as pointed out in paragraph 22, had the effect of
substantially raising the rupee cost of exchange. This is a step which
both the IIiF and the Bank have been urging for some time. Bids will be
evaluated on this basis.
16.       To facilitate carrying out the project, the Government has
decided to establish a Mahaweli Development Board, one of the main purposes
being to avoid time-consuming procurement and decision-making procedures
which would have to be followed if a Government department were to be
the chief executing agency. The actual staff of the Board, however,
will be small and the works will be carried out through special divisions
dealing exclusively with the Mahaweli Development Project within the
Irrigation, Agriculture, and other concerned Departments. To ensure
adequate coordination at the field level, special project units will be
established throughout the project area.  Similar units have already been
established elsewhere in Ceylon, including one in part of the project
area, and are operating successfully. The loan and credit will not
become effective until the legislaticn required to establish the Board
is enacted, an adequate organization has been set up, and the General
Manager and other key staff of the Board have been appointed. Consultants
acceptable to the Bank and IDA have already been retained by the Government



- 6 -
and it is proposed that expenditures incurred on this account since
August 1, 1969, amounting to approximately $250,000, be considered
eligible for reimbursement under the proposed credit.
17.       Upon completion of the project rice production is expected to
increase by about 83,000 metric tons or about 25% of Ceylon's rice imports
in 1968, and sugar production by about 10,000 metric tons or about
5% of current sugar imports. On the basis of $100 per metric ton for
imported rice and $0.05 per lb. ($110.20 per metric ton) for imported
sugar, annual gross foreign exchange savings would amount to more than
$9 million equivalent. The project would thus make a significant
contribution towards improving Ceylon's difficult balance of payments
position. In addition, Ceylon's firm power generating capacity
would be increased from 320 MW to 340 I-N. The rate of return to the
economy of the project as a whole has been estimated on conservative
assumptions at about 12%.
PART IV  - LEGAL INSTRUMvETS AND AUTHORITY
18.       The draft Loan Agreement and the draft Development Credit
Agreement between the Government of Ceylon and the Bank and the Association
respectively, as well as the report and recommendation of the committees
provided for by Article III Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement
of the Bank, and by Article V Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement
of the Association, respectively, and the text of Resolutions approving
the proposed loan and development credit, are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
19.       The draft Loan and Development Credit Agreements conform
generally to the pattern of Agreements for projects of this kind.
Section 5.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement and Section 6.02
of the draft Loan Agreement provide for an additional event of default
should certain actions be taken which would have the effect of materially
modifying the organizational structure and powers of the Board.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
20.       An economic report entitled "Current Economic Position and
Prospects of Ceylon" (SA-2a), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on February 17, 1969. A new economic report based on the findings of
a mission which visited Ceylon in October 1969 will be circulated
shortly.  The main conclusions of the new report are set out below.



- 7 -
21.       1968 was the best year for the Ceylon economy since the
economic crisis of 1965 which led to the formation of the Ceylon Aid
Group and of a new economic policy franework. By 1968 the immediate
crisis had been overcome and a growth rate in GDP at constant prices
of around 8% achieved. This growth was largely due to success in
increasing food production, especially rice, to replace imports,
together with fuller use of existing industrial capacity, which resulted
from larger imports of raw materials and other intermediate goods.
Also important was speeding up the completion of projects long under
construction and commissioning a number of public sector industrial
plants. Moreover, Ceylon laid the basis for future economic advance
by channeling into investment one-fifth of the increase in resources
that became available last year. Unfortunately, the prices of Ceylon's
exports of tea and rubber continued to decline. There was also a
sharp increase in the price of imported rice, which offset the reduction
in the volume of rice imports caused by the halving of the subsidized
rice ration in late 1966 and the increase in domestic rice production.
These developments virtually nullified the Government's efforts to
allocate more of its own exchange for imports of intermediate and capital
goods. Thus, the increase which did occur in these imports was made
possible only by the increased inflows of non-project aid from Aid
Group members and short-term balance of payments assistance from the IMF.
22.       Growth in 1969 is likely to be slightly lower than in 1968,
partly because of a drought which reduced the second rice harvest.
1969 also saw disturbing balance of payments developments. In late
1967 Ceylon devalued the rupee by about 20%. In mid-1968 a further
exGhange reform was introduced; it involved the establishment of the
Foreign Exchange Entitlement Certificate scheme and presently has the
effect of raising the rupee cost of exchange by 55% for a substantial
part of Ceylon's exchange transactions. These moves were welcomed by
both the fl4F and the Bank, particularly since they permitted Ceylon
to liberalize imports of raw materials and other intermediate goods
which were previously subject to detailed exchange controls that had
become increasingly difficult to administer. Liberalization did not
lead to any significant problems in 1968, partly because of continued
heavy drawings on the IM' to support the balance of payments and partly
because it took importers some time to adjust to the new conditions.
However, in 1969 imports in the liberalized categories were much
larger than expected. In addition Ceylon was unable to draw further
on the INF -- indeed it was obliged to make some small net repurchases.
Also, the new exchange system was not monitored as closely as the
tight exchange situation merited, with the result that action to
restrain the growth of imports was not taken and Ceylon was obliged to
draw heavily on short-term lines of credit with commercial banks abroad.



By the end of November, these drawings totalled about $30 million and
Ceylon's liquid reserves were negligible. Thus Ceylon finished 1969
with a weakened liquidity position despite the fact that disbursements
of aid in 1969 wzill probably be around $75 million, up from $57 million
in 1968.
23.       Ceylon's present payments predicament should not be allowed
to hide the real progress made since 1965. From a position of crisis
and economic stagnation, Ceylon has acquired a real growth momentum
induced by a combination of good economic management and increased
capital inflows. If this momentum is to be sustained in the years
ahead, substantial capital inflows will continue to be needed, particularly
since the price prospects for Ceylon's major export crops are far
from bright. Even if international agreement is reached on tea it is
unlikely to do more than stem the downward trend in prices.
24.       Although the present policies have served Ceylon well since
1965, they need to be re-examined now because of the changed environment
and because some of their objectives, notably self-sufficiency in rice,
are being rapidly achieved. In adapting and strengthening its policies,
Ceylon must deal with three important problems. First, how can the
increased incomes created by successful development be tapped both to
provide the resources for additional investment and to prevent an
excessive demand for consumer goods? Second, how can the kind of policies
and organization which have successfully increased rice production be
adapted to provide a stimulus to increase efficient production of other
foodstuffs and manufactured goods? Third, how can the growjth momentum be
sustained after the possibilities for efficient import substitution are
largely exhausted and when earnings from traditional exports are likely
to grow only very slowly? None of these questions has an easy answer,
but it is clear that incentives for exports need to be markedly increased,
particularly since, at present, sales on the domestic market are far more
profitable than export sales for most types of manufactured goods.
25.       This re-examination of the economic policy framework will be
one of the first tasks of the Government which is to be elected in the
first half of 1970. Nothing can be expected before the election other
than limited action aimed at preventing a further deterioration in
Ceylon's liquidity. Provided, first, the right decisions are made after
the election, second, some kind of international agreement is reached on
tea, and third, sufficient capital inflows are forthcoming, Ceylon should
be able to maintain the growth rates achieved in 1968 and 1969. This
will certainly require aid disbursements, other than from the INF, at a
somewhat higher level than in 1969.



-9-
26.       If the necessary aid disbursements are to be achieved, Aid
Group members will have to continue providing non-project aid. They should
also seek to soften the terms of aid as much as possiule; if these terms
continue as in the past,debt service will rise rapidly from 9% of export
earnings in 1969 to 16% in 1975. This reflects the basic weakness of
the present structure of exports, which cannot be expanded in pace with
rising levels of GNP unless a substantial volume of new products are
brought to the export market. With these uncertain prospects, Ceylon's
capacity for borrowing on conventional terms is limited and an increasing
proportion of the Bank Group's support should be on IDA terms. However,
Ceylon is considered creditworthy for the $11.5 million borrowing on
Bank terms proposed for the project in conjunction with an IDA credit
of the same amount.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
27.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan and proposed credit
would comply respectively with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and
of the Association.
PART VII - RECONNFNDATION
28.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan and the proposed development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
January 7, 1970



