RESTRICTED
Report No. PA-29a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accurocy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
MAHAWELI-GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAGE I
CEYLON
December 30, 1969
Agriculture Projects Department
Aoc*flo __65- 3-3



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
At "Official" Exchange Rate
US$1.00              =         Ceylon Rupees (Rs.) 5.95
Rs 1.06             =          us$o.168
Rs 1 million        =          us$168,000
At Higher Effective Exchange Rate
US$1.00             =          Ceylon Rupees (Rs) 9.23
Rs 1.00             =          us$o.lo8
Rs 1 million        =          US$108,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 acre (ac)                    =    0.405 hectares
1 mile (mi)                    =    1.609 kilometers
1 square mile (sa mi)          =    2.564 square kilometers
1 foot (ft)                    =    0.3048 meters
1 acre-foot (ac-ft)            =    1233.3 cubic meters
1 inch (in)                    =    25.4 millemeters
1 cubic foot per second
(cusecs)                 =    0.0283 cubic meters per second
1 pound (lb)                   =    0.4536 kilograms
1 long ton (ton)               =    1.016 metric tons
1 metric ton (m ton)                2204 pounds
1 megawatt (MW)                =    1,000 kilowatts
1 gigawatt hour (GWH)          =    1 million kilowatt/hours
LOCAL MEASURES
1 bushel (bu) paddy       =    46 pounds paddy
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
UNDP -    United Nations Development Program
FAO  -    Food and Agriculture Organization
CEB  -    Ceylon Electricity Board
DGEU -    Department of Government Electricity Undertakings
ECI  -    Engineering Consultants Inc. of Denver, Colorado, U.S.A.
USOM -    United States Operation Mission
SAR  -    Sodium Absorption Ratio



CEYLON
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAGE I
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION .......................................            i - ii
I.   INTRODUCTION ........   ..............   ....................
II.   BACKGROUND        ................................. .               2
III. THE PROJECT AREA .........        ..............................     4
Climate        ................................. .               5
Topography ........    ................ .                        5
Soils         ................................. .                5
Population, Land Tenure and Communications .........             5
Crop Production .......     .............. .                     5
Water Resources .......     .............. .                     6
Irrigation ........................                              6
Supporting Agricultural Services ....      ..........            7
Transport and Processing Facilities ................             7
IV. THE PROJECT ............                                              8
General Description ................................             8
Subsequent Phase of Development ..          ...................  8
Proposed Works .......    ............... .                      9
Construction Schedule .............    ..     ...............   10
The Power Plant .......    ...........    ..................    11
Water Supply ....................        ...................    11
Status of Engineering .............    ..     ...............   12
Cost Estimates .......    ............    ..................    12
Financing .      ............................                   15
Procurement           ........................................  16
Disbursement            .......................................  16
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT           ...........................  17
Project Management and Coordination ........         ........   17
Operation and Maintenance ...........     ..    ............    18
Recovery of Costs ...............    ..     .................   19
Supporting Agricultural Services and Credit .......      .      20
Auditing of Accounts ..............    ..     ...............   21
This report, prepared by Messrs. ffrench-Mullen, Malone, Beach, Myint,
Winston, Reese, and Kirmani, is based on documents submitted by the Ceylonese
authorities, reports of the UNDP/FAO studies and findings of a Bank appraisal
mission which visited Ceylon in February-March 1969. The mission consisted
of Messrs. M.D. ffrench-Mullen, S.S. Kirmani, D.G. Reese, J. Beach, and
D. Mitchell (Consultant).



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
VI.  PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES, AND FARM INCOME          21
Production          .........................................  21
Market Proapects ..................      .................  22
Prices         ............................................  22
Gross Value of Production ...........  ..    .............  23
Farm Income      .................... ....................  23
VII.  POWER        .................................................  24
Polgolla's Contribution to the System .............   .     24
Production allocation GWH ...........  ..    .............  25
Comparison with a thermal Alternative .......     .......   25
Allocation of Costs to Power ..........  ..    ...........  26
VIII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ............................        26
IX.  RECOMMhNDATIONS ....................... ...              .     28
ANNEXES
Annex 1 - Agriculture
Annex 2 - Existing Water Resources in the Project Area
Annex 3 - Project Description
Annex 4 - Construction and Investigation Schedule
Annex 5 - Water Supply and Irrigation Requirements
Annex 6 - Consultant Services
Annex 7 - List of Equipment and Transport
Annex 8 - Cost Estimates
Annex 9 - Allocation of Costs between Irrigation and Power
Annex 10 - Organization Chart
Annex 11 - Market Prospects and Prices for Agricultural Crops
Annex 12 - Rate of Return to the Economy
Annex 13 - Expenditure Schedule
Maps
1. Mahaweli Ganga Development Project - Stages I, II, and III
2. Mahaweli Ganga Development Project - Stage I Civil Works
3. Ceylon Electrical Grid



CEYLON
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT - STAGE I
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        In recent years, considerable success has been achieved by
farmers in Ceylon in increasing production of foodstuffs to replace
imports, particularly rice. This has been achieved primarily by in-
creasing yields. To reach self-sufficiency in rice, expansion of the
area under paddy production will be necessary in addition to measures
for increasing yields. Major expansion of acreage is possible only in
the dry zone, where suitable land is available. Economic development
of these areas depends on the provision of year round irrigation, the
water for which would have to be supplied from the wet zone. Asso-
ciated with such transfer of surface water would be substantial hydro-
electric power potential suitable to meet part of the estimated growth
in demand.
ii. A four year UNDP/FAO study of the largely untapped water resources
of the largest river in Ceylon, the Mahaweli Ganga, has resulted in the
formulation of a Master Plan, to be implemented in three phases for the
development of some 900,000 ac of land in the dry zone and the installa-
tion of 970 MW of generating capacity. The Mahaweli Ganga Development
Program comprises proposals for the development under three separate
schemes, of Phase I of the Master Plan. Because of the magnitude of the
task involved, and the need for further investigation, the Government of
Ceylon proposed implementing the first of these schemes in three stages.
iii.      This report contains the appraisal of the project which consists
of Stage I of the first scheme of the Mahaveli Ganga Development Program.
The project includes the diversion of Mahaweli Ganga water, at Polgolla,
to augment irrigation supplies to 126,700 ac (cultivated) of land located
in two areas in the dry zone, and the installation of a hydro-electric
power plant of 40 MW capacity at Polgolla. Provision is made for the on-
farm development of 4,000 ac of sugarcane and for feasibility studies re-
quired for subsequent stages of the scheme under the Mahaweli Ganga Devel-
opment Program. Major construction works required for the full develop-
ment of the area would need to be carried out under this first stage
project.
iv.       The project would result in increasing rice production by some
83,000 m tons - equivalent to about one-quarter of the country's imports
in 1968 and about 7% of the country's consumption. Sugar production in
the area would triple but the incremental production would be less than
5% of current imports. Ceylon's firm generating capacity would expand
from 320 MW to 340 MW.



- ii -
v.        The cost of the project is estimated to be US$ 50,0 million, of
which the foreign exchange component, including interest during construc-
tion on the Bank loan (see para. x below), would be US$ 29.0 million.
vi.       The Mahaweli Development Board would be set up to administer
and execute the project. It would be responsible to the Minister of Land,
Irrigation and Power and the Project would be coordinated at the Ministerial
level by the Cabinet Planning Sub-committee. On completion of the Program,
the Board would hand over its operation and maintenance to established Gov-
ernment agencies. Consultants would be required to assist in all aspects
of the project, this being the first irrigation project of its type in
Ceylon, involving diversion and conveyance of water over considerable
distances.
vii.      The two major construction works, costing about US$ 28 million,
namely the Polgolla and Bowatenna complexes, 'would be subject to inter-
national competitive bidding, the remaining minor works, consisting of a
total of about US$ 4.7 million, would be done either by the Irrigation
Department on force account or local contractors. Vehicles, equipment,
consultant services, engineering, contingencies and interest during cons-
truction account for the remainder of the total cost. The feasibility
study work would be carried out by consultants with the Irrigation and
Agriculture Departments.
viii.     The rate of return to the economy, with foreign exchange costs
and benefits calculated at the higher effective exchange rate, would be
about 12%. Assuming no opportunity costs for family labor, the return
would be about 14%. These returns are higher than those from separate
projects for irrigation and power. The tentatively estimated rate of
return to the economy for all three stages of development of the Mahaweli
Ganga Development Program is 12%; and for agriculture separately is 11%.
ix.       Previous Bank Group financing for agriculture and power in
Ceylon includes a credit, in 1968, of US$ 2 million for a low lift irri-
gation project, a credit in 1969 for a drainage and reclamation project
of US$ 2.5 million, and Bank loans totalling US$ 61.5 million for power
development in Ceylon. The power loans consist of (a) US$ 19.1 million
made in 1954 (101-CE); (b) US$ 7.3 million made in 1958 (209-CE); (c)
US$ 14.1 million made in 1961 (288-CE); and (d) US$ 21 million for the
Maskeliya Oya Stage II hydro-electric project made on July 23, 1969.
x.        Assurances were obtained during negotiations on the points listed
in paragraph 9.01. The project is suitable for Bank Group financing of
US$ 29 million to cover the ioreign exchange requirements, including interest
during construction and commitment charges on the Bank loan. Bank Group fi-
nancing would include an IDA credit of US$ 14.5 million and a Bank loan of
US$ 14.5 million.  The Bank loan would be for 30 years, including a grace
period of six years. The remainder of the financing, US$ 21 million equiv-
alent, would be provided by the Government, which would be the borrower.



CEYLON
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT - STAGE I
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Ceylon has requested Bank Group financing in
the amount of US$ 29 million equivalent to assist in a project involving
the transfer of water from the wet zone to two non-contiguous areas of
the northwestern and the northeastern parts of the dry zone. The objec-
tive is to augment water supplies to 126,700 acres of land to permit
double cropping of paddy in addition to partially irrigated sugarcane
cultivation. These lands at the present suffer from lack of reliable
irrigation supplies. In addition, the transfer of water would generate
up to 40 MW of hydro-power at Polgolla. The project would be carried out
over a period of five years. It is part of the Government's Irrigation
Program included in the current development plan.
1.02      One of the main objectives of the development plan is the early
attainment of self-sufficiency in food. The Government hopes to achieve
this goal through expansion and rehabilitation of irrigation, provision
for flood protection and drainage facilities 1/, reclamation of land and
measures to increase yields.
1.03      The loan/credit request was prepared by the Ministry of Plan-
ning and Economic Affairs following a UNDP/FAO study of Ceylon's largest
river - the Mahaweli Ganga - and its water resources development poten-
tial (1965-1968). The study formulated a Master Plan, to be implemented
in three phases over a 30 year period, for irrigation of 900,000 ac of
land in Ceylon's dry zone and the installation of 970 MW of hydro-power.
The Government prepared and submitted to the Bank Group, on November 2,
1968, a feasibility report for the development of the Mahaweli Ganga De-
velopment Program (Phase I of the Master Plan) under 3 separate schemes.
After discussion with the Bank, the Government decided that:
(a) the first scheme should be implemented in 3 stages
(Map I) because of the magnitude of the task and
the need for further investigations,
(b) the project would comprise only Stage I of the first
scheme.
1.04      This report, prepared by Messrs. ffrench-Mullen, Malone, Beach,
Myint, Reese, Winston and Kirmani is based on documents submitted by the
Ceylonese Authorities, reports of the UNDP/FAO studies and the finding of
1/   A credit of US$ 2.5 million equivalent has been made for a Drainage
and Reclamation Project. The Project will drain 13,200 ac of land in
the southwest of the wet zone of Ceylon.



a Bank Appraisal Mission, which visited Ceylon in February/March of 1969.
The mission consisted of Messrs. M.D. ffrench-Mullen, S.S. Kirmani, D.G.
Reese, J. Beach and D. Mitchell (Consultant).
II. BACKGROUND
2.01      Ceylon is a tropical island in the Indian Ocean with a gross
area of 25,332 sq mi. In 1968, the population was estimated at 12 mil-
lion with an annual growth rate of 2.2%. The land area is divided into
distinct wet and dry zones (Map I). The wet zone is situated in the
southwest quadrant of the island and covers about 30% of the land area;
it supports more than three-quarters of the population and accounts for
about 82% of the cultivated land. Colombo, the capital and largest city,
is located on the southwest coast.
2.02      The dry zone covers the remainder of the island, excepting the
drainage basin from the wet zone which cuts through the dry zone in a
northeasterly direction. The main stem of this drainage system is the
Mahaweli Ganga. In the dry zone, some irrigated farming takes place,
mainly with supplies from reservoirs (locally known as tanks) fed by
local streams. There are considerable areas of undeveloped land suit-
able for rice and subsidiary food crops.
2.03      The agricultural economy of Ceylon is divided between estate
agriculture, producing export crops, and peasant produced food crops.
Estate agriculture has dominated the economy. Tea accounts for about
62% of the value of the country's agriculturel exports, rubber 16% and
coconuts 10%.
2.04      Agriculture has been groving at about 3.2% annually (1961-68),
compared with an overall growth of 4% for the economy. It accounts for
36% of the gross domestic product, 90% of foreign exchange earnings, and
provides employment for about 53% of the population.
2.05      Ceylon imports basic foodstuffs.   In 1968, 45% of the total value
of imports was expended on food: of this expenditure, rice accounted for
about 35% and sugar for about 10%. In recent years, the Government's agri-
cultural policy has been oriented towards reducing these food imports, rice
in particular, through increased domestic production. The acreage planted
and yields of rice have more than doubled since 1962. There has also been
a marked increase in the production of subsidiary food crops. Largely as
a result of this increasing local production, rice imports have declined
for several years in a row, and only 343,000 tons were imported in 1968.
With little local production of sugar, imports are rising with the growth
of population; some 225,000 tons are presently imported.
2.06      Ceylon's efforts to boost domestic production of rice and sub-
sidiary foodcrops have been quite successful. The main techniques have



-3-
been production incentives, such as a guaranteed price scheme, and sub-
stantial subsidies for inputs and services. Production credits have been
made available to farmers through some 4,500 Multipurpose Cooperative
Societies, which also supply the physical inputs and, on behalf of the
Agrarian Services, purchase the produce. High yielding varieties have
been made available. Supporting services available to the farmer, in-
cluding extension and research programs, are generally adequate at the
present level of production.
2.07      There is considerable room for further improvement of produc-
tivity, particularly through adoption of recommended farming practices;
for example, an average of 14 lb per ac of nitrogen was used by rice
farmers last year, as compared to a recommended rate of 45 lb per ac.
In the long term, if Ceylon is to become self sufficient, it will be
necessary to increase the area under rice. There is a comparative scar-
city of land available for the further development of food production in
the wet zone. There is, on the other hand, an abundance in the dry zone,
where any major expansion in the cultivated area has to take place. For
the development of such land to be economic and to obtain maximum produc-
tion, irrigation must be provided. Moreover, the production of existing
irrigated lands could be substantially increased in the dry zone if an
assured irrigation supply were available throughout the year. The
Mahaweli Ganga is the logical source of additional irrigation supplies.
2.08      Ceylon also has growing power needs.   The effective generating
capacity of the present system is presently 261 MW, including 191 MW of
hydro capacity. The firm capacity of the system is about 220 M4W. Fa-
cilities under construction and proposed would bring installed capacity
by the end of 1973 to 400 MW. Upon completion of transmission facilities,
now under construction, the major generating facilities will be integrated
into a single system and it will be possible to service most of the island
from central generating sources. Responsibility for all phases of elec-
tricity development and distribution is exercised by the Ceylon Electricity
Board (CEB), an autonomous electricity authority created in July 1969 to
take over the activities of the Department of Government Electrical Un-
dertakings (DGEU) in the Ministry of Land, Irrigation and Power.
2.09      As noted above in para. 1.03, the Mahaweli Ganga Development
Master Plan, proposed by the UNDP/FAO study for long term development of
the largely untapped water resources of the Mahaweli Ganga, envisages
the progressive development of the dry zone through:
(a) the provision of irrigation for 900,000 ac of
land, 246,000 ac of which are partially irrigated;
and
(b) the generation of 970 MW of hydro-power.



- 4 -
The Master Plan proposes this development in three phases which are sum-
marized below:
Partially         New           Total        Hydro-Power
Phase          Irrigated        Land         Irrigation      Generated
…____----------'000 acres ------------            MW
I                 144           184             328            663
II                 21           209             230             14
III                81           261             342            293
TOTAL:            246           654             900            970
2.10      The Mahaveli Ganga Development Program comprises the three
schemes proposed for developing Phase I of the above Master Plan. The
three stages of the first scheme (para. 1.03) would result in developing
24% of the 900,000 ac eventually to be irrigated. The proposed Mahaveli
Ganga Development Project envisages development of Stage I of this scheme.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
3.01      The proposed project area lies in two non-contiguous areas
(Annex 1), situated some miles to the north of the main diversion dam at
Polgolla (Map I) near the center of the island, and identified as areas
H and IH in the northwest and areas G, Dl and D2 in the northeast (Map
II). Over two-thirds of the existing cultivation lies in two areas,
namely H and Dl (Annex 1). Land used for the total project area (all
three stages of the first scheme) by sectors is as follows:
Cultivable               Cultivated          Gross
Sector                Area                     Area            Area
---------------       '000 acres --------…--_______
Northwest            113                        56              156
Northeast            118                        71              146
TOTAL:               231                       127              302
3.02      Of the area under cultivation, about 123,000 ac is mainly plant-
ed with rice and 4,000 ac under sugarcane in area Dl. The areas are farm-
ed by peasants, save for sugarcane which is cultivated on an estate basis.
The agricultural methods used vary from manual cultivation of the paddy
fields through animal draught to tractor cultivation. Irrigation water is
often in short supply and irrigation methods are wasteful of water. Substan-
tial benefits will accrue from a mpre assured and reliab_e supply of irriga-
tion water. Further, in the long term, substantial increases in the produc-
tion of crops for import substitutlon, such as chillies, onions, legumes,
maize, et;~. are feasible with adeniate farmer training a d a year reund
supply of irrigation water.



-5-
Climate
3.03      The two areas have similar weather conditions.  The mean annual
rainfall is 56" in the northwest and 65" in the northeast sector. The
rainfall in both seasons, Maha and Yala, is sometimes insufficient for
the growth of paddy, which is the main crop. Over 79% of the rainfall
occurs in the Maha season from October to March; the balance occurs in
the Yala season from April to September. The monthly distribution of
rainfall is often erratic, with heavy concentration in a few months in
Maha. Temperatures range from about 90 F (32 C) maximum to about 75 F
(24 C) minimum. The climate is suitable for rice and a wide range of
tropical crops of all types.
Topography
3.04      In general, the topography is well suited to irrigation.   The
northwestern area is situated in a valley (the Kala Oya), where the re-
lief is somewhat undulating. Irrigated land is presently restricted
to valley bottom land and the adjacent slopes. The northeastern area,
situated on the western bank of the lower Mahaveli Ganga is, in general,
less undulating and the forest cover is somewhat denser.
Soils
3.05      A soil survey of these areas carried out by the Land Utili-
zation division of the Irrigation Department, is comprehensive and the
soil types and series have been defined. There appears to be no problem
of salinity or alkalinity. A land classification is necessary to determine
the optimum cropping pattern and appropriate land utilization in the area.
Population, Land Tenure and Communications
3.o6      According to the 1963 census, the population in these areas is
largely rural (80%). This is made up of tenant and owner-cultivators, the
former are protected under the Paddy Land Act of 1958 and the latter under
the Land Development Ordinance of 1935 and subsequent amendments, which
provide for the systematic development and alienation of crown I/ land.
Both laws give the farmer adequate security of tenure and guard against
fragmentation of holdings. They also provide for the payment of water
charges, if holdings are provided with irrigation facilities (Annex 1).
Crop Production
3.07      Cropping intensity presently varies from 130% to 180%. Dis-
counting weather conditions, yields have tended to rise steadily in the
past decade, but particularly in the last three years. The standard of
rice cultivation has been improving (though certain inefficient methods,
1/   Which comprises the majority of land available for development.



- 6 -
such as broadcasting seed, are still practiced). The advent of tractors
has had a positive influence on the timing of planting. Improved rice
varieties are produced locally and are in general use, though it is esti-
mated that present yields could be doubled under ideal conditions. The
major constraint to the continued rise in productivity is the inadequate
irrigation supplies for the Maha crop in years when the rains are late or
partially fail and the shortage of irrigation water to permit full cropping
in the Yala season (Annex 1).
Water Resources
3.08      The existing irrigated lands in the project area receive their
water requirements from rainfall and storage tanks.
3.09      The monthly distribution of rainfall is erratic with heavy con-
centration in the few months of the Maha and little or no rainfall in some
months of the Yala season. The effective rainfall in both seasons is in-
sufficient for the growth of paddy.
3.10      Canal supplies from storage tanks are often insufficient to meet
crop requirements. The run-off from local catchments is so low in dry years
that the tanks are not filled to capacity. The trans-basin diversion from
the Amban Ganga has improved the Maha supplies to the northeastern area,
but it is still insufficient in the Yala season, while the northwest area
suffers in both seasons from want of adequate water. Unless new sources of
water are tapped, the existing irrigated lands would continue to suffer,
and with the proposed development of new areas, it is even more essential.
The only available source is the Mahaweli Ganga, the largest river in
Ceylon. The water resources in the project area are discussed further in
Annex 2.
Irrigation
3.11      The irrigated land in the northwestern area is served by two sys-
tems of irrigation in the Kala Oya basin. Major irrigation schemes are
maintained and operated by the Irrigation Department, and minor schemes
are built and operated by farmers. A link canal is nearing completion
connecting the Kalawewa-Yoda Ela Canal with the Nachchaduwa tank near
Anuradhapura (Map I). In order to improve the water supply to the Kala-
wewa system, a new trans-basin diversion canal from the Nalanda reservoir
was recently constructed to divert 40,000 ac-ft annually from Nalanda Oya,
a tributary of the Amban Ganga.
3.12      The existing irrigation system suffers from an inadequate water
supply, lack of control devices, insufficient irrigation network and inade-
quate drainage. Maintenance of the irrigation facilities is rather poor.
Minor village tank schemes are unable to efficiently irrigate the areas
they are designed to serve. Most of the irrigated lands in the northwest
area are at present under paddy cultivation. There is no assurance of a
continuous supply to the area.



- 7 -
3.13      The existing irrigated lands in the northeastern area are supplied
in various ways. Area G is served directly from the Elahera-Minneri canal
while area Dl receives its supplies from four major tanks, which are augmen-
ted by the Elahera-Minneri-Kantalai canal. The irrigated land in area D2
is supplied by the Parakrama Samudra tank.
3.141     The drawbacks to the irrigation systems described for the Kala
Oya basin are equally applicable to the northeastern area except that the
water supply is relatively more assured because of the perennial flows
in the Amban Ganga. The maintenance of the Elahera-Minneri-Kantalai canal,
especially below the Minneriya tank, is very poor and the system suffers
from the additional disadvantage of widely spaced field canals which cannot
be maintained effectively.
3.15      Compared to the irrigated area of land in the Kala Oya basin, the
lands under the Elahera and Polannaruwa systems receive adequate supplies
in the Maha season because of the more reliable source of water from the Am-
ban Ganga. However, in the Yala season, the whole area has been irrigated
only in seven out of 14 years; in one year there was no irrigation and the
remaining six years about 80% of the lands were irrigated. Most of the
irrigated lands are under paddy.
Supporting Agricultural Services
3.16      The supporting services available to the farmer, namely, agricul-
tural research, extension, agronomic services, land development and coopera-
tives etc. are generally adequate for the present level of production, but
would require to be intensified for the level of husbandry and production
projected (Annex 1).
Transport and Processing Facilities
3.17      Transport facilities within the project area are adequate to
handle the immediate increase in output. Road, rail and air communications
with the main consuming centers in Ceylon are adequate. Additional farm-
to-market roads would be needed in connection with land to be developed in
subsequent stages. The consultants, provided for in the project, would
study the need for additional farm-to-market roads and prepare cost esti-
mates.
3.18      The rice milling capacity of Ceylon is adequate for the increase
in production. The quality of processing leaves much to be desired. In
the long term, new rice mills would be required.



- 8 -
IV. THE PROJECT
General Description
4.01      The project, which would be implemented over a five year period,
is Stage I of the first scheme in the Mahaweli Ganga Development Program.
It includes:
(a) improved water supply to 126,700 ac of
existing irrigated land of which 56,200
ac is in the northwestern area and 70,500
ac in the northeast;
(b) installation of 40 MW of hydro-
power generating capacity;
(c) On-farm rehabilitation and develop-
ment of 4,000 ac of sugarcane;
(d) provision for investigation and
other work necessary for on-farm
development of existing and new
land in the northwestern sector
in a subsequent stage;
(e) as explained below, the project would
also provide for additional water to
enable the development of 104,500 ac
of new land under irrigation in sub-
sequent stages of the scheme.
Subsequent Phase of Development
4.02      The irrigation facilities to be constructed in Stage I of the
first scheme would be adequate not only to meet the full water requirements
of the project area, but those to be subsequently developed under the scheme
in Stages II and III. Diversion dams, tunnels and main canals must be con-
structed in the initial stage, although they would not be fully utilized
until the completion of Stage III. It would be neither technically feasible
nor economically sound to split the work and construct them in stages. The
civil works are designed to meet the estimated gross annual water require-
ments of the 231,000 ac to be irrigated on full development of all 3
stages. The table below indicates the total area for which the main water
supply facilities are constructed, the areas benefiting from this supply
and the on-farm development proposed under different stages of the Scheme.



-9-
STAGE      Main Water Supply         Area Benefiting From         On-farm
Facilities For         Water Supply Facilities      Development
Existing    New
Land     Land   Total
-------------------------- '000 Acres… ----------------       -
Stage I            231               127        -     127            4
Stage II           -                  -        57      57          113
Stage III          -                  -        47      47          114
TOTAL              231               127      104     231          231
Proposed Works
4.03      The works and facilities to be provided in Stage I consist of:
(a) Construction
1.   Construction of the Polgolla complex consisting
of a low diversion dam on the Mahaweli Ganga at
Polgolla, a 5 mile long diversion tunnel and a
40 MW hydro-electric plant;
2.   Construction of training works and channel im-
provements on the Dhun Oya and Sudu Ganga;
3.   Construction of the Bowatenna complex con-
sisting of a high diversion dam on the Am-
ban Ganga at Bowatenna, a tunnel 5 miles
long and a 5 mile long canal to feed the
Kalawewa and Kandalama tanks;
4.   Remodelling of the existing Elahera weir and
the 38 mile long Elahera-Minneri-Kantalai
canal to carry 1,500 cusecs;
5.   The redesigning of the irrigation system, the
construction of drainage systems, land level-
ling and sub-soiling on 4,000 ac planted to
sugarcane in the northeastern area.
(b) Investigations
1.   Investigations of the northwestern area for
development of 113,100 acres in Stage II
which include aerial surveys, land classi-
fication, planning for irrigation and drain-
age works, determining land clearance and



- 10 -
development costs, cropping patterns, water
requirements and development of cost esti-
mates and preparation of a feasibility re-
port.
2.   Determination of optimum farm size bearing
in mind the present proposal of 5 ac of ir-
rigated land per farm and the possible limi-
tations of crop rotations and labor require-
ments.
3.   Study of the merits of settling the farmer
on his land or in a village away from his
farm.
(c) Operations and Maintenance Facilities
1.   Provision of office and housing facilities for
maintenance and operation staff.
2.   Provision of equipment and plant for maintenance
and operation of Stage I works.
(d) Agriculture Service Facilities
1.   Provision of transport, visual aid and demon-
stration equipment as well as equipment for
agricultural land development.
2.   Provision of additional facilities at the
Maha Illuppalama Agricultural Research
Station to support the work on investigations
and studies.
A detailed description of the works is presented in Annex 3 (also see Map II).
Construction Schedule
4.04      The project would be completed in five years.   The Polgolla com-
plex, which includes the installation of the hydro-electric plant, is the
major item of construction. The most critical construction operation of
the project is the 5 mile tunnel which would take 3 years. The Bowatenna
complex, the relatively simple Sudu Ganga training works and the remodelling
of the Elahara weir and canal would be so scheduled as to be completed in
time to utilize the water supplies as they become available from Polgolla.
4.05      It would also be necessary to carry out on-farm development of
4,000 ac of sugarcane over four years, involving land levelling, sub-soiling,
redesign of the irrigation system, and the constrcution of a drainage sys-
tem, to fully utilize the additional water supplies.



- 11 -
4.o6      Investigations in the northwestern area would be completed in two
years to enable a start to be made when work on the project is nearing com-
pletion, thereby ensuring maximum utilization of technical staff and man-
power. The schedule for the project is at Annex 4.
The Power Plant
4.07      The Polgolla hydro-electric plant with an installed capacity of
40 MW, would be an integral part of the Polgolla complex. It would be a
run-of-river plant with little storage capacity to regulate the river flows
at the diversion point. If it were to operate as an isolated plant, the
amount of firm or continuous power would be less than 10 MW in an average
water year and, in a dry year, would be almost zero. However, Polgolla
would be an integral part of the national power system (Map III) and must
be evaluated as such. The operation of the power plants (most with major
storage features) in other watersheds with differing regimes, and the
thermal capacity at Colombo can be coordinated with Polgolla to develop
maximum contribution to the system. It has been demonstrated by computer
studies based on simulation models taking into account these factors that
Polgolla's dependable peaking capability is 20 MW.
4.08      On completion, the power assets would be transferred to the Ceylon
Electricity Board. This Board and its predecessor, the Department of Gov-
ernment Electrical Undertakings were appraised in connection with the Mas-
keliya Oya project (636-CE). The pover plant would be interconnected with
the Board's system at Iriyagama switching station, which is located a short
distance from Polgolla.
Water Supply
4.09      The project works would control the surface water supply from
three natural sources, namely: runoff from local streams feeding the ex-
isting tanks, and the flows in the Mahaweli Ganga and the Amban Ganga
rivers. These sources would be operated as an integrated water supply
system to meet the total 1.7 M ac-ft. of yearly irrigation demands when
fully developed.
4.10      The runoff from local streams into the tanks would contribute
only 0.55 M ac-ft. (32%) to the total demands. Other requirements would
be met from the Mahaweli Ganga river through the Polgolla tunnel release,
and the Amban Ganga river. The long-term discharge data of the rivers
covering a 20-year period (1944-1964) indicate that the total yearly avail-
able flow during the irrigation season is more than the demands in 16 years
out of 20. In the remaining four years, a shortage of less than 30%, which
can be tolerated and has been taken into consideration in evaluating the
benefits of the project.
4.11      After analyzing the effect of several alternate sizes of tunnel
at Polgolla and Bowatenna, the Elahera Canal and storage capacities of the
tanks in the project areas, with a view to meeting the gross annual vater
requirements of 1.7 million acre feet, the Bank found that a 2500 cusecs



- 12 -
tunnel may be required at Polgolla, a 1500 cusecs tunnel at Bovatenna, and
1500 cusecs canal at Elahera. These capacities are larger than those
originally proposed by the Government. Cost estimates have been prepared
assuming the above capacities which the Bank feels will be verified in
studies that are being undertaken by the Government of Ceylon. Should the
cost estimates made during the period of the study exceed those already
provided for, any excess is likely to be minor and could be met from the
allowance for contingencies.
4.12      According to system operation studies conducted by the Bank, full
irrigation requirements would be met in 16 out of 20 years, with shortages
of less than 30%, which can easily be tolerated, in the remaining four
years. The adequacy of the water supply, irrigation requirements and the
quality of water are discussed further in Annex 5.
Status of Engineering
4.13      The Government of Ceylon has retained the services of Engineering
Consultants Inc. (ECI) of Denver, Colorado, USA to prepare the designs, cost
estimates and contract documents for all engineering works. Acceptable de-
signs, cost estimates and contract documents are available for the Polgolla
complex and the on-farm development of 4,000 ac of sugarcane. Acceptable
designs and estimates are available for the Bowatenna complex and other
works. These consultants will supervise all construction work done by
contract and force account.
4.14      Sufficient data are not available to establish reliable estimates
of the irrigation areas in the northwestern area of the project as well as
costs of development and potential benefits. The above consultants will
carry out the necessary studies, investigations and prepare cost esti-
mates to enable the on-farm development in Stage II, of 56,200 ac of land
under cultivation in the northwestern area and the development and settle-
ment of 56,900 ac of land, mainly under forest. The study is expected to
take two years and interim and final feasibility reports would be prepared.
4.15      A list of consultants services to be used on the project is in
Annex 6. Consultants, acceptable to the Bank Group, have been employed
since August 1969. The Bank Group approved their terms of reference and
contract.
Cost Estimates
4.16      The cost estimates of the civil works were prepared from detailed
designs, quantity estimates and unit prices developed by the consultants in
Ceylon which were considered adequate.
4.17      The project is estimated to cost Re 280 million (US$ 47.0 million
equivalent) of vhich the foreign exchange component would be Rs 155.0 million
(US$ 26.0 million equivalent), exclusive of interest during construction and
commitment charges. It is expected that the major works at Polgolla and



- 13 -
Bovatenna would be undertaken by foreign contractors, as local contractors
do not have experience in tunnel construction. The foreign exchange costs
have therefore been based on the use of foreign contractors for the major
works, and include the estimated foreign exchange cost of imported compo-
nents, and of other materials purchased locally.
4.18      Provisions for engineering and administration amount to 10% of
the construction cost of major works, which would be contracted on the basis
of international competitive bidding and 15% for all work carried out on
force account. An overall contingency provision of 20% has been included;
15% for unforseen expenditures and 5% for price escalation.   The cost esti-
mates for equipment and transport (Annex 7) are based on recent price quo-
tations in Ceylon and would be subject to international competitive bidding.
The detailed estimates (Annex 8) are summarized hereafter:



- 14 -
COST ESTIMATES
Million Rupees  US$ Million Equivalent
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total
1. Polgolla Complex               43.9   65.5  109.4   7.4   11.0   18.42/
2. Bowatenna Complex              30.9   27.7   58.6   5.2    4.6    9.8
3. Sudu Ganga Training Works       5.7    5.2   10.9   0.9    0.9    1.8
4. Elahera Weir & Canal            5.1    1.9    7.0   0.9    0.3    1.2
5. Buildings and Camps             3.1    1.3    4.4   0.5    0.2    0.7
6. Agricultural Land Development   0.3    0.4    0.7   0.1    0.1    0.2
7. Investigations & Extension      2.3    1.0    3.3   0.4    0.2    o.6
8. Equipment & Vehicles             -    11.5   11.5    -     1.9    1.9
Sub-Total           91.3  114.5   205.8 15.4   19.2   34.6
9. Engineering & Consultant Services
(a)  Consultant services        6.o   13.4   19.4   l.o    2.2    3.2
(b) Engineering & Overheads     6.5   1.5     8.0   1.1    0.3    1.4
Sub-Total           12.5   14.9    27.4   2.1   2.5    4.6
10. Contingencies
Physical 15%              15.8   19.2    35.0  2.6    3.2    5.8
Price Increases 5%         5.3    6.4    11.7  0.9    1.1    2.0
Sub-Total           21.1   25.6    46.7   3.5   4.3    7.8
Total              124.9 155.0    279.9  21.0  26.0   47.0
11. Interest & Commitment
Charges during
construction 3/          -    17.6    17.6   -     3.0    3.0
Grand Total:       124.9 172.6    297.5  21.0  29.0   50.0
1/   Discrepancies are due to rounding.
2/   Including cost of power facilities.
3/   Interest at 7% on Bank Loan and 3/4 :of 1%
commitment charge on the undisbursed
portion of the Bank Loan.



- 15 -
Financing
4.19      The Bank Group would finance the foreign exchange component of
US$ 29.0 million (Rs 172.6 million), which is 58% of the project cost. Of
this amount, US$ 14.5 million (RS 86.3 million) would be an IDA Credit. The
remaining US$ 14.5 million (Rs 86.3 million) would be a Bank Loan, includ-
ing interest during construction and commitment charge on the undisbursed
portion of the loan. Repayment of the Bank Loan would be over 30 years,
including a grace period of six years.
4.20      US$ 15.7 million (Rs 93.4 million) of the cost would be allocated
to power; the foreign currency component of this allocation would be US$ 9.4
million (Rs 55.7 million) (Annex 9). 1/ On completion of the power plant
the power assets would be transferred to the Ceylon Electricity Board on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank Group and the Board. An assur-
ance on this point was obtained during negotiations.
4.21      The Ceylon Government would meet the rupee costs of the project
through annual budget allocations and has already contributed the equivalent
of approximately US$ 2.0 million as its share of the cost of project prepara-
tion.
4.22      The approximate project expenditure schedule, including disburse-
ment of the proposed Bank Group financing, is shown below:
EXPENDITURE SCHEDULE 1/
Millions of Rupees
1969/70 1970/71 1971/72 1972/73 1973/74 1974/75   TOTAL
Government of
Ceylon             5.2    13.0     26.3    36.4    34.4     9.6    124.9
IDA Credit         8.7    23.1     41.8    12.7      -       -      86.3
Bank Loan 2/       0.2     0.8      0.8    29.3    41.4    13.8     86.3
Total:       14.1    36.9     68.9    78.4    75.8    23.4    297.5
(US$ million
equivalent) 3/    2.4     6.2    11.6     13.2    12.7     3.9     50.0
Withdrawals from the Bank Loan account would be made only after the proceeds
of the IDA Credit would have been fully withdrawn or committed save for in-
terest and commitment charges during construction which would be met out of
the Bank Loan.
1/   The conversion to dollar equivalent is made at the official exchange
rate of US$ 1 equal to Ceylon Rupees (Rs) 5.95.
2/   Including interest and commitment charges on the Bank Loan during
construction. Commitment charges, in 1969/70 are only for 3 months.
3/   Discrepancies due to rounding.
1/   The cost of works to be allocated to power is approximately US$ 15.7
million (Rs 93.4 million) of which US$ 9.4 million (Rs 55.7 million)
is foreign exchange plus US$ 0.9 million (Rs 6.3 million) interest
and commitment charges on the Bank Loan during construction.



- 16 -
Procurement
4.23      All civil engineering works of Polgolla and Bowatenna and all
procurement contracts for power plant, electrical and mechanical works,
vehicles and equipment would be contracted on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group's normal procedures.
A 15% preference would be given to local manufacturers. This is expected
to apply only to certain types of vehicles. The remaining works on Sudu
Ganga and Elahera, which are too small and widely spread to attract inter-
national competitive bidding, would be carried out under the supervision
of the Board either on force account or by the Irrigation and Agricultural
Departments or by local contractors or other organizations in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Bank Group. Buildings and Camps,
agricultural land development, investigations and extension works would
be carried out by either government agencies or local contracts.
Disbursement
4.24      About US$ 9.6 million equivalent of the proposed loan and credit
would cover the cif cost of imported electrical and mechanical equipment
for the Polgolla and Bowatenna complexes; construction and workshop equip-
ment for supervision; vehicles and equipment for agricultural land develop-
ment, investigation and extension; other supplies, materials and equipment
required for the project; and the foreign exchange cost of consultant's
services. Disbursement of the above costs would be against full documenta-
tion. Disbursements under contract for major civil engineering works of
the Polgolla and Bowatenna complexes would be made on a percentage basis
to cover the estimated foreign exchange components of these works, which
total about US$ 24.9 million equivalent of which about US$ 12.7 million, or
50%, would be covered by disbursements from the loan and credit. Disburse-
ments for minor civil engineering works on the Sudu Ganga, the Elahera weir
and canal, buildings and camps, agricultural land development, investigations
and extension would be made on a percentage basis to cover the estimated
foreign exchange components of these works. These minor works total about
US$ 4.7 million equivalent of which about US$ 1.7 million, or 37%, would
be disbursed from the loan and credit. Supervising consultants would be
responsible for certifying all the above expenditures. About US$ 3.0 mil-
lion of the proposed loan would cover interest and commitment charges.
Savings in any category under the allocation of proceeds would be made avail-
able for overruns in any other category; any surplus remaining would be
cancelled.



- 17 -
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Management and Coordination
5.01      The Mahaweli Development Board would be created by legislation
and be responsible to the Minister of Land, Irrigation and Power and the
Project would be coordinated at the Ministerial level by the Cabinet Plan-
ning Sub-committee. The draft legislation was commented on and agreed to
by the Bank prior to it being sent to the legislature.
5.02      The Board would comprise three appointed voting members, of whom
one would be the chairman; four ex-officio voting members, representing
the ministries concerned, namely Land, Irrigation and Power, Agriculture
and Food, Finance and Planning, and two ex-officio non-voting members
representing the Departments of Irrigation and Agriculture and a voting
representative of the Ceylon Electricity Board. Close liaison would be
obtained with the ministries concerned through their representatives on
the Board who would be of the rank of permanent secretary.
5.03      The Board would be responsible for promoting, operating and
coordinating irrigation, drainage, land, agricultural and economic develop-
ment in the declared special areas. This would include but be not limited
to planning, programming, progress control, coordinating the project, pro-
curement, budget, finance, and accounting. It would be financed by regular
subventions from the annual government budget. It would make its own rules
and regulations, recruit its own staff and determine their emoluments.
5.o4      The chief executive of the Board, who would be directly responsible
to the Chairman, would be the general manager. He would be assisted by two
deputies, one of whom would be an experienced irrigation engineer, and the
other an experienced agriculturist. These in turn would be assisted by
professional and technical staff, as well as supporting accounting and
clerical staff at headquarters. The headquarters staff, which would be
small, would be hired directly or seconded from the Government service.
The work of the Board would be carried out by divisions, specially created,
in the Irrigation, Agricultural and other related departments, to exclusively
deal with the Mahaweli project. To ensure coordination at the field level,
"special project" units would be established (paragraDh 5.16). The organiza-
tion chart is at Annex 10.
5.05      The following steps with respect to organization and management
would be conditions of effectiveness:
(i) the enactment and coming into force of legislation
acceptable to the Bank, establishing the Board and
defining its powers;
(ii)  notification by the responsible Minister that the
establishment of the Board, the appointments of its
chairman and members shall have been published in the
Ceylon Government Gazette;



- 18 -
(iii) the publication in the Ceylon Government Gazette of
the Minister's order declaring the project area to
be a "special area" under the jurisdiction of the
Board;
(iv) the setting up of an organization structure for the
Board, acceptable to the Bank, and the filling of
senior positions on the Board's staff; and
(v) the appointment of the general manager and deputy
general managers satisfactory to the Bank Group.
5.o6      To ensure effective coordination, meetings of the cabinet sub-
committee should be held twice a year, with the Board meeting at least once
a month, and more frequently, if the need arises, particularly during the
construction period.
Operation and Maintenance
5.07      Operation and maintenance procedures, as established by the Board,
would be devised to meet the respective needs of irrigation and power to the
extent possible. Based on an operation study, a diversion schedule would
be established in advance for each year. The criteria would be reviewed
and revised from time to time to reflect operating conditions.
5.08      On completion of a suitable level of development in the basin,
the Board would give consideration to handing over the administration,
operation and maintenance of the project area and the facilities to suit-
able regular government agencies, such as the Departments of Irrigation and
Agriculture.
5.09      It is important that the effect of the additional supplies of
water on soil conditions and crop production be monitored; this information
will be of considerable value for future land development. An assurance
was obtained during negotiations that the monitoring of the effect of addi-
tional water supplies on soil conditions and crop production would be carried
out for ten years.
5.10      The standard of maintenance of the tanks and canal systems needs
considerable improvement and the existing field organization would need to
be strengthened with staff and funds to effectively use the maintenance
equipment to be provided. An assurance to this effect was obtained during
negotiations.
5.11      The annual cost of operating and maintaining the project on com-
pletion of construction has been estimated at Rs 2.2 million (US$ 0.3 mil-
lion). Of this amount, Rs 0.8 million (US$ 0.1 million) would be for the
operation and maintenance of the portion of the Polgolla complex allocated
to electric power. The remainder, Rs 1.4 million (US$ 0.2 million) would
constitute the annual costs for irrigation. These costs would average Rs
11 per acre of cultivated land which is a reasonable cost.



- 19 -
Recovery of Costs
5.12      Farmers are presently assessed an annual water charge of Rs 5 per
acre. The rate of collection is extremely low, save in areas where water
supplies and supporting agricultural 3ervices are more certain.
5.13      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that water charges
in the project areas would be raised to cover in full the estimated costs
of operation and maintenance as well as a reasonable portion of the capital
invested. Pending further study, provided for in the project, it is proposed
to increase the annual water charge to not less than Rs 40 per acre of culti-
vated land when additional water becomes available, of which Rs. 29 per ac
would contribute to the recovery of the investment. 1/ This increase of
Rs 35 per acre amounts to only 12% of the increased net income of a 1 acre
holding (see para 6.08). Full recovery of capital, with interest at 7% per
annum for 50 years, together with the costs of operation and maintenance
would require water charges of Rs 113 per acre per annum. An assurance was
obtained also that a comprehensive water charge study would be undertaken
and completed within three years, with the assistance of consultants. This
study would determine a suitable schedule for the introduction of water
charges for the project having due regard to farmers' incentives and capa-
cities to pay. On completion of the study, the Borrower and the Bank Group
would consult and agree on a schedule of charges to be introduced when the
project becomes operative, such annual changes to be not less than Rs 40 per
acre of cultivated land. Given the small size of holdings in the project
area, it is doubtful that farmers would, at present, be able to pay any
charges substantially higher than Rs 40 per acre of cultivated land. The
direct revenue, including land tax, presently levied and future levies, on
completion of the project, would be as follows:
Direct Revenue            Without             With            Increase
- - -         Rs per ac - - - - - - --- - -
Water charges                 5                40                35
Land Tax                     20                20
TOTAL:                       25                60                35
Operating and
Maintenance Costs       Negligible             11                11
Operating Surplus           25                 492/              24
1/   Over 50-year period this would be equal to 18% of capital investment
with interest at 7% per annum or 66% of the capital invested without
interest.
2/   This would represent recovery of capital invested with interest of about
per annum.



- 20 -
Supporting Agricultural Services and Credit
5.14      Obtaining full benefits from the project will depend upon improved
husbandry practices and the use of recommended inputs and improved varieties.
The extension services in the project area would have to be intensified and
credit needs would have to be studied.
5.15      Channels for providing inputs, namely cooperatives, depots of the
Agrarian Services and private sector organizations, are adequate. Short-term
credit facilities extending from the People's Bank through cooperative socie-
ties and Rural Banks (branches of the People's Bank), are adequate under
present conditions, but may not be adequate to meet the requirements that
may develop with increased water supplies. The extent of the credit needs
associated with higher levels of productivity is not known. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that the Government would make arrange-
ments, acceptable to the Bank Group, to carry out a study of the need for
short, medium and long term credit of farms in the project areas, and that
arrangements would be made to make such credit available through adequate
channels.
5.16      Following the acceptance of recommendations of an FAO/IBRD Coopera-
tive Programme Mission to Ceylon in 1966, the Government set up a pilot or-
ganization (the Elahera Special Project) in an area to be developed in Stage
III, to improve the coordination of intensified extension services. This
"Special Project" technique involves the appointment of a resident manager
who is responsible for coordinating and directing the activities of resident
staff from all agencies operating in a defined area. The results were suf-
ficiently encouraging that the technique was subsequently extended to nine
additional settlement schemes. The Government has indicated its intention
to apply this technique to the project areas; this is essential if forecasted
yields 'are to be realized. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that the Government would establish special project units by June 30, 1972
throughout the project areas which would be staffed by a resident manager
who would coordinate and direct the activities of resident staff of all ex-
tension agencies, operating in each unit.
5.17      Most applied research for the project area would be carried out by
the Maha Illuppalama Agricultural Research Station, which was established in
1946, in the northwestern area. The station is generally well equipped and
staffed for its essential tasks. However, there is a need to expand the
irrigation facilities of the station, to intensify work on crop rotations,
with and without livestock, and expand the staff and financial resources
of the agricultural engineering division. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that this station would be provided with the necessary addi-
tional staff, equipment and financial resources to enable it to meet the
research needs of the project.
5.18      A sugar research station is under construction on the sugar es-
tate. Priority should be given to the completion of this station. Prior
to the availability of water from the Mahaweli Ganga, it would be necessary,
for test purposes, to make available water from present supplies throughout
the year to enable some 200 ac of sugarcane to be fully irrigated every 10 -



- 21 -
14 days with a minimum application of 2 inches of water per ac. An assurance
was obtained during negotiations that sufficient irrigation water would be
released from the Kantalai tank to the sugar estate to enable, at intervals
and in quantities to be determined by the sugar estate, adequate irrigation
of 200 ac of sugarcane throughout the year.
Auditing of Accounts
5.19      Separate accounts for the project would be maintained by the Board.
An annual audit of these accounts by the Auditor-General's Department, which
is responsible to Parliament, would be satisfactory. Assurances were obtain-
ed that:
a)   separate accounts for the project would be established
and maintained in a manner acceptable to the Bank Group;
b)   the accounts would be audited annually by the Auditor-
General's Department; and
c)   copies of the audit report would be submitted to the
Bank Group within four months of the completion of each
financial year.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES, AND FARM INCOME
Production
6.01      The project would, at full development, lead to an expansion of
cropped area under rice and increase the average yields of rice and sugar
cane over levels currently obtained in the project area with partial irri-
gation. The cropped area, yields and production increases expected to re-
sult from the project are shown below:
Crop           Cropped Area           Yields              Production
,Without   With   Without     With    Without   With
'Projectect Pro      Ject    Project  Project  Project Increase
'000 acres -- -- m tons/acre ---  -- '000 m ton --
Rice
Maha Crop 119.89      122.70   0.70       0.91     83.9   111.7      33%
Yala Crop   72.87     111.46   o.63       0.91     45.9   101.4     121%
TOTAL    192.76     234.16    o.67      0.91    129.8   213.1      64%
Sugar          4.00       4.00    1.00      3.60      4.10   14.20    246%



- 22 -
The "without project" estimate assumes all yield increases which
could occur without the project. The "with project" estimate assumes, con-
servatively, that rice will continue to be grown throughout the,project area,
except for 4,000 acres now under sugarcane. Although some successful demon-
strations have been carried out in the growing of chillies and onions, crop
diversification of major significance is not expected for some years since
more widespread demonstrations of the use of crops other than rice are need-
ed for farmers to gain the skills and techniques required for such produc-
tion.
Market Prospects
6.02      The rice and sugar production resulting from the project is des-
tined for domestic consumption. Market prospects for them appear promising.
(See Annex 11).
6.03      Ceylon's domestic requirement for rice in 1968 was estimated at
1.2 million tons. About 1/3 of this requirement was met through imports.
By 1977, when the project works are fully completed, the country's annual
rice requirement is projected to rise to about 1.7 million tons. The pre-
sent momentum in rice production (para. 2.05) and the relatively low level
of current yields, as compared to what is possible with existing technology,
suggest that Ceylon may approach self-sufficiency in rice. With the combined
impact on rice production of technical innovation, economic incentives and
the increase in paddy area by new projects, it should be possible for Ceylon
to reduce substantially, if not eliminate, its need for rice imports by 1977.
The increased output of 83,000 m tons of rice from this project, equiva-
lent to only about 25% of the country's rice imports and 7% of the country's
consumption in 1968, would be easily absorbed.
6.o4      The 10,000 tons of additional sugar resulting from the project,
which constitutes less than 5% of current imports, should be easily absorbed
in the market. In addition, Ceylon's annual demand for sugar is projected
to rise from 230,000 tons in 1968 to 377,000 tons in 1977.
Prices
6.05      For valuation of the rice output of the project, a farm gate
price of US$100 (equivalent to Rs 923 - when the dollar is converted at
the higher effective exchange rate 1/ now prevailing in Ceylon) per metric
ton has been used in this report. This would be equivalent to pricing a
bushel of paddy at Rs 12.8 instead of the official price of Rs 14.0 paid
under the Government Guaranteed Price Scheme. Current world export prices
range from about US$150 for Burmese rice (SMS 42% broken Rangoon) to US$180
1/   Currently two effective exchange rates exist in Ceylon:   the "official"
exchange rate of US$ 1   Rs 5.95 and the foreign exchange entitlement
certificate premium of 55% which gives an effective exchange rate of
Rs 9.23   US$ 1. The latter rate has been used as an exchange rate.
It already covers about 50% of Ceylon's payment transaction.



- 23 -
per m ton of Thai rice (5% broken Bangkok). A reasonable long-term world
average price, in terms of Burmese (42% broken) rice, would be about US$95
- 100 per m ton fob Rangoon. The valuation of the project's output of milled
rice at US$100 per m ton is based on the projections 1/ for Burmese rice
adjusted for quality, transportation, and other charges. The price used
in this report for valuation of rice is about 9% below the prevailing
official rice price.
6.o6      The white sugar (ex-factory) has been valued at US$0.05 per lb
or US$110.20 per m ton. The value of sugar produced in the project would
thus be equivalent to Rs 1,017 per m ton when converted at the higher
effective exchange rate 2/. The value, of the by-products (molasses, alcohol,
and bagasse), which is substantial in Ceylon, is disregarded assuming that
it offsets the cost of sugar processing 1/.
Gross Value of Production
6.07      Given the acreage, yield, production and price assumptions cited
earlier, the annual gross production value of the project area is expected
to increase from the present level of Rs 124.9 M (US$ 13.5 M equivalent) to
Rs 210.5 M (US$ 22.8 M equivalent) at full development which should be
obtained within eight years of the commencement of the project.
Farm Income
6.08      The potential benefits obtainable under the project, at full
development would provide considerable incentive for farmers to participate
in it. The projected net income (after charges) from cultivating a 1 acre
holding would be expected to rise as follows:
Average Annual Farm Incomes Per Acre of Paddy
With and Without Project
(Rs per cultivated acre)
Without      With       Increase    %Increase
Project    Project
Gross Production Value      990      1,595          605          62
Production Costs            660        980          320          48
Income before taxes
and water charges           330        615          285          86
Land Tax                     20         20            0           0
Water Charges                 5          40          35         700
Income after taxes
and water charges                                                8 555  2  2
1/   See Annex 11 for details.
2/   Currently two effective exchange rates exist in Ceylon:    the "official"
exchange rate of US$ 1 = Rs 5.95 and the foreign exchange entitlement
certificate premium of 55% which gives an effective exchange rate of
Rs 9.23 = US$ 1. The-latter rate has been used as an exchange rate.
It already covers about 50% of Ceylon's payment transaction.



- 24 -
VII. POWER
Polgolla's Contribution to the System
7.01      Hydrological studies carried out by consultants indicate that,
when integrated into the system, Polgolla's contribution in an average
water year, would be 20 MW of continuous power, equivalent to 175 GWH of
firm energy per annum. Secondary energy availability would amount to
45 GWH. Except at times of very low flow, when it may be appropriate to
utilize the small storage capacity of the Polgolla pond to enable Polgolla
to 'peak' the pover facilities would be used to the maximum extent possible.
7.02      The Polgolla plant would fill an anticipated gap in the supply
of electricity. The appraisal report for the Maskeliya Oya Stage II
Hydroelectric project (PU-17 of July 10, 1969) deals in some detail with
the electric power market in Ceylon. For the Electricity Board's system
as a whole, based on various indices, the average annual rate of growth
through the six fiscal years 1968-74 is estimated to be about 15%. However,
growth will be higher in the first three or four years, due to the addition
of large industrial loads; forecast growth during the last two years is
only about 10%. This lower rate of growth has been assumed to continue
after the commissioning of Polgolla. On this conservative basis, Polgolla
would be fully utilized by 1976. Further new generating capacity would
be required shortly thereafter. A 120 MW installation at Victoria Falls,
another project in the proposed development of the Mahaweli Ganga, is
scheduled to be commissioned in the late 1970's.
7.03      The table below indicates the estimated system capacity, energy
requirements, and the manner in which energy production is likely to be
allocated to the various generating facilities. The allocation assumes
that Polgolla would be available at the beginning of 1974.



- 25 -
1973    1974    1975     1976
System demand MW                          251     276     305      336
Reserve requirement MW                     45      45       45      45
Total capacity requirement MW             296     321      350     381
Capacity available MW                     366     386      386     386
Energy sales GWH                        1,081   1,190    1,310   1,440
Losses GWI                                179     195       210    235
Energy requirements GWH                 1,260   1,385    1,520   1,675
Production allocation GWH
1973    1974    1975     1976
Existing hydro                          1,171   1,185   1,185    1,185
Grandpass steam                            80      90     105      230
Grandpass G/T                               9      10       10      40
Polgolla                                  -       100      220     220
Total                                   1,260   1,385   1,520    1,675
Comparison with a thermal Alternative
7.o4      In the process of integrating a thermal station into the
system, the station's characteristics must be recognized; thus a thermal
alternative cannot be an exact replacement for a hydro station. As
Ceylon has no proved sources of fossil fuels, and bearing in mind the
characteristics of the other plants on the system, it is most likely
that the best thermal alternative to Polgolla would be a 35 MW gas tur-
bine unit, located in an extension to the Grandpass thermal station.
This would burn imported-fuel and would be more flexible in operation
than an additional conventional steam unit.   It would cost about US$ 1501KW
installed: this cost covering local civil works, import duty (20%) and
other indirect 'costs.
7.05      The cost comparison of the two alternatives was made over an
assumed 50-year! life f6r each alternative, on a present value, i.e.
discounted cash' flow basis. The calculation of fuel costs was made at
the premium exchange rate of Rs 9.23 = US$ 1.00 (para 6.05), resulting
in a cost of fuel, exclusive of duty, of Rs 166 per ton. Average station
heat rates, likely to be attained in operation (14,500 and 17,500 BTUs



- 26 -
per KWH for the steam and gas turbine installations respectively), were
used. At this fuel cost, it was found that with a discount rate of less
than 14% Polgolla represents the more economic choice.
7.o6.          The cost of fuel used in the calculation, equivalent to
about US$ 18 per ton, is fairly expensive. In the main, the high cost
is due to the Board's inability to conclude a more favorable contract
for oil supplies because of the small quantities used. If generation
by thermal plant were to be developed on a larger scale, some reduction
in oil prices should be possible. For example, the price of oil in
Singapore is about US$ 12 per ton. But even at such a low price, which
Ceylon isB not likely to command, Polgolla would still be more attractive
at a discount rate of less than 11%.
Allocation of Costs to Power
7.07      Multipurpose projects present the problem of how to allocate
joint investment costs between the two sectors, to provide figures for
comparison with the benefits expected from these sectors. There is no
unchallengable method of making the allocation, but the "Separable Costs
Remaining Benefits" method followed in Annex 9 at least has the merit of
relating the allocations to the minimum costs of obtaining the benefits
flowing from the scheme, or their actual value, if this be less.
VIII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
8.01      The major quantifiable benefit to be derived from the project
would be the
(i) substantial increase of agricultural production (para. 6.01),
and farm incomes (para. 6.08),
(ii) the generation of up to 40 MW of hydro-power from the Polgolla
power station contributing to expanding Ceylon's firm generating
capacity from 320 MW to 340 MW (para. 4.07).
These would result from augmenting irrigation supplies to enable farmers
to increase their yields per acre and the installation of a hydro-electric
power plant at Polgolla. Additional annual agricultural output resulting
from the project would consist of 83,000 m tons of rice (equivalent to
about one-quarter of the country's imports in 1968 and about 7% of the
country's rice consumption) and about 10,000 m tons of sugar vhich accounts
for about 5% of current imports. The project would make a substantial con-
tribution towards closing Ceylon's rice deficit and help improve the balance
of payment position through annual savings in rice and sugar imports esti-
mated at about Rs 54 M (US$ 9 M equivalent).
8.02      At full development, the annual gross value of agricultural
production of the project area is expected to reach about Rs. 210.5 M
(US$22.81 M equivalent), nearly 70% higher than the present level.



- 27 -
After deducting production costs, the net value of agricultural pro-
duction would reach Rs 64.6 M (about US$7 M equivalent). Of this the
incremental net value of production would be Rs. 29.0 M (US$3.15 M
equivalent). This net production would represent a direct benefit to
the economy of about Rs 26.1 M (US$2.83 M equivalent) annually after
deduction of operation and maintenance costs.
8.03      The annual incremental net value of all benefits (including
power 1/ which accounts for Rs 26.4 M) would be Rs 55.4 M (us$6.o M
equivalent).
8.o4      In calculating the project's rate of return to the economy,
the following assumptions were used:
(i) a useful life of the project of 50 years;
(ii) a price equivalent to
(a) US$100 per m ton for valuation of rice
output of the project and
(b) US$0.05 per lb of sugar
(iii) an effective exchange rate of Rs 9.23 US$1 (See
para. 6.05 and Annex 11),
(iv) cost of family labor equivalent to prevailing
wage rates.
8.05      Using these assumptions, the rate of return to the economy would
be about 12%,    whereas the return on a single purpose project, constructed
at Polgalla for irrigation only, would be about 9% and, similarly, a single
purpose project for power only, would be about 11%. The estimated rate of
return to the economy for all stages of development of the first scheme of
the Mahaweli Ganga Development Program (para. 4.02) is 12%, and for agri-
culture separately is 11%. At the upper range of projected rice prices of
1/   Electric power output has been valued at the generating station.   For
the first two years of operation, the output from the project would be
replacement energy. On this basis, it can be valued at Rs. 0.07 per
kWh, equivalent to the cost of fuel per kWh for units generated in the
Central Electricity Board's existing thermal station (at Rs. 9.23 = US$
1.00). For subsequent years, energy has been valued at Rs. 0.12 per
kWh, equivalent to the total cost per unit generated in a new thermal
station.



- 28 -
US$110 per m ton (approximately equal to prevailing Government purchase
price when converted at this higher effective exchange rate) the rate of
return to the econonm would be about 14%. To the extent that the opportu-
nity cost of family labor is less than the allowed wage rate, these rates
of return would be slightly higher. Assuming zero cost of family labor at
the lower rice price, the return would also be about 14%. The project is
economically justified both in terms of the return to the economy and its
contribution to foreign exchange savings.
IX. RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained that the Government
would:
(i)  undertake studies to determine optimum capacity of
tunnels for Polgolla and Bowatenna    (para 4.11);
(ii)  employ consultants, acceptable to the Bank Group
(para 4.15);
(iii) on completion of the works at Polgolla, transfer the
power assets to the Ceylon Electricity Board on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank Group and the
CEB (para 4.20);
(iv)  monitor for 10 years, the effect of additional water
supplies on soils and crop production (para 5.09);
(v)  improve the standard of maintenance of tanks and
canal systems and strengthen the existing field
organization with staff, funds and equipment
(para 5.10);
(vi)  raise water charges to not less than Rs 40 per
acre per annum to cover the estimated cost of opera-
tion and maintenance as well as recovery of a
reasonable portion of the capital invested (para 5.13);
(vii) make a comprehensive study to determine an appropriate
schedule of water charges to be levied on beneficiaries,
to be completed within three years (para 5.13);
(viii) make arrangements for the study of credit availability
and needs of farmers in the project areas (para 5.15);
(ix)  establish special project units throughout the project
areas, each staffed by a resident manager (para 5.16);
(x)  expand the irrigation facilities to intensify work on
crop rotations at the Maha Illuppalama Agriculture



- 29 -
Research Station as well as provide additional staff,
equipment and financial resources to meet the research
needs of the project areas (para 5.17);
(xi) release sufficient water annually (from the Kantalai
tank) to fully irrigate, for test purposes, 200 acres
of sugarcane (para 5.18);
(xii.) ensure that the project accounts would be audited by
the Auditor-General's Department (para 5.19).
9.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the loan and credit, would be:
(i) the enactment and coming into force of legislation
acceptable to the Bank, establishing the Board and
defining its powers (para 5.05);
(ii)  notification by the responsible Minister that the
establishment of the Board, the appointments of its
chairman and members shall have been published in the
Ceylon Government Gazette (para 5.05);
(iii) the publication in the Ceylon Government Gazette of the
Minister's order declaring the project area to be a
"special area" under the jurisdiction of the Board
(para 5.05);
(iv)  the setting up of an organization structure for the
Board, acceptable-to the Bank, and the filling of
senior positions on the Board's staff (para 5.05); and
(v) the appointment of the general manager and deputy
general managers satisfactory to the Rank Group
(para 5.05).
9.03      With the indicated assurances, the proposed project constitutes a
suitable basis for a loan and credit of US$ 29 million. The Borrower would
be the Government of Ceylon.






ANNEX 1
CEYLON
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - STAGE I
AGRICULTURE
Background
1.        In 1968, the population of Ceylon was estimated at 12 million with
an annual growth rate of 2.2%. The gross area of the island is 25,332 square
miles. It is divided into distinct wet and dry zones, based on the amount
and pattern of rainfall and demarcated by the 75 in mean annual isohyet.
2.        The wet zone is situated in the south-west quadrant of the island
and covers about 30% of the land area; it supports more than three-quarters
of the population. Land use for agriculture in the wet zone is much larger
than in the dry zone; about 82% of the cultivated land of Ceylon is situated
in the wet zone. Thus, there is a comparative scarcity of land available
for the development for food production in the wet zone and, relatively, an
abundance of land for development in the dry zone. Any major expansion in
the cultivated area has to take place in the less developed dry zone. An
assured irrigation water supply is essential for this zone, if full use is
to be made of presently cultivated land as well as new land.
3.        Agriculture, whose growth has averaged 3.2% annually (1961-1968)
compared with an overall growth of 4% for the economy,, is the dominant factor
in the economy of the island and accounts for 36% of the gross domestic prod-
uct, 90% of its foreign exchange earnings and provides employment for about
53% of the population. In 1968, 45% of the total value of imports was ex-
pended on food and of this expenditure, rice accounted for 36% and sugar for
10%. Over the past ten years, Ceylon's annual imports of rice have averaged
about 500,000 m tons. During the last three years, as a result of increasing
local production, rice imports have declined from 485,ooo m tons in 1966 to
375,000 m tons in 1967 and 343,000 m tons last year.   Local sugar production
is negligible. Imports of sugar are rising with the growth of population
and some 225,000 m tons are presently imported.
4.        The agricultural economy of Ceylon is divided between estate agri-
culture, producing plantation crops, mainly tea, rubber and coconuts and
peasant produced food et al crops for domestic requirements. Estate agricul-
ture has dominated the economy. The value of exports has declined somewhat
in recent years., with tea accounting for about 62% of the value of the coun-
try's agricultural exports, rubber 16% and coconuts 10%.
5.        In recent years, the Government's agricultural policy has been
oriented towards increasing domestic agricultural production with a view to
reducinS imports of rice in particular and subsidiary food crops. Consider-
able success has been achieved in increasing rice production. The acreage
planted and yields over tha period 1962 to 1965 were relatively constant but
have increased steadily since 1966; the area planted in 1968 was 113% of the
1962 acreage&and yields were 122%. The increase in domestic supplies of rice
has been refleoted in a decrease in imports from a peak in 1965 (a drought
year) of 642,000 tons to 343,000 tons in 1968. There has also been a marked
increase in the production of subsidiary food crops.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
6.        These increases in food production have been obtained by the use
of production incentives such as a guaranteed price scheme, substantial sub-
sidies for inputs of fertilizers, irrigation water, seeds and tractor serv-
ices. Adequate production credits have been made available to farmers
through Village Multipurpose Cooperative Societies; there are 44,500 of these
in Ceylon. These Cooperatives not only provide the channel through which
credit is made available to the farmer, but supply the physical inputs of
fertilizer, agro-chemicals and, on behalf of the Agrarian Services, purchase
the produce that the farmer wishes to sell to the Government under the Guar-
anteed Price Scheme. At the end of the first quarter of 1968, 9,220 4-
wheeled tractors were licensed in Ceylon of which there were 1,704, L418 and
456 respectively in Anuradhapura, Polonnaruwa and Trincomalee areas. There
is no comparable record of the number-of 2-whaeled tractors in the country
but it is considered that their numbers have increased considerably since
their number was estimated at 1,500 in the Agricultural Development proposals
for 1966-1970. Credit for 2-wheeled tractors is regarded as short-term and
for 4-wheeled as medium-term. Steps have been taken to have inputs available
in the farming areas at the right time. High yielding varieties have been
made available and an intensive effort has been made by all agencies and the
farmer to boost domestic production.
7.        The increased production has been obtained mainly by increasing
productivity per acre. Further increases can be expected to accrue with
greater use of the recommended inputs; an average of 14 lb ac of nitrogen
was used by rice farmers last year while the recommended rate of application
is 45 lb ac. In the long term, if Ceylon is to become self-sufficient, it
would be necessary to increase the area under rice.
8.        In the dry zone, existing agricultural production is seriously
hampered by a shortage of irrigation water with the result that full double
cropping is impossible and even a single orop is occasionally jeopardized
because of the failure of the rains and the consequential lack of water in
the reservoirs. There are also considerable areas of undeveloped land suit-
able for rice and subsidiary food crops. For the development of such land
to be economic and to obtain maximum produotion, irrigation must be provided.
Moreover, the production of existing irrigated lands could be substantially
increased in the dry zone, if an assured irrigation supply was available
throughout the year. There is therefore some urgency in commencing irriga-
tion projects in the dry zone, utilizing water available in the wet zone.
Such water will be relatively expensive because of the distances involved
and the storage requirements to ensure year round availability. The utili-
zation of the Mahaweli Ganga water to develop new irrigated areas in the
dry zone as well as to augment the supply to cultivated areas, in the long
term, should go a long way towards meeting Ceylon's need for increased arable
acreage to enable self-sufficiency in staple food stuffs. It would also pro-
vide power to be utilized by the national electricity undertaking.
Area
9.        The gross land area and net cultivable acreage of the Project, Stages



ANNEX 1
Page 3
I, II and III are as follows:
Gross          Net Cultivable Acreage            Total
Commanded                Cultivable
Area               Acreage          Existing           New          Aareage
North-West
H                  1h6,000           46,200           56,900        103,100
IH                  10,000           10,000             -            10 000
Total              16000             5,00               5100
North-East
G                   18,300            4,800            7,500         12,300
Dl                 109,900           47,500           40,100          87,600
D2                   18,200          18 200             -             18,200
Total              146l700           70 540                         118,1_00
Grand Total         302L400         126,700          104,500         231,200
10.       All three stages of the project involve the on-farm development
of existing cultivated land of 56,200 ac in areas H and IH and 52,300 ac
in areas G and Dl together with the development under irrigation of 104,500
ac of new land, mainly under forest. The project does not envisage the on-
farm development of the 18,200 ac in area D2 but only the augmenting of the
irrigation supply to this area.
11.       Stage I envisages the augmenting of the irrigation water supply
to 126,700 ac of presently irrigated land in areas H, IH, G, Dl and D2 of
which 122,700 ao is planted, mainly to rice and 41,000 ao is under sugarcane
in area Dl.
Climate
12.       Ceylon is a hot, tropical island influenced by the north-east and
south-west monsoons which occur in the Maha (October to March) and the Yala
(April to September) seasons, respectively. The catchment area of the
Mahaweli Ganga, which will supply the bulk of additional irrigation water,
is situated in the wet zone with an annual average rainfall, above the Pol-
golla diversion dam., varying from 90 in to 200 in. The project area is
situated in the dry zone; the north-western area has a mean annual rainfall
of 56 in and the north-uastern area of 65 in of which 70% and 78% respectively
fall during the Maha season, based on observations from six rain gauging
stations in the project area extending over 50 years. Based on 30 ygars ob-
servations, mean maximum temperatures in the project area are 880-89 F (31°-
320C) and minimum temperatures 730-77°F (230-25°C). Relative humidity varies
from 60% during the day in dry weather to 90% at night. The climate is suit-
able for rice and a wide range of tropical crops of all types.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
Topogrgphy
13.       The north-western area is situated in the Kala Oya valley where
the relief is more undulating than in the north-eastern area. Irrigated
land is presently restricted to valley bottom land and the adjacent slopes.
About half of the area of the valley is covered by semi-deciduous forest
60 ft high. The north-eastern area, situated on the western bank of the
lower Mahaweli Ganga is, in general, less undulating and the forest cover
is somewhat denser. Gradients vary from slight to moderate on the slopes
of the valleys while the valley bottom land is relatively flat. Topography
under the command of the tanks and primary canals should offer no constraint
but will probably involve additional construction of canals because of the
undulating nature of the areas.
Soils
14.       The dominant soils of the valley bottom are low-humic gleys;
alluviums also occur on the flood plains. The former, slowly permeable
soils are used for rice.  With drainage, they could grow a limited range of
crops in the dry season. The dominant soils in the remainder of the project
are red-brown earths which are vell to moderately drained varying from sandy
clay loams to silty clays and loams. Rice is grown on these soils and they
are suitable for a wide range of tropical crops. The growth of crops on
these soils is possible in the Naha rainy seaaon but, to ensure optimum
yields, supplemental irrigation is required; crop production in the Yala
dry season is dependent on irrigation.
15.       The soil survey of the project areas carried out by the Land Uti-
lization division of the Irrigation Department is comprehensive and the
types and series have been defined. There appears to be no problem of
salinity or alkalinity in the areas. Certain of the red-brown earths are
affected by a relatively compacted gravel layer 30-40 in from the surface
which will affect permeability and the btpe of tree crops that may be grown.
A land classification is necessary to define the irrigable land classes and
their distribution and extent.
Land Tenure
16.       About 40% of the arable acreage of Ceylon is farmed by tenants.
The Paddy Land Act of 1958 gave tenant rice cultivators the unalienable
right to occupy and use paddy land they had been cultivating and to pass
on this right to their heirs. It also restricted the rent that could be
demanded by landlords. It provided for the formation of cultivation
committees at the village level to plan and set the crop targets for paddy
production and generally organize the cultivation of the crop.
17.       The Land Development Ordinance of 1935 and subsequent amendments
provide for the systematic development and alienation of crown land, which
comprises the majority of land available for development. A cultivator
first obtains a permit to clear and use a specified area of crown land at a



ANNEX 1
Page 5
fixed annual rental of 2% of the unimproved value of the land. His right to
use the land is guaranteed provided he fulfills the conditions on the permit
as to residence, use to which the land is put, etc. He has the right to nomi-
nate his successor but cannot sell his holding. Provision is made for him
to pay an irrigation rate, if irrigation facilities are provided at any time.
Provided the permit holder carried out the improvements and other conditions
specified in the schedule of the permit to the satisfaction of the Government
Agent of the District in which the land is contained, within the times specified,
he will be entitled to receive a grant to the land. Following a Land Commission
report, amendments are proposed to permit the grant holder to sell his grant
provided that the sale is to another peasant farmer. It also proposes to per-
mit the land to be mortgaged. The latter amendment is to facilitate the re-
covery of loans by Cooperatives. Recovery prooedure is through the courts and
the ultimate penalty is eviction. In the event that no peasant buyer is
available, Government is entitled to resume the land by paying off all debts.
The land is purchased over 20-25 years at the unimproved value plus capital
improvements such as the value of land clearing, house subsidies, etc. that
the permit holder might have received.
18.       These are the tenure patterns in the project area.  They give
the peasant farmer adequate security of tenure and guard against fragmentation
of holdings.
Supporting Agricultural Services
19.       The supporting servioes available to the farmer are generally ade-
quate for the present level of production and, in recent years, have been
largely responsible for the increased production of paddy. At the village
level, the various services dealing with the ffrmer, such as agricultural
extension, agrarian services, land development and cooperatives are repre-
sented by trained officers who are backed by technical trained staff at the
division level' and by graduate staff with specialists at the district level.
These in turn, are backed by adequate research et al services at the national
level.  Each agricultural extension worker advises 3-4 cultivation committees
and supervises 700-l,500 ac of rice land.
20..      In area G of the project, the Elahera Special Projeot was comnenced
in the Maha 1967/68 season following acceptance of recommendations of an FAO/
IBRD Cooperative Program Mission, which visited Ceylon in 1966 to review the
irrigation program. The Special Project involves intensification of all ex-
tension services in the area to be directed and cooordinated by a resident
Project Manager with a view to raising the yields of paddy as rapidly as posi.
sible, introducing crop diversification and better utilization of irrigation
water. The value of such intensification has been demonstrated and as a
result, this technique was extended to nine additional special projects in
1968/69 on Colonization (settlement) schemes. The Government plans to apply
this special project technique to the project areas} this is essential if
forecasted yields are to be realized.
21.       The Maha Illuppalama Agricultural Research Station, established in



ANNEX 1
Page 6
1946, is situated in the north-western area and will serve the project areas.
The station is well equipped and staffed to meet the applied research and
development needs of the project. The agricultural engineering division of
e station would be of considerable value in the development of the project
areas. However, there is a need to expand the irrigation facilities Of the
station and for intensifying work on crop rotations, with and-4ithout live-
stock, as well as the staff and financial resources of the agricultural engin-
eering division.
22,.      A sugar research station is under construction at Sri Lanka sugar
estate in area Dl. Priority should be given to the completion of this sta-
tion with a view to raising yields of sugar per acre. Pending the availabilor
ity of additional water from the project to the Kantalai tank in 1973/74, it
would be necessary for the sugar estate to obtain adequate irrigation wat 'r
from' the Kantalai tank, throughout the year, to enable some 200 ao of sut t-
cane to be fully irrigated once uvery l0-lh days with a minimum applica;on
to the root zone of 2 in of water per ac. The provision of this water4s
essential to obtain information on potential yields of sugar per ac from
plants and ratoon canes where water is no longer the constraint, and thus
enable the estate to make the best use of the full irrigation water supply
that should become available to it in 1973/74.
Cropping Patterns and Yields
23.       Rice is the main crop grown in the project areas.  Vegetables, chil-
lies, onions, legumes, other cereals and tropical fruits are cultivated to a
very limited extent, although all these crops are well suited to the areas.
Livestock is limited to working animals, mainly water buffalo. The use of
h-wheeled and 2-wheeled tractors is on the increase for cultivation, threshing
and transportation.
24.       The Goverzment's policy and the incentives given to farmers, coupled
with demonstrations, have led to considerable increases in production of im-
port substitution crops such as chillies, onions et al. However, it will be
some years before these crops will be incorporated to a significant extent
into the cropping pattern of the project areas. There is an urgent need for
suitable crop rotations with and *ithout rice to be tried out in the field wo
determine their practicality and economics under peasant farming conditions.
Provision has been made for this in the project.
25.       For the next few years, it is expected that rice will continue to
be almost the sole crop grown on the project. The cropping intensity pres-
ently varies from 130% to 180% and is expected to rise to 180% and 200%. In
any one year, these intensities depend on the rains and the amount of supple'-
mentary irrigation available in the storage tanks. With partial failure of
the Maha rains last season, it was estimated that about 30% of the rice fields
in area H had remained uncultivated.
26.       Improved rice varieties have been produced locally and are in gen.'
eral use. They are capable of doubling the present yields, provided there is
adequate irrigation water, the recommended inputs of fertilizer, agro-chemicals,



ANNEX 1
Page 7
etc. are used and a reasonable standard of cultivation is maintained.
Preliminary trials with the Philippine variety IR8 have indicated that still
greater yields are obtainable.
27,       The standard of rice cultivation has been improving as has the
timing of planting with the advent of tractors. A delay in the commencement
of the rains means a delay in the start of cultivation where manual labor or
buffalo are used to prepare the paddy fields. The bulk of the crop is broad-
casted, labor being short for transplanting which as usual gives higher yields.
Weed control is reported to be often deficient.
28.       Yields of rice in the project areas are generally low.  The average
yields of the area harvested in the north-western area for the past seven
years for the Naha and Yala orops were 0.60 and 0.75 m tons ac of rice and
in the north-eastern area 0.75 and 0.63 m tons ac. Discounting weather con-
ditions, yields have tended to rise steadily in the past decade, particularly
in the last three years and should continue to do so provided existing Gov-
ernment policies are maintained. The major constraints in this continued rise
is the inadequacy of irrigation supplies for the Maha crop in years when the
rains are late or partially fail and the shortage of irrigation water to per-
mit full cropping in the Yala season.
Cost of Production
29.       It is expected that rice will continue for some,years to come to
be the main crop grown in the project areas. It was decided, for this and
other reasons, to restrict Stage I of the project to rice production. The
cost of production data hereunder is based on an owner-cultivator, the type
of cultivator occupying Colonization schemes and the type that will occupy
the new land to be developed in Stages II and III. The costs assume that
improved seed will be sown broadcasted or in rows and that all inputs will
be unsubsidized.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
COST OF PRODUCTION OF RICE
(Rupees per acre per crop)
Present Situation                                                       Rs
Gross Return Maha Season 44 bushels/ac @ Rs 1411                      616.00
Yala Season 42     "   /ac @ Rs 1E/                     5=t.00
Cost of Production
Land Preparation                                                    105.00
Planting                                                             3  50
Weeding                                                              64.00
Manuring                                                             30.00
Irrigation                                                           35.00
Pest and Disease                                                     4 .00
Harvesting                                                           24.00
Post Harvest                                                         80.00
Total Cost                                                            7l12 .50
Land Tax_/                                                           10.00
Irrigation Tax_/                                                      2.50
Total Cost                                                           b21.O0
Net Return Maha Season                                                191.00
Yala Season                                                163.00
Third Year After Full Water Supply
Gross Return Maha Season 65 bushels/ac @ Rs 1h1/                      910.00
Yala Season 65     "   /ac @ Rs 14k/                     910.00
Cost of Production                                                    712.50
Add. Manuring                                                        6k4.oo
Add. Pest and Disease                                                30.00
Add. Harvesting                                                       4.00
Add. Post Harvest                                                     4.00
Total Cost                                                            512.50
Land Tax/.,                                                          10.00
Irrigation Tax ./                                                    12.50
Total Cost                                                            537.00
Net Return Maha Season                                                373.00
Yala Season                                                373.00
1/ Paddy.
2/ Half the yearly tax per crop.



CEYLON
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - STAGE I             ANNEX 2
EXISTING WATER RESOURCES
IN THE PROJECT AREA
1.        The existing irrigated lands in the project area have two sources
of water supply, rainfall and the canal supply from storage tanks. Over
70% of the rainfall occurs in the Maha season from October to March and the
balance in the Yala season from April to September. The monthly distribu-
tion of rainfall is often erratic with heavy concentrations in a few months
in Maha. The long term average and selected dry-year average rainfall at
Maha Illuppalama and Polannaruwa stations, which can be considered as repre-
sentative of H and IH, and Dl and G areas respectively, are given below.
Maha Illuppalama                    Pol&nnaruwa
Year          Maha       Yala      Annual      Maha       Yala      Annual
------------------------- inches --------------------------_
Dry Years
1945-46       33.7       1h.7       48.4       13.0       10.3       23.3
12917-h8      25.1       15.7       1,0.8      50.o        6.7       56.7
1949-50       45.9       12.9       58.8       50.2        7.0       57.2
1952-53       17.7       15.6       33.3       38.5       23.9       6.%14
1955-56       23.3        7.2       30.5       26.1      11.14       37.5
1958-59       24.2       19.7       43.9       44.6        7.7       52.3
Average of 20 yrs.
19414-45 to
1963-64       42.4       17.4       59.8       51.4       14.7       66.1
2.        The effective rainfall in both seasons is insufficient for the
growth of paddy, which is the main crop, as shown below by the UNDP/FAO
study for dry years.
H and IH Area         Dl and G Area
Maha       Yala       Maha       Yala
Average
Effective Rainfall (in)             17.4       12.0       23.7        7.6
Percentage of crop
Requirement                         53         32         72         20
3.        The local yield of tanks in the project area is quite low in dry
years with the result that they are not filled to capacity.  The combined
yield of Kandalama, Kalawewa, Usgala Siyambalangamuwa and Rajangana tanks
in the H area is 378,000 ac-ft on the average, with a low of only 59,000
ac-ft in a dry year like 1955-56 compared to their total effective capacity
of 195,500 ac-ft. The diversion of some 20,000 to 140,000 ac-ft annually
from Nalanda reservoir to the Kalawewa tank since 1958 has slightly im-
proved the position, but the supplies are still short in Maha and complete-
ly inadequate in Yala.
4.        The' Anuradhapura city tanks serving the IH area comprising the
Nachchaduwa (141,100 ac-ft), Nuwarawewa (36,000 ac-ft), Tissawewa (2,900 ac-
ft) and Bosawak Kalama (1,800 ac-ft) are not filled to capacity except in



ANNEX 2
Page 2
the very wet years. The Kalawewa-Yoda Ela trans-basin canal provides supple-
mental supplies to fill the Tissawewa tank and a new link canal has been
constructed to supplement the supply to Nachchaduwa tank. Even so, acute
shortage of water continues, especially in the dry years.
5.        The combined yield of Giritale, Minneriya, Kaudulla and Kantalai
tanks in the Dl and G areas is 172,000 ac-ft on the average with a low of
only 18,000 ac-ft in a dry year like 1955-56 compared to their effective
capacity of 363,000 ac-ft. The major source of supply to these tanks is
the diversion from Amban Ganga through the Elahera canal which is generally
adequate to meet the Maha requirements of existing irrigated lands, except
in the very dry years, but is still inadequate to meet the Yala requirements.
6.        There is the need, therefore, to tap new sources of water to make
up the deficiency in the water supply to the existing irrigated lands in the
project area and with the proposed development of new lands, it is even more
essential and inescapable. The only available source is the Mahaweli Ganga,
the largest river in Ceylon, which is largely untapped.



CEYLON
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - STAGE I             ANNEX 3
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1.        The engineering works comprising the Mahaweli Ganga Development,
to be constructed under Stage I, include the Polgolla complex, the Bowa-
tenna complex, the Sudu Ganga training works and the remodelling of the
Elahera weir and the Elahera-Minneri -Kantalai canal. When these works
are completed in 1973-74, additional water from the Mahaweli Ganga and the
Amban Ganga could be made available to make up the deficiency in the water
supply to existing irrigated lands of 56,200 ac in areas H and IH and
70,500 ac in areas Dl, D2 and G. The works to be constructed in Stage I
are designed to meet the ultimate water requirements of 213,000 ac of
existing and new lands in areas H and II (113,100 ac) and Dl and G (99,900 ac)
which would be developed in Stages II and III respectively.
2.        In addition to the engineering works, Stage I includes detailed
investigations of existing and new lands in areas H and II to be developed
in Stage II which, inter-alia, include, preparation of the feasibility re-
port, detailed cost estimates, aerial survey, land classification and deve-
lopment, irrigation and drainage works, cropping patterns and water require-
ments, settlement of farmers and agriculture extension services. Drainage
and land levelling equipment is provided for on-farm development of 4,000 ac
of sugarcane in area Dl.
Polgolla Complex
3.        The Polgolla complex consists of a low diversion dam across the
Mahaweli Ganga about a mile downstream of Kandy city, a 5 mile long diver-
sion tunnel to divert the Mahaweli flaws to the Dhun Oya, thence into the
Sudu Ganga, a tributary of the Amban Ganga, a 40 MW hydro-electric plant
at the end of the tunnel with a by-pass outlet for irrigation releases and
a tail-race canal outfalling into the Dhun Oya, a tributary of the Sudu
Ganga.
The diversion dam would be a concrete ogee structure, 565 feet
long at crest and 55 feet high above foundation, with ten hook type, spill-
way gates, 21 feet high and 40 feet wide, and a 21h feet wide roadway on
the crest. The spillway would be capable of passing a discharge of 210,000
cusecs, which corresponds to a flood of 100 year frequency, without causing
any significant damage to developments upstream and without affecting the
railway bridge located about 6,100 feet upstream of the Polgolla site. The
dam would be operated to provide a minimum continuous release of 150 cusecs
downstream for sanitation, wild life and domestic use and to head up water
up to the maximum operating pool level at elevation 1,4h6 feet when the
maximum head across the Dam would be 23 feet. The minimum operating pool
level would be at elevation 1438 feet which would provide a regulating
storage of 2,000 ac-ft. The geology of the site is favorable for construct-
ing a low dam. The site had been selected after examining other alternatives
both upstream and downstream, the main consideration being the suitability
of the tunnel intake and not the geology. Rock outcrops are exposed at a
few points both upstream and downstream of the site. The rocks are mostly
quartzo-feldspathic-biotitic gneisses having almost vertical dips. Seven
holes with an aggregate length of 312 feet have been drilled along the axis
of the dam. The core data revealed that weathering was deeper, particu-
larly on the right bank, but sound rock was available at a maximum depth of
20 feet to adequately support the structure. The foundations would require
grouting and an upstream grout curtain would be constructed to avoid uplift
pressures under the downstream floor.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
5.        The diversion tunnel would be 26,450 feet long with a horseshoe
section 19 ft 6 in in diameter, capable of diverting 2,500 cusecs of the
Mahaweli flows into the Amban Ganga through the Dhun Oya and Sudu Ganga.
It would be a pressure tunnel and would be lined throughout its length.
The tunnel alignment has been selected after considering several alterna-
tives. Although 28 bore holes with an aggregate iength of 3,709 feet
have been drilled in the region for examining alternative alignments, the
geological data along the final alignment is based on 5 drill holes only
with a total length of about 1,000 feet.  The rocks along the tunnel trace
consist mainly of gneisses with interbeds of quartzites and granulites ex-
cept in the tail end where hard crystalline limestones and calc gneisses
were found. Several closed faults and shear zones traverse the tunnel
area and are represented by long and narrow drainage valleys at the ground
surface between mountain ridges. At these sections, problems of fractured
rocks and seepage water are likely to be encountered during construction.
Several geologists visited the site from time to time during 1959-68 and
expressed favorable views on the feasibility of the tunnel. Experience on
the construction of the Maskeliya tunnel, which is also 5 miles long and
passes through similar geology, supports the conclusion that no unsurmount-
able problems would be expected during the construction of the Polgolla
tunnel. Nevertheless the data of only 5 bore holes along a 5-mile long
tunnel does not provide sufficient information to international contractors
to prepare accurate and competitive bids and it would be prudent to carry
out additional drilling before the tender documents are issued. The Irri-
gation Department is carrying out the additional drilling suggested at
their cost.
6.        The hydro-electric plant is to contain two vertical shaft turbo-
generator sets with a rated capacity of 20 MW each and designed for a
nominal discharge of 1,000 cusecs and an operating head of 268 feet. The
maximum head would be 300 feet and the minimum 230 feet. At the downstream
tunnel portal there would be a steel penstock, 13 feet in diameter and
about 1,300 feet in length, which would enter a manifold from which two
outlets would convey the water to the turbine units with a third outlet to
'serve as a by-pass discharging directly into the tail race which joins the
Dhun Oya.
7.        The Polgolla power plant would increase the firm power capacity
of the system by about 20 MW and would contribute 220 million kWh of
energy annually. In order to connect the power station to the existing
132 KV transmission network, the Ceylon Electricity Board would construct
a short double-circuit 132 KV transmission line from the Switching Station
located near Kandy.
Bowatenna Complex
8.        The Bowatenna complex consists of a highdiversion dam on the
Amban Ganga at Bowatenna, a 5 mile long diversion tunnel on the left bank
followed by about a mile long lined canal up to Dambulla Oya, a bifurca-
tion structure at Dambulla Oya to release part of the flows to the Dambulla
Oya which discharges into the Kalawewa tank and the remaining part into a
short earthen canal which will feed the Kandalama tank.



ANTEX 3
Page 3
9.        The diversion dam would be a concrete structure, 880 feet long
at the crest and 132 feet high with five radial gates, 36 feet wide and
214 feet high, and a 16 feet wide roadway on the crest. The spillway
would have a capacity of 125,000 cusecs which corresponds to a flood of
100 year frequency. The maximum operating pool level of the dam would be
at elevation 820 feet and the minimum at 800 feet which would provide an
active storage of 21,000 ac-ft. The geology of the site is favorable.
Rock outcrops are exposed which are fractured and jointed, consisting of
gneisses and quartzites. Borehole data along the dam axis shows some frac-
turing at depths, indicating the need for grouting.
10.       The diversion tunnel would be 25,000 feet long with an unlined
horseshoe section 10 feet in diamter capable of discharging 1,500 cusecs
under pressure. Six boreholes have been drilled along the 5 mile length
of the tunnel. In the upper part of tTh-' tunnel, the rock formations con-
sist of gneisses and quartzites which a   fractured and jointed.   In the
lower half of the tunnel the roclc consists of calc gneisses and crystal-
line limestone. The groundwater table lies closer to the ground surface
in the lower half of the tunnel alignment and may give rise to difficult
problems of care of water during construction. Geologists from USOM, FAO
and UNIDP mentioned in para 5 above, inspected the site and endorsed the
feasibility Of the tunnel. For supplying adequate information to contrac-
tors on the geology of the tunnel, additional drill holes are to be made
along the axis.
11.       The tunnel would lead to an open-cut with depth of cut varying
from 65 to 15 feet in a length of 4,160 feet to Dambulla Oya. The canal
would have a capacity of 1,500 cusecs and would be lined with concrete.
At Dambulla Oya there would be a bifurcation structure for diverting 1,200
cusecs into the Dambulla Oya which feeds the Kalawewa tank while the re-
maining discharge of 300 cusecs would be conveyed through a short unlined
canal, the Kandalama canal, to the Maha Oya which discharges into the Kan-
dalama tank.
Sudu Ganga Training Works
12.       Water released from the Polgolla tunnel and hydro-electric plant
would be conveyed to B3owatenna through the natural channels of Dhun Oya,
Sudu Ganga and Amban Ganga rivers. The additional flow of up to 2,500
cusecs in these channels would affect their natural regime, particularly
in the Dhun Oya and the upper reaches of the Sudu Ganga, where the existing
capacity of the channels is less than 2,500 cusecs. Channel improvements
and training works would be required to prevent erosion and damage to
existing improvements.  Inspection of the channels has also indicated that
parts of the cultivated land along the banks of the Sudu Ganga, which would
be subjected to flooding, may have to be acquired and 3 road bridges on the
Sudu Ganga would have to be remodelled to improve their waterways. Some
drop structures may have to be constructed to stabilize the channel.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
Elahera-Minneri-Kantalai-Yoda Ela Canal
13.       The Elahera-Minneri-Kantalai-Yoda Ela canal (referred to as the
Elahera canal) is an old canal which has been restored and remodelled several
times in the past two decades. It takes off from the Elahera weir on the
Amban Ganga and runs along a contour to the Minneriya tank with a by-pass
feeder to the Giritale tank. It takes off again from the Minneriya tank,
passes above the Kaudulla tank, augmenting the supplies to the latter through
a special feeder and then spills into the Yoda Ela canal which discharges
into the existing Kantalai tank. The total length of the canal from the
Elahera weir to Kantalai tank is about 38 miles consisting of 22 miles from
Elahera to Minneriya and 16 miles from Minneriya to Kantalai. Its present
capacity is 1,000 cusecs in the first 4.9 miles, 1,250 cusecs from 4.9 to
6.3 miles and 1,500 cusecs in the remaining 15.7 miles to the Minneriya
tank. From the Minneriya tank, the canal has a single bank on the right
side and intercepts all the drainage from the left bank. Here it is in
effect, a catch-water drain with large pools at places where the natural
streams enter the canal. In view of its high right bank, it can carry
over 2,500 cusecs of peak floods. The entire canal from Elahera weir to
Kantalai is poorly maintained. Below Minneriya tank there is a heavy growth
of weeds and bushes which restrict the waterway and cause heavy water losses.
1h.       In order to meet the full irrigation requirements of areas Dl and
G and also to fill the tanks in time .for regulation and storage, the capa-
city of the Elahera canal would be increased to 1,500 cusecs up to the
Minneriya tank. Beyond this point, no increase in the theoretical capacity
is required, but considerable work has to be done to restore the waterway
by clearing the weeds and bushes and widening the restricted sections.
After the canal is fuIlly remodelled, it would require heavy annual mainte-
nance to maintain its capacity as the numerous natural streams entering the
canal throughout its length would cause silting, encourage weed growth and
create large standing pools. The alternative is to construct .a regular
canal with two banks, crossing all the natural drainage lines by siphons
underneath the canal. This would require 16 drainage siphons to cross the
1l6 natural streams draining a catchment of 40 square miles on the left
bank from Elahera to Minneriya and another 65 drainage siphons to cross the
65 natural streams draining a catchment area of 17 square miles on the left
bank from Minneriya to Kantalai. The main advantages of this alternative
would be the reduction of water losses and annual maintenance costs. How-
ever, the main disadvantages are the heavy capital cost of construction,
the hazards of damage to the numerous cross drainage works during heavy
rains, which would increase the annual maintenance cost and might also make
the canal inoperative at times and, above all, the waste of an important
source of water from the left bank catchment of the canal varying from
60,000 to 20,000 ac-ft annually, which can be regulated in the tanks and
utilized for irrigation.
15.       The Elahera weir would be remodelled to raise its pond level by
an additional 2 feet and a new head regulator would be constructed on the
left bank, adjacent to the existing regulator, with a capacity of 700 cusecs
to provide additional supplies to the Elahera canal. The first 1,000 feet
of the Elahera canal runs through a deep cut in rock and is lined with con-
crete. It would be widened and remodelled to increase its capacity to
1,500 cusecs.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
Investigations - Areas H and IH
16.       Area H is estimated to contain 46,200 ac of irrigated land and
56,900 ac of new land, mainly under forest, which is suitable for and
capable of being irrigated. Area IH is estimated to contain 10,000 ac
of irrigated land; no new land is available. Additional irrigation, drain-
age and agricultural investigations are required in these areas before they
can be appraised for further development. These investigations and studies
would involve, but not be limited to, the foUowing:
a) review of existing data and reports;
b) aerial photography at a scale of 1:10,000 to enable produc-
tion of rectified prints and mosaics;
c) review the existing contour mapping;
d)  land classification of areas at a scale of about 1:10,000;
e) water supply, water mana, iiient and use studies, including
seepage and evaporation iosses and use of measuring devices;
f)  land development and on-'arm development costs for existing
and new lands based on typical farm layouts from sample
plots on representative areas covering 10% of the total
irrigable area;
g) agronomic and farm management studies to establish optimum
cropping patterns with and without livestock;
h) socio-agro-economic studies of settlement patterns and
suitable farm sizes;
i) establish an overall irrigation and drainage plan including
flood control;
J) establish costs of recommended farm layouts;
k) study farm-to-market road requirements;
1) review and advise on expanded agricultural extension service
requirements and siting and layout of demonstration farms;
mn) determine project agricultural benefits using internal rate
of return;
n) prepare interim and final feasibility reports; and
o) recommend type or organization suitable for execution and
operation of Stage II.
On-Farm Development
17.       If 4,000 ac of sugarcane in area Dl are to be able to use effi-
ciently and fully, the increased water supply that should be available by
October 1973, the irrigation and drainage systems will require redesigning
and improvement and the fields will require levelling and sub-soiling.
Equipment has been provided in the project to enable this work to be com-
pleted by the end of September, 1973.
18.       It would be necessary for on-farm development work to be carried
out immediately on 200 ac, prior to the arrival of equipment being provided
under the project. This work would be done by equipment already in the
country, to enable information to be obtained on the yield of sugar per
acre, when water is no longer the constraint. This in turn, will require
the sugar estate to have first call on the available water in the Kantalai
tank for irrigating adequately 200 ac of sugarcane throughout the year.
This involves making available sufficient water to permit a minimum appli-
cation of 2 in of water to the root zone every 10-1T days.






CEYLON: MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT -STAGE I
CONSTRUCTION AND INVESTIGATION SCHEDULE
1969           1970           1971          1972           1973           1974
STAGE I
POLGOLLA COMPLEX                         ISSUE
SPECIFICATIONS AND BID DOCUMENTS                        AWARD MARC                         DELIVERED OCTOBER I A
CONSTRUCTION
BOWATENNA COMPLEX                                       UE
SPECIFICATIONS AND BID DOCUMENTS                                   AWA DECEMBER I               WATER
CONSTRUCTION
SUDU GANGA AND ELAHERA IMPROVEMENT
PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS                                                                   DELIVERED OCTOBER I
CONSTRUCTION (FORCE ACCOUNT)
AGRICULTURAL LAND DEVELOPMENT
INVESTIGATIONS AREAS H AND IH
AERIAL PHOTOGRAPHY
LAND CLASSIFICATION                               a
LAND DEVELOPMENT
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE SYSTEMS
AGRICULTURAL INVESTIGATIONS                      E /2
INTERIM AND FINAL FEASIBILITY REPORTS
z
(2R) IBRD- 4381 x
_                                                          a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.






CEYLON                                ANNEX 5
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - STAGE I
WATER SUPPLY AND IRRIGATION REQUIREMENTS
Sources of Water
1.        The water supply scheme for the project consists of:
a) diversion of the natural flows of Mahaweli Ganga at Polgolla
through the Pblgolla tunnel into the Amban Ganga, a tributary of the Mahaweli
Joining the main river 87 miles downstream of Polgolla;
b) distribution of the diverted flows of Mahaweli and the natural
flows of the Amban Ganga at the Bowatemna site, about 30 miles downstream of
the Polgolla tunnel, to areas H and IH through the Bowatenna tunnel and to
areas Dl and G through the Elahera weir and canal located on the Amban Ganga,
1 miles downstream of Bowatenna;
c) regulating the river supplies diverted through the Bowatenna
tunnel and the Elahera weir through a system of tanks in the areas H and IH
and areas D1 and G. respectively, and integrating them with the local inflows
into the tanks from their respective catchments;
d) re-use of drainage water from upstream irrigated lands by regu-
lation at the lower tanks.
2.        There are, thus, four sources of water supply to the irrigated areas,
the Mahaweli Ganga, the Amban Ganga, the streams locally known as "Oyas"
feeding the tanks and the return flows from the upstream irrigated areas that
can be re-used as supplemental supplies in the lower areas. In an irrigation
system that depends on such diverse and relatively independent sources of
supplies, the adequacy of water supplies in quantities and times required by
the crops would depend not only on the accuracy of the estimates of the available
water from the various sources but also on how effectively these supplies are
integrated, regulated, distributed and utilized.
3.        The Mahaweli Ganga is the major source of water supply.   It is the
largest river in Ceylon with a total length of about 200 miles, a catchment
area of 4,034 sq mi, and a mean annual flow of 7.2M ac-ft.   At Polgolla, the
river has a catchment area of 508 sq mi and a mean annual flow of 1.9 M ac-ft.
Daily records of gauge and discharge observations of the Mahaweli Ganga are
available from October 1944 at the existing gauging station a few miles down-
stream of Polgolla. As the catchment area at this station is only 519 sq mi
compared to 508 sq mi at Polgolla and as the inflow between the two stations
is not significant, the data from this gauging station provides an adequate
and reliable basis for estimating the river flows at Polgolla.
4.        The Amban Ganga is the largest tributary of the Mahaweli with a
total catchment of 574 sq mi and a mean annual flow of 1.2 M ac-ft. At
Bowatenna, where the river has a catchment of only 188 sq mi, no gauge and
discharge observations have been made. The nearest gauge site on the river
is at the Elahera weir, 14 miles downstream of Bowatenna, where records of
gauge and discharge observations have been maintained since October 1944.
The river has a catchment area of 318 sq mi at Elahera and carries a mean



annual flow of 0.72 M ac-ft. However, lack of discharge data at Bowatenna
is not a serious impediment to the assessment of the water supply as the
diversions at Bowatenna do not exceed the Polgolla supplies and a significant
part of the total supplies at Bowatenna must be passed downriver for use at
the Elahera weir.
5.        Observed data of run-off from streams feeding the Kandalama,
Kalawewa and Rajangana tanks in areas H and IH and of the Minneriya, Giritale,
Kaudulla and Kantalai tanks in the areas Di and G is not available. Records
of water levels in the tanks and the issue of water from their sluices have
been maintained over several decades which could provide a basis for estimating
the yields from the local catchments but studies, carried out by the UNDP/FAO,
indicate that the records are inconsistant and are not reliable. In the cir-
cumstances, the only practical method of estimating the run-off from the local
catchments is to utilize the rainfall data which is available for a sufficiently
long period from a fairly dense network of rain gauging stations in the areas.
Estimates of local yield into the various tanks, prepared by UNDP/FAO, appear
quite conservative. In dry years, the annual yield of all tanks in the H area
varies from 60,000 to 200,000 ac-ft and in the Dl and G areas from 20,000 to
120,000 ac-ft.
6.        Estimates of drainage yield from irrigated areas that would be
available for re-use in the lower areas are based on a 10% yield from a crop
rotation of paddy-paddy-legume, 719 from paddy-cash crops and 5% from all
other rotations. The estimated annual drainage yield is 56,500 ac-ft from area
H and 60,200 ac-ft from areas D1 and G.
Areas to be Irrigated
7.        The areas to be irrigated in the project would be developed in three
stages. In Stage I the existing irrigated areas of 46,200 ac in H, 10,000 ac
in IH, 47,500 ac in Dl and 4,800 ac in G would be provided with additional water
for double cropping. As the available supplies would exceed the total require-
ments of the above areas, the existing irrigated lands in area D2, served from
the Angamedilla weir on the Amban Ganga, below Elahera, can be provided with
additional supplies temporarily for raising two crops annually. In Stage II,
the existing areas of 56,200 ac and the new areas of 56,900 in H and IH would
be fully developed during the period 1973 to 1979, while the existing areas of
Dl , G and D2 would continue to receive additional irrigation supplies as in
Stage I. In Stage III the existing areas of 52,300 ac and the new areas of
47,600 ac in D1 and G would also be fully developed. At this stage, the existing
areas of D2 would be provided with such additional supplies as are surplus to
the full requirements of areas H, IH, D1 and G.
Water Requirements
8.        The maximum water requirements would be developed after Stage III
is completed but the engineering facilities constructed in Stage I should be
adequate to meet the full requirements of all three stages of development.
9.        At the present time, it is difficult to estimate accurately the
consumptive use of crops to be irrigated because of the serious gaps in the



ANNX5 5
Page 3
available data. There is no acceptable land classification of the areas to be
irrigated, the cropping patterns to be adopted are theoretical and have not
been checked in the field and no check has been exercised in the field in
respect of intensity of clearing forests and the extent of land leveling
required. Some data on water requirements for the rice crop is available
from the studies carried out at the Maha Illuppalama Agriculture Research
Station but practically no information is available in respect of other crops.
In view of these gaps in the available data, it is not possible to determine
with any accuracy the water requirements of the crops to be irrigated. There-
fore, the mission suggested that simultaneously with the construction of the
main engineering works in Stage I, intensive investigations and studies should
be carried out to make good the deficiencies in the available data. For pur-
poses of appraisal, it is necessary to estimate the water requirements as
accurately as possible utilizing the available data and making such assumptions
with regard to the missing data as may be required, recognizing that the
estimates are subject to modification whon the proposed investigations and
studies are completed during the next eighteen months.
10.       The UNDP/FAO mission carried out studies on the cropping patterns
proposed for the H, IH, D1 and G areas and estimated the water requirements
using the Blaney-Criddle Method, making certain assumptions to determine the
coefficients in the formula. A review of these studies indicated that, in
the absence of reliable data, the estimates prepared by the UNDP/FAO, which
are quite conservative, can be adopted for testing the adequacy of water
supplies for the areas served. These estimates have been modified by in-
cluding the existing areas of TH and 30% of the new areas of H, which were
excluded in the UNDP/FAO proposals.  The results are summarized in the table
overleaf.
11.       The figures of water duty given in the above table are gross duties
at the head sluices of the tanks and take into account the distribution
losses, field losses and wastage. It may be noted that the figures of estimated
duties, annual as we1l as monthly, given by the UNDP/FAO in the Final Report,
the Detailed Reports and the Detailed liater Balance studies do not tally.
Apparently they were modified from time to time using different assumptions.
For purposes of the appraisal report, the values given in the Detailed Wiater
Balance studies, which are generally higher, have been adopted. This would
provide a more severe test of the adequacy of the water supplies.
12.       The gross water requirements of areas H and IH at the Bowatenna dam
and of areas Dl and G at the Elahera weir would include the additional losses
in the tanks and the main feeder canals. The losses which were estimated by
the UNDP/FAO, on a theoretical basis, appear low considering the conditions
of the existing tanks and the canals. The estimated tank losses have there-
fore been increased by 50%, the Kala Oya canal losses by 30% and the Elahera
canal losses by 65%. On this basis the gross annual water requirements for
areas H and IH at Bowatenna amount to 8466,000 ac-ft and for areas D1 and G
at IElahera amount to 886,000 ac-ft.
Adequacy of the Water Supplies
13.       Records of measured flows of the Mahaweli near Polgolla and of the



GROSS WATER REQUIREIMENTS OF AREAS H, IH, Di AND G AT THE TANKS
Cropping Patterns
1            2          3                       Total
Areas (1000 acres) - H and IH
H - Existing                      46.2                                               46.2
H - New                           14.2          546        37.1                      56.9
IH - Existing                     10.0                                               10.0
Sub-total                         70.4          5.6       37.1                      113.1
Percent                           62            5          33                       100
Annual Duty at Tanks (feet)            8.5           5.5       4.5         7.2
Annual Water Requirements (1000
acre feet)                        598.4         30.8      166.9                      796.1
Areas (1000 acres) - DI and G
D, - Existing                     43.5                                4.o           47.5
Dl - New                          20.0          4.0       13.1         3.0          40.1
G - Existing                       4.8                                                4.8
G - New                            3.7          1.0         2.8                       7.5
Sub-total                         72.0          5.0       15.9         7.0           99.9
Annual Duty at Tanks (feet)             8.5          5.5        4.5        7.2
Annual Water Requirements
(1000 acre feet)                 612.0         27.5       71.6       50.4          761.5
Note: Cropping Patterns: 1) Paddy-paddy-legume; 2) Paddy-high value crops - legume;
3) High value crop rotation of cotton, groundnut, vegetables etc.
4) Sugarcane.                                                                                     0 
CDI



ANN 5Yw 
Page 5
Amban Ganga at Elahera, which form the bulk of the water supplies to the
project are available since October 19h4. The UNDP/FAO carried out "De-
tailed Water Balance Studies" for a 20 year period, 1944-64, using a 20O0
cusecs tunnel at Polgolla, a 20,000 ac-ft regulating reservoir and a 700
cusecs tunnel at Bowatenna and a 1,500 cusecs canal at Elahera to meet the
water requirements of H, D and G areas but excluding the IH area which was
not included in their proposal. These operation studies revealed that there
was a deficit in water supply for 7 years out of 20 of which 19h5-46, 19h7-48,
l9L9-5o, 1952-53, 1955-56 and 1958-59 were most critical and that the assur-
ance of irrigation water to lands under the command of the Kalawewa tank in
the H area did not exceed 65 percent. Consequently, the UNDP/FAO team re-
duced the new area under H by 30%, that is, by 16,900 acres, and concluded
that with this reduction in the area, the project would be assured of 85%
irrigation even in the dry years. It was also concluded that the capacity
of the Bowatenna tunnel should be increased to 750 ousecs and that it should
actually be constructed for a capacity jf 1,000 cusecs to take care of the
area deleted under H under a future scheme. The system operation followed
was not very effective in integrating and distributing the available supplies
as it created substantial shortages in the supplies to the areas served by
the Kalawewa tank while surpluses were left in the Rajangana tank and almost
the full requirements of D1 and G areas were met. The studies did not pro-
vide an adequate basis also for testing the size of the Polgolla tunnel, the
need for the Bowatenna storage and the size of the Bowatenna tunnel. The
UNDP/FAO scheme was subsequently modified by the Irrigation Department by
eliminating the 20,000 ac-ft storage at Bowatenna and increasing the capacity
of the Kalawewa tank by a corresponding amount. The consultants reviewed
the changes and concurred with the proposals of the Irrigation Department.
14.       The project includes, interalia, a 2,000 cusecs tunnel at Polgolla,
a low dam without storage at Bowatenna, a 1,000 cusecs tunnel at Bowatenna,
a 1,500 cusecs canal at Elahera and the proposal for increasing the capacity
of the Kalawewa tank by 20,000 ac-ft as a substitute for the storage eliminated
at Bowatenna.  Wfhile at first sight the scope of these works appears comparable
with those in the UNDP/FAO scheme, the areas to be irrigated under the project
have been increased substantially by the inclusion of 30% of the new area under
H and the whole of the existing area under IH amounting to 26,900 ac. This
factor together with the increased estimated losses in the tanks and the feeder
canals would create a higher demand on the available water supply and if the
UNDP/FAO system operation is followed the assurance of irrigation to lands
under the Kalawewa tank would be lower than 65% indicated in their study.
15.       In order to test the adequacy of the engineering facilities in the
project and to determine the shortages in the water supply to the ultimate
area of 213,800 ac under H, IH, D and G in Stage III, the 6 dry years men-
tioned in para 13, which were found most critical in the UNDP/FAO studies,
have been selected. The water supplies available in these dry years and
their comparison with the long term averages are shown in the table overleaf.
16.       System operation studies were carried out for the 6 dry years to
meet the ultimate irrigation requirements of H, IH, D,.l and G areas utilizing
the available water resources indicated in para 15. The availability of
drainage water from the irrigated lands has been discounted in the first



AITN7, 5
Page 6
WATER SUPPLY - '000 ac-ft
Year          Mahaweli  Amban Ganga   Local Yield  Local Yield  Total.
(Oct.-Sept.)        at         at           of        of fl & G
Polgolla    Rlahera      H Tanks        Tanks
1945-46            19377        777          396          52       2,602
1947-h8              937         433         217         116       1,703
1949-50            1,634        620          162         124       2,5.0
1952-53            1,522        376          103          32       2,033
1955-56            1,883        138           59          18       2,098
1958-59            2,331        WhO          108          53       2,932
Average            1,614        477          171          66       2,331
20 year average
1944-64          1,917        650          378         172       3,117
Lowest in any
year               937        138           59          18       1,152
instance as the quantity is rather small.   The sizes of the engineering
structures assumed in the studies in the first instance are (a) Pblgolla
tunnel - 2,000 cusecs, (b) Bowatenna tunnel - 1,000 cusecs, (c) -lahera
canal - 1,500 cusecs, (d) total capacity of tanks in H areas - 195,500
ac-ft, and (e) total capacity of tanks in D, and G areas - 363,000 ac-ft.
The studies revealed the following deficit in meeting the full irrigation
requirements.
Year    Total Water    Total Irrigation.      Deficit     Percentage
Resources       Requirements       '000 ac-ft      Deficit
'000 ac-ft        '000 ac-ft
19h5-h6      2,602            1,732               -             -
1947-h8      1,703             1,732             603           35
1949-50      2,S54o           1,732               97            6
1952-53      2,033             1,732             W3            26
1955-56      2,098            1,732              526           30
1958-59      2,932            1,732              130            8
17.       It would be noted that although the total water resources in the
dry years exceeded the irrigation requirements, except in the year 19h7-118,
there would be consistent shortages in meeting the requirements which shows
that the engineering facilities would be inadequate to effectively regulate
and utilize the available supplies. Detailed analysis of the hydrological
data and the system capability to utilize the resources led to the following
conclusions in respect of the sizes of various facilities in the project.
Storage on Mahaweli
(a)       Without storage on the Mahaweli Ganga at Polgolla or at some



Page 7
other site upstream, it would not be possible to utilize the water resource
of Mahaweli effectively.
(b)        Storage on Mahaweli would be more effective in integrating the
other sources of supplies compared to any alternative storage olt the Amban
'anga or in the tanks of II, Ill, Dl and G areas.
(c)        The Master Plan prepared by the UNDP/FAO envisages construction
of a storage reservoir at Kotmale with an effective storage capacity of
2b2 ,600 ac-ft at a later stage. IJhen this storage is completed, a more
effective utilization of the Mahaweli flows in the project would be possible.
fIor instance, with a 2,000 cusecs capacity tunnel, the average annual diver-
sion at lPolgolla will be 1.10 ac-ft without Kotmale reservoir and 1.25 1I
ac-ft writh Kotmale reservoir.  The effect in dry years would be more signi-
ficalntl.
Size of Polgolla Tunnel
(dl)       The size of the Polgolla tunnel has a vital effect on the water
supply to the project.  The annual diversion in dry years with a tunnel
capacity of 2,000 and 2,500 cusecs would be as follows:
Year     Mahaweli at      Annual Diversion - '000 ac-ft        Percentage
Polgolla        With         With                     Increase
'000 ac-ft    2,000 cusecs  2,500 cusecs  Increase
19),';-h6   1,377          877           965          88           10
19)07-ht6     937          465           508         lh3            9
19499-50    1,63)i         927         1,006          79            9
192-5.3     1,522          823           878          55            7
195'5-56,   1,883        1,025         1,138         113           11
1958-59     2,331        1,139         1,276         137           12
Average     1,614          876           962          86           10
(e)         A tunnel of 2,500 cusecs at Polgolla would increase the annual
diversion by 10% compared to a 2,000 cusecs tunnel.  It would increase
the annual diversion from Mahaweli to Dowatenna by 66,000 ac-ft and would
have approximately the same effect as a 86,000 ac-ft storage on Mahaweli
with a 2,000 cusecs tunnel at Polgolla.  Considering that the study is
based on 5-day average flows at Polgolla, its effectiveness in utilizing
the daily fluctuating supplies would be more than indicated by the above
figures.
(f)         The incremental cost for raising the capacity of Polgolla tunnel
from 2,000 to 2,500 cusecs would be relatively small compared with the bene-
fits obtained from a more reliable supply of water to the irrigated areas.
It would be prudent, therefore,



to construct the Polgolla tunnel for a capacity of 2,500 cusecs initially
as it would be impossible to change its capacity at a later stage.
Storage at Bowatenna
(g)       With a varying flow up to 2,000 ousecs from Polgolla and a wide
range of fluctuating flows in the Amban Ganga, a reservoir on the Amban
Ganga at any site upstream of Elahera would be valuable for regulating the
two sources of supplies. The existing Nalanda reservoir of 20,000 ac-ft
capacity on the Nalanda Oya, a tributary of the Amban Ganga, which was
constructed to divert part of the flows to the Kalawewa tank would be use-
ful partially to regulate the Amban Ganga flows but would not be as effective
as storage at Bowatenna to integrate and regulate the combined supplies from
Mahaweli and Amban Ganga.
(h)       Without storage at Bowatenna, the extent of utilization of the
Mahaweli and Amban Ganga supplies through a 1,000 cusecs Bowatenna tunnel
and a 1,500 cusecs Elahera canal would be as follows:
Annual Supplies - '000 ac-ft
Year          Polgolla     Amban Ganga   Total    Total Diversion    Unutilized
Diversion      Flow at              to H, IH, D1 and     Supply
Elahera                  a Areas
1945-46             877          777       1,654         1,381             273
1947-48             465          h33         898           807              91
1949-50             927          620       l,547         1,400            147
1952-53             823          376       1,199         1,151              48
1955-56           1,025          138       1,163         1,153              10
1958-59           1,139          440       1,579         1,452            127
(i)       The actual utilization would be less effective than indicated in
the table above as the Amban Ganga flows are based on monthly averages.
(j)       Notwithstanding its advantages, investment in a storage reservoir
at Bowatenna at this stage can be avoided firstly, because it would increase
the cost of the project substantially and, secondly, because its utility
would diminish when the proposed 1ibragahakanda reservoir with a gross storage
of 600,000 ac-ft is constructed on the Amban Ganga upstream of the Elahera
weir, as envisaged under the Master Plan.
Size of Bowatenna Tunnel
(k)       In the absence of a regulating storage at Polgolla or Bowatenna the
ability to divert supplies to Areas H and IH for direct utilization as well
as for filling the main storage tanks with an aggregate capacity of 185,000
ac-ft would largely depend on the size of the Bowatenna tunnel. The UNDP/FAO
team has already recommended increasing the Bowatenna tunnel capacity from
750 to 1,000 cusecs, but the question whether 1,000 cusecs is the optimum
capacity is still left unanswered. Detailed operation studies have indicated



that a 1,500 cusecs tunnel at Bowatenna would significantly reduce the
shortages not only in the H and IH areas, which it serves directly, but
also in the Dj and G areas by transfering more supplies than needed for
storage in H and IH tanks, when there is surplus supply below Elahera and
reducing the diversions when the supplies are short. The results of the
study are shown below:
Total D)eficit in H, IH, DT and G - '000 ac-ft
Polgolla       Polgolla        Polgolla        Polgolla
2,000 cusecs   2,000 cusecs    2,500 cusecs    2,500 cusecs
Bowatenna      Bowaterna       Bowatenna       Bowatenna
Year      1,000 cusecs   1,500 cusecs     1,000 cusecs   1,500 cusecs
1945-t6         -               -               -              _
1947-48        603            603              567            541
1949-50         97             61               63             10
1952-53         *3 415                         421            360
1955-56        526            513              444            [31
1958-59        130             66              11l
(1)       The results given in the above table also indicate the relative
effectiveness of increasing the capacity of Polgolla tunnel versus Bowatenna
tunnel. The combined effect of increasing the capacity of both tunnels is
significant, and would be more significant if daily discharges on Amban
Ganga are considered instead of the monthly averages used in the study.
(m)       The extent of reduction in shortages does not indicate the full
advantages of increasing the capacity of the tunnels, especially in regard
to their effectiveness in filling the tanks in project areas and providing
the flexibility in the system operation. The following table gives the
additional supplies to the H and IH areas which can be stored in the tanks
to make up the shortages and to increase the flexibility in their operation
as well as to provide carry-over storage.
Additional Transfer to Project Areas - '000 ac-ft
Polgolla          Polgolla             Polgolla
2,500 cusecs      2,000 ousecs         2,500 cusecs
Bowatenna         Bowatenna            Bowatenna
Year                 1,000 ousecs       1,500 ousecs        1,500 cusecs
l9b5-h6                   29                 16                   29
1947-48                   36                  _                   42
1949-50                   36                 44                   87
1952-53                   22                 48                   83
1955-56                   82                  -                   95
1958-59                   16                 64                  130
Average                   37                 29                   78



(n)       The additional cost of increasing the capacity of the Bowatenna
tunnel from 1,000 to 1,500 cusecs would be relatively small compared to
the bencfits from additional storage in the H and IH tanks and the added
flexibility provided in the system operation.
(o)       Kandalama, Kalawewa, Kattiyawa, Maha nIluppalama, Rajarigana and
Usgala Siyambalanganuwa tanks in the H area have a combined effective
capacity of 195,500 ac-ft. In dry years, the local yield from their catch-
ments is quite small as indicated in para 15 and they would not be filled
to capacity, even with the increased sizes of the Polgolla and Bowatenna
tunnels.   Consequently, increasing the capacity of the Kalawewa tank by
20,000 ac-ft as presently planned would be unnecessary. The tanks in the
IH area would be effective for local regulation only and they have already
excess capacities compared to their local yields.
(p)       Giritale, Minniriya, Kaudulla and Kantalai tanks in the D4 and
G areas have a combined effective capacity of 363,000 ac-ft.   The annual
yield from their catchments is considerably smaller as shown in para 15.
Any further increase in the storage capacity of these tanks would not be
required.
18.       In view of the results discussed above, the initial operation
studies were revised using a 2,500 cusecs tunnel at Polgolla and a 1,500
cusecs tunnel at Bowatenna. The results of the water balance are summarized
below.
Critical  Polgolla   Amban   Local      Total      Gross       Deficit    Un-
Years    Diversion Ganga    Yield     Supplies  Irrigation             utilized
Flow   of Tanks            Requirements            Surplus
- _
-   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   'O - w   - 1   ac-?t  -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -   -  -
19h5-h6      965      777      448      2,190      1,732         -       458
1947-48      508       433     333      1,274      1,732        541       83
19h9-50    1,006      620     286       1,912      1,732         10      190
1952-53      878      376      135      1,389      1,732        360       17
1955-56    1,138      138       77      1,353      1,732        431       52
1958-59    1,276      440     161       1,877      1,732         -       15
19.       The unutilized surplus indicated in the above table represents
the sum of the water escaped below the Elahera Weir and the end storage left
in the tanks. In addition, there is a substantial surplus below Polgolla
in the above years as shown below, which occurs mainly in the Maha season
and cannot be transferred to the Amban Ganga because of the limitations in
the Polgolla tunnel capacity. Increasing the tunnel capacity over 2,500
cusecs would be of little use as the surplus occurs at a time when it is
not required or when the tanks are already full. When the proposed Kotmale
reservoir on the Mahaweli Ganga, upstream of Polgolla, is constructed as
envisaged in the Master Plan, the utilization of the Polgolla tunnel would
be very effective.



ANN1EX 
Page 11
Critical       Mahaweli       Down-       Polgolla        Unutilized
Years            at         stream       Diversion        Surplus
Polgolla       Uses
- - - -'000 ac-ft -                - - - - - - - -
1945-46         1,377          110           965             302
1907-h8           937          110           508             319
1949-50         1,634          110         1,006             518
1952-53         1,522          lo            878             53h
1955-56         1,883          110         1,138             635
1958-59         2,331          110         1,276             945
20.       The works provided in Stage I would meet the full requirements
of areas H, IH , D1 and G in 1. out of 20 years without any difficulty.
In the remaining 6 years, which are exceptionally dry, the requirements
can be fully met in 2 years while shortages varying up to maximum of 30%
can be expected in the remaining years. The reuse of drainage recovery
and the local yield of the tanks in the IH area which have been discounted
in the study would reduce the shortages to some extent. On the other hand,
as the study is based on monthly average flows, the actual utilization of
supplies would not be as effective.
21.       Considering that the full requirements of areas H, IH, DT and G
can be met in 16 out of 20 years and in the remaining 4 years the shortages
would be less than 30%, the works provided for in Stage I would be adequate
for the development of the full areas under the project.
Quality of Water
22.       The UNDP carried out a study on the quality of the water of the
Mahaweli Ganga, Amban Ganga, Kalawewa tank and the Minneriya tank. The
tests indicated that the waters of the Mahaweli and Amban Ganga are of
excellent quality having a conductance of less than 250 micro mho per
centimeter and can be used for irrigation of all soils without developing
problems of salinity.  They have a sodium absorption ratio (SAR) of less
than 10 and would not pose any danger of alkalinity problems. Tests on
water samples from Kalawewa and Minneriya tanks indicated conductance of
250 to 750 micro mho. They can be used for irrigation of medium salt tolerant
crops and would not require any special salinity control measures provided
drainage is not impeded. Their SAR values are also less than 10. As the
bulk of the irrigation requirements would be met from the river supplies,
the overall quality of water for irrigation can be considered as good.






CEYLON                              ATh, 6
MAHAWFLI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - STAGE I
COI'NSULTANT S ERTIICES
11        The work of the consultants would fall into two distincl. cate-
Eories as follows:
(A)  Investigations and sti:dies in are rT! and ETl with a view to
briny;ing these areas to feasibility level for appraisal o:f
Sta ge II.
(P) Work required for the execution of Stage I
The investigations and studies required under (A) above wouLId
-4cln-ucle Ilut not be lirited to the follownlig:
(1)  Reviewf existing d..ta and reports.
(2)  Specify and control aerial photography at a scale of
1:10,000 to enable the production of good rectified print-s
and rnosaics.
(3)  Review the existing contour mapping to determine its ade-
quacy and recommend any additional iwork that may be considered
nccessaryO
(4)  Conduct a land classification at scale of about 1:10,000
to conform with the standards nortaally accepted by the TJ.2.
Bureau of Reclamation.
(5) Perform water supply, water management and use studies,
including seepage and evaporation losses and use of measutring.
devices.
(6) Determine land development and on-farm development costs for
existing and new lands (unit costs for various types) for
clearing, levelling., on-farm development, irrigation and
drainage based on typical farm lay-outs from sample plots
on representative areas covering 102, of the total irrigable
area.
(7)  Study the farm-to-market road requirements and make recom-
mendations.
(8)  Carry out agronomic and farm management studies to establish
optimum cropping patterns on a mixed farminipg basis as well
as withlout livestock.
(9)  Conduict socio-agro-economic studies of settlement pa-tterns
(on-farm or villares) and on suitcable farm sizes.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
(10)  Assist the Government in undertaking a comprehensive water
charges study which would relate the recovery rate to
farmers' incentives and capacity to pay.
(11)  Establish an overall irrigation and drainage plan for areas
H and IH. Review and recommend designs and cost estimates
for reservoirs (including increased storage capacity), main
canals, laterals and irrigation and drainage systems, in-
cluding surface and sub-surface drainage and flood control.
(12)  Establish costs for recommended farm lay-outs.
(13)  R-eview and advise on agricultural extension services-to
provide farmer education and training in proper land and
water utilization for the various recommended crops and
livestock. Advise on the establishment and lay-out of
demonstration farms in representative areas.
(14)  Determine project agricultural benefits and perform economic
analyses based on the internal rate of return.
(15)  Prepare feasibility and final reports based on the above
investigations and work adequate for project appraisal in
accordance with standards acceptable to financing organiza-
tions.
(16) Recommend the type of organization suitable for execution
and operation of Stage II.
3.        The work required of the consultants under (B) above would include
but be not limited to the following:
(1)  In respect of the Polgolla and Bowatenna complexes
(a)  The conducting of model tests.
(b)  The preparation of construction and contract documents.
(c)  The pre-qualification of prospective bidders.
(d)  The evaluation of bids and recommendations for the
award of contracts.
(e)  The preparation of construction drawings and adminis-
tration and supervision of construction.
(2)  In respect of the Dhun Oya and Sudu Ganga improvements,
Elahera weir and the Elahera-Minneri-Kantalai canal and
agricultural land development, the work required ~Tould
be the review of detailed design and construction draw-
ings, recommend any modifications that may be necessary
and supervise construction. The scope of work iN (1)
and (2) above would involve the following:



AJNEX 6
Page 3
(a) The preparation of schedules, cost estimates and reports
involving engineering and construction schedules, esti-
mates of construction and progress reports.
(b) The preparation of designs and specifications involving
hydrologic and geologic design, materials, hydraulic
model tests, design criteria, construction and purcahse
specifications, review of others' designs, issuance of
specifications and specifications for award.
(c) General supervisory services involving supervision,
coordination and administration, in co-operation wTith
the Irrigation Department, all phases and elements of
the construction of the works. This would comprise
surveys and investigations, lines and grades, the
preparntion of con,truction drawings, concrete control
testing, inspection of construction, testing and in-
spection of materials and equipment, the review of
contractor's construction plans, checking payments,
safety regulations, supervision of and final testing
and initial operation of all operating units and the
training of personnel of the Borrower.






ANNEX 7
CEYLON
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - STAGE I
LIST OF EQUIPMENT AND TRANSPORT
1. Irrigation Department
Number    Approximate
Cost Us$ '000
(a)         Construction   /
Excavator Draglines - 1 cu yd       3            180
Dozers - D6                         3             90
Motor Grader - 100 hp               1             20
Trucks - 3 ton                      2              7
Jeeps 4 WD                          8             20
Pick-ups 4WD                        4             12
Rehabilitation of Kaudulla Workshop              160
Mobile Workshop                     1             25
Spares                             15%            77
Total                                             9
Contingency                        20%           lid
(b)         Maintenance and Operations  2/
Trucks - 3 ton                      3             11
Pick-ups 4WD i ton                  4             12
Jeeps 4 WD                         16             40
Telecommunication Equipment                      100
Equipment for Hydrological
Measurements                         4
Spares for Transport               15%             9
Total                                            i76
Contingency                        20%
(c)         Investigations H and IH
Equipment for Hydrological
Measurements, Soil Tests etc.                      10
Survey Instruments and Equipment                  40
Trucks 3 ton                        3             11
Jeeps 4 WD                         16             40
Pick-ups 4 WD i ton                 2              6
Spares for Transport               15%
Total                                            116
Contingency                        20%            23
/ Construction equipment and transport
for Polgolla and Bowatenna Complexes
is separately included in the main
construction contracts.
/ Equipment and transport under 1 (a)
and 1 (d) will also be available for
maintenance and operation after the
works are completed.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
2.      Investigations H and IH
Agriculture Department and
Agricultural Land Development         Number       Approximate
Cost US$ '000
Excavator Draglines - 3/4 cu. yd        3              175
with side equipment, back hoe etc.      1               20
Motor Grader - 100 hp                   1               25
Scrapers - 15 cu. yd                    3               75
Land Leveller with hydraulic scraper    1                5
Crawler Tractors - 180 hp               6              300
Angle Dozer blade                       1                6
Clearing Dozer blade with portable
grinder       1                6
Dozer Toolber with equipment            1                4
Disc Harrow                             1                8
Wheel Tractors - 4w, 40 hp with
equipment    10               40
Wheel Tractors - 4W, 60 hp with
equipment     4               20
Wheel Tractors - 2W, 10 hp with
equipment    10               15
Pumps - 6 in with equipment             6               21
Pumps - 8 in with equipment             2                8
Jeeps - 4WD                            15               45
Jeep Station Waggon - 4WD               5               20
Pick-ups - 4WD ½ ton                    6               20
Trailers                                4                5
Laboratory Equipmenit                   -               20
Survey & Drafting Equipment                              4
Miscellaneous Equipment                                  20
Spares 15%                                             129
Total                                                  991
Contingencies 20%                                       9
Grand Total                                           1 7
Contingencies                                          305



Annex 8
CEYLON
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - Stage I
OOST ESTIMATES 1/
Million Rupees        US$ Million Equivalent
Local   Foreign  Total   Local Foreign Total
1   PolgoUla Complex
Land & Land Rights                0.8       -       0.8      0.1     -      0.1
Works                            42.1      47.9    90.0       7.1   8.1    15.2
Materials & Equipment             1.0      17.6    18.6       0.2   2.9     3.1
sub-Total      43.9      6.     109.4      74   11.0    18T   21
2   Bowatenna Complex
Land & Land Rights                1.1       -       1.1      0.2     -      U.2
Works                            29.8      27.7    57.5      5-0   4.6      9.6
sub-Total      30.9      27.7    58.6      5.2  77       9.8
3   Sudu Ganga Training Works
Land & Land Rights                0.8       -       0.8      0.1     -     0.1
Works                             4.9      _,.2    10.1      0.8    0.9     1.7
sub-Total                 5.2    10.9                    1.8
4   Elahera Weir & Canal              5.1       1.9      7.0     0.9    0.3     1.2
5   Buildings & Camps                 3.1       1.3     4.4      0.5    0.2     0.7
6   Agricultural Land Development     0.3       0.4     0.7      0.1    0.1     0.2
7   Investigations & Extension -
H & IH        2.3       1.0     3.3      0.4   0.2     0.6
8   Equipment & Vehicles
(a) Irrigation Department
Construction                   -        3.3     3.3       -    0.6     0.6
0 & M                          -        1.4     1.4        -    0.2     0.2
Investigations H & IH          -        1.0     1.0       -    0.1      0.1
(b) Agriculture Department
Investigations & Extension -
H & IH      -        1.8     1.8       -    0.3     0.3
Agricultural Land Development  -        4.0     4.0       -    0.7      0.7
sub-Tot.a        -       11.     Ti7¢       -    1.9     1.9
9   Consultant Services               6.o      13.4    19.4       1.0   2.2     3.2
10  Engineering & Overheads           6.5       1.5     8.0      1.1    0.3     1.4
11  Contingencies
Physical 15%                 15.8      19.2    35.0      2.6   3.2     5.8
Price IncrXases 5%            5-3       6.4    11.7      0.9   1.1     2.0
sub-Total      21.1      264.3                          -7T
Total     124.9     155.0   279.9      21.0  26.0  _TT7V
12 Interest & Commitment charges
during construction                        17.6    17.6        -   3.0      3.0
Grand Total:               172.6   297.5 21.0      29.0   200.
1 Discrepancies are due to rounding.
2/ Including cost of Power facilities.
3/ Interest at 7% on Bank Loan and 3/4 of
1% commitment-charge on the undis-
bursed portion of the Bank Loan.






ANNEX 9
CEYLON
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - STAGE I
ALLOCATION OF COSTS BETWEEN IRRIGATION AND POWER
1.        The allocation of the costs of the Polgolla complex between its two users,
i.e. irrigation and power, follows the Separable Costs Remaining Benefits methods.
2.        The various costs and benefits in the computation (Table 9-1 to 9-3) have
been put on a comparable basis by first calculating present values, for a 50-year
period (the life of the project) discounted at a rate of 8% per annum, then reducing
them to annual equivalent values. The maximum cost allocation to power and
irrigation has been established for each by taking the benefits in the project for
that function or the cost of obtaining equivalent benefits through an alternative
project, whichever is smaller. The benefits from power have been taken as the
discounted value of fuel displacement for the first two years of operation and for
subsequent years as the total cost, inc'uding capital costs of energy generated in
a new thermal station, whilst those from irrigation as the value of the increased
agricultural production (Table 9-3). lowever, in the present case, the costs of
alternative projects are less for both sectors.
3.        For power the cost of Victoria Falls (a future project in the Mahaweli
Ganga development) has been taken as the alternative. The capital cost of power in
this project, after deducting the allocated cost to irrigation, is Rs 195 million,
including interest during construction. Based on these costs and assuming a 50-year
life, it is estimated that the average value per kWh for that portion of the capacity
comparable to Polgolla is about Rs 0.0h5.
4.        Separable costs (Table 9-2), representing the minimum allocations, have
been determined by estimating the cost of the Polgolla complex were it to be used
only for irrigation and the cost were it to be used for power alone. Each of
these costs has been subtracted from the total cost of Polgolla as proposed for
both uses to give separable costs for the other function (e.g. cost of total project
less cost of irrigation only equals separable costs of power and vice-versa).
5.        The residual costs of the project (i,e. total project costs less
separable costs) have been allocated to pofer and irrigation (Table 9-3) in the
same proportion as the lesser of benefits or costs which remain after separable costs
are subtracted from them. The residual costs are then added to the separable costs
to give the total allocation for power and irrigation separately. The allocated
works out to 60% for power and 40% for irrigation. Applying these ratios to the
Rs 155.6 million estimated capital cost of the project gives Rs 93.4 million for
power and Rs 62,2 million for irrigation, of which foreign costs are Rs 55.7 million
for power and Rs 37.2 million are for irrigation.
6.        The allocation of 60% to power results is an installed cost of US$ 392
per kw, which is high even after allowing for the smallness of the project. Of
course, the cost allocation is solely on a financial basis and has no bearing on the
economic justification of the project, which is based on the benefits of the project
as a whole to the economy. The allocation here is illustrative and represents only
one of a range of possible allocations which might justifiably be adopted for division
of the assets and the terms and conditions of transfer to the Ceylon Electricity
Board would depend upon the particular circumstances and conditions prevailing at the
time of transfer and would have to be acceptable to the Bank Group and the Board
(para 4.02).



ANNNEX 9
Page 2
Table 9-1 - Summary
Annual Equivalents of Present Values Discounted at 8%
Power    Irrigation -   Total
... 0 . 1000 Rupees . ....
a) Total cost of scheme - unallocated       -           -         11s,400
b) Separable costs - allocated            4,200      1,000         5 200
c) Residual costs - unallocated             -           -          6,00
d) Residual costs - allocated             2,640       3,560       (6,200)
e) Total cost of scheme - allocated       6,840       4,560       11,400
f) Percent allocation                      60%         40%         100%
Table 9-2 - Calculation of Separable Costs
Present Value      Annual Equivalent
(Discounted @ 8%     Value © 8% over
over 50 years)           50. years
.   . .  .  .   . .000 Rupees:. .. . . . . .
a) Cost of irrigation   onel/            88,400                 7,200
b) Cost of power alone_                 127,000                10,400
c) Cost of.scheme wIth both
irrigation and power- !            139,900                11,400
d) Separable costs of power (c-a)        51,500                 4,200
e) Separable costs of irrigation (c-b)   12.,900                1,000
1/ Capital costs of Rs 98.1 million (Table 9-5) and Rs 1.4 million annual
0 & M costs for Polgolla as irrigation project only.
2/ Capital costs of. Rs 139.7 million (Table 9-6) and Rs 0.9 million annual
0 & M costs.for Polgolla as power project only.
3/ Polgolla complex-as proposed, Rs 155.6 million in capital.costs plus
Rs 1.4 million annual 0 & M costs (see text of main report).



ANNEX 9
Page 3
Table 9-3 - Calculation and Allocation of Residual Costs
Annual Equivalents of Present Values Discounted at 8%
1. Residual Unallocated Costs
'000 Rupees
a) Total cost of scheme                       11, 100
b) Less separable costs                        5,200
c) Residual costs                              6,200
2. Allocation of Residual Costs
Power     Irrigation    Total
. . 000 Rupees. .
a) Benefits from scheme1/      2/13,6o         8,400       22,000
b) Costs of alternative schemes-   7,686       5,700       13,386
c) Lesser of a) or b)              7,686       5,700       13,386
d) Less separable costs            4 200       1 000        5,200
e) Surplus                                     i            d ,16
f) Proportion                       43%         57%         100%
g) Residual costs allo-
cated on basis of f)          2,640       3,560        6,200
1/                                        Present Value
(Discounted @ 8%    Annual Equivalent
Over 50 years)           Value
Benefits from scheme:
Power                               166,200,,000         13,600,o000
Irrigation                          102,900,000           8,400,000
2/                                        Present Value
(Discounted ) 8%    Annual Fquivalent
Over 50 years)           Value
Cost of alternative schemes:
Power - based on proposed               -                  7,686,000
Victoria Falls hydro-
electric soheme
Irrigation - single-purpose         69,800,800            5,700,000
irrigation project on al-
ternative alignment (Table
9-14) with Rs 77.6 million
capital costs plus Rs 0.7
million annual 0 & M costs



ANNEX 9
Page P4
Table 9-4
Capital Costs of Single-Purpose Irrigation Project on Alternative Alignment
(Unlined Tunnel 3.5 Miles Long)
Millions Rupees
Local       Forei           Total
Land and Land rights             0.8          -              0.8
Diversion Dam                    5,4         11.0          16.4
Tunnel intake                    0.2          0.5           0.7
Surge  chamber                    -           -              --
Tunnel                          18.4         17.8            36.2
Penstocks
Power Plant
Tail Race                         -
Access Roads & Bridges           0.5          0.4            0.9
Camps                            1.4          0.9            2.3
Channel improvements to          1.0          0.5            1.5
Dhun Oya
Sub Total 27,7          31.1 5T8
Eng'g & Admin. 10%            2.8          3.1            5.9
30.5         34.2           64.7
Contingencies 20%             6.1          6.8          12.9
Total     36.6         41.0           77.6



ANNE2.9
Page
Table 9- 5
Capital Costs of Polgolla Complex a3 Irrigation Project Only
(Unlined Tunnel 5 Miles Long)
Million Rupees
Local        Foreign   Total
Land and Land rights                  0.8           -        0.8
Diversion Dam                         5.4          11.0     16.A1
Tunnel Intake                        0.2            0.5      0.7
Surge  chamber                         -            -         -
Tunnel                               26.3          25.1     51.7
Penstocks                              -
Power Plant                            -            -         -
Tail Race                             1.0           0.5      1.5
Access Roads and Bridges              0.5           0.4      0.9
Camps                                 1.4           0.9      2.3
35.6          38.7      74.3
Eng'g & Admin  10%          3.6            3.9      7.5
39.2          h2.6      81.8
Contingency 20%              7.8           8.5     16.3
47.0          51.1      98.].



ANNEX 9
Page 6
Table 9-6
Capital Costs of Polgolla Complex as Power Project Only
(Unlined Tunnel 5 Miles Long)
Million Rupees
Local   Foreig       Total
Land and land rights                0.8      -           0.8
Diversion dam                       5.4    11.0        16.4
Tunnel intake                       0.2     0.5         0.7
Surge chamber                       0.7     0.9          1.6
Tunnel                             26.31   25.4        51.7
Pens tocks                          1.1     2.8         3.9
Power plant                         5.2    17.8         23.0
Tail race                           2.6     5.9          8.5
Access roads and bridges            0.5     0.4          0.9
CaEps                               1.4     0.9         2.3
44.2     65.6       109.8
Eng'g and Admin (6%)          2.6      3.9         6.6
46.8     69.5       116.4
Contingency (20%)             9.4     13.9        23.3
Total      54.2     83.4       139.7



CEYLON: MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT, PROJECT I-STAGE I
ORGANIZATION CHART
CABINET SUB-COMMITTEE ON PLANNING
MINISTER OF LAND, IRRIGATION         AND  POWER
MAHAWELI DEVELOPMENT BOARD
MEMBERS                                           NON   VOTING MEMBERS
Tr,. Appointed Memben (on. of oho- uill be Otain-otp)    Di-fotor of Inogotfgi
Pemotant Seorrory - Irrigatiort                          Di-woor of Agi-tultr.
P-eoort Seoreto,y - Agri-ult-r
Paranor SarMay - P'5loain
POr -Mt Soretory - Fir
R.rpramotiv- of Ceylon Eleotni.ity Board
ADMINISTRATION
GENERAL MANAGER                                                                                          Pe-ronn    St
Dopt~~~~~ty  1Mettagor'~~~~~~ ~                                                        l                            l                                 Coontaoocr    me, l
D..t G  1M   . .                                              Dqruy G..ol Monger               Depury Lr.nd C-m;i.i-         eno A.ist-t Comri.i-          S-i A.r/rrU S.tic
abe                                                               olto                                                        Co-P-qutot-                 Agtorbe Sarit..
DOq.y Dirct.or of Irigatiotn                                     DOqury Direotor of AgritIlt-e
Deigr   ErrgiOeer         Orief CornmrHotr Eyngnor   Coriona one M,rinonone Rogun,er     Aaisntt Direotor Reorch  Aourjont Ditnror
i                              Mrthowei                      Molw-Ii                         Maht Illoppplano        Rotemoion
|_________________|_________________________                                                                                                                                    GOVERNMENT  AGENTS
Reidenr Engi.oer  R.oid.ot ERoi-noo  Reidont Enn-r  RonMdnt Ers;r                                                                                                                                          Prinnoruoo
fhfg9oI1o      Bootaoan         Elaber          Sd.C-ngTa
DioErtiot  M E: t g                           Di.tnict Eot-roioi Officer  Dinoit Lotd Offhcer  Ai.tont Commisionrr       A.irtont Co-ni--or
wdi                                            Moh-owli             Mo_hourei           Co-oproti-on                  Agrarian Serricn
wohouroi                       Mob,wo1i
*Spcoral Ptojoot Offier
I                         I                        I                         I                         I
Field Engineer         Agritolwtl Offinor       Colorirotron Offieer  Senior Co-opetoti-o InWecto,   DiniAonol Officer
Agt-rioo Srvicr                                                                              >
I                                                                                                                                         z
z
Ag,icoltorl Inap-t-r                                                                                                                            mx
Di-otly nopoyad by te Board or -oded to the B-ad.                        Ett,-ion W.,k.rt                                                                                                                                05
IBRD - 4726






CEYLON                                  ANNEX 11
MAHAWELI GANGA DVEELOPMENT PROJFCT - STAGE I
MARKET PROSPECTS AND PRICES FOR AGRICULTURAL CROPS
Rice
1.       Rice is the staple item in the Ceylonese diet.   Total consumption of
milled rice in 1968 was estimated at approximately 1.2 million m tons (100 kg
per capita), of which 0.9 million m tons were produced locally. Projections
of future demand vary, depending upon assumptions regarding population growth,
income, and per capita demand (which in turn depends upon the income elasti-
cities of damand assumed). In any case, demand for rice can be expected to
increase to at least 1.5 - 1.7 million m tons by 1977 - 1978 and probably to
more than 2.0 million m tons by 1985. 1/
2.       Imports, which averaged 52h,000 m tons in the ten-year period 1958-
1967, supplied a substantial portion of Ceylon's rice consumption. With
expanding local production, however, imports have declined in the past three
years. 'In 1966 they were approximately 485,000 m tons, in 1967 about 375,000
m tons, and in 1968 about 3h3,000 m tons. Most of Ceylon's imports have come
from Burma and mainland China under government contracts.
3.       The local price of rice is supported under the government's Guaranteed
Price Scheme at Rs 14 per bu of paddy. From 1952 to December 1967, the guaranteed
price was Rs 12 per bu. Prices also are affected by the government's provision
to the entire population of a free rice ration which makes up about 45% of total
rice consumption. The weighted average producer price in 1967 was Rs 13.08 a
bushel and during the previous ten years or so was about Rs 11.60.
4.      I[(Jntil recently the locally supported price was considerably above world
market prices as can be seen from the comparison below.
Guaranteed Price                Import Unit Value
(Rs per bu of paddy)
1964                12                               6.94
1965                12                               7.17
1966                12                               7.32
1967                12 (lth after Dec.)              8.72
1968                14                              13.60 (Jan-June)
5.       liecent world market prices for rice have been the highest since the
early 1950's.  They presently range from approximately US$150 per m ton of
Burmnese riJce (SM3, 4j2% brokens, FOB Rangoon) to US$180 per m ton of Thai white
rice (5% brokens, FOB Bangkok).  At the official exchange rate (Rs 5.95 = US$1.00),
these are approximately equivalent to Rs 12.50 and Rs 15.00 per bu of paddy.
Actual unit costs landed in Ceylon, of course, would vary somewhat.
1/ The most recent Bank economic report, "Current Economic Position and
Prospects of Ceylon" (SA - 2a), Feb. 7, 1969, projects demand for milled
rice rising to 1.3 - 1.4 million m tons in 1973 and 1.5 - 1.7 million m tons
in 1978. Vidya'Sagar, "Demand Projections for Agricultural Commodities in
Ceylon" (UNDP Special Fund Economic Programming and Planning Project),
estimates 1975-1977 demand at 1.7 million m tons in 1968. The FAO, Agri-
cultural Commodities - Projections for 1975 and 1985" (Rome, 1967), puts
1975 demand at 1.8 - 2.0 million m tons and 1985 demand at 2.3 - 2.6
million m tons.



ALRTEX 11
Page 2
6.        Between 1970 and 1975, a large upswing in production and supplies
available for export is expected to cause a substantial decline in wrorld rice
prices.  The average FOR price for Burmese rice during that time is projected
to decline to about IJS$, 100 per m ton and for Thai rice to about IJS ,$ 140 per
m ton. In terms of Ceylonese rupees, the prices would approximately equal Rs
8.32 and Rs 11.67 per bu of paddy at the offical rate of exchange. After 1975,
average FOB prices for rice may well decline further to an average of TJS$ 90
to 100 for Burmese and approximately US$ 120 for N14ai rice, equivalent to Rs
7.50 - 8.32 and Rs 10.00 per bu of paddy.
7.        The official exchange rate of Rs 5.95 m US$ 1.00, however, does not
adequately reflect the scarcity value of foreign exchange in Ceylon. The
government, in recognition of this condition, has established a higher rate
of Rs 9.23 = US$ 1.00 which now covers nearly 50% of payment transcations.
Since the trend has been to gradually transfer more and more transactions to
this higher rate, it would be more appropriate to use it to convert interna-
tional into local prices.  At this higher rate, prices of USf3 100 and ITS'> 1)tO
per m ton of rice would be equivalent roughly to Rs 12.80 and Rs 17.92 per
bu of paddy respectively.
8.        The following are the average landed costs of rice imported into Cey-
lon during 1963 - 1968:
Average Landed Cost in 22Ylon
(US$ per m ton)
1963               100.3
1964               10h.2
1965               108.3
1966               113.3
1967               124.7
1968 (9 mos.)      154.2
Average            117.5
9.        The average landed costs, which include imports from all sources,
over this period were usually US$ 3 - 5 above the export prices of Burmese rice
(S3S, 142% brokens, FOB Rangoon).
10.       Given the anticipated export price of U13$ 100 per ton for Purmese rice
it would be reasonable to value rice produced in Ceylon after 1973 - 197)1 Cthe
pl?nned commencement of the project) at a minimum of IUS:' 100 - 105 per m ton.
At Hs 9.23 = US$ 1.00. this would be equivalent to approximately Rs 12.o0 -
Rs 13.56 per bu of paddy and, at the current official rate Rs 8.32 - Rs 8.75.
It is assumed that internal transportation and handling costs to move both
domestic and importecl rice from point of production or import to consumingf centers
are rouglu y equal and therefore can be disregarded.
Sigar
l1o       Consumption of white sugar in Ceylon in 1966 - 1967 was approximately
233,000 tons (21 kg per capita). Vidya Sagar estimates demand to rise to 347,000
tons by 1975, 377,000 tons by 1977 and 426,000 tons by 1980. Imports, which
supply the bulk of the country's requirements, have risen steadily from 121,078
tons in 1957 to 225,590 in 1967 and 220,000 tons in 1968.  Local production is
coInfined to twfo factories, one at Kantalai (in the project areaT and the other
at Galoya.



ANNEX 11
Page 3
12.      The plant at Kantalai belongs to the state-owned Sri Lanka Sugar
Corporation. In 1968-69, the plant produced 7,670 m tons of sugar and 3.400
m tons of molasses, considerably below capacity. The plant's distillery is
the largest producer in Ceylon (729,300 proof gallons in 1965-66) of rectified
spirits (for blending into arrack) and accounted for 34% of the island's total
consumption in 1965-66.
13.      All sugar (plantation white) from the plant is sold to the Food
Commissioner, currently at a price of Rs 504 per long ton, or Rs 0.225 per lb.
Since resent production costs are estimated at Rs 0.65 per lb the plant loses
financially on its sugar output. Its sales of spirits to the Excise Department,
however, brings substantial profit which more than offsets any loss.
14.      The landed cost of imported sugar in Ceylon during 1966-67 ranged
between Rs 0.18 and Rs 0.25 per lb, equal to Rs 397 - Rs 551 per m ton. Over
the ten-year period, 1958-1967, the average landed cost was Rs 480 per m ton.
Major suppliers have been mainland China, Taiwan, Poland and the U.S,S.R.
15.      The recently concluded International Sugar Agreement provides for a
price range of US$0.0325 - US$0.0525 per lb of raw sugar. In the period during
which the project comes into operation, the price is expected to be near the
floor figure, say about US$0.035 per lb. In terms of white sugar, this would
mean an FOB price probably about US$0.045 - US$0.050 per lb. Allowing for
transport and handling, Ceylon-produced white sugar is valued at US$0o050 per
lb (or US$110.20 per m ton). At the exchange rate of Rs 9.23= US$1.00, the
value of sugar produced in the project would be Rs 1017per m ton, and at the
present official rate Rs 656.
Subsidiary Crops
16.      Condiments and spices are widely used in Ceylon.   Estimated demand for
1970, 1975 and 1980 is shown belows
1/
Demand for Condiments and Spices
1970        1975        1980
('000 m tons)
Chillies (dried)         44.3         49.4        55.0
Rdd Onions               41.7         46.6        51.9
Bombay Onions            63.2         70.6        78.6
Garlic                     2.5         2.8         3.1
Ginger                    4.6          5.1         5.7
Tum*ric                   4.3          4.8         5.3
Fenugreek                 1.1          1.2         1.3
Mustard                    1.9         2.1         2.4
1/  Source - Vidya Sagar, "Demand Projections for Agricultural
Commodities in Ceylon".






ANNEX 12
CEYLON
MAHAWELI GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - STAGE I
RATE OF RETURN TO THE ECONOMY
1.        The rate of return to the economy from the Mahaweli Ganga Develop-
ment Project - Stage I has been calculated at 12%. This calculation assumes
a project life of 50 years beginning in 1969-70 with the first investment.
Water deliveries are assumed to begin in October 1973 so that the first year
of electric power and crop production with increased water supplies would be
1973-74.  Cost-investment, 0 & M and farm production have been adjusted for
subsidies and taxes, and imported items translated into local currency at the
exchange rate of Rs 9.23 - US$1.00. Capital costs of Rs 279.9 million
(= US$47 million), with a foreign exchange component of US$25.8 million, after
adjustment, total Rs 365.3 million (see Annex 13).
Agricultural Benefits
2.        The gross and net values of agricultural production have been cal-
culated for each year on the basis of thu following assumptions:
Agricultural Benefits
With Project
Without                          1975-76
Paddy                                   Project   1973-74   1974-75  and thereafter
Area cultivated (ac)                    119890    122,700   122,700     122,700
Area cropped (* )                       192,760   234,160   234,160     234,160
Yields (bu/ac)-V                             48        51        58          65
Production (m 4ion bu)                        9.3      11.9      13.5        15.2
Price (Rs/bu)_.(                             12.90     12.90     12.90       12.90
Gross production value (4  million)         120.0     153.5     174.2       196.1
Production costs (Rs/ac)-.                  441       469       528         589
Total (Rs million)                           86.8     111.7     125.7       140.3
Net production value (Rs million)            33.2      41.8      48.5        55.8
Sugar
Area cultivated/cropped (ac)              4,000     4,000     4,000       4,000
Yields (M tons of sugar/ac)                   1.1       2.0       3.0         3.6
Production ('000o    tons of sugar)           4.1       8.1      12.2        14.2
Price (Rs/m ton)-                         1,017     1,017     1,017       1,017
Gross production value (4  million)           4.2       8.2      12.4        14.4
Production costs (Rs/ac)2'                  441       809     1,155       1,328
Total (Rs million)                            1.8       3.4       4.8         5.6
Net production value (Rs million)             2.4       4.8       7.6         8.8
Total Agriculture
Net production value (Rs million)            35.6      46.6     .56.1        64.6
Cumulative increase in NPV (Rs million)        -       11.0      20.5        29.0
1/ Weighted average of Maha and Yala seasons in the two project areas.
V/ Equivalent to US$100 per ton of milled rice @ Rs 9.23 - US$1.00.
3/  Equal to per oropped acre production costs of Rs 413, 433, 473, 515 with
imported fertilizers and insectioides valued at Rs 9.23 a US$1.00. Both
family and hired labor costs are included and prices of fertilizers,
insecticides and seeds are adjusted for taxes and subsidies.
/   Equivalent to US$110.20 per m ton .- US$0.05 per lb.@ Rs 9.23 - US$1.00.
§/ Equal to per acre production costs of Rs 420, 770, 1,100, 1,265 adjusted
for imported elements valued at Rs 9.23 - US$1.00.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
Power Benefits
3.        Power benefits have been based on the annual power which would be
generated and used in the Ceylon Electricity Board system -- 100 million kWh
in 1973-74 and 220 million KWh in subsequent years. This output has been
valued (1) in the first two years at the equivalent cost of fuel which
alternatively would be consumed in thermal generation to obtain the same
output -- Rs 0.07 per kWh, and (2) in subsequent years at the cost of fuel
savings plus capital investment in a new theimal plant -- Rs 0.12 per kWh,
since demand by that time would require this additional capacity. In both
cases, imported elements in operation, maintenance and capital costs have
been converted into local currency at the rate of Rs 9.23 . US$1.00 and ad-
justed for taxes.
Operation and Maintenance Costs
4.        Operation and maintenance costs for the project have been estimated
at Rs 2.2 million per annum. Adjusting for the higher rate of exchange for
imported items, the annual figure becomes Rs 2.9 million. It includes the
costs of replacing vehicles for extension workers every five years and other
minor replacement items. Major electrical equipment has been assumed to have
a life of 50 years.
Effects of Changes in Projeot Costs and Values of Output
5.        If the investment cost of the project should increase by US$2.0
million (any greater increase is regarded as unlikely), the rate of return
would decline to slightly less than 12%. Given the possibility that after
1975 the price of rice landed in Ceylon may fall below US$100 per m ton
(the price assumed in the calculation above), if the price were to decline
to US$90 per m ton after 1975, the rate of return to the economy from the
project would be about 11%.  If the price after 1975 were to go still lower,
say to US$85 per m ton, the rate of return would decline to around 10%. At
this time, a decline of such magnitude appears unlikely.
6.        On the other side, if the average rice price during the project
life were to be higher than US$100 per m ton, the rate of return would be
greater than the calculated 12%.  At US$110 per m ton, it would be ; w
"=t 14%. Changes in the assumed price of sugar (US$110.20 per m ton) would
not affect the rate of return as drastically. Even a drop of 50% in the
landed price (to a level below the current price converted at Rs 9.23 = US$1.00)
would still give a rate of return of about 10% or better.



CEYLON
MAHAWELI-GANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - STAGE I
~RaeoReturnto teEonom
(Rs 9.23 - US$ 1.00)
(Rs Million)
Agriculture                        Power       Total
Incremental Incrementar Incremental                            Present Worth
Gross                  Net         Net          Net        Not            Incremental          Diescounted
Production  Production Production Production   Production Production  1&    /  Project   Capita)l   at 12%
Year       Value      Cost       Value       Value       Value       Value   CostsY   Benefits   Costs Benefits Costs
1969/70    124.2      88.6        35.6         -                                         -        18.7     -       16.7
1970/71    124.2      88.6        35.6         _                               _                  48.8     _       38.9
1971/72    124.2      88.6        35.6        _                  -             _         -        91.1            64.9
1972/73    124.2      88.6        35.6         -                    _-                             96.1            61.1
1973/74    161.7     115.1        46.6         11.0         7.0        18.0     2.9      15!1     88.4      9.1    50.1
1974/75    186.6     130.5        56.1         20.5        15.4        35.9     2.9      33.0     22.2     16.7    11.3
1975/76    210.5    1U5.9         64.6         29.0        26.4        55.4     2.9      52.5     -        23.7     -
2018/19    210.5     145.9        64.6         29.0        26.4        5.-4     2.9      52.5     -       197.4     -
TOTAL          365.3    246.9   243.0
1/ Includes replacement of vehicles for extension works every five years.
POl






CEYLON
Mahaweli Ganga Development Project - Stage I
Expenditure Schedule 1/
1969/70    1970/71     1971/72    1972/73    1973/74    1-974/75    Total
- - - -                        (Rs million) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Local                                5.2       13.0        26.3       36.4       34.4         9.6     124.9
For eign Excbange
(i)   at USi$1.00  Rs 5.95      8.9       23.9       42.6        42.0       41.4       13.8      172.6
(Ii)  at US$1.00   Rs 9.23       13.8       37.0       66.o        65.1       64.2       21.4     267.5
Total     irements
(i     at US$1.00  Rs 5.95      -7E        2997.                                                        2/
(ii)  at US$1.00   Rs 9.23       19     .0             92.3       101.9                  31.0     392.4 3/
1/   Figures rounded
2/   Total financial requirement of Rs 297.5 million = Rs 279.9 million plus interest and commitment
charges of Rs 17.6 million
3/   Total financial requirement of Rs 392.4 million = Rs 364.7 million plus interest and commitment
charges of Rs 27.7 million
Note For determination of the economic rate of return, capital cost of about Rs 365 million (see note
3/ above) equivalent was used instead of about Rs 280 m-illion (see note 2/ above) equivalent.
In the case of the former figure, the foreign exchange component was converted at the higher
effective exchange rate of US$1.00 = Rs 9.23 and the latter figure at US$1.00 = Rs 5.95






MAP 1.
CEYLON
MAHAWELI         GANGA        DEVELOPMENT             PROJECT        1  _______
STAGES        I .      f  lf
1-k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
F   UN  K      I  \                      d  / I  X  L  W  E *h D *       i                            II 
lIS ANE           AX ND
'A OIA~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~HNHSdIt  I.(t  .
<3 _FylsTlNG TANK5   V   J   2 ( j:                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C E Y L o N
..EA,SOSNG  CANALS            /e                                                          sOWN
1 ;  LauDu   UNDEP STAGE r   \  /           j ° ';ri                          TIE  M..AWELI GANG*  PROJECT  AREAS
E]  NEW ~~L..D. -NER ETAGE IJ /                                                      IAE gC \__;
__ ... LNS UNDER ITA.E                 mATAL Rb 4X re
/  PLhWELA                  ENE                                U5H'  - 
r  MPOLGOLLA  OIVERSIOC                   I  -,
/ c /  C A ^ L E           /  <              \                        <     \t7   l   H
MY 1969                                                                                                    15PD Z52nZ






MAP I[
CEYLON
MAHAWELI GANGA        DEVELOPMENT      PROJECT    I
STAGE I CIVIL WORKS
SCALE
4   0   4  a   12 MLES
Nawfla.,a 101*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S-.
TI..a.aa tank -_                              //                 e r -
Areaa1H
/ )   A rkna / .  Area D0
EXIG  \AALS                    OY CANAL
TUNNELS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l UNE 
OnkERSION DAMS                               Y
TUNNELS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~| XSSBOWNCLNAR-HL
DIVERSION~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ DAMS$ON m
POWER HOUSE
AUGUST  1969                                                                                            IBRD 2&61T






MAP III
TRANSMISSION LINES             Existing   Under construction   Proposed
132KV double circuit
V¢ (: \JAFFNA                                  132KV single circuit
N                             66KV double circuit
33KV single circuit
d j      >                    DIESEL GENERATING STATIONS         A
A. )   ;i   >STEAM GENERATING STATION                           CD
*           )AKILINOCHCHI
HYDRO GENERATING STATIONS          U
132KV STEP-DOWN SUBSTATIONS        Q                               *
4
TRINCOMALEE
ANURADHAPURAk(A =    
PUTTALM                    HABARANA       j
\|{PUTTALAM                II          
ii S 11  t, VALAICHENAI ...I
if                           * BATTICALOA
it
Kurunegala     XI
THUHIRIYA
Ti I~~~~~I
BOLAWATTE                  GAA       .    P OLGOLLA
INGINIYAGALA
(GAL OYA)
GRAND PASS                         NORTO
~~ ,~~e            N~uwara
\ 8s S A  sik  5FS k   \         Eliya
RATMALANA                             BALANGODA
CEYLON
ELECTRICAL GRID
AMBALANGODA
0    10   20   30   40   50
GALLE
MILES
AUGUST 1969                                                                                                                     IBRD- 2639



