CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 174 CE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Mahaweli Ganga Development Project)
BETWEEN
GOVERNMENT OF CEYLON
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 30, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 174 CE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Mahaweli Ganga Development Project)
BETWEEN
GOVERNMENT OF CEYLON
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 30, 1970


﻿AGREEMENT, dated January 30, 1970 between the Gov-
ERNMENT OF CEYLON (hereinufter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WB.EEAS the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist iii the financing of the cost of the project described
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
WuEREAS the Borrower has also requested the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Development (herein-
after called the Bank) to provide additional financing for
such project and, by a loan agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and the Bank, the Bank agrees to
provide such financing in an aggregate principal amount
equivalent to fourteen million five hundred thousand dol-
lars ($14,500,000) ; and
A\IIEREAS the Borrower and the Association intend, to the
extent practicable, that the proceeds of the credit provided
for in this Agreement be disbursed on accoun' of expendi-
tures under such project before disbursements of the pro-
ceeds of the loan provided for in such loan agreement are
made;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to the Development Credit
Agreement accept all the provisions of the General Condi-
tions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association dated January 31, 1969, with the same force
and effect as if thev were fully set forth herein (said Gen-


﻿4
eral Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the Gen-
eral Conditions).
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in the Development Credit
Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, the sev-
eral terms defined in the General Conditions have the re-
spective meanings therein set forth and the following ad-
ditional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement of
even date herewith between the Borrower and the
Bank, and such term includes the General Conditions
Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank dated January 31, 1969 as made applicable
thereto, all agreements supplemental to such agree-
ment and all schedules thereto, as such agreemenit,
supplemental agreements and schedules may be
amended from time to time;
(b) "Board" means the Mahaweli Development Board,
a body corporate established pursuant to the legisla-
tion referred to in Section 7.01 (a) of the Loan
Agreement, as such legislation may be amended from
time to time after agreement with the Association,
and includes any successor thereto; and
(c) "Project Area" means the areas west of the Maha-
weli Ganga and located to the east and to the west
of Habarane, near the center of the Island of Ceylon
and comprising a total of about 126,500 acres, which
areas shall be further defined on a map to be agreed
upon between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development
Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in


﻿5
various currencies equivalent to fourteen million five hun-
dred thousand dollars ($14,500,000).
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit
Account on its books in the name of the Borrower and
shall credit to such Account the amount of the Credit.
(b) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account as provided in, and subject to the rights
of cancellation and suspension set forth in, the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and in accordance with the alloca-
tion of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such allocation shall
be modified from time to time pursuant to the provisions
of such Schedule or by further agreement between the
Borrower, the Association and the Bank.
SECTION 2.03. The Borrower shall be entitled to with-
draw from the Credit Account in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods or services required for the Project anid to
be financed under the Development Credit Agreement:
(i) such amounts as shall have beer paid (or, if the
Association shall so agree, as shall be required to
meet payments to be made) for goods or services
included in Categories III and IV of the allocation
of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan re-
ferred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(ii) the equivalent of fifty per cent (50%o) or such other
percentage as may be agreed between the Borrower
and the Association of such amounts as shall have
been paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, of
such amounts as shall be required to meet payments
to be made) for goods or services included in Cate-
gory I of the allocation of the proceeds of the
Credit and of the Loan referred to in Section 2.02
of this Agreement, which percentage represents
the estimated foreign exchange component of the
cost of such goods or services; and


﻿6
(iii) the equivalent of thirty-seven per cent (37c) of
such amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the
Association shall so agree, of such amounts as shall
be required to meet payments to be made) for goods
or services included in Category II of the alloca-
tion of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, which
percentage represents the foreign exchange compo-
nent of the cost of such goods or services estimated
at the date of the Development Credit Agreement;
provided, however, that if there shall be an increase in the
estimate of such payments for goods or services included
in any of the Categories I and II, the Association may by
notice to the Borrower adjust the stated percentage appli-
cable to such Category as required in order that with-
dcrawals of the amount of the Credit then allocated to such
Category and not withdrawn may continue pro rata with
the payments remaining to be made for goods or services
included in such Category.
SECTION 2.04. (a) No withdrawals from the Credit Ac-
count shall be made on account of payments under Cate-
gory IV of the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit
and of the Loan referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agree-
ment for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the
territories of the Borrower, or oii account of payments
under Categories III and IV of such allocation of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and of the Loan for taxes imposed by
the Borrower or any of its political subdivisions on, or in
connection with the importation or supply of, goods or
services included in such Categories.
(b) It is hereby agreed, pursuant to Section 5.01 of the
General Conditions, that withdrawals from the Credit Ac-
count may be made on account of payments under Cate-
gory IT of the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit
and of the Loan referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agree-


﻿7
ment and made prior to the date of the Development Credit
Agreement but after A agust 1, 1969.
SECTION 2.05. The currency of the Tnited Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Associa,-
tion a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
per cent (, of 1%) per anmni on the principal amount
of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.07. Service charges shall be payable seni-
annually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
SECTION 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account
in semi-annual installments payable on each February 1 and
August 1 commencing February 1, 1980 and ending August
1, 2019 each installment to and including the installment
payable on August 1, 1989 to be one-half of one per cent
(  of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1/%/c) of such
principal amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall apply the proceeds of
the Credit in accordance with the provisions of the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement to expenditures on the Project,
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, (i) the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with the


﻿8
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits, published by the Bank in August 1969, and
in accordance with such other procedures supplementary
thereto as are set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement
or as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, and (ii) contracts for the procurement of such
goods and services shall be subject to the prior approval
of the Association, except as otherwise stipulated in such
Schedule.
SECTION 3.03. Except as the Association may otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively in carrying out the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. The Borrower shall cause the Board to
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with sound administrative, agricultural, finan-
cial, and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
SECTION 4.02. (a) Without limitation or restriction upon
the provisions of Section 4.01 of this Agreement, the Bor-
rower shall take all steps required to ensure adequate
coordination between the Board and the Ministries of Agri-
culture and Food, and of Land, Irrigation and Power of the
Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the Board at all times to
manage its affairs and carry on its operations, all in accord-
ance with sound agricultural, engineering and financial prac-
tices, and with the assistance of adequate qualified anC
experienced staff.


﻿9
(c) The Borrower shall cause the Board to appoint and
at all times maintain:
(i) a general manager,
(ii) a deputy general manager qualified as an irrigation
engineer, and
(iii) another deputy general manager qualified as an
agriculturalist,
all competent and experienced, and acceptable to the Asso-
ciation.
(d) The Borrower shall at all times operate and main-
tain, or cause to be operated and maintained, the plants,
structures, machinery, equipment and other property re-
quired for the Project, and shall make, or cause to be made,
all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, in accordance
with sound engineering and economic practices.
(e) The Borrower shall cause the financial accounts of
the Board to be audited annually by competent and expe-
rienced auditors acceptable to the Association and shall,
promptly after their preparation and not later than four
months after the close of the fiscal year to which they
apply, cause to be transmitted to the Association certified
copies of all revelant statements and a signed copy of the
auditors' report.
SECTION 4.03. To assist in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall employ, or shall cause the Board to employ,
competent and experienced consultants acceptable to the
Association, to an extent, and upon terms and conditions
(including terms of reference), which shall have been ap-
proved by the Association.
SECTION 4.04. Upon completion of Part A (I) of the
Project, the Borrower shall transfer or cause to be trans-
ferred to the Ceylon Electricity Board established pursuant


﻿10
to the Ceylon Electricity Board Act, No. 17 of 1969, the
hydro-electric plant and all related power assets included
in the Project, on terms and conditions mutually acceptable
to the Borrower, the Association and the Ceylon Electricity
Board.
SECTION 4.05. The Borrower shall take all steps required
to establish, and thereafter maintain, adequate standards
of maintenance of the tanks and canal systems included in,
or necessary to, the Project, and shall provide the staff,
equipment and funds necessary to strengthen the existing
field maintenance organization.
SECTioN 4.06. The Borrower shall undertake, or cause
to be undertaken, in accordance with terms of reference
acceptable to the Association, a study of the need for short,
medium and long-term agricultural credit for farmers lo-
cated in the Project Area, such study to be completed not
later than June 30, 1973, and, upon such completion, the
Borrower shall make available, or cause to be made avail-
able, to such farmers such credit facilities as shall have
been agreed to by the Borrower after consultation with
the Association, in the light of the report submitted to the
Borrower upon the completion of such study.
SECTION 4.07. To ensure the coordination of intensified
extension services in the Project Area, the Borrower shall
establish not later than June 30, 1972 special project units
in such area, similar in organization, authority and respon-
sibilities to the Elahera Special Project, each such special
project unit being directed by a resident manager who shall
coordinate and direct the activities of the resident staff
of all extension agencies operating in such area.
SECTION 4.08. The Borrower shall provide to the Maha
Illuppalama Agricultural Station che staff, equipment and
financial resources required to, enable it to meet the re-


﻿11
search needs of the Project Area and, in particular, to
expand the irrigation facilities of such station in order to
intensify research work on crop rotations.
SECTION 4.09. Until completion of the Project, the Bor-
rower shall ensure that sufficient irrigation water shall be
released from the Kantalai tank to the sugar estate located
in the Project Area, at intervals and in quantities which
shall be determined by such sugar estate, in order to pro-
vide adequate irrigation of 200 acres of sugarcane through-
out the year for research and demonstration purposes.
HECTIoN 4.10. The iBorrower shall carry out, or cause to
be carried out, for a period of ten years, the monitoring
of the effect of additional water supplies on soil conditions
and crolp production in the Project Area.
SECTION 4.11. Upon completion of the comprehensive
water charges study included in Part B (III) of the Project,
the Boirower and the Association shall consult on a sched-
ule of water charges to be introduced in the Project Aren.
I1pon completion of the Project and thereafter, water
charges shall be collected in the Project Area at a rate
of not less than 40 rupees per acre of cultivated land, pur-
suant to a schedule of water charges established by tie
Borrower and agreed to by the Association.
8EcTIox 4.12. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause
to be furnished to the Association, promptly upon their
preparation, the reports, studies, plans, specifications, work
and procurement schedules for, or in connection with, the
Piroject, and any material modifications subsequently made
therein, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) at all times maintain or
cause to be maintained records adequate to identify the


﻿12
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, to disclose the use thereof in the Project, to record
the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices the operations and financial
condition of the Board and of any institution or agency
of the Borrower responsible for the carrying out of the
Project or any part thereof; and (ii) enable the Associa-
tion's representatives to inspect the Project, the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, all other plants,
sites, works, properties, machinery, equipment and opera-
tions of the Borrower relevant to the Project and any
relevant records and documents.
(c) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished
to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the expenditures of
the proceeds of the Credit, the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds, the Project, and the administration,
operations and financial condition with respect to the Proj-
ect of the Borrower, the Board and any institution or
agency of the Borrower responsible for the carrying out
of the Project or any part thereof.
SECTION 4.13. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall
furnish to the other all such information as it shall reason-
ably request with regard to the general status of the Credit.
On the part of the Borrower, such information shall in-
clude information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower and the inter-
national balance of payments position of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to matters re-
lating to the purposes of the Credit and the maintenance
of the service thereof.


﻿13
(c) The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association
of any condition which interferes with, or threa ens to
interfere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof, or the per-
formance by the Borrower of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
(d) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable oppoita-
nity for accredited representatives of the Association to
visit any part of the territories of the Borrower for pur-
poses related to the Credit.
SRcn],oN 4.14. (a) The Borrower shall cause to be taken
out and maintained with responsible insurers, or shall make
other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insur-
ance of the hydio-electric plant and related power assets
included in the Project against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with sound practice.
(b) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the
Borrower undertakes to have the imported good& to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit insured against
marine, transit and other hazards incident to acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation and for such insmrance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable or convertible by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
SECTION 4.15. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories, and free from all restric-
tions imposed under- any such laws.
SECTIoN 4.16. The Development Credit Agreement shall
be free from any taxes that shall be imposed under the
laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on,
or in connection with, the execution, delivery or registration
thereof.


﻿14
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of
the General Conditions or in Section 5.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein
set forth, then, at any subsequent time during the continu-
ance thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice
to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then
outstanding to be due and payable immediately together
with the service charges thereon and upon any such declara-
tion such principal, together with such charges, shall be-
come due and payable immediately, anything in the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding.
SECTION 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
(a) the legislation of the Borrower referred to in See-
tion 7.01 (a) of the Loan Agreement and any other
legislation or regulation of the Borrower governing
the establishment, organization and powers of the
Board, shall, without the prior approval of the Asso-
ciation, have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed, waived, or shall cease to be enforced, so
as to materially affect the operations of the Board
or the Project, and such event shall continue for a
period of sixty days; and
(b) any action shall have been taken to materially modify
the organization structure of the Board referred
to in Section 7.01 (d) of the Loan Agreement, with-
out the prior approval of the Association, and such
event shall continue for a period of sixty days.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The following event is specified as an ad-
ditional condition to the effectiveness of the Development


﻿15
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01 (b)
of the General Conditions, namely, that all the conditions
precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement other
than the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
shall have been fulfilled.
SECTION 6.02. The date May 8, 1970 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
SEcTIoN 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under
Sections 4.02, 4.05, 4.06, 4.11 and 5.02 of this Agreement
shall terminate on the date on which the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date thirty years
after the date of the Development Credit Agreement, which-
ever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1976
or such other date as shall be agreed between the Borrower
and the Association.
SECTION 7.02. The Permanent Secretary of the Ministry
of Planning and Economic Affairs of the Borrower is desig-
nated as representative of the Borrower for the purpose of
Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
SECTIoN 7.03. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs
Central Bank Building, 8th Floor
Colombo 1, Ceylon
Cable address:
Secminplan
Colombo


﻿16
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Uniited States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused the Development Credit Agreement to be signed in
their respective names and delivered in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
GOVERNMENT OF CEYLON
By /s/ OLIVER WEERASINGHE
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ MOHAMED SHOAIB
Vice President


﻿17
SCHEDULE 1
Description of the Project
The Project includes Stage 1 of the first scheme of the
Mahaweli Ganga Development Program and consists of
the following parts:
A. I. The construction of the Polgolla complex consisting
of a low diversion dam on the Mahaweli Ganga at
Polgolla, a diversion tunnel (about 5 miles long) and
a 40 MW hydro-electric plant.
II. The construction of the Bowatenna complex consist-
ing of a high diversion dam on the Amban Ganga
at Bowatenna, a tunnel and a canal (each about
3 miles long) to feed the Kalawewa and Kandalama
tanks.
III. The construction of training works and channel in-
provements on the Dhun Oya and the Sudu Ganga.
IV. The remodelling of the existing Elahera weir and of
the 38-mile long Elahera-Minneri-Kantalai canal to
carry 1,500 cubic feet per second.
V. The redesigning and reconstruction of the irrigation
system, the construction of drainage systems, land
leveling and subsoiling, on 4,000 acres planted to
sugarcane in the Project Area.
VI. The provision of machinery, equipment, vehicles and
materials for Parts A (I) through A (V) hereof
(other than machinery, equipment, vehicles and mate-
rials included in the civil works contracts for such
Parts A (I) through A (V)), for the operation
and maintenance of the civil works included in such
Parts A (I) through A (V), and for extension serv-
ices in the Project Area.
B. I. Studies to determine the optimum capacity of the
tunnels referred to in Parts A (I) and A (II) hereof,


﻿18
to be completed before the construction of such tun-
nels is initiated.
II. Engineering of the civil works included in Part A
hereof, including the conducting of model tests and
the preparation of construction drawings, and the
administration and supervision of the construction
of such works.
III. A comprehensive study to determine an appropriate
schedule of water charges in the Project Area, having
due regard to farmers' incentives and capacity to
pay, such study to be completed within three years
of the date of the Development Credit Agrement.
C.    Investigations of the area west of Habarane for the
development in Stage II of the first scheme of the
Mahaweli Ganga Development Program, of about
113,000 acres, such investigations to include aerial
surveys, land classification, planning for irrigation
and drainage works, determining land clearance and
development costs, cropping patterns, water require-
ments, the development of cost estimates for, and
the preparation of a feasibility report on, such de-
velopment, the determination of optimum farm size
and a study of the respective merits of settling farm-
ers on their land and of settling them in villages
away from their land, such investigations to be com-
pleted not later than on June 30, 1972.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1975.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 2
Allocation of the Proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
Maximum
Amounts Expressed
Category                           in Dollar Equivalent
I. Civil works under Parts A (I) and
A (II) of the Project                12,500,000
II. Civil works under Parts A (III)
through A (V) of the Project          1,750,000
III. Machinery, equipment, vehicles and
materials under Part A (VI) of
the Project                           4,750,000
IV. Engineering and consulting services
under Parts B and C of the Project    3,00000
V. Interest and other charges on the Loan
acecrued on or before January 31, 1975  3,000,000
VI. Unallocated                           4,000,000
TOTAL          29,000,000
Allocation of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. The amount of the Credit shall be withdrawn from the
Credit Account as provided under Article II of the
Development Credit Agreement, and shall be applied to
expenditures under any of the Categories I through IV,
until the total of such withdrawals, and of commitments,
if any, in respect of such expenditures, shall have reached
the equivalent of $14,500,000.
Allocation of the Proceeds of the Loan
2. The amount of the Loan shall be withdrawn from the
Loan Account as provided under Article II of the Loan
Agreement, and shall be applied to expenditures under
any of the Categories I through V incurred, in the case


﻿20
of Categories I through IV, after the amount of the
Credit shall have been exhausted, except that withdrawals
from the Loan Account may be made prior to such
exhaustion in respect of commitments referreO. to in
Section 2.04 (c) of the Loan Agreement.
Reallocation upon Change in Cost Estimates
3. If the estimate of the expenditures under any of the
Categories I through V shall decrease, the amount then
allocated to, and no longer required for, such Category
will be reallocated to Category VI by the Association
and by the Bank, or by the Biank, as the case may be.
4. If the estimate of the expenditures under any of the
Categories I through V shall increase, an amount equal,
in the case of any of the Categories III through V, to
to the portion, if any, of such increase to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, in the case
of Category I, an amount equal to 50%/c of such increase
or such other percentage as may be agreed pursuant to
Section 2.03 (ii) of the Development Credit Agreement,
and, in the case of Category II, an amount equal to 37'
of such increase, will be allocated at the request of the
Borrower, by the Association and the Bank, or by the
Bank, as the case may be, to such Category from Cate-
gory VI, subject, however, to the requirements for con-
tingencies, as determined by the Association and the
Bank, in respect of expenditures under any of the other
uategories.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1. With respect to goods and services in Categories I and
III of the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit and of
the Loan referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement
and of the Loan Agreement, items to be procured shall be
grouped together whenever applicable in amounts sufficient
to attract international competitive bidding. Whenever the
estimated cost of such items or groups of items exceeds
the equivalent of $10,000, they shall be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding pursuant to
Sections 3.02 of this Agreement and of the Loan Agreement.
2. With respect to goods and services in Category II of
such allocation of the proceeds of the Credit and of the
Loan, the Borrower shall cause the civil works included in
such Category (a) to be carried out by the Mahaweli Devel-
opment Board on force account, (b) to be contracted out to
its Ministry of Land, Irrigation and Power or to its Min-
istry of Agriculture and Food, or (c) to be carried out by
local contractors on the basis of local competitive bidding
and pursuant to the provisions set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 hereof, provided, however, that the aggregate cost
of such contracts shall in no event exceed the equivalent of
$2,500,000.
3. With respect to all contracts or letters of intent for
civil works involving expenditures expected to exceed the
equivalent of $100,000 and included (a) in Category I of
such allocation of the proceeds of the Credit and of the
Loan, and (b) in Category II thereof and referred to in
paragraph 2 (c) hereof, as well as with respect to all con-
tracts or letters of intent for the purchase of machinery,
equipment, vehicles and materials included in Category III
of such allocation of the proceeds of the Credit and of the
Loan and involving expenditures expected to exceed the


﻿22
equivalent of $50,000, the following procedures shall be
followed:
(a) Invitations to bid, specifications, the proposed terms
and conditions of contracts, and all other bidding
documents, together with a description of the adver-
tising procedures to be followed, will be submitted
to the Association and to the Bank for review and
approval, which approval shall be obtained prior to
the issuance of invitations to bid.
(b) After bids have been received and analyzed, the
analyses of bids and the recommendations thereon
of the Borrower and of the consultants, as well as
the Borrower's proposals for awards, will be fur-
nished to the Association and to the Bank for review
and approval, which approval shall be obtained prior
to making any award of contract or issuing any letter
of intent.
(c) For the purpose of awarding contracts for the pur-
chase of machinery, equipment, vehicles or materials
included in Category III of such allocation of the
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, bids will be
compared on the following basis:
(i) the bids submitted by foreign manufacturers
will first be compared on the basis of a bid
price which shall consist of the c.i.f. (Colombo)
landed price plus the actual rate of customs
duties and similar taxes paid or to be paid and
the local agents' commissions, if any; the low-
est such bid shall be deemed to be the lowest for-
eign bid; if no bids are submitted by Ceylonese
manufacturers, the lowest foreign bid will be
considered the lowest evaluated bid if other
terms and conditions are satisfactory;
(ii) the bids submitted by Ceylonese manufacturers
will be compared on the basis of the ex-factory


﻿23
price, and the lowest such bid shall be deemed
to be the lowest Ceylonese bid; if no bids are
submitted by foreign manufacturers, the lowest
Ceylonese bid will be considered the lowest eval-
uated bid if other terms and conditions are
satisfactory;
(iii) if foreign manufacturers and Ceylonese manu-
facturers have submitted bids, the lowest for-
eign bid shall be compared with the lowest
Ceylonese bid on the basis of a price for the
lowest foreign bid consisting of the c.i.f. (Co-
lombo) landed price plus 15o of such price
or the rate of customs duties and similar taxes
which applies to non-exempt purchasers in the
territories of the Borrower, whichever is the
lower, plus the local agents' commissions, if
any, and on the basis of the ex-factory price
of the lowest Ceylonese bid; if the price of the
lowest Ceylonese bid is equal to or lower than
the price of the lowest foreign bid, and other
terms and conditions are satisfactory, then the
lowest Ceylonese bid will be considered the
lowest evaluated bid.
(d) If the final contract or letter of intent is to differ
substantially from the terms and conditions contained
in the respective documents approved by the Asso-
ciation and by the Bank under paragraphs (a) and
(b) above, the text of the proposed changes will be
submitted to the Association and to the Bank for
review and approval prior to the execution of such
contract or issuance of such letter of intent.
(e) Two conformed copies of any letter of intent issued
and of any contract executed under this paragraph 2
shall be sent to the Association and to the Bank
promptly upon their issuance or execution.


﻿24
4. With respect to all contracts or letters of intent for civil
works involving expenditures expected to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or less and included (a) in Category I of
such allocation of the proceeds of the Credit and of the
Loan, and (b) in Category II thereof and referred to in
paragraph 2 (c) hereof, as well as with respect to all con-
tracts or letters of intent for the purchase of machinery,
equipment, vehicles or materials included in Category III
of such allocation of the proceeds of the Credit and of the
Loan and involving expenditures expected to cost more
than the equivalent of $10,000 but less than the equivalent
of $50,000, copies of the invitations to bid, bid analyses
and evaluations, as well as any other bid documents or rele-
vant information requested by the Associatioii or by the
Bank, and two conformed copies of any such contract or
letter of intent, shall be sent to the Association and to the
Bank promptly after the execution of any such contract or
issuance of any such letter of intent and prior to the sub-
mission to the Association or to the Bank of the first appli-
cation for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
or from the Loan Account in respect of any such contract
or letter of intent.
5. With respect to the procurement of equipment and vehi-
cles in Category III of such allocation of the proceed& of
the Credit and of the Loan, bidding documents shall require
the supplier to provide adequate after-sales services.
6. With respect to items or groups of items in Category III
of such allocation of the proceeds of the Credit and of the
Loan the value of which does not exceed the equivalent of
$10,000, international competitive bidding may be dispensed
with, provided that the Borrower shall send to the Associa-
tion and to the Bank for their approval details of the pro-
posed procurement procedure as well as periodic lists of
items so purchased indicating the price of such goods and
the suppliers thereof.


