Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C /  /FCC- K@
Report No. P-3943-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 6.2 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A
NAIROBI THIRD WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
March 7, 1985
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its eontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriztion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        -        Kenya Shilling (KSh)
KSh 1.00             -        US$0.0681/
US$1.00              -        KSh 14.6
US$1.00              -        SDR 0.9749330 2/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Kenya uses the metric system)
1 cubic meter (M3)          -        220 Imperial Gallons, 264.2 US gallons,
or 1000 liters (1 kiloliter - kl,
1 meter (X)                 -        3.28 feet (39.37 inches)
1 millimeter (mm)                    0.39 inches
1 Kilometer (km)                     0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (Km2)   =         0.386 square miles = 247 acres
1/cd                        -         liters per capita per day
M3/d                                  cubic meters per day
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIR    -   Country Implementation Review
CY     -   Calendar Year
DPM    -   Directorate of Personnel Management
EAC    -   East African Community
FY     -   Fiscal Year
KIA    -   Kenya Institute of Administration
MOALD  -   Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
Development
MCSS   -   Ministry of Cooperatives and Social Services
MLG    -   Ministry of Local Government
M.LS    -   Ministry of Lands and Settlement
MWD    -   Ministry of Water Development
MAC    -   National Action Committee
NCC    -   Nairobi City Con ission
PIU    -   Project Implementation Unit
PPF    -   Project Preparation Facility
SAL    -   Structural Adjustment Lending
WAB    -   Water Apportionment Board
WD     -   Water Department of the Ministry of
Water Development
WSI    -   Water and Sewerage Department
FISCAL YEAR
Government:   July 1 - June 30
Nairobi City Commission: January 1 - December 313/
1/ Since December 1982 the Kenya Shilling has been pegged to the SDR at a
rate of SDR = KSh 14.06. The rate vis-a-vis the dollar has fluctuated
since that time.  A rate of USS1.00 = KSh 14.6 has been used in evaluating
this project.
2/ As of January 31, 1985.
3/  As ot July 1985, NCC fiscal year will be July 1-June 30.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
KENYA
NAIROBI THIRD WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
Borrower:                 Republic of Kenya
beneficuary:              Nairobi City Commission (NC')
Amount:                  A Credit of SDR 6.2 million (US$6.0 million
equivalent).
Terms:                    Standard
Relending Terms:          Proceeds of the Credit would be cn-lent to the
Nairobi City Commission at an interest rate of
9.29% per annum for a maximum 15 years, including a
maximum 4 year grace period. NCC would bear the
foreign exchange risk.
Project Description:    The proposed project would help finance the
preparation of a third water supply project in
Nairobi. The main objectives of the engineering
credit are: (a) to prepare a project which woul"
meet the rapidly expanding demands of Nairobi City
up to the mid-1990s; (b) strengthen the operations
and financial management of the Water and Sewerage
Department to improve its efficiency and capacity
to undertake the third phase investment; (c)
develop recommendations for the institutional
development of the Water and Sewerage Department;
(d) review the finances of the non-water and
sewerage activities of Nairobi City and initiate
training to improve financial and operational
performance; (e) assist in the preparation of
long-term program to manage water resources on a
regional basis: and (f) assess Nairobi City's
longer-term sewerage and sanitation requirements.
Risks:                    Potential risks associated with the proposed
engineering credit include: (i) failure to
strengthen WSD's management and provide the
necessary staff to concentrate on both the
preparation of a third phase water supply project
in Nairobi and, at the same time, improve the
operational and financial efficiency of WSD; and
(ii) failure or delay to implement appropriate
tariff increases to generate the funds needed to
cover NCC's contribution to the preparation of a
third operation, as well as debt service coverage
and capital expenditure. A number of actions have
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwisc bc disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
been taken by the Government and the Nairobi City
Commission which suggest that the risks will be
contained: (a) the proposed project has been
endorsed at the Cabinet level; (b) an
inter-ministerial coordinating committee meets as
necessary to settle policy issues; (c) the City
Commission is planning for the establishment of a
Water and Sewerage Committee; (d) since late 1983
unauthorized withdrawals from the Water Fund have
ceased on Instruction from the Chairman of the City
Commission; (e) a major tariff increase has been
approved; and (f) the recruitment process for a new
General Manager has begun.
Estimated Project Costs:
Local      Foreign       Total
-    -- (USS millions) -
Component
Feasibility study, detailed
engineeri.tg and associated studies             2.2          2.6          4.8a/
Panel of Experts                                 0.1          0.2          0.3
Technical Assistance
Training                                        0.4          0.5          0.9
Base Cost                                    2.7          3.3          6.0
Contingencies
Physical                                      0.3          0.3         0.6
Price                                         0.5          0.4         0.9
Total Project Cost                             3.5          4.0          7.5b/
a/ Including Project Preparation Facility advance of US$1.0 million (P-295
-KE), approved in July 1984.
b/ Including taxes and duties of US$0.3 million.



- iii -
Z of Total
Financing Plan:  Source              Local   Foreign   Total         Financing
--- (USS millionsT --
IDA                           2.0       4.0      6.0             80
Government of Kenya            1.5       -        1.5             20
Total                         3.5       4.0       7.5a/          100
a/ Including taxes and duties of US$0.3 million
Estimated Disbursements:         IDA     FY    1986        1987       1988
Annual  US$ million                           2.0         4.0        1.5
Cumulative                                    2.0         6.0        7.5
Economic Rate of Return: Not appropriate
Appraisal Report: No separate report
Maps:   IBRD 18683
IBRD 18684



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPO .(T AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC UF KENYA
FOK A NAIROP1 THIRD WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
*      1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Credit to the RepuAlic of Kenya of SDR 6.2 million (US$b.0 million equiva-
lent) on standard terms to help finance a water supply engineering project.
The Credit would be on-lent to the Nairobi City Commission at an interest
rate of 9.29% per annum for a maximum of 15 years, including a maximum 4
year grace period. NCC would bear the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 4689-KE) dated October
5, 1983, has been distributed to the Executive Directors. A summary of
social and economic data is in Annex I.
Long-Term Growth and Structural Issues
3.        Kenya became an independent nation in 1963.  Kenya's first decade
as an independent nation was one of remarkable growth and structural trans-
formation. Total GDP grew at an annual average rate of 6.6% during
1964-73. Both agriculture and manufacturing grew rapidly, at 4.7% and 8.4%
per annum respectively. The expansion of agriculture was stimulated by the
conversion of considerable high-potential land from extensive use to small-
holder cultivation, the introduction of high-value production activities,
and the adoption of high-yielding maize varieries. Growth of manufacturing
was made possible very largely by the expansion of domestic demand due to
rising agricultural incomes, while investment for domestic production was
being encouraged by high levels of protection, a liberal attitude towards
foreign investment, and active Government promotion of and participation in
manufacturing ventures.
4.        Following the first oil crisis of 1973, growth decelerated to 4%
p.a., or virtual stagnation in per capita terms, reflecting not only the
oil shock, but also the emergence or intensification of structural con-
straints largely unrelated to the post-1973 terms of trade deterioration.
These problems are briefly described below.
5.        First, agricultural growth decelerated from 4.5t in the first
decade after independence to 2.5% during the 1970s. This was due partly to
the tapering off of the specific positive factors which had sustained agri-
cultural growth in the first decade after independence. But the decelera-
tion was also due to Government policies, including excessive prorection
for the industrial sector which facilitated the maintenance of an over-
valued exchange rate, thereby turning the internal terms of trade against
the agricultural sector, and inefficient, monopolistic Government involve-
ment in agricultural marketing which discouraged production and placed



- 2 -
undue burdens on the budget. There was also growing pressure of the rural
population on the country's limited and unequally distributed supply of
medium and high potential land (only 18X of the total lqnd area), contri-
buting to over-intensive use in some areas.
6.        Second, industrial growth also decelerated, according to official
statistics, from 8.0% in the first decade after independence to 6.5Z during
the period 1973-80.  This growth was being accomplished at an increasingly
higher cost in terms of the capital-intensity of investment, low labor
absorption, and the burden on the balance of payments of a sector which
imported a substantial volume of intermediate goods for -final touch-
processing and assembly, but exported very little. These undesirable
features resulted from Government policies which included high levels of
protection, Government financial participation in industrial firms, and
fiscal incentives for investment. Protection, which was already high in
the late 1960s, increased in 1970s due to the -ratchet effect- of the
Government's behavior in responding to fluctuations in the external terms
of trade and foreign exchange availability. During periods of foreign
exchange constraint, the Government intensified quantitative import
restrictions, but during periods of easy foreign exchange availability, the
Government did not relax import restrictions, but increased Government
expenditures instead.
7.        Third, energy supplies became relatively more expensive.  The oil
price increases of the 1970s raised the cost of imported energy
substantially; in 1980, the cost of petroleum imports for domestic
consumption (i.e., exclusive of re-exports of petroleum products) was
equivalent to 36% of nonfuel export receipts, as compared with an average
of 13% during 1976-78. Fuelwood and charcoal, which account for more than
half of the energy supply in Kenya's economy, also became relatively more
expensive, since the rate of consumption was four times the rate of
replenishment.
8.        A fourth issue, related to the above, is the overexpansion and
inadequate management of the public sector, particularly the parastatal
sector. The Report of the Working Par.y on Government Expenditures
declared that the fiscal deficit was 'a fundamental structural problem"
arising partly from "the proliferation of commercial activities by
Government which has diverted scarce management talent away from the
central functions of Government. The Government's Sessional Paper on
Development Prospects and Policies stated that "Structural adjustment must
embrace a more constructive and profitable role for essential parastatals
and the return of others to private sector operation".
9.        Finally, the growth of Kenya's population had accelerated from
3.4% p.a. during the intercensal period 1962-69 to 3.8% p.a., the third
highest rate in the world, during the intercensal period 1969-79. This
acceleration reflected a decline in mortality, an increase in fertility
arising from continuation of the traditional preference for large families,
and health improvements enabling fertility to move closer to its biological
limit. Kenya is one of only four countries in the world with a total
fertility rate greater than 7.0. The rapid population growth generated by
this high and increasing fertility generated increasing pressures on the
land, the labor market, and education and health services.



Economic Policies and Developments During the Fourth Plan Period 1979-83
10.       The above structural issues were generally well recognized in the
Fourth Plan, which stated that The progress we have made in the past has
pre-empted the easy forms of development in such sectors as agriculture and
industry. We must now address ourselves to more difficult problems."
Under the Structural Adjustment 1 (1980) and Structural Adjustment II
*       (1982) agreements with the Bank, many of the Government's general Plan
intentions were refined into more specific commitments on the content and
timing of structural adjustment measures. The Fourth Plan also recognized
that, in the wake of the coffee boom" of 1976-77, the external terms of
trade would deteriorate, and that it would be necessary to contain fiscal
and external deficits during the Plan period. These aspects of Govern-
ment's policy were refined into more specific commitments under a series of
IMEF programs.
11.       The Plan stated that future industrial growth would require
"increasing emphasis on the promotion of industrial efficiency and decreas-
ing emphasis on industrial protection," and accordingly proposed the phas-
ing out of quantitative import restrictions, tariff rationalization, and
export promotion. Under both SAL I and SAL II the Government committed
itself to timetables for carrying out industrial studies, reducing quanti-
tative restrictions (QRs.', designing artd implementing a new, mo-e moderate
and uniform tariff structure, and developing an export promotion program.
The timetable for import liberalization was disrupted by foreign exchange
problems, and presently only 29Z of the items are on the unrestricted list.
The Government raised tariffs on four occasions and lowered them in the two
most recent budgets. The impact of these adjustments on industrial protec-
tion, in the countinuing presence of QRs, has not been measured, and the
new tariff structure intended to be in place when the QRs have been sub-
stantially phased out has not yet been designed. While intentions were
announced in the June 1983 budget speech regarding export finance and manu-
facturing in bond, and steps have been taken to strengthen the administra-
tion of fiscal incentives for exports, the implementation of export promo-
tion measures has been lagging.
12.       The Plan proposed that domestic agricultural prices "be brought
more into line with long term trends in world market prices." The Plan
also stated that 'In principle, there will be direct intervention only in
those areas of agricultural and food marketing where cooperatives and the
*       private sector cannot or do not perform essential functions and services
adequately or competitively," and that restrictions on private sector mar-
keting activity would be relaxed to encourage private investment in agri-
cultural marketing. During 1982, both producer and consumer prices for
agricultural products were raised closer to border prices. In the area of
grain marketing, following a consultants' study, the Government reaftirmed
its Development Plan intention to redefine the role of the key parastatal
in this sector to that of a market stabilization and food security
function, rather than a legal monopolist, and to permit private traders to
participate in grain marketing. However, the Government has not yet
formulated an action program to implement this intention, and has recently
revised its previous decision by announcing that the only purchaser to be
permitted to enter the maize market is to be a new apex Cooperative, the
Kenya Grain Growers Cooperative Union.



- 4 -
13.       During the Plan period, the Government continued to follow, as it
had previously, appropriate energy pricing principles. There has been some
reduction in dependence on imported energy through the development of
hydroelectric and geothermal sources. However, apparently due to the
institutional fragmentation of the sector, progress on drawing up a well-
defined energy investment program with an adequate justification has been
relatively slow.
14.       In 1983, the Government prepared, for the first time ever, a
Forward Budget and Public Investment Program document, which was
distributed to the January 1984 meeting of the Consultative Group. The
recurrent/capital distribution contained in the Forward Budget reflected
the recommendation of the Working Party on Government Expenditures that
recurrent expenditures be increased more to ensure utilization of existing
capacity and the magnitude of the expenditure program was consistent with
the maintenance of fiscal health required for economic growth and
stability. There remains a need to strengthen public expenditure planning
in a number of respects, including project evaluation and monitoring, and
bringing the parastatals into a public sector financial planning process.
15.       In order to provide more effective leadership to the family
planning program, particularly information and education to generate
greater demand for family planning services, a National Council for
Population and Development was established in the Office of the Vice
President in 1982. However, the Government has not yet adopted the
demographic targets which are necessary foundations of a credible fertility
reduction program, but work on this is underway. In the past, Government
budgetary allocations have not reflected the assignment of a high priority
to family planning, but the President has stated that such allocations will
be substantially increased in the future.
16.       While the Government has made only limited progress on structural
adjustment, by the end of 1983 it had made important progress on reducing
fiscal and external deficits to sustainable levels through stabilization
measures, despit_ the fact that the terms of trade deterioration was
sharper than expected during the Fourth Plan period. Fiscal deficits were
gradually reduced through retrenchment on Central Government expanditure
from the excessive level of 35% of GNP in fiscal year 1980/81 to 27% of GNP
in fiscal year 1983/84. Interest rates were increased, credit expansion
decelerated, and wages were held down. The exchange rate was adjusted in
nominal terms, but due to domeastic inflation, the real effective exchange
value of the Shilling at the end of 1983 was only 3% less than in 1976.
The current account deficit was reduced from 12Z of GDP in 1980 to 4% in
1983, but during the same period the debt service ratio increased from 13%
to 28%.
17.       Developments in the real economv during the Fourth Plan period
were consistent with Government policies, as actually implemented.
Agricultural output stagnated during the first two years of the Fourth
Plan, partly because of drought, and then grew significantly during the
remaining three years because of the retu:n of normal rainfall and more
favorable prices for agricultural produ':ts. The growth rate of
agricultural production from 1978 to 1983, both of which were normal
weather years, was 2.5Z p.a. The growth rate of industrial output was 6%



- 5 -
p.a. during the first two years of the Plan period, when Government
expenditures were very high, and then decelerated to 3.5% p.a. during the
final three years, as the stabilization measures began to take effect.
Export performance was disappointing, as export volume actually fell by 11%
over the Plan period. This resulted from a substantial decline in the
volume of petroleum product exports from the Mombasa oil refinery and the
sluggish growth of non-oil exports by only 1% p.a. Real GUP grew by 4%
p.a.  Because of the deterioration in the external terms of trade, real
gross domestic income grew more slowly than real GDP, and real GDY per
capita fell by 5% during the Plan period.
The Fifth Plan and Medium-Term Prospects
18.       The Fifth Plan.  In December 1983, the Government published its
Fifth Development Plan (1984-88). The Plan's macroeconomic framework is
realistic and its central theme - "mobilizing domestic resources tor
equitable development" - is timely and appropriate. The Plan recognizes
that "Public Investment has often been less productive than private
investment" and declares that "Growth in the private sector is the core of
the development process in Kenya." The new Plan clearly reflects the
Government's determination to avoid the excessive spending which was
undermining Kenya's domestic financial stability and external financial
position during the first three years of the Fourth Plan period. However,
the Government's intentions on structural adjustment issues such as import
liberalization and agricultural marketing are not specifically defined.
19.       The Drought and Its Implications for 1984-85.  Unfortunately, the
Government's hopes for launching the Fifth Plan with a year of recovery in
per capita income have been dashed by the worst drought in fifty years.
The "short rains tailed in some parts of the country during
*ctober-November 1983, and the "long rains" failed entirely during
March-May 1984 in most of the maize-growing areas. Grain production has
been only b5Z of normal, and production of other crops has also been
adversely affected. Dairy production is sharply down, and the national
livestock herd is being reduced by record levels of slaughter. GDP growth
in 1984 is expected to be zero. There were excellent short rains during
Uctober-November 1984, and it is being assumed for planning purposes that
the drought is over and that raintall in 1985 will be normal and that the
economy will recover. However, the recently departed drought continues to
have signiticant financial implications.
20.       The Government's strategy for deaLing with the financial
implications of the drought has recently been formalized in an IMF Standby
program covering calendar 1985. The impact ot the drought on the budget
has been mitigated by the approximate doubling of external grant aid from
1.3% of GNP in fiscal year 1983/84 to 2.b% ot GNP in fiscal year 1984/85.
The impact of the drought on the balance ot payments has been mitigated in
1984 by exceptionally high prices for coftee and tea (the external terms of
trade are estimated to have improved by 13Z in 1984), the increase in grant
aid, and the Government's ability to draw down its strategic grain
reserve. The current account deficit is expected to be a modest 3.4% ot
GDP and a slight overall surplus is expected. The major impact on the
balance of payments will be in 1985 when the terms of trade are expected to
deteriorate as coffee and tea prices returni to more normal levels, and the



- 6 -
bulk of the grain imports will take place. The current account deficit is
expected to widen to 5.8Z of GNP. The Government will finance this deficit
from existing and new Official Development Assistance commitments, IMF
Standby and Compensatory drawings, some draw-down of reserves, and a modest
amount of commercial bank borrowing, to which Kenya has not had substantial
recourse since 1981.
21.       Medium-term Prospects.  For the future, Kenya will need to
continue to pursue prudent demand management policies in order to contain
the debt service burden, and then reduce it somewhat over the medium term.
Under these circumstances, growth prospects will depend importantly on the
vigor with which structural adjustment policies designed to increase the
efficiency of investment are implemented. With less vigorous
implementation of structural adjustment policies, growth would be about 4%
p.a., implying stable per capita incomes (following recent decline). With
more vigorous policy implementation, growth could be accelerated to 5-6%
p.a., yielding restoration of growth in per capita incomes.
External Capital Requirements
24.       Over the years, Kenya has relied primarily on Official
Development Assistance (ODA) for its external capital requirements. Kenya
has been a relatively favored aid recipient. In 1982, among the nine
sub-Saharan countries with populations of greater than 10 million, net ODA
disbursements per capita for Kenya ($27) were less than for two other
countries ($37 and $36), but were greater than for six countries which
received net OUA per capita in the range of $6 to $16. In view of the
country's political stability, its comfortable financial ratios (until
recently), and the availability of a high level of ODA to be 'blended" with
private-source capital in yielding a quasi-concessional overall capital
inflow, Kenya has also been creditworthy for considerable borrowing from
private sources of finance.
23.       Kenya borrowed heavily from private sources during 1979-81, after
the terms of trade deteriorated due to the fading of the 'coffee boom," and
the oil price hikes. During 1979-81, Kenya's current account deficit (its
net external borrowing requirement) averaged an unsustainable 10% of GNP.
During 1982-83, however, as the stabilization measures took effect, Kenya
succeeded in reducing the current account deficit to levels which could be
financed almost entirely from ODA and IMF drawings. In fact, during
1982-83 Kenya reduced, through net repayments, its stock of debt owed to
private sources by one third, and reduced the share of its external debt
held by private sources from 40% to 27%. This accomplishment has placed
Kenya in a position in which the financial impact of the drought, although
serious, is manageable.
24.       For the future, the combination of modestly improved export
performance and continued prudent demand management policies is expected to
gradually lower the current account deficit from the elevated level of 5.6%
of GDP in 1985 to a long-term sustainable level of 4% of GDP by 1988. With
such a borrowing requirement, Kenya would not be able to rely entirely on
ODA, but rather would have to engage in some borrowing from private
sources. The objective would not be a substantial net inflow from private
sources, but rather would be to refinance the existing stock of private-
source debt, in order to avoid a net outflow. Under these circumstances,
the debt service ratio would decline from a peak of 31% in 1984-85 to 25%
by the end of the decade.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
25.       To date, Kenya has received 44 Bank loans, including three on
Third Window terms, and 42 IDA credits including one Special Fund Credit,
amounting to US$1,841.7 million, which supported 75 operations. In
addition, Kenya was one of the beneficiaries of 10 loans totalling US$244.8
million which were extended for the development of common services
(railways, ports, telecomunications, and finance for industry), operated
regionally for the three partner states of the East African CommunitY
(bAC). Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans and IDA credits
to Kenya and to the EAC corporations.
26.       Recent Bank Group lending has been oriented towaras assisting the
Government in its efforts to restructure the economy, resulting in the
inclusion in the program of structural adjustment assistance. For the
future, should structural adjustment lending prove to be impractical in the
short term, sectoral operations could be substituted in support of SAL
objectives. Recent economic work has also focused on the structural
problems in specific sectors. The selection of projects for financing and
the design of such projects have been influenced by the need to complement
policy actions under the structural adjustment program. Continuing
priority has thus been given to the agricultural and industrial sectors,
but increasing emphasis also has been placed on sectors such as population
and energy. In FY84, the Kiambere Hydroelectric Power Project, the Second
Highway Sector Project and a Geothermal Exploration Project were approved.
A third telecommunications project has been appraised and is planned for
Board presentation later this year. In response to the 1984 drought
(paragraphs 19 and 20), the Bank is proposing to amend an ongoing project
to provide emergency financing of US$20.0 million for fertilizers,
chemicals and seasonal credit for agriculture.
27.       In contrast to FY82 and FY83 when disbursements improved over
immediate prior years, FY84 disbursements on projects as a percentage of
amounts outstanding at the beginning of the year fell to 13X (19Z including
disbursements against structural adjustment operations) compared with 16%
in FY83. Improvements in recent years were explained by greater use of
Procedure III, and the application of a Treasury Circular requiring
operating ministreis to make prompt reimbursement claims under penalty of
freezing funds. The latter remedy has had only marginal benefits to date.
Undeniably, project implementation has deteriorated in recent years, in
contrast to the successful implementation performance in the past. Factors
accounting for implementation delays have varied widely, but some of the
more pervasive factors have been institutional/management constraints,
procurement problems, and budgetary constraints leading to a lack of local
financing. These factors, together with delays in preparing and submitting
reimbursement claims. have led to a poor project disbursement record. An
in-depth review of the causes of this situation has been undertaken by the
Bank Group and the problems and possible solutions have been discussed with
the Government at Country Implementation Review (CIR) meetings.  The
discussions were frank and constructive, and the Government informed the
bank Jroup ot several new initiatives to improve performance, including
those mentioned. D)uring the ongoing CIR discussions, the Government and
the bank are continuing to review the Government's development objectives



and investment priorities in the context of implementation capacity and
resource constraints. Recent improvements in budgetary and financial
management in one of the line ministries, which are to be introduced
gradually to other ministries, are expected to reap benefits in the
future.  The project portfolio is under review to determine the scope for
reducing project costs through reformulation, rephasing or cancelling
projects which cannot be adequately funded. As a result, substantial
cancellations of funds have been made from the Sugar Rehabilitation Froject
(Ln. 1636-KE) (US$58.0 million) and the Second Integrated Agricultural
Development Project (Cr. 959-KE) (US$38.0 million), and the project scope
for the Bura Irrigation Settlement Project (Ln. 1449/Cr. 772-KE) has been
reduced to a level commensurate with available local resources.
Cancellation of the Rural Water Supply Project (Ln. 1637-KE) is being
considered by the Government. To respond swiftly to urgently required
drought relief assistance, consideration is being given to reallocating
US$20.0 million under the Fourth Agricultural Finance Corporation Project
(Loan 1995-KE/Cr. 1143-KE) from loan funds which would otherwise have been
unused and cancelled. Additional possibilities for project rationalization
are currently under review.
28.       At the end of 1983, IBMD held 18%, and IBRD/IDA combined held
30%, of Kenya's stock of external debt. During 1983, IBRD's share of
Kenya's debt service payments was 14X, and IBRD/IDA's share was 15%. Over
the next few years, our expectation is that Kenya's debt owed to private
sources will grow more slowly than Kenya's debt owed to official sources,
such as the Bank Group, reflecting the Government 's success at reducing,
through stabilization measures, the country's borrowing requirements.
Therefore, the IBRD/IDA share of the stock of external debt is expected to
increase gradually to 36%, (IBRD only, 21%) while the share of debt service
payments will increase to 23% (IBRD only, 21Z).
International Finance Corporation (IFC)
29.       IFC has committed a total of US$68.6 million for twelve
operations in Kenya. These include loans for six companies: Pan African
Paper Mills, Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.; Tourism Promotion Services
(Kenya) Ltd.; Rift Valley Textiles, Ltd.; Bamburi Portland Cement Company,
Ltd; Tetra Pak Converters, Ltd; and Leather Industries of Kenya, Ltd. Also
included are a US$2 million credit line to the Kenya Commercial Bank, Ltd.,
a US$5 million credit line to the Kenya Commercial Finance Company, Ltd.,
and equity investments in Development Finance Company of Kenya, Ltd.



- 9 -
(US$1.3 million), Diamond Trust of Kenya, Ltd. (US$0.8 million), and
Industrial Promotion Services of Kenya, Ltd. (US$U.6 million). As of
September 30, 1984, LFC held for its own account US$45.2 million,
comprising US$33.5 million of loans and US$11.7 million of equity.  A
summary of IFC Investments in Kenya is included in Annex II.
PART III. THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
A. Introduction
30.       The Republic of Kenya, stretching inland from the Indian Ocean to
Lake Victoria, covers 583,000 km2 and straddles the equator. Along the
Indian Ocean coastline lies a narrow tropical belt, behind which an arid
plain extends to the north. Toward the northwest, the land rises to a high
plateau, the Kenya Highlands, at about 1,500 m with a temperate climate and
subtropical vegetation. The Highlands are bisected from north to south by
the Rift Valley.
31.       Kenya's population is now nearly 19 million, with one of the
highest population growth rates (about 3.8%) in the World. The rural
population is estimated at 16 million, while 3 million people live in the
rapidly growing urban areas. The capital city, Nairobi, has a population
of about 1.1 million. About 85% of the total population and the majority
of economic enterprise are concentrated on the Highlands plateau.
Water Resources
32.       Kenya experiences wide differences in climate caused mainly by
variations in altitude. Average rainfall is about 450 mm per annuim, but
the actual distribution results in vast areas receiving 250 mm or less per
annum. As a result of the rainfall pattern, stream-flows are highly
seasonal and vary widely. Perennial rivers are concentrated in the
Highlands area (including Nairobi) and the coastal areas. Whilst the
country's groundwater potential appears promising, especially in the
eastern part of the country, considerably more investigation is required to
identify and develop this potential source. Unfortunately, in some areas,
groundwater is saline and in others, including Nairobi and the Rift Valley,
groundwater contains high levels of fluorides.
Access to Water in Urban Areas
33.       Whilst most of the urban population in Kenya have access to piped
water, the urban population growth rate of over 7% strains the existing
capacity of the systems. At present, water is supplied through metered
individual connections to about 70X of the urban population and to about 8X
through communal water points or kiosks. The remaining 22% of the
population is not serviced directly and has only limited access to potable
water. Urban water usage ranges from 70 1/cd to about 160 1/cd. The
average for Nairobi's population is about 130 1/cd, which is normal for
this environment.



- 10 -
Access to Water in Rural Areas
34.       Only 2.2 million people (about 15Z of the rural population) are
supplied with safe drinking water. The rest of the rural population has to
carry water over considerable distances from natural sources which are
usually polluted, inadequate or dry for several weeks each year. Water
usage ranges from 50 l/cd for individual connections (about 47,000 serving
6C0,000 people), down to about 10 1/cd where water Is carried.  Although a
large number of water supply schemes have been constructed under the Rural
Water Supply Programme, many with external donor assistance, the level of
operation and maintenance has been inadequate and many are in need of
rehabilitation.
Sewerage and Sanitation
35.       There are 22 public sewerage systems in Kenya, servicing about
6% of the total population. Another 4% have septic tanks and 40% make use
of pit latrines. The remaining 50Z have no proper sanitation facilities.
In Nairobi, about 64Z of the population is served by public sewer systemsa
and 20% by septic tanks. The Ministry of Local Government (MLG) and the
Ministry of Water Development (MWD) have undertaken improvements in other
municipalities and smaller towns. Operation and maintenance by local
authorities, except in Nairobi, are often to very low standards.
Sector Legislation
36.       The Water Act, revised in 1968, together with its subsidiary
legislation, covers the broad field of conservation, control, apportionment
and use of water resources. The control of the right to use all water
resources is vested in the Minister of Water Development. The Minister's
powers to issue permits for the use of water and control of abstraction and
pollution is exercised by the Water Apportionment Board (WAB).
37.       Complementary to the Water Act is the Public Health Act which
includes many provisions relating to water and sewerage from the health
point of view. The Local Government Regulations (1963) give power to local
authorities in urban areas to undertake water supply, sewerage and drainage
works, to maintain waterworks and to make appropriate by-laws.
Sector Organization
38.       Reflecting the growing importance which the Government attaches
to the water sector and to rural water in particular, over the past two
decades responsibility for water supplies has passed from the Ministry of
Works to the Ministry of Natural Resources, to the Ministry of Agriculture,
and finally to the MWD, which was established in 1974 to concentrate on the
development of the water sector. In addition, three river basin
development authorities under the Ministry of Energy and Regional
Development (the Tana and Athi Rivers, Lake Basin, and Kerio Valley) were
established as independent statutory bodies. They are responsible for
integrated, multi-disciplinary planning and implementation of development
projects and orderly water exploitation in their respective areas.
Major irrigation developments are the responsibility of the National
Irrigation Board under the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
Development (MOALD).



- 11 -
39.       Since its establishment, the MWD has concentrated on the rural
water sector by constructing and operating several hundred schemes under
the first tour phases of its Rural Water Development Program with varying
success. In addition to these rural MWD schemes, other ministries and
bodies have made rural water investments. The County Councils operate with
limited success several hundred small schemes which are scheduled to be
talcen over gradually by MWD as funding permits. The Kenya Railways also
operate about a hundred schemes which supply water to adjacent villages in
addition to their own requirements. The Ministry of Lands and Settlement
(MLS) plans and finances water supply for new settlemeat areas, usually
with MWD's Water Department (WD) as the executing agency. The Ministry of
Cooperatives and Social Services (MCSS) administers government grants to
the "self-help" schemes in rural areas again with WD's technical
assistance.
40.       In the urban sector, the Nairobi water supply and sanitation
system is owned and operated by the Nairobi City Commission (NCC);
the Mombasa and coastal province water supply system is owned and operated
directly by MWD, with bulk water supplied by the MWD controlled Mombasa
Pipeline Board; and the five other major municipalities own and operate
their own water supply systems under the direction of MLG with technical
guidance from MWD.
Development Program
41.       Kenya's water sector objective is to supply safe water to its
entire population by the year 2000. In the early seventies, Government
launched a Rural Water Supply Program to speed rural development, which is
now in its fourth phase. The Government also endorses the targets of the
International Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation Decade and, in October
1980, created a National Action Committee (NAC) to coordinate Decade
planning. Annual development expenditure by MWD in the water supply and
sanitation sector grew very rapidly in the seventies, to about US$25
million annually by 1979. Since then, actual expenditure has dropped below
this figure due to financial constraints, but emphasis is still given to
the rural areas, especially to those projects which have attracted
substantial amounts of concessional donor finance. Sewerage and sanitation
development expenditures amount to only 10% of the sector expenditures.
42.       The rural water sector has benefited substantially from both
grants and technical assistance provided by various international donor
agencies. uver 60% of the MWD'S total Rural Water Supply Program has been
financed by the Nordic donor agencies (SIDA, NORAD, DANIDA and FINNIDA),
The Netherlands, CIDA and KFW.  In the past, this funding was concentrated
on new projects to benefit the unserved rural population. Whilst this
program was largely successful, because of rapid expansion, MWD were unable
to provide the necessary back-up service and finance to operate and
maintain these new facilities. Recognizing these constraints, the donors
are now focussing their assistance on rehabilitation, strengthening
ot operations and maintenance, and technical assistance for MWD. USAID is
expected to begin implementation of a major water resources development
program in the near future.



- 12 -
Development Constraints and Problem Areas
43.       The country's deceriorating economic situation and financial
constraints have effectively slowed and reduced the implementation of the
ambitious rural water supply development program. To minimize the impact,
Government now gives priority to projects concessionally funded by
donor agencies. To conserve scarce resources, overall financial control of
development projects has been assumed by the the Ministry of Finance and
Planning. Consequently decision making tends to be on narrow financial
bases rather than on sound technical and economic grounds. In addition,
MWD has yet to develop an organizational structure which is action-
oriented, while poor coordination, lack of senior management continuity,
and a shortage of competent and motivated staff at the senior level all
contribute to inefficient operation. The need to improve operational
efficiency and cost recovery, especially in the rural sector has been
recognized by the Government, together with the need for systematic
manpower development and training programs in the sector. To overcome some
of the perceived shortcomings, Government has recently introduced the
'district focus' concept to decentralize responsibility and authority for
operations and revenue generation to district administration. To support
this program in the rural water sector, MWD has begun to post HQ staff to
field locations.
Cost-Recovery/Tariffs
44.       Government policy on cost recovery is that, in rural areas, water
charges should cover operation and maintenance costs, and in urban centers
water charges should, in addition, contribute to capital costs. In most of
the rural schemes, water is supplied to the consumers through kiosks at a
rate of KSh 2.50/m3. The tariff for unmetered connections is KSh 15.0 per
month, while for metered connections the charge is KSh 151m3 for the first
9 m3 and KSh 2.65/m3 for additional consumption.  The tariffs in the urban
and town council schemes average KSh 2.0/m3, although variations are
substantial. In the Mombasa coastal region, which is operated by MWD, the
flat rate charge is KSh 26.1 for the first 9 m3 and KSh 5.75/m3
thereafter. The Nairobi water tariffs are described in paragraph 74.
45.      Total revenues collected in the rural water schemes operated by
MWD (excluding Mombasa) are only about 20% of the operating and maintenance
cost of KSh 120 million. The low level of cost recovery is due both to
inadequate tariff levels and to poor billing and collection practices. In
1983/84, SIDA financed the preparation of a Water Use Study, which
recommends that rural tariffs should be raised by about 30%, with
cross-subsidy among the various schemes. Government has not yet decided on
tariff changes, but the recently introduced 'district focus' concept is
designed to improve operation of the schemes and water revenue collection
at district level.
B. Nairobi City
Water Supply and Sewerage
46.       Nairobi has had piped water supply since the turn of the century
and development of the water supply system has generally kept pace with the
effective demand. The population of Nairobi has grown from 4,000 in 1900



- 13 -
to 835,O00 in 1979 (actual census figure), and to about 1.1 million in
1984. Based on the expected growth rate of 7%, Nairobi's population could
reach 2.3 million by 1995, by which time the water demand is expected to
grow from the present level of about 180,000 m3/day to about 380,000
m3/day. The treatment capacity of the water works (of 206,000 m3/day) is
capable of meeting demand with distribution improvements until 1987, except
in dry years. Industrial water use is about 5% of total demand.
47.       Whilst supply presently approximates demand, the demand of the
City as a whole is not fully met due to an imbalance in the two
distribution zones. The western part of the city (upper zone) receives
water from the first developed sources, whilst the eastern part (lower
zone) is supplied independently from the later developed Chania River
system. Due to the recent drought, the first developed source supply is
substantially reduced. The Chania source could provide water to
counterbalance the shortage in the western zone; however, at present there
are no adequate facilities to transfer the water. The efficient
distribution of the water throughout the city is impeded by the inadequacy
of the network, and with the increased water pressure conditions following
expansion of the water supply (specifically in the lower zone) water losses
have doubled to about 40%. Urgent measures are required for the interzonal
water transfer, and to reduce the losses through improved pressure control,
installation of waste meters, leak detection measures, and systematic
rehabilitation of the pipework.
48.       Notwithstanding the full benefits of the Second Nairobi Water
Supply Project and achievement of a reasonable level of operational
efficiency, by 1987 the City will again experience water shortages. NCC,
in consultation with the MLG and the MWD, has decided that short-term plans
(to meet the demand up to 1995) and long-term plans are to be prepared for
the expansion of water supplies to Nairobi and its environs, followed by a
phased implementation of these development plans. Since the further
extraction from the present water sources in the Chania-Thika River systems
will approach the upper extraction limits to satisfy the short-term demands
(1995), it is also necessary to plan for an integrated utilization of all
the regional water resources to satisfy the longer-term needs of Nairobi
City and all other regional users.
49.       The need for the third expansion phase of Nairobi's water supply
as part of the Nairobi City long-term water development plan was clearly
identified during the appraisal of the Nairobi Second Water Supply Project
in 1977. At that time, following a redesign and rephasing of the project,
it proved economical to defer construction of an expensive dam and storage
reservoir for at least seven years. The third phase expansion project now
envisioned will probably require the construction of that dam or a modifed
version. However, to confirm the validity of the original recommendations
for the construction of the dam as the least cost solution, the feasibility
study needs to be updated prior to commencement of the detailed engineer-
ing. Construction of the project would be expected to commence in 1987 and
take about four years to complete, with some additional water available
after three years. To bridge the period between 1987 and 1990 when
periodic water shortages may be expected, immediate measures need to be
taken to optimize the existing water supply systems' efficiency. In view
of rapidly increasing population outside the City boundaries, the projec.-s



- 14 -
potential to also supply water to these areas will be investigated to
ensure the long term equitable and orderly exploitation of the catchment
areas serving Nairobi City and its environs.
50.       Due to the two-year delay in final commissioning of the previous
project, recent changes in the City's administrative structure, and senior
personnel changes in the policy making levels of the parent MLG, the for-
ward planning for the third expansion phase is behind schedule. however,
resulting from the Bank's improved sector dialogue with the recently
established Commission for Nairobi City, the MLG and the Treasury, the
Government of Kenya has recognized the urgency and endorsed the need for
the third phase expansion project. A high level interministerial committee
has been established to speed implementation. NCC with government support
has formally appointed second phase consultants to carry out the pre-
investment studies and subsequent detailed engineering. To assist the
Government and NCC recover project momentum, the Bank approved in July 1984
a PPF advance of US$1.0 million to finance the first year foreign exchange
costs of the preinvestment studies pending approval of the proposed engi-
neering credit.
51.       To cope with the increase of waterborne waste associated with the
expansion of water supply provided by the Second Water Supply Project
requires the corresponding expansion of the Dandora sewerage treatment
plant. NCC is currently seeking donor aid to assist with financing the
estimated cost of KSh 240.0 million. It is also necessary to identify
future sewerage and sanitation measures.
Organization, Management and Staffing
52.       Nairobi City Council was established as a municipality with
elected councillors to own and operate all the services in Nairobi includ-
ing water but excluding electric power. However in 1983, the City Council
was dismissed by Government for fiscal irresponsibility (paragraph 74) and
replaced by an appointed Commission for a period of two to three years. No
decision has yet been taken on future elections to reinstate the Council.
Legal power to own and operate the Nairobi water supply system was given to
the City by the Minister responsible for the Water Act. In 1970, as a pre-
condition for the first loan, Loan 714-KE, NCC established the Water and
Sewerage Department (WSD) to take over responsibility from the City
Engineer's Department for Nairobi's existing water supply and sewerage
system. WSD is headed by a General Manager who reports to the Town Clerk,
and who is assisted by two Deputy General Managers. The Deputy General
Manager (Engineering) controls three sections: water supply operation and
maintenance; water supply planning, design and construction, and sewerage
operation, maintenance and development. The Deputy General Manager
(Commercial), assisted by an Assistant General Manager, is responsible for
the commercial and accounting sections. A separate unit under the General
Manager is in charge of the administration. In the early days, the
management and performance of WSD was fully satisfactory. Following the
introduction of a localization program, there was an initial decline in the
standard of management. However, there are a number of managers and senior
staff who, given time to develop their potential in an orderly working
environment, could reverse the managerial decline.



- 15 -
53.       Under the covenants of the Second Loan (Loan 1520-KE), NCC was
required to establish a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) within WSD to
coordinate project activities, including maintaining records, accounts and
dealing with payments and disbursement matters. Due to lack of management
commitment and general staff shortages, the PIU was inadequately staffed
and its performance during the implementation of the Nairobi Second Water
Supply Project was below expectations and contributed to many of the
X       financial and institutional problems experienced under the Project.
However, the importance of the PIU's role is now fully recognized by
NCC/WSD management who have undertaken to strengthen its staffing.
54.       Of late, WSD has experienced serious difficulties in recruiting
qualified personnel mainly because of non-competitiveness of NCC's salary
structure, and a general Government embargo on recruitment. Consequently,
the number of professional staff has steadily decreased following local
staff resignations and departure of contract expatriate staff when there
has been a real need to increase both the number and calibre of the staff
to cope with the increasing responsibilities. The staff recruitment
embargo was relaxed early in 1984 and the situation is slowly improving.
The responsibility for recruitment, appointment, dismissal and promotion of
staff has alternated between NCC and the MLG. However, since August 1984,
responsibility for the appointment of senior staff is now vested in the
Public Service Commission (a government body responsible for all staff in
the Civi. Service).
Manpower and Training
55.       NCC/WSD's current arrangements for manpower development and
training are weak and do not extend below the salaried staff grades.
Although some key managerial and senior technical staff of WSD benefitted
from training programs provided under Loan 1520-KE, most of these staff
have since left. WSD's training program proposal for 1985-86 focuses
mostly on the senior professional staff, but it is unlikely that any
systematic training program could be carried out without substantial
technical assistance. It is imperative that a well-defined and coordinated
manpower development and training program for all staff levels be prepared
and implemented to reverse past trends.
Bank Objectives and Role in the Sector Development
56.       The Bank has been involved in the water and urban sector since
1970. During this period, the Bank has financed three urban projects;
two in Nairobi and one in Mombasa: The Nairobi Water Supply Project (Loan
714-KE) and the Nairobi Second Water Supply Project (Loan 1520-KE) were
implemented by the Nairobi City Council (NCC), while the Mombasa and
Coastal Water Supply Project (Loan 1167-KE) was implemented by MWD. All
three projects have been physically completed successfully albeit with cost
overruns of varying degrees. The main problems experienced under the two
last projects were in the institutional and financial areas resulting from
political interventions in day-to-day operations. The lesson to be learnt
from the projects is the need for strong autonomous organizations capable
of making sound economic decisions within an established policy framework
acceptable to Government. In addition, the Nairobi Sites and Services
Project (Loan 1205-KE/Credit 543-KE) included funds tor a substantial



- 16 -
sanitation and sewerage component to benefit the urban poor of Nairobi.
The Bank has made only one loan to the rural water sector, namely the Rural
Water Supply Project (Loan 1637-KE) in 1977. Due to the problems of
implementation and operation which MWD were experiencing with the overly
ambitious Rural Water Supply program, the Bank-financed Project got off to
a very slow start. In 1983, the project was restructured and reduced at
Government's request. Since then, Government's continuing financial
constraints have affected adversely MWD's financial and physical capacity
to absorb any further responsibilities. Consequently, the Government is
actively considering requesting cancellation of the Bank-finaniced project
and would concentrate instead on rural water projects assisted by
concessional donor finance.
57.       The Bank Group supports Government's effort to achieve its
targets in water sector development by providing financial assistance for
high priority, long-term water supply projects with continuing assistance
for institution building, emphasizing manpower development and training,
and improvement in administrative and financial management. To assist
Government focus on the development and issues of the water sector, both
rural and urban, the Bank financed the preparation of a water sector review
under the Rural Water Supply Project. This review is ongoing and the Bank
is encouraging Government to complete it notwithstanding cancellation of
the Rural Water Supply Project (paragraph 56). The review will provide
guidance on priorities and key issues such as manpower development,
institutional strengthening, and cost recovery in the face of a rapidly
changing ecological and economic environment. The Bank continues to assist
the expansion of the water supply and sewerage systems in Nairobi, the
nation's capital, and center of tourism to which the Government also
attaches high priority. The Bank-assisted Nairobi urban projects have also
helped to improve the living conditions of the urban poor. The Bank will
assist Government to plan the rationalization of urban finances through the
proposed sector study on local government finances, financed under the
ongoing Secondary Towns Project (Loan 2319-KE/Credit 1390-KE).
PART IV - THE PKOJECT
background
58.       The project was prepared by the Nairobi City Commission with
inputs from the Ministry of Local Government and MIinistry of Water
Development and with Bank Group assistance. It was presented to the Bank
for financing in March 1984, and appraised in October 1984. The
engineering consultants commenced work in September, 1984, financed under a
Project Preparation Facility advance (paragraph 65). Negotiations were
held in Washington, D.C. during February 26-27, 1985, with the Government's
delegation led by Mr. J. P. Mbogua, Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of
Local Government.   A Credit and Project Summary appear at the beginning of
this report and a supplementary project data sheet is attached as Annex
III. No staff appraisal report was prepared for this project.



- 17 -
Project Objectives
59.       The proposed engineering project would help prepare a third phase
water supply investment project to meet the rapidly expanding water demands
of Nairobi City up to the mid-1990's. The project would also: (i)
strengthen the operations and financial management of the Water and
Sewerage Department to improve its efficiency and capacity to undertake the
next major investment (the third phase); and (ii) prepare recommendations
for the long term institutional development of an entity to manage
Nairobi's water supply facilities. In addition, the project would review
the finances of the non-water and sewerage activities of Nairobi City, and
initiate in-house training to improve financial and operational
performance. Finally, the project would help prepare a long-term program
to manage Nairobi's water resources on a regional basis.
Project Description
60.      The proposed project consists of the following components:
(i) Project Preparation
(a) the preparation of the Nairobi third water supply
project including feasibility study, detailed
engineering, preparation of tender documents, and
evaluation of bids for major civil works contracts;
(b) associated studies covering mapping, site investigations
and soil testing;
Cc) a Panel of Experts to advise on dam safety aspects;
gd) the strengthening of the management and operation of the
Water and Sewerage Department, including training and
manpower development;
Ce) the improvement of the Nairobi City water distribution
system;
(f) the development of a long term regional water resource
management program;
(g) the assessment of the Nairobi City's sewerage and
sanitation needs; and
(h) the institutional development for Nairobi's water supply
and waste disposal facilities;
(ii) Technical Assistance for Institutional Development
(a) improve the management and performance of NCC's computer
installation to improve revenue collection in all NCC
areas of operation; and,



- 18 -
(b) develop and initiate in-house training for NCC (other
than WSD).
Project Costs and Financing
61.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$7.5 million,
consisting of US$4.0 million (or 53Z) in foreign costs and US$3.5 million
(or 47%) in local costs, including taxes and duties of US$0.3 million.
Cost estimates are based on findings during appraisal (October, 1984) and
man-month scales contained in the consultancy agreement. The man-month
scales are comparable to those charged in Eastern Africa for similar
assignments. Physical contingencies total US$0.6 million, or about 10% of
the base costs of the main engineering study and associated studies and
technical assistance. Price contingencies amount to US$0.9 million, or
about 12% of the total base cost, and were calculated assuming
international price escalation of 4X in 1985 (6 months), 8% in 1986-87, and
domestic price escalations of 7.5% for 1985 (6 months) and 15% in 1986-87.
62.       The proposed IDA credit of US$6.0 million (80% of total) would
finance 10OZ of the estimated foreign exchange component of US$4.0 million
and US$2.0 million, or 57% of the local costs of US$3.5 million. IDA's
contribution to local costs would permit the release of NCC funds to
finance an essential upgrading of the existing distribution system. The
PPF advance of US$1.0 million would be recovered in full from the IDA
Credit. NCC will finance the balance of the project local costs, amounting
to US$1.5 million (20%) from WSD's self generated funds. Withholding taxes
on consultants overseas remittances, amounting to approximately US$0.3
million, would be financed from NCC's contribution to local costs; other
taxes and duties which are likely to be insignificant would also be
financed from local contributions. The proposed credit of US$6.0 million
will be on-lent by the Government to NCC at an interest rate of 9.29% per
annum for a maximum of 15 years including a maximum of 4 years of grace
(Section 3.01(b), draft Development Credit Agreement). NCC would bear the
foreign exchange risk.
Project Execution
63.       The project (other than the technical assistance components)
would be implemented by WSD on behalf of NCC. To improve and strengthen
their management commitment to a third water supply project, NCC proposes
to re-establish the Water and Sewerage Standing Committee within the NCC
organizational structure to concentrate on the affairs of WSD. In
addition, WSD has taken steps to strengthen the staffing of the PIU with
appropriate levels of authority and responsibility. The day to day control
for project preparation will be entrusted to the PIU under the overall
direction of the general manager of WSD. Although the post of general
manager is vacant following the normal retirement of the last general
manager who had been in post since 1969, the deputy general manager
(technical) is acting as general manager in a satisfactory manner. A
replacement is expected to be identified within the next three months. In
view of the critical importance of the general manager to the success of
WSD, agreement was reached at negotiations that appointment of the general
manager will be made in consultation with the Government and the
Association (SecLion 2.04, draft Project Agreement).



- 19 -
64.       The two technical assistance components would be implemented as
follows: (i) computer operation and training would be under the direction
of the City Treasurer, with support from the WSD's deputy general manager
(commercial); and (ii) NCC manpower development and training would be
under the direction of the Town Clerk.
65.       The feasibility study and subsequent detailed engineering,
together with the related studies on regional development and sewerage
would be undertaken by NCC's long-standing engineering consultants (Howard
Humphreys-UK and Kenya). The overall work assignment would require about
930 man-months and would be compl'.ee about mid-L987. Initial work
commenced in September 1984 with kinai.ce provided by the PPF advance
approved in July 1984. Whtist the engineering consultants have the prime
contractural responsibility for the other related studies on WSD's
organization, management, operations, and finances, they propose with NCC's
and the Association's agreement to sub-contract these studies to a suitably
qualified and experienced operating entity. Proposals have been invited
from a short-list approved by NCC and the Association, and the award and
contract is subject to the approval of NCC and the Association (Section
2.02 draft Project Agreement). Subcontract formalities are not expected to
be concluded prior to Board presentation. Separate proposals will be
invited for the technical assistance for the computer component and the
manpower development component, and separate consultant entities will be
appointed with terms of reference, qualifications, experience and contract
terms acceptable to the Association (Section 2.02 draft Project
Agreement).  These two individual assignments are expected to require 24
man-months, and 48 man-months respectively. Preference will be given to
local organizations which can provide the necessary back-up and continuity.
Procurement
66.        The consultants for the major consultancy and associated studies
were selected by the borrower and NCC. The contract, valued at
approximately US$6.0 million was negotiated on the basis of their man-month
proposal which responded to terms of reference and an agreed scope of work
provided by NCC/WSD. The Association was consulted at all stages of the
process and the Bank Guidelines on the Use of Consultants were followed.
Procurement for the two technical assistance assignments (paragraph 60
(ii)(a) and (b)) will also follow Bank Guidelines.



- 20 -
Disbursement
67.       The IDA Credit would be disbursed as follows:
US$ milllons
1.  Feasibility study,                          ( IOOZ of foreign
detailed engineering,                       ( exchange costs
and associated studies        3.2           ( and 502 of
( local costs.
2.  Panel of Experts              0.2           C
3.  Technical Assistance          1.1             0OOZ
4.  Refinancing of PPF Advance   1.0              100l
5.  Unallocated                   O.5
Total                      6.0
The Borrower/NCC propose to use Procedure III (direct payment) for all
eligible consultant payments facilitated by the fact that only one
consultant's contract will cover the major portion of the project and will
set up internal procedures for prompt payment. Consequently, establishment
of a revolving fund is not justified. Disbursement is expected to be
completed by December 31, 1987.
Monitoring and Er,aluation
68.       Whilst technical project reporting of the Nairobi Second Water
Supply Project (Loan 1520-KE) by the consultants was fully satisfactory,
other reporting by NCC has been less than satisfactory. With actions
underway to strengthen the PIU, NCC's reporting performance is expected to
progressively improve to acceptable standards, as evidenced by the timely
submission of an acceptable Project Completion Report for the Nairobi
Second Water Supply Project (Loan 1520-KE), prepared by NCC.
Accounts and Audits
69.       WSD's accounting is reasonably up-to-date although submission of
its audited accounts have been consistently late, due in part to the
arrangements which apply to auditing namely, the Auditor-General of Kenya
is designated by legislation as the auditor of the accounts of NCC (of
which WSD is an integral part). As a result of severe overloading of the
Auditor-General's limited staff, the audit of NCC and WSD has been sub-con-
tracted to an indigenous firm of professional accountants who report to the
Auditor-General. Thus, the Auditor-General retains overall responsibility
for the audit and issues the final audit certificate. With this divided
responsibility for the audit, delays are inevitable. It is therefore pro-
posed to modify the audited accounts submission requirements for the pro-
posed engineering credit as follows: The external auditors will complete
the detailed aHdit of the annual accounts which will be submitted with



- 21 -
their own interim audit report simultaneously to the Auditor-General and
the Association within six months of the financial year end of WSD. The
Auditor General would then submit his statutory audit report to the
Association within a further four months of the submission of the external
auditor's report (Section 4.01(b), draft Project Agreement).
70.       Due to a number of interrelated factors, WSD's accounts have
been heavily qualified for each of the past three years, although to a
lesser degree each succeeding year. Under the Nairobi Second Water Supply
Project (Loan 1520-KE), NCC were required to establish separate accounts
for WSU on a commercial entity basis. While this goal has not been fully
met, considerable progress has been made in so far as separate accounts are
maintained and prepared on an accruals basis. However, depreciation is not
provided for but assets records are kept and assets revalued annually on a
notional basis for purposes of rate of return calculations.
71.       To continue the development and improvement of WSU's accounting
and financial controls (as part of the main consultancy contract), all
existing financial recording and control systems will be reviewed for
adequacy and effectiveness by independent consultants. Their
recommendations for improvement, financial staff recruitment, and manpower
development will be jointly reviewed by NCC/WSD, the Association, the
Auditor-General and the external auditors to agree a program to achieve
adequate financial recording and control which would lead to an unqualified
audit report on the accounts for the year tc December 31, 1986 (Section
4.05, draft Project Agreement).
72.       Another priority area for early improvement is the management and
operation of NCC's leased computer installation on which the billing of WSD
depends. The computer department has been plagued in the past by a lack of
competent staff compoutded by a rapid staff turnover. Consequently, the
department is hard pressed to process an expanding volume of documentation
with inappropriate programs. This precludes the introduction of further
applications which are urgently required. As the disciplined use of the
computer installation is a vital input into the generation of income for
both WSD and NCC, the project includes technical assistance to upgrade
computer management through staff training and the rationalization of the
existing computer programs.
73.       WSD's provisional accounts continue to demonstrate its underlying
viability.  Combined net operating income (including interest receivable,
but before depreciation) for both the water and sewerage sections for FY
1983 amounted to KSh 198.0 million compared to KSh 142.1 million for FY
1982 (an increase of 40%). The operating ratio (excluding depreciation)
for FY 1983 was 43 as opposed to 58 in FY82. However, WSD's FY 1983 debt
service cover was 3.4 compared to 4.7 in FY 1982, reflecting the growing
debt service burden as earlier loans become due for repayment, and the
weakening of the Kenyan currency. During negotiations, agreement was
reached that, unless the Association otherwise agrees, NCC would not incur
any debt if its net cash revenues for the fiscal year or the 12 months
immediately before the date of occurrence, whichever is greater, would be
less than 1.5 times the maximum debt service requirements of any succeeding
fiscal year (Section 4.03(a), draft Project Agreement). To enable NCC to
have sufficient financial resources to meet its operating expenses,



- 22 -
including debt service charges and additional investments in capital
assets, agreement was reached at negotiations that all appropriate measures
will be taken to ensure that the net operating revenues will be sufficient
to yield annual rates of return on gross revalued assets relating to water
supply and sewerage services of not less than 7.5% (paragraphs 75 and 76)
(Section 4.02(a), draft Project Agreement).
74.       WSD's main financial problems stem from past irresponsibility of
the former Nairobi City Council (paragraph 52). During 1980-82, the Water
Fund, which was established by Law to account exclusively for all water and
sewerage revenue and expenditures, was progressively drawn down by KSh
240.0 million to finance other Council non-water and sewerage operational
expenditures. This draw down contravened the obligation under the Nairobi
Second Water Supply project (Loan 1520-KE) which expressly provided for
withdrawals not to exceed KSh 8.0 million in order to facilitate financing
of the Second Water Supply Project, but, at the same time, allow the
Council some relief for its day-to-day operational needs (the Council was
precluded from external deficit financing). The Council's own financial
problems stemmed from abolition of the Graduated Personal Tax in 1974,
earlier failure to keep the property valuation rolls up to date, and
inadequate rate increases to offset inflation. A poor cash collection
performance compounded the Council's problems. The present Nairobi City
Commission (which succeeded the Council) has not made any further
unauthorized withdrawals from the Water Fund since mid-1983, which is
allowing WSD to recover financially. During negotiations, agreement was
reached that all revenues from WSD's water and sewerage operations will be
placed in a separate account and will be used solely for the operation,
maintenance and development of the water supply and sewerage services of
Nairobi (Section 4.04, draft Project Agreement). At this stage, there are
no immediate prospects of the Commission repaying the KSh 240.0 million to
the Water Fund. The Commission is, however, crediting interest at 122 per
annum to the Water Fund on the outstanding withdrawals which is charged to
the General Fund. As part of the financial studies to be financed by the
proposed engineering credit, consultants will make recommendations for the
institutional development of WSD which will be reviewed and agreed by the
Borrower and the Association (Section 3.04, draft Project Agreement). At
the same time, the consultants will also determine the potential impact on
NCC's financial position and revenue base should the recommendation provide
for WSD to be completely divorced from NCC's operational control.
Government is also concerned with NCC's weak financial base and
performance, and has appointed a task force to make recommendations to
strengthen NCC's non-water revenue base.
Tariffs
75.       During implementation of the Second Nairobi Water Supply Project,
tariffs have been increased from time to time to meet inflation and other
cost increases, and have moved towards achieving covenanted rate of return
obligations. The present arrangements for approval of tariff increases
involve both financial and political considerations. Tariff increases are
first approved by NCC, then by the MLG (NC(,'s parent Ministry), and finally
by the Minister of Water Development who, under the Water Act, has the
power of veto. Resulting from this elaborate approval procedure, past
tariff increases have not always been implemented in a timely manner and
have at times been subjected to amendment for political considerations.
This has led to reductions in required revenues with adverse impact on



- 23 -
WJD's cash flow and financial stability. Since 1977, average water tariffs
have increased from KSh 2.60/m3 to KSh 4.16/m3 in 1982 - an increase of
602. In the same period, sewerage charges (which are based on 75Z of
actual water consumption billings) have increased from KSh 1.04/J3 to KSh
1.33/m3 - an increase of 2BZ. Early in 1984, NCC and MLG approved a water
tariff increase of about 35%, but this was vetoed by the Minister of Water
Development, due in part to poor coordination, and concern for the lower
income consumers.  Following improvements to the consultation process, NCC
restructured the tariff increase to cushion the impact on low income
groups. As a result, the ministries of Local Government and Water
Development have now approved a tariff increase of about 40% with the
greatest impact on larger consumers, both industrial and residential. The
tariff increase will not only enable WSD to meet its 7.5% rate of return
objective, but, more importantly, will generate sufficient cash to meet its
debt servicing obligations, complete the financing of the Second project,
and initiate the emergency capital improvements program. The new tariff
will average about KSh 5.60/m3 or US cents 38/m3 (US$1.46/per thousand US
gallons). Implementation of the tariff increase would be a condition of
credit effectiveness (Section 5.01(b) draft Development Credit).
76.        NCC and Government are also aware that further tariff increases
will be required at the beginning of each financial year over the next
three years averaging about 15% per annum. These are required to generate
sufficient internal funds to finance essential capital works and build up a
reasonable contribution to the start-up costs of the proposed third Nairobi
water supply investment project. The amount of the required tariff
increases will be confirmed as part of the financial studies. Another
purpose of the financial studies is to determine a rational tariff policy
and structure which would be politically acceptable. This tariff policy
could then be incorporated into the objectives of any revised institutional
structure for WSD, thereby reducing the need for continual political
intervention into WSD's operational and financial management.
Billing and Collection
77.       WSD billing and collection performance suffers from the
shortcomings of NCC's present in-house computer installation (paragraph
72). Consequently, the expected benefits of the computer have not been
achieved and productivity is declining. At present, WSD accounts for about
bOW of the computer's usage for billing some 100,000 consumers. Growth in
new customers is expected to average 5,000 per year over the next three
years. Monthly combined revenue-, for water and sewerage are presently
averaging KSh 22.0 million.  In FY 1982, outstanding bills represented 115
days of total billings; in FY 1983 the position deteriorated to 158 days
resulting from computer inefficiencies and critical staff shortages in the
meter reading section, aggravated by a staff recruitment embargo. Since
then, steps have been taken to clear the bottlenecks and the outstanding
bill position is improving. The outstanding bills situation at the end of
1984 was 123 days. Technical assistance under the project will further
imFrove the WSD's colleLtion performance (paragraph 72).
Environmental Impact and Conservation
78.       The proposed engineering credit project is expected to have a
positive impact on the environment and on conservation in various ways,



- 24 -
namely: (i) NCC will be required to improve the maintenance and safety
inspection on a regular basis of the two existing dams; (ii) NCC will be
encouraged to expand the capacity of the existing sewerage facilities to
cope with the additional throughput generated by the Nairobi Second Water
Supply Project, thereby improving the quality of discharge into the Athi
River; (iii) the project studies provide for the formulation of a long
range pollution control policy with supporting legislation; (iv) pollution
awareness and coordination amongst the region's principal water users will
be encouraged as part of the regional water use study; and (v)
implementation of WSD's operational improvement program and the emergency
leak detection program will assist with the conservation of water, as will
the expected changes in the tariff structure to penalize excessive
consumption.
Justification
79.       The prime purpose of the proposed engineering credit is to
prepare a third Nairobi water supply project which would continue the
phdsed development of Nairobi City's water supply up to 1995, thereby
ensuring a continued reliable water supply. At the same time, the proposed
engineering credit will strengtnen the initial steps taken to develop the
re-gion's potable water resources and usage in a co-ordinated manner, and
identify potential pollution problems and their solution. The engineering
credit will also help to identify Nairobi's city's long-term sewerage and
sanitation needs and focus attention on the implementation of short-term
improvements to alleviate future pollution problems. Finally, the proposed
engineering credit would contribute to upgrading the operation and finances
of both NCC and WSD through studies, training and technical assistance.
Without the Bank's continued support, Government and NCC would find it
difficult to move to the implementation phase of a third phase water supply
project in Nuirobi, as substantial co-financing will be required from a
number of potential donors, some of whom look to the Bank Group for
necessary technical inputs in the form of identification, preparation,
appraisal, and supervision of the project.
Risks
80.       The risks associated with the proposed engineering credit are:
(i) failure to strengthen WSD's management and provide the necessary staff
to concentrate on both the preparation of a third phase water supply
investment project 'Tn a timely manner, and the improvement of the
operational and financial efficiency of WSD; and (ii) failure or delay to
implement appropriate tariff action required for cash generation to cover
NCC's contribution to preparation cost of the third project, in addition to
debt service coverage and critical capital expenditure. In addition to the
risks directly associated with the proposed credit, there are the longer
term risks in preparing a third phase investment project, namely: (i)
Government and/or NCC's reluctance to accept or implement recommendations
arising from the various studies on WSD's institutional development and
improvement necessary to undertake a third project; (ii) NCC's further
withdrawal of funds from the Water Fund for non-water purposes; and (iii)
reluctance to authorize further tariff action required to generate a
reasonable WSD contribution to the start-up costs of the third project over
the next three years.



- 25 -
81.       Whilst the risks are significant, a number of actions have been
taken recently by both Government and NCC which suggest that the risks will
be contained, namely: (i) the proposed project has been endorsed at cabinet
level; (ii) an interministerial co-ordinating committee meets as necessary
to resolve policy issues; (iii) NCC is proposing to establish a Water and
Sewerage Standing Committee with appropriate powers to concentrate on
proposing WSD management; (iv) no unauthorized withdrawals have been made
from Water Fund since late 1983 on NCC Chairman's instruction; (v) a major
tariff increase has been approved; and (vi) the recruitment process for a
new general manager has begun and the Association will be afforded an
opportunity to comment on the appointment.
PART V. LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
82.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Kenya and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and the Nairobi City Commission and the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
83.       Provisions in the Development Credit and Project Agreement, of
particular importance are noted in paragraphs 62 through 74 of this report
and those of a special nature are contained in Section III of Annex III.
The Special Condition of effectiveness for the proposed credit (Section
5.01(b), draft Development Credit Agreement) is the implementation of an
approved 40% increase in water and sewerage tariffs.
84.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI. RECOMMENDATION
85.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 7, 1985



ANNEX I
-26-                                              A
IlUllTEA               - SOCIAL INIIfCATOMS DATA UNST
IGNIARRE M   GRoun (EIXamD luAE) j
HDST                (MST U       UTXMATE)
ECEIIT     iLOW INCOM AFRICA        NZ 4wT o
t9k        197imL    z ESTfABELb     SOUIu or SANARA     AFRICA S. or SAJIA
ASI (TOUS* SQ. U)
TOTAL                               52. 7       582.7      52. 7
ACICULTURAL                          53.7        59.1      b0.8
cU* (no)                        80.0       120.0      390.0             249.1                  1112.9
mcr   COWT2OU    cArIA
{KZLOGs OF OIL SQUIVALENT)          114.0       161.0     167.0              62.8                   529.0
POPULArION AM IfTAL STISfICS
POPULATIONM lI-TEAR (THOUSANAR)    8189.0    11253.0   l8115.0
URA  POPLAIION (z or TOTAL)           7.4        10.2      15.2              19.2                    29.7
POPUIATION PR )CTXONS
POPULATION IN YEA  2000 (HILL)                           39.5
STATIORU!Y POPULATION (MILL)                            153.3
POPUIATION MOMENTUI                                       2.1
POPULATION DENSITY
PCR SQ. KU.                        14.1        19.3      29.8              32. 5                   55.8
PER SQ. U. Mal. LAN               152.5       190.4     285.6              119.2        -         l11.5
POPULATION ArZ STRUCTURE (t)
0-14 YRS                          47.7        48.9      50.R              65.6                    45.4
15-64 uRS                          69.8       48.6       67.3              51.5                    51.7
65 AND ABOVE                        2.6         2.5       2.6               2.9                     2.9
PO PlUTION GO9TH itATE (:)
TOTAL                               2.4         3.2       R.0               2.8                     2.8
tUUAN                               5.2         6.6       7.3               6.2                     5.2
CRUME BXrAH RATE (PU TUOUS)          54.7        54.7      56.8              68.6                    67.0
CUjDE DgATR RATE (PER TOUS)         23.6        17.8      12.3              17.7                    15.Z
GuOss REPROOUCTION RATE               3.9         3.9       3.8               3.2                     3.2
FAMILY PLANIUIG
ACCERS, ANNUAL (TUOUS)              ..        30.9      63.0 /.
USERS (t OF tAURED WEN)              ..        6.0 /d     7.0 h-*
INOEX OF FOOD MOD0. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                        99.0       100.0      88.0              65.8                    91.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIS (Z OF REQUIREIIENTS)       99.0        95.0      88.0              86.6                    98.2
=ROTEtNS (CRAMS PER DAY)           68.0       65.0       56.0              69.9                    56.7
or IHIICIC ANImAL AND PULSE      27.0        27.0      24.0               18.3                    17.0
CHXLO (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE          21.0        18.0      13.0              23.8                    18.7
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)        46.5        52.0      56.7              48.4                    51.7
INFANT HOT. RATE (PER TH300)        112.0       96.0       77.0             117.5                   102.7
ACCESS To SASE wATER (SPOP)
TOTAL                                ..        15.0      17.0 /b           21.8                    35.6
URBAN                                         100100.0  100.0 7T           61.5                    56.1
RURAL                                ..         2.0       *.0 7            16.2                    27.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPUIATION)
TOTAL                                ..        50.0      55.0 /b           32.0
UWA                                  ..       85.0       98.0 Th           69.2
RURAL                                4. 65.0             68.0 7i           26.8
POPULATWN PER PSIDCAN             10690.0      7830.0 /k  7890.0 /k       27477.8                 11948.3
POP. PER NULSING PERSON            2270.0 /t  1470.0 7    550.0 7.k        339b.2                  2248.9
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             790.0       770.0     620.0 /.         109.0                   986.9
URBIAN                             80.0 71              620.0 ZI          395.2                   368.7
RURAL                                ..          ..     S30.0            3096.0                  6012.1
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         ..        9.7
holSINC
AVERAGE SIZE OF HDOUSEOLD
TOTAL                                ..         4.7
URBAN                               4.9 /I      4.7
RURAL                                ..         6.7
AVERArE N0. OF PERSONS/RoOM
ITAL                                 ..          ..
MURAN                               2.5 1        ..        .
RUIAL                                * 
ACCESS TO ELECT. (C OF VELLIKCS)
TOTAL                                ..          ..
URAN                                 ..          ..
RURAL                                . 



ANNX I
-  27  -                                                    Am   2
KEZIA                  - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SUIST
IZENYA                               RErUCENCe GROUPS (lWtlHRD AVCIACI() E
11ST                   (MOST UCENT  STtIMATE) /b
1RCENT         LOw IHCOg AFRICA          MIDDLE INCCmE
196n.'b     197 oLv.  ESTimurt        501121 or SAKAI,      AFRICA S. Of SAHARA
EDtClTtO
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                     47.0        61.0      109.0               69.2                     91.0
KAU                     e64.0         72.0     114.0               78.a                     90.5
FEMALE                    30.0       50.0      101.0               57.6                     73.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                     2.0         9.0       19.0               13.1                     17.4
HALZ                       3.0       13.0       23.0               17.6                     23.7
FEMALE                    2.0         6.0       15.0                8.3                     14.8
VOCATIONAL (2 OF SECONDARY)           12.2         1.8        2.0                7.2                      5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIKARY                             42.0        34.0       38.0               46.1                     36.6
SECONIDARY                          15.0        Z1.0       25.0               25.9                     24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATZ (S)               19.5 li    30.0        47.1               44.3                     35.6
comlIwa
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP            7.9         8.5        6.8                3.8                     20.7
RADIO RECEXVERS/THOUSAND POP           7.0        44.4       32.4               41.9                    100.6
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP              0.3A /      1.        3.9                2.0                     18.5
NEWSPAPER (DAILY GENEZRAL
IHTEREST-) CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION             11.2        13.8        9.7 /i             5.4                     17.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA        0.9          ..        0.4 71.4                                    0.3
LA    FOR
TOTAL LABR FORCE (THOUS)           3296.0      4314.0    6363.0
FIEALE (PERCENT)                    34.6        34.4       33.3               36.5                     33.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               86.0        82.0       78.0               77.4                     57.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   5.0         7.0       10.0                9.8                     17.4
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               40.3        38.3       35.1               41.0                     36.3
MALE                                 53.3       50.9       47.2               52.1                     47.6
FEMALE                              27.5        26.1       23.3               30.2                     25.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.2        1.3        1.5                I.Z                      1.4
101  DISTHIWTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOKE
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5: OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..       20.2 /l
HIGHEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS             *.        52.6 7r      **
LOIEST 20Z OF HOUSCHOLDS              ..         3.9 -/I     *-                 -
LOWEST 402 OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..        11.7 7r      ..
LOWES TARGLT GROUPS.
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPZTA)
URBlA                                 ..          ..      150.0 /e           168.3                    525.3
RURAL                                 ..          ..      112.0 7.            90.8                    249.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY IhICOhIE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBN                                   ..         ..      179.0 /a           107.7                    477.4
RURAL                                 ..          ..      106.0 7o            65-0                    186.0
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (2)
URBN                                  ..          ..       10.0 /a            34.7
RURAL                                 ..          ..       55.0 7*            65.4
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N 0 T E S
/a  The group averages for each Indicator are populaxion-w.ighted arithetic means. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on :vailability of data and it not uniform.
lb   Unless ocherwise noted. -Dcs for 1960' refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; -Dcta for 1970- between 1969 and
1971; and data for Most Recent Eatimae  between 1980 and 1982.
Ic   1979;  /d 1967; rural areas only;  le 1978; /f Ages 15-50; LL 1977;  lb L975;  /i 1962; Li 1976;
/k  Reg5srered. noc  11 practieLng In the catntry: /1 urban only.
JUNE, 1984



ANNE I
-28 -                                                             Page 3
deoisheib n iiso cntniisds5 idlest temb. ianm         ut   as.e. Shuac19   fid.MM   fWms  0-   saan".
Its ci.mas gtpi ats () ithe-  mcadry jmeAp. ci itsbshes meatry mg (II  c 555om usw                 b wit   eae  Ugh mm insets  On the esoety an" of the
eliasletiet. 1usb the   ' 'n esme  ic s, dci  --he scen n emPspccctie LtA slas etaLs  si r sue I.slmetr at sits  Way ats ajwl"p or the  Mntnl  UseD
Oney be daii. e ota iwantie.  nowe she esri  ci inserts csw  the tedlicaic d,  aO -i inoeilsitity ci dot. cii Is -t tstiile  mliiti nit he
sissid It niacin sesiac  c -   twdui-tic   . ceshe.  nes  -c.M.i  -   -IF acfid  cc sip msi  the ale ci -   hinme               ccn ie a   scii--   it. insist ad
Uhc-  il  als   s  ceiissld isi  is Acted -easa  tltw.                            ghin4%sttd               sisa       ite   a Kalicily, teal.,
iui  is  cell dccc.                                                                     JShcl               itsiteele  Iided hy no".s of pecIDDcic11
fSILgfjg  - acisic ci qelnittdet nc as-iseeWrirt tpor primeetir                        MeIcis0 Ecuecesc,   suinsic  nesso. stctiel see   i
se_n, pecici. aflip      s bue W     efic i   I&. ti allce lJeG.                    erti eautes
nf4U'~5jj'Im O-   Doe  cptie -taAss  -c6sises  yeas.                                 escialsuh  to ahtti is  Minis P51stis -1catela-  h-pwt"e  is
caisne-l   -    ta   tb ail     W-Itdeti  ice ills -1 115 -il ma                ectehuittll  dseci.. issyllilt cM eccitishooste Psiscmir issu-d
eIsm. tic, ad telR iclc                                                                  hy It tiat in  thylst.  hecceleissl psat-ili4 petstpclyutdall
sass si, as Lelsid. In.-Itb gg hempets   ans. cisib tale ad
Dept L -   ast tpsiet ictci c  ecasetitisicl asicic  aM peernecscl 5155 ly c phycalid fete by c isici
-~    it. pitilems, stiriCi P.. twin-. susie               Ssintsii, esie*d-- siic  sdic.I chfiC slieI-icsecccs ia
mlii. cci Itit dccc.   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~ftl"1 "                                            d  TOMs site cf tbtst  terW ilsetiests
, ,      M%  tip  ..bea   ci tI.d.!
ven  sitecsate.  c  sn-  iee     ciinccciipecitat"!?L                                            m-1     Vcl7    p" 2ft12ceiersesne
fence its  asesc-  . ens -  cilia iseeiht, ttc        am. disi   h iret asI.. A hecibi a teos  my, as my - . he-L.d    5
ices-- ceceta  lii. illi. is till dei..                                                che   1.a d ice "ititee-I P-P-sts.
tees  pip   se ci   sp  a  c   alcl   r no 'icecee t isreiils                        datl.esi.IeI.   wttp  eas  aspess                          secsis .
ruen. select  pe.tas.C.  "isi    t  me.sciti  ntisk    flss cI. the                   acutid. yell..-    -        Iip-m
ciptis lace c-i-i. is.0 m.u r Ill eusisa  ccatt-.mn cm Ill                                  tlchs,ttteItie                      ws                ics
-Mt-a-he  eesas   lie icrcitep it cia, her ee   te_als pci-:                                M-K, site.itie        tcae sti.
Jiflh  .-fl51 1etf-     7 Is ca ic sia spd--is eccseii Iansti-pr   -4--t  s  sets cc  asII Lt- ie    cl  t n is-  east.
-P     tL-      ets-ics  ile   ch. ile c-paila  icictte                          --   bet .         esi C              ta    -v pccsa C- c ci
t= e    llst n.t.d      o.aiad ci tiplcasc Lin .     cia                              eirn     abe-a        ptpcfetea  neatly oeb P    ies".       it
ate c       .i eh 1p1jec  theeseircti  51 ehei piitl  Ii sh  pthecii  sa -                             emsol. .  sic   ad- icst -   51.d -%- chatccsis
ii -Sii Ip snt ..cpeactlc  tint Itep ha ha  .eh~tiwi                               iismel   ii  cI inn ci .   -*at etenspdat  teenst  me
mc. si  .ini che c  sc       ilaie   he   atd atey. lb.                                psnlly   as.
elfthtsl  nait-cicypces   Icthe pcpslceic  te Is.  est L. INe-                          atod. iccidl. tsdcere.cnaspetsch   fse
ch Msinl   ihec iitilml  --Ls cc mtc       test its_ e-. j                   icrd-psdcly -  idcclsc         fiscsdne  alcii
meeLt in  teesw.                                                                     Pcil-cce7       esel~  -                     nes  seat  anti   ii
frn     h.. - 4it 7-jeisicyad is oma, 10ediWbe F                                        aw  SosenioIsIetc
ia.-Ie attelst   lad        g batd.   aIhe   s   tnen  i                               isi ini              sl  pLptneis cdwu. CsU.i is  me..   gm
tsinilA. Ai  s  WIt dot..
bateteseqeeetc  (yE!5L) -a cites  ti-ii Van). seib.-qp CIl-
ePsPiceual l915. 1110. ad eat1 dies                                                     M                                             S      .   ans   i
ft-lotic D_eat sct. (jtsm-               - Clgee-is ii eseu  id-                         sfitmnr  nchil-.
ystpcseec  Icet ide-c  iwialoz d~ 1110it.                                            IM.di lbal-ra Ins,t ehiccis      lIlMi - dci tip" ci.  -n.ss     in  adle
pc.clel. t ise l)d.11i4lO"actllO4t                                                     alae         act  sassils ad me vece  On Iesslctt  S .dt
Ce.S 1th  Ice  it!  tied   -c           ita blith  pce sthas-  ii "-                     a.st sie;- dieae.-sns  cm he-eceInh. sli  cm
psi puilihiil  ic, wit,is ta  ce.:                                             eaetm   lii   Imao,nai.&
pipilse tam  iii*  IliS. a  mCi deli..W                                         vsl pii4ept hra  psiwlceelclsaia        sl
en &,.                                                                         psillM ecetI  a 9  t  -K"   -etd  pelist'll Ii- tiestici  orti  ats.   i 15 efr lici
pmg1tts  Kant,  Id dcy.I=te les. tM1iJt                                                                                             a  iso".en-woits 
Intl3. flc-a -dIsi (sea-i4 s.411 a- ireeeqsit stS.destte  lec
Full     it-h.-heirtfte e                                                                  b    me  lyc ed  It Wa-Onbubaisit-
M i =   k-~~~~~~~~~icctas l cc  eliia t sicentlem
tide  ci ectSiedrei -"ye Cc.t    -Wilili 0)-  less iipiepe                         itisiaiIsisc   ce   ps..  Tsica S tc-ti a...  Msec
Fad is t a ectedet yscehicic.    iceas ue petavp c (ci.        iiilss  i pie-as   ci emi lieRoat lies.  Ilenis  95t die
inessctdi    c)eti   nSisi    cec  eslss(..lcst Lietean)d-  .ehc  fcte   Is slste . aesesli. me-1ieets  ad
nile is en me ieI    b-S     . iC -dits  te li  cc ap     meay  ec (.S                feideeelty   eea    t -       p-swWt"1iesit c-I lug, talc0 ino  em.1  n
dels.    A-                                                                           trtteinetts.     -   ~ -(-R  2 _ ~   tic  Ieeee  - tal.e.   i    ats-Ptiepic  is
-i tite  sus   ii esea  l.eat ci icee1ie1ceit .-   --piel         S.a                   -ettpte           in  ispse  a ess. cii      uslas L   ain f ice  es. 
seem -qlls  ci1-     -at  -ed-appLe  -estlehi   5e-iely910 pit  oIe                    noe loaast it  te.sei   ed   iscic .I  c    silnp
cieit. Ad111  -ppiec -m sa.-pice si.teli   cei  scest iad.  ised9i              .      t     JIM.ei  i-Asn4 iteate  sF_ -s vi ea. ad leno       es'.S
qaeeliad  ns~ lad  -eca ft. is lsci -Is" dltthlm.    ear-                          sceiase   iscitslsre
cut   n se and hP-10I.i . 5         esteisilit S    s  cetkrbtcnkt  -tm    ipesct    .t  cii   scP1
cetttitip i       PAinlet   -celf pe citIi.fti Imycicisi                       mg -ge.  iiltA    cppltls.   Isbesi ca mllC-ti).     Isn  M-6
ci IsstiaIil   lti.IOi h-i"ii~. d -                t-iea.iht.                      lC U MitSltslitU           _1"-   "  9-
ccl  slpc  ad  si dp,  et ceepw dui iSwt Is  el  esste.   he-                  pies..  M   eliit V sIces.tsc I.V           hcisi iS pss   by pt.ei-  S
silas  a?  -Ii rca d.1 tee   -ecasm  pie -di   sI ce   ift_   sta   cci                                                   a                      0v
je-Ie  wcl. ci1 etet t en   staId he hOMn P-iet.  Ibac_
sicdrbc   Ieee. sit %ihees    1) insd SPM-   ,~.   tactwnceii              II ass                 MM
.i dat1 pus. as a cas   ice Che -id.P,..ieci  hi VSC Is the                             Xai  te miacipisd ele       -sedtibte aeli
Third bib. tsd StIn  tim1-tI. 1l7) is 19 ice.                                          eiedicle   eeelmetalstntctc-cIsadie -
die-                                                                                   cileidbtl.
ippa   Ii  un  i tilesiisisspceeet s.mc dscrisches  mIP                                   a pere  ta = L    csL Is s-thud                 I s     pie  pic
A."."t dcc det    tteaI. esitact eWes, elm0 ccdi tld.P--nt  Is  ci an ctcrp. seen tent iS. d--1n iei le  tees
teal  %Li djaceci n   thesel.  st ci Itm citaL  ins.-
U7  ieseisi  ciSteh (a-e  -A deceea        .1 inn ci lmic naicla                  iiiil0cns1-psil  ltDaore)a   m   ccte
til-t heteLlie  tis   a theuiadi - lastA belts if IcK-aca..a
Far Sf p p at ebnsi tin tnhet eMON, 1910 ad Inc dcii.
me.- ffpl P-Wmtiac tet       "nn   cae  ci escessihi Muisle Lipsi adIL Ncctta D...                                                                          ceesc
_saselusi   eas  se       cia let  p      -lcu  hii-..  spie.L   i                                                                     -im 19i--   ~
sase    is     piriss ka eistl  eapilel bstasia.   isqp  -Wist
-   -.    -- ien.a.rnassp.tmeldct steI        sl     --_1Jastl    si it he
tea. ittntesesitelm     a-d supt to.h.e icetiSceli  c
isa   ci ehetashid a. noa haU    -sididi,cece  past ci
th MyI Wicis  Its listpy,i in sc
lieiiSaesis.2i icp-eci  ii meielce -__ tailcla  ad-F
-   s    ipsl 41.9-ae~c. n is  nest) citeS . he asese  dlp lc
pites-na~    by et-l apiil  piscan.  - oecPt dipe2i my-el8



- 29 -
ANNEX I
Populations 18.9 milLion (1983)
UHP per Capita3 USS340 (1983)
KUIIA: ECOcICo INDICATORS
Amunt
(million U03)         Annual growth rte (Z2) at countant prices
at current
Indicator                      prices)                                 Actual
1983                   1979   1930   1981   1982    2981
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
L
Croan dometic product A/    5.723                          3.9    4.8    4.2    1.8        3.7
Agriculture                    1.640                   -0.7   -1.1    6.2    4.6         4.1
Industry                      1.009                     6.8     5.8    4.2   -0.3        2.7
Sirvic.s                      2.296                     1.4    5.8    5.2    4.3         4.2
Consueption                     4.615                      6.5   -1.5   -1.4      5.2
Cross tnvestusnt                 1.209                  -27.1   39.0   -2.1  -2--8
Fxports of CNFS                  1.456                   -5.0    J.    -4.5    i.2
lprts of GUPS                  1.556                   -19.4    10.5  -21.0   21.3
Cross national savings          12035                      6.9   -1.4     2..1    6.0    14.5
PILCES
GDP deflator (1983-100 in U5$)                           75.4   82.6   90.9  100.0   200.0
Lecnange rate (Xth/USS)                                   7.5    7-4    9.0   20.9    13.3
Share of CDP at *xrket prices (I)                  Average Annual Increase (2)
(at current prices)                             (at constant prices)
1975    1981      1923    1985    1990          1970-75  1975-80  1983-85  1985-9U
Gross dometic producta/                1uo.0   100.0   100.0   200.0   100.0                 9.4       6.0       1.7       4.3
Agriculture                            30.2    27.5    28.7    28.2    27.8                5.9        1.2       0.9       4.0
Industry                              17.9     18.8     17.6    17.9    28.1             15.4       7.9       2.5       4.5
Services                              40.3    38.6    40.1    40.8    41.1                7.5       5.4       2.5        4.5
Consumption                             86.5    81.4    80.6    83.0    81.3               21.5        6.2       3.1       4.0
Gross Investsent                        18.1    30.0      21.1     21.0    21.6            -3.5       12.2       1.4       4.9
Extports of GCUS                        29.8     28.6    25.4    25.5    25.0               1.7        1.3       1.8       3.e
Imports of GCFS                         34.5    40.0    27.2    29.5    27.9               -2.0       6.4        5.9       3.3
Gross national savings                  10.b    16.7       16.5    26.0      17.9          -0.9       11.2      -4.4       6.7
A/  At sarket prices; components are expressed At fActor cost and will not add due to exclusion of new indirect taxes
And subsidie.
As 2 of GDP
CEUrRAL OOVERJOENT FINANCE  at    I2805/1    i819182    1982/83    1983/84   1984185
Revenue snd Grants                    26.1       25.7        24.8       24.6       26.2
Kevenue                             25.3       24.4       232         MY         YE*
Crsnta                               0.8        1.4         1.6        1.3        7.6
Expenditures                          34.8       33.1        28.6       29.2       31.3
Current expenditure                 26.7       23.3       22.4        21.3       23.4
Capital expenditure                 10.1        9.8        6.2         7.8        7.9
Overall cash deficlt                   9.5        6.6         3.1        4.6         5.1
Foreign financing                    Tl         t          T7          1.0        2.6
Dooestic financing                   c.6        4.9         1.4        3.6        3.5
Average Annual Growth (2)
(st conatent prices)
196i -70       1970-75         1975-80         1983-85         1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (2)                                  5.2             5.5             :.8             2.5             4.6
CNP per capita growth rate (Z)                       2.2             2.2             2.3            -1_6             1.4
Energy consuaption growth rate (:)                    -               -             4.9              2.5             7.0
ICO'                                                6.1              4.2            4.E              Q.6             4.9
Marginal savings rate                              -0.5            -1.0            -0.8             -2.6             2.5
Import elasticity                                   0.9            -n.2             1.1              1.2             0.8
A/ Fiscal years ending June 30.
February 20. 1985



- 30-                                        ANNEX I
Page 5
Population: 18.9 million (1983)
CNP per Capita:  US$340 (1983)
KXNYA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount           - - - -               - Annual growth rate. ()  - - - - - - - - - -
(million USS at                               (At conatant 1983 prices)
Indicator                    current prices)                    Actual                                Projected
1983            1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1957   1990    '
EXrERNAL TRADE
Merchandiie exports              947             -2.1    3.2   -5.2   -3.3   -1.5   -1.9    1.7    3.8    3.8    3.P
Prisery                        816              4.8   -7.3    6.7   13.9   -1.1   -2.0    2.0    3.7    3.7    3.8
Manufactures                   131             -3.1   29.6  -16.3  -16.5   -3.0   -0.8    1.0    4.0    4.0    4.0
Merchandise imports             1391            -18.3   14.7  -22.8  -12.5  -11.3    7.3    5.5    0.6    4.4    4.4
Food                           125            -19.2   57.6  -48.4   58.4  -10.1    8.8   25.0  -23.5    7.7    8.1
Petroleum                      508              0.9   16.7  -21.5   -6.7  -18.2    0.4    0.6    1.4    2.5    2.2
Machinery & Equipment          315            -28.4   19.0  -22.0  -19.2  -13.4   12.1    5.1    5.1    5.4    5.2
Others                         443             -8.3    5.0   -7.1   -3.6   -1.3   11.5    5.5    4.6    4.8    4.8
PRICES
Export price index               100.0           58.2   70.0   77.3   84.5  100.0  116.3  113.8  120.2  127.2  150.6
Import price index               100.0           46.6   61.1   77.7   89.8  100.0  106.0  112.0  117.9  124.5  146.B
Terms of trade index             100.0          124.8  114.6   99.5   94.1  100.0  109.8  101.5  102.0  102.2  102.6
Composition of merchandise trade (2)                    Average Annual Growth
(at current prices)                            (at constant prices)
1979    1981    1983    1986    1990               1974-79    1983-85    1985-90
Exports                                100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                    -        -0.1         3.3
Primary                              84.9    87.7    86.6    86.6    86.2                   2.1        -0.0         3.2
Manufactures                          15.1    12.3    13.4    13.4    13.8                -11.3        -0.4         4.0
Imports                               100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                   -           6.4         3.8
Food                                  5.3      4.8      9.0     9.0    10.3               -10.4        16.6         2.8
Petroleum                            23.7    36.9    36.5    30.2    27.7                  -2.8         0.5         2.2
Machinery & Equipment                35.5    27.2    22.6    25.0    26.1                    1.7        8.5         5.2
Others                               35.5    31.2    30.4    35.8    35.9                   -           8.4         4.8
Direction of Trade
Share of trade with             Share of trade with          Share of trade with capital
industrial countries (Z)       developing countries (%)        surplus oil exporters t2)
1979     1981      1983         1979      1981     1983       1979        1981        1983
Exports                      54.4     42.1      47.2         34.0      45.0      39.2        1.8        2.3         3.0
Imports                      67.4     57.3      50.8         10.0       8.2      15.4      20.3        33.5        32.3
February 21, 1985



- 31 -
Population:  18.9 million (1983)                                                                                               ANNEX I
GI4P per Capita: US5340 (1983)                                                                                                 P-ge h
KENYA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEST
(million. US$ at current pricea)
Actual                         Eat.                       Pro ected
1979    19B0     1981    1982    1983         1TM         1985    1986    1 87      1988    1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
kxports of goods and services             1,666   2,084   1.746   t,599   1,500          1.606      1.684   1.853   2,049   2,269   2.7U
Exports of goods                        1,032   1.315   1,136    1000         947      1.030      1.033   1.207   1.321   1.445   1.726
Exports of servicea                       634      769      610      599      553        574        651      646      728      824   1.057
Imports of good. and services             2,254   3 119   2 583   2,130   1 787          1,943      2 182   2,275   2,497   2 716   3 200
Imports of goods                        1.832    ,082   2,1  - 8   ,722   11,5 9                  1,       1,868   2,060   2,2 1 Z2,.6
laports ot services                       422      437      435     408      394         364        445     407      437      445      517
(of which: tnterest)                    (87)   (141)   (139)   (172)   (169)         (182)       (181)   (179)   (187)   (196)   (215)
Tranaters (net)                              91      148       95       68      116        138        138      110      110      110      110
Current Accuunt Balance                    -497    -887    -742    -463    -171           -201       -363    -322    -339    -337    -387
Direcc investment (net)                      7a       78       60       60       74         60         70       70       70       70       70
Pubilc MLT loans (net)                      :93      444      275      213       80        147        147      314      326      336      417
Gross disbursements                       469      562      1.37     WT       2Si                   ilt6    31- 1b    S0       535     ]6E2
Repaywents                                 76      118      162      180      178        228        259      199      195      199     215
uFf Credit (net)                             72       57       27      147       96        -12         77      -96      -91     -73      -98
Purchases                                 131      *7i       35      1       1         1-                     -        -       -        -
Repurchases                                39        9        8       19       46         60         61       96       91       73       98
Other capital (net) /a                      236      155      132       23       86         25         30       50       50       50       50
Change in Gross Reserves                    282    -153    -248        -20      165         25        -38       15       17       46      -52
MHeorandum items:
GrDss reserves at year's end              652      499      251      231     396         421        383      398      415     463        558
Reserves as weeks imports                  13       1O                 8       13         13         II      i1        10       11        11
Current account deficit as 2 of GDP
Including official grants lb           8.2    12.5    11.0        7.4      3.0        3.4        5.6      4.8      4.4      3.9       3.5
Excluding ofticial grants /c            9.7    14.2    12.3       8.6      5.0        5.9        7.8      6.4      5.9      5.2      4.6
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross Disbursements
Official grants /d                       88      124       82      83      125        144
Concessional loans                      146      178      146     190       84         174
Silateral-DAC                         94       66      104       89       41         70
Bilateral-OPEC                         -        -         2       5        2         29
IDA                                   22       72       15       85       20         38
Other                                  31      41        13       9       31         37
Nonconcessional loans                   323      384      291     203      174        202
Official export credits                12       16      32       15       46         27
IBRD                                  40       45       61       88      100         87
Other multilateral                      7       15       15      22       14         17
Private-source                       264      297      183       79       I4         70
Public MLT loane - total                469      562     437      393      258        375
/a  Includes short-term capital, commercial bank's net foreign position, errors and omissions, and valuation adjustment.
/b  Including offtcial grants  above the line' as an item contributing to the determination of the current account deficit.
T7  Treating official grants as a 'below the line  item which contributes to the financing of the current account deficit.
Td  -Government transfer receipts- in the balance of payments.
February 21. 1985



- 32 -
ANNEX I
Page 7
Actual                      Est.
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983        198-4
External Debt Outstanding
Public debt outstanding and
disbursed (excl. IMF)           1,809   2,216   2,315   2,423   2,384        2,701
Official-source                1,064   T,264   1,397   1,619   1,740        2,158
Private-source                   746      952     919      803     644        543
Undisbursed debt                  1,431   1,388   1,235   1,361   1,131       1,157
IMF credit outstanding              139     198     207      341     426        399
Public debt outstanding and
disbursed (incl. IMF)           1,948   2,414   2,522   2,764   2,810    3,100
Debt service /a
Total debt service payments      202      268     309      371     379        447
Of which: interest              87      141     139      172     169        182
Payments as Z exports             12.1    12.9    17.7    23.2    25.2         27.3
of goods and services
Average interest rate on loans /b   7.0       3.4      9.2     5.9      6.5       5.2
(Z) Official-source                   3.4     3.0     5.3      5.2     -          -
Private-source                  10.6      9.3    15.4    10.1      -          -
Average maturity of loans            21.1    30.7    22.8    30.4    25.0        27.2
(years) Official-source             33.8    31.6    31.8    33.3       -          -
Private-source               8.3    14.7      8.8    14.1      -
As % of debt outstanding
at end of 1983
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Principal due within 5 years                                            42.8
Principal due within 10 years                                           75.2
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                           5.7
/a Including IMF repurchases and charges.
/b  Excluding new DIF loans.                                                Pebruary 21, 1985



- 33 -
ANN=X I1
page 1
ToE STATUS OF DK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A. Statemnt of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of September 30. 1984
- - --  US  Million - - - - -
Loan or                                                              Amount (Less Cancellations)
Credit *    Year   Borrover    Purpose                              lank I/  TV   IDA   Undiaburaed
Twenty (20) Loans and Twenty-five (25) Credits and two (2)
Third Window Loans Fully Disbursed                                413.78          299.63
1184       1976    Kenya        Third Educatlon                     ID.00                   0.15
13D4-T      1977    Kenya       Wildlife and Tourism                      17.0               3.65
1449        1977    Kenya       lurs Irrigation Settlement         34.00                    16.29
750        1978    Kenya       Small Scale Industry                               10.00    5.64
( 791       (1978   (Kenya       (Second Urban                                      25.DO  ( 8.46
(1550       (1978   (Kenya      (Second Urban                        25.00                  (25.00
797        1978    Kenya       Fourth Education                                   23.00   11.89
1636       1979    Kenya        Sugar Rehabilitation               14.0O                    4.0 3
1637        1979    Kenya       Rural Water Supply                 Z0.00                    19.18
858        1979    Kenya       Narok Agricultural Development                     13.00    9.90
1684       [979    Kenya        Highvay Sector                     90.D0                   21.40
914        1979    Kenya       Smallholder Coffee Improvement                     27.00   24.15
959        198D    Kenya       Second Integrated Agric. Dsv.                      12.00    7.82
962        1980    Kenya       8aringo Semi-Arid Areas                             6.50    5.20
1799       198D    Kenya        Third Power (Olkaria Geothermal)40 .00 2/                   3.70
1817       198D    IDB          Fourth Industrial Dev. 3nk         3D .00                   17.34
1045        L98D    Kenya       Export Promotion Technical Asst.                    4.50    4.21
1051       1980    Kenya        Fisheries                                          10 .00    9.97
1107        1981    Kenya       Fifth Education                                   40.00   29.11
1976        1981    Kenya       Railway                            58.00                   27.00
(1143      (1981   (Kenya       (Fourth 4griculture                                 10.00    5.59
(1995      (1981   (Kenya       (Fourth Agriculture                 25.00                    25.00
2065        1982    Kenya       Petroleum Exploration               4.00                    0.94
(2098       (1982   (Kenya      (Forestry III 4f                    21.50                    21.50
(1213      (1982   (Kenya       (Forestr  III                                       16.00    9.07
1237        1982    Kenya       Cotton Proc. & Marketing 4/                       22.00    18.45
1238        1982    Kenya       Integrated Rural Health &
Family Planning 4/                               23.00    17.70
2155        1982    Kenya       Second Telecomnications            44.70                   24.71
1277       1983    Kenya        Agric. Technical Assistance 4/                      6.00    3.44
2237        1983    Kenya       Olkaria Geothermal ExpansLon    12.00   -            -       7.50
1387       1983    Kenya        National Extension 4/                              15.00    11.79
(2319      (1983    Kenya       (Secondary Towns                     7.00                    6.98
(1390       (1983    Kenya      (Secondary Towns 4/                                 22.00   19.93
2359        1983    Kenya       Kiasbere Hydroelectric             95.0                   94.76
(2409       (1984   (Kenya      (Second Hlghway Sector              50.0r                  (49.88
(BD17       (1984   (Kenya      (Second Highway Sector                              40 .00  (37.76
1486       1984    Kenya        Geothermal Exploration 3/                         24.50   24.50
Total                             993.98 17.00  649.13  633.59
of which has been repaid          96.21   .88    5.35
Total nov outstanding            897.77 16.12  643.78
Amount sold                 11.81
of which has been repaid 11.81   .00
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA               885.96 16.12  643.78
TOTAL undisbursed                            365.36  3.65  264.58  633.59
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
2/ Includes Loan S-12 (S9.0 milLion).
3/ Not yet effective.
6/ IDA-6 Credit amounts expressed in dollar equivalents of SOR's.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
C. Statement of IFC Investment in Kenya as at
September 30, 1984
Fiscal Year  Obligor                       Type of Business         Amount In US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1967, 1968,
and 1973     Kenya Hotel Properties        Hotels                    5.2     0.7       5.9
1970, 1974,
1977, 1979
and 1981     Pan African Paper Mills       Pulp and Paper           22.2      6.3     28.5
1972         Tourism Promotion
Services                    Hotels                    2.4      -I/      2.4.
1976         Rift Valley Textiles Ltd.   Textiles                    6.3     2.8       9.1
1977         Kenya Commercial Bank Ltd.  Capital Market              2.0     -         2.0
198D         Development Finance
Company of Kenya Ltd.       Development Finance        4.0     1.3       5.3
1981         Kenya Commercial Finance    Money & Capital Market   5.0         -        5.0
1982         Bamburi Portland              Cement & Construction
Cement Co., Ltd.             Material                  4.4     -         4.4
1982         Diamond Trust of Kenya
Limited                     Money & Capital Market    -        0.8      0.8
1982         Industrial Promotion
Services (Kenya) Ltd.       Money & Capital Market    -        0.6      0.6
1983         Tetra Pak Converters
Limited                     Pulp & Paper Products    Z.2       0.3      2.5
1984         Leather Industries of
Kenya Limited               Tanning                   1.5      0.6      2.1
Total Gross Commitments                               55.2    13.4      68.5
less cancellations, terminations, repayments
and sales                                            21.7      1.7     23.4
Total Commitments now held by IFC                     33.5    11.7      45.2
Total Undisbursed                                      5.5      0.4      5.9
_/ $51,395



- 35 -
ANNEX III
KENYA
Third Nairobi Water Supply Engineering Project
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section 1: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country with Bank
Group assistance to prepare
the project:                            6 months
(b)  Agencies which prepared project:         Nairobi City Commission
and Ministry of Local
Government
(c)  First presentation to Bank:              March 1984
(d)  Appraisal:                               October 1984
(e)  Appraisal follow-up:                     February 1985
(f)  Completion of negotiations:              February 1985
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:           July 1985
Section II: Special Bank Group Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
Implementation of an approved 40X increase ._. wecer and sewerage
tariffs would be a precondition of credit effectiveness.



to Al.7voaha
KENYA
NAIROBI
THIRD WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
to
Nowo,AoI
0    2                      10
KItOMErERS
N
K.ombu
K IIAMBU
\  D  j 1s     suPw.EA
K i kuyu                        KBT
STER  TIA
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CM
2N~~~~ 6
AREA
&    NGONG
2 S   FOREliT                    X- A(



IBRD  18683
SE                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ro rh1hAa  ?  vtf
jr *~4  |   tJ     ETHIOPIA
;   ;,;            :                               <                         O,    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K  E  N  Y  A   
"A ~~~~~~~~~~4.
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' L'v& ,j -'t /y..ie
KENY
\ 2 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TANZANIA                                                                                 IVbW d
A9                                                                                    -lo A0I0 Rf .
A
3@~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~akwm 'n)i Loa ,n& Lon,_p
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~17 197    1962-19
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Spl Mains/@ 
.,X,<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
< X ff~~~iol                                                                       - - -      @--  -  Trn  ieium   an
Airl)ort                                          0         0     Reservoirs~~~~~~~~NM.bo
-=--.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F - .-D~
-Tr7rtment-Plants           -
-  1r  '' ,' ,> Dlopm nrs Dlow^-                                                                     -    -
-   s   4    D'   /    '           E#aN 1972    714-E      ISEO- I(E    P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ie,..- -- 
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A                                               P vmp-976ng2-l Suplyations
Noirsbi i-- Trunls ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Distribution Sysemas Cprtn  948
EsEf                                                                -
&                                             -   -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Supply Areo BoundaJry
Proposed New Pressure Zones
t   \-                                                          --.Min Roads
,\   \                                     I I I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Railways
t  \                                              Nl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~unicipal .Boundory
V  \                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~National Park:
Rovers
- ,s                                              - De-elnns  Under LoonnternPtionol Bounaried
ro 
-                          1972 -1976   1982-1984~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dk'FBF 18
,_     io, -S    Supplyc Main
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D Trn Ditibto  Mains   |O



IBRD 18684
g bc.t  A  5 E  R  D  A     F                                                        KENYA Ar
M0 U NTrA IN SKEY
NAIROBI                                     FORT
DIVERSWN_ -DIVER90                                       THIRD WATER SUPPLY                                       NALL<
DIVERSION   POSSILE'UTUoE                   ENGINEERING  PROJECTFE
? JTIKIIA DIVERSION.EN                  I      ER      G    P OJ C
Dev.topwas Duuohrs                                     r
Dw_lpDniua  Undir Loon   Unde Lo-n  PNgooad
SUSL5AUA -                 OSIL              PROBABLE'    Boo  92    71A:KE        1520 -C K   o.c
DA  AND                   FUTURE            'P.ITIJR(                 1972 1076   1952 -1954
AbnC#A0 TDATREArANIN              '1KIMAKIA           i TIKA 6                               -                  Supply Mains
PLANT                    AMM SItIE         D1eAM                         00                           Reservoirs
49                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Treatment Plants
A           A <   *  -~  '   .   _.c   ^]Pumping Stians
Wb~~ ter Distribution
*A'ii .UANVIO                                             _    -Supply Area Boundary
Main Roads
F                                                                                                           ---.-tE  O  _-  Roalways
Built -up Areas
Municipal B3oundary
Notionl Park
Rivers
\      - ~~INTAKER-                                                            3
V PUMPING STATION        - -  -  Internotionol
ETH       tI  o* S    . .-                 Boundaries
PL ANT             "                                      /
TREATED WATES
GRAvITY MAAINS
\~~~~~~~"l" r\ c-it                                                                     ra
IMURUI.
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"TP
\  VE                             ,     Ff'J_-I 1  :-
^  |                      <                                             jX                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STUDY AREA |
4%                    '                                                    -                                  -                      '-on.'W Ro.ro
2%  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
EN      YAI'          NRu                             2 -.     NA   T  I O  NA  L,
j  IJ4.~5.         .         ;          _-         P A  R I        \                                                     A,h. Coeck-'.-.
hb   -                                                            x-~~ ~~ _                                 - op- An. Cocn-.i
SUANZAiT.SIA '
0                                                                                                                   A-h.C -----
X.-EMBED '084






