PID
THE VVORLD BANK GROUP                                                  A We,rhj rr,, r I rlryriy
InfoShop
Report No: AB94
Updated Project Information Document (PID)
Project Name                MOLDOVA-PILOT WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Region                      Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                      Water supply (75%); Sanitation (25%)
Project ID                  P074469
Supplemental Project
Borrower(s)                 REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
Implementing Agency        MIN. OF ENVIRONMENT,CONSTRUCTION AND TERRITORIAL
Address                     DEVELOPMENT
Address: 9 Cosmonautilor str. MD - 2005 Chisinau, Republic of Moldova
Contact Person: Olga Covaliova, Project Coordinator
Tel: 373 2 22 62 54  Fax: 373 2 24 42 72    Email:
Waterprojectmd@yahoo.com
Environment Category        B
Date PID Prepared          March 18, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date         February 21, 2003
Bank Approval Date          May 20, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Country Background
Moldova is a small, landlocked country situated between the western border of Ukraine and the eastern
border of Romania. Its population is estimated at 4.3 million people, of whom 700,000 live in
Transnistria, east of the Nistru River. Moldova is a predominantly rural society: 60% of the population
live in towns and villages of fewer than 10,000 people and approximately 20% live in Chisinau, the
capital.
Out of all of the countries of the former Soviet Union, Moldova has been one of the most negatively
effected and today, is the poorest country in Europe. The collapse of the former Soviet Union
accompanied by the disruption of trade and payments; the price shock which accompanied the
liberalization of the price of energy; conflict with Transnistria in 1992; a series of natural disasters; and
the Russian crisis of 1998 have led to widespread poverty. This has resulted in massive migration,
especially of skilled personnel; limited job opportunities and low incomes has led to an economic crisis
particularly in rural areas and the agriculture sector.
Major Sector Issues
Apa Canal Services Water and sewerage services are provided through Apa Canals in small and



2
PID
medium-sized cities. In rural areas, a department under the mayor's office provides these services. Of
the 51 Apa Canals in Moldova, 7 are located in Transnistria (see table below). Since January 2000, when
all Apa Canals were transferred to the sole ownership and control of municipalities, the provision of
water and sewerage services has been the responsibility of the local authorities (municipality or mayor's
office). Approximately 65% of urban residents are connected to centralized water supply networks while
about 53% of urban residents with sanitation connections. In small and medium-sized towns, the service
coverage of water supply is 45% and sanitation connections is 40%. The hours of water supply in the
public network are dramatically low in rural areas and only slightly better in medium sized cities. Hours
of supply can range from 4 -18 hours per day. However, large cities such as Chisinau and Balti generally
have 24 hour service. The priorities are therefore be (i) to prevent the systems from collapse by replacing
key components;(ii) to build up local capacity to operate in a more efficient and sustainable way; and (iii)
to increase coverage and quality to the unserved population.
Distribution of population with Apa Canals
Population    Classification  Number     Population
of city
< 10,000      Rural          12          65,000
10-- 25,000  Small cities   26          435,000
25 - 50,000   Medium sized  5           200,000
cities
> 50,000*                 I_1            165,000
> 75,000**    Large cities   7           1,900,000
Total                        51          2,765,000
* Balti
**Transnistria and Chisinau (no activities would take place in Transnistria).
Deteriorating service. Since independence, water systems have deteriorated and are difficult to operate,
service standards have dropped significantly and service is often intermittent. No significant investments
have been made since independence in 1991. Services provided by the Apa Canals and mayors' offices
are limited by the scarce financial resources that local authorities can allocate. The water and wastewater
network is in dismal condition, and 50-80 % of the pipes need replacement. This is the case for all
networks regardless of city-size and whether there is an Apa Canal or not. Leakages, up to 60% in some
systems, is a problem for all sizes of city, which corresponds to the poor condition of the network. The
systems are overphased with high energy usage, and in many Apa Canals power costs constitute up to
50% of total operating costs. Since the privatization of power supply in much of the country, power
tariffs have increased threefold from US$ 0.019 to 0.054 per kWh. To compensate for the higher energy
costs, water utility operators have reduced the hours of water supply, which creates technical problems
and, in addition, health hazards in many systems.
Poor financial situation The majority of Apa Canals are generally in a perpetual financial crisis as a
result of low collections, low tariffs and high water losses. Collection rates are generally poor and can be
as low as 40% to 60% of billed amounts actually collected from customers and even then involve
considerable delays. The largest defaulters in monetary terms are public institutions and enterprises, in
particular district heating companies which are the main suppliers of heat and hot water and among the
largest consumers of water. Barter arrangements are still used to settle accounts, particularly by
industries and commercial enterprises that offer their products as payments.



3
PID
Because many customers are in arrears on their bills, it is impossible for the Apa Canals to pay their own
bills. As a result, many Apa Canals are in arrears to suppliers, contractors, government agencies
(including for tax (VAT) payments) and electricity suppliers. Partial settlement of salary arrears by
barter, where the Apa Canal distributes goods received from customers to staff in lieu of salaries is
reported to be commonplace. Some Apa Canals, with support from Judets (regions) and municipal
councils have reached voluntary agreements with major creditors such as electricity suppliers to
reschedule their debts.
Tariffs. For houses with metered water consumption, typical monthly household water bills range from
US$ 0.76 to 1.53. Typical tariffs for households vary from US$ 0.10 to 0.50 per m3 for water supply and
the same for wastewater. The tariffs vary much more for budget institutions and enterprises, from US$
0.26 to 3.03 per m3 for water supply and from US$ 0.10 to 1.41 per m3 for wastewater. Sewered
households pay a surcharge on the water bill. The share of water supply and sanitation bills against the
average per capita income in Moldova is comparatively high, reaching 9%-10%.
Tariff setting is currently largely based on whatever the Apa Canals can negotiate with the local
industries and city political leaders and not necessarily based on economic principles of tariff setting.
Government's strategy is to redress this imbalance (see Government Strategy section). Most of the Apa
Canals included in the proposed project, however, have already raised their tariffs to levels sufficient to
cover operation and maintenance expenses. The priority is not to raise tariffs but rather to (i) enable the
Apa Canals to collect what they presently bill; and (ii) lay down some guidelines for tariffs in order to
protect consumers from monopolistic pricing.
Relationship between municipalities and Apa Canals.In January 2000, ownership of water supply
infrastructure and responsibilities for water delivery were transferred from  the METD  to the
municipalities. An "independent" relationship exists and manifests itself in a very simple contractual
agreement between the General Manager of the Apa Canal and the Mayor, where the Apa Canal takes on
the responsibility of water supply to the population and the daily operations and management of the
system.  Municipalities do not provide operating costs to the Apa Canals. The only municipal
contribution to the water supply system is for capital expenditures if there are sufficient municipal
resources. The Apa Canals all have Statues. The contract between the municipality and the Apa Canal
determines the salary and responsibilities of the General Manager. Salaries of staff and other current
financial obligations have to come from the operation of the Utility. Staff are not considered employees
of the municipal government but are paid salaries in accordance with public level salaries because the
Utility is more than 50% owned by the local government. However, the interdependence between the
municipalities and the utilities remains critical. The municipalities have the final authority to approve
and implement tariff increases recommended by the Utility and approved by METD. On the other hand,
as owners of the public utilities, municipalities de facto become responsible for the debt of the utilities
and can incur contingent liabilities that are not transparent or accounted for in their budget.
Apa Canals and municipalities appear to be doing their best under very difficult circumstances.
Municipalities do not interfere in the operations of Apa Canals. Both aim to provide and improve
services to their constituents/customers in an efficient and socially sensitive manner. The finances of the
Apa Canal for the operation and daily maintenance of the water supply system are completely separate
fiom the municipal budget, and there is no undue interference except in the setting of the tariffs.
Rural Areas. The water quality in small cities and rural areas is very poor. Most small cities rely on
groundwater supplies, and large segments of the population, particularly in rural areas, rely on shared
shallow wells. Groundwater contamination in the shallow wells, caused by agricultural activity and in



4
PID
particular the use of fertilizers, is reportedly high.
The proximity of shallow wells to latrines and animals, within what should be a restricted hygienic zone,
is a cause for even greater concern. Such contamination is generally rich in nitrates, posing the risk of
methanoglobanemia and a high risk of water-related infectious diseases. With animals close to houses
and wells, high incidences of helminthes (some spread by faecal-oral route, others by skin contact) are
commonplace. Deep wells have higher water quality, except for the presence of fluoride, sometimes in
concentrations high enough to cause dental fluorosis or even to affect bone development adversely.
The closure of local health facilities, the lack of funds for primary health care, and the inability of
patients to afford pharmaceuticals have led to further deterioration of the health situation and also greatly
reduced the efficiency of public health monitoring, particularly in rural areas. The fact that the quality of
medical service in rural areas is traditionally lower than in the large cities, and declining, suggests that
morbidity statistics for rural areas most likely under-represent actual incidences of water related diseases.
Donor's Activities. The largest city, Chisinau, is working with European Bank of Reconstruction
Development (EBRD), and Balti is working with Japan, to improve their water supply and sanitation
systems. Technical work is well underway. The Ministry of Environment and Energy, Denmark
(DANCEE) program has finished its first water supply system in the village of Borceag. DANCEE has
been active in Moldova since October 2000, when Moldova was elected as a country of cooperation to
invest in 3 rural areasThe key feature of DANCEE's projects has been the high degree of local
participation and thereby consumer ownership. The communities are working with designated NGOs
and sector experts to provide technical advice and assist in survey, design, procurement and construction
supervision. In addition, the World Bank in coordination with Organization of Economic Co-Operation
and Development (OECD) undertook a comprehensive monitoring of performance indicators through the
Moldova Apa Canal Association (MAC) covering 42 providers of water supply and sanitation services.
Even though a number of Donors and international financing agencies operate in the sector, information
is not exchanged in a systematic and coordinated manner. This lack of coordination has led to a
duplication of work and methodologies, sometimes in the same cities. As part of project preparation, the
Bank, with other Donors, is undertaking a comprehensive water and sanitation sector review to
coordinate through METD, improve sector knowledge, identify staffing and other institutional
constraints, review operating practices, and prepare a phased and prioritized long-term sector investment
program based on least-cost solutions.
Sector institutions. Water sector institutions in Moldova are evolving. The central authority responsible
for the development and promotion of state policy for water supply utilities, as well as environment and
natural resources is the METD. The Ministry of Health monitors water quality through its Public Health
Bureaus. The Ministry of Agriculture deals largely with the design of rural water schemes. At the
national level, MAC represents Apa Canals. A positive development is the growing number of national
environmental NGOs, now about 180, officially registered in Moldova. In the long run, to avoid
duplication of services, METD seeks to have water services for both urban and rural fall under its
organizational structure. METD also seeks to access more information on water quality monitoring and
to work more closely with the Ministry of Health to better inform the public on potential water quality
problems.
Legislation.  Various legal instruments have been drafted or enacted to address some of the major
sectoral issues, such as the role of the public sector, institutional framework, use of and legal rights to
water resources, protection and regulation of use, extraction and discharges into water resources,



5
PID
ownership and management of water supply and wastewater utilities, tariff setting, etc.  Their
implementation has been irregular, however, because of the changing political orientations and
coalitions, constraints on financial and human resources and the slow and uncoordinated path of
decentralization. METD has also asked the World Bank to assist with further strengthening the Public
Services Law under the technical assistance component of the project and also to advise how to change
the legal status and organization of the Apa Canals to allow partial ownership by other commercial
enterprises.
Government Strategy
National Water Action Plan. The Government has prepared a National Water Action Plan with a strategy
and a sustainable plan for the sector. The Action Plan focuses on improving financial performance,
gradually achieving profitability, eliminating barter payments for water services, reducing operating costs
(the price of electricity has increased almost threefold), donor coordination and most important, ensuring
that the National Water Action Plan is in line with the Government's poverty reduction program and the
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper currently under preparation.
Along with the Action Plan, METD requested that the Bank assist in drafting a Water Sector Note to
address the long-term strategy for the sector beyond the current pilot project. The Note would assess the
current crisis in the sector, ways to enable Apa Canals to become financially viable utilities,
cost-effective investments, commercial practices and local private sector involvement and prioritization
of water management policies. This Note is being produced with officials from METD, Apa Canals,
sector specialists, local officials, MAC and with high level of public participation which includes NGOs,
rural water communities and stakeholders that are active in both the urban and rural water sectors. The
Note would build on the findings of the National Action Plan.
Creating the Conditionsfor Financial Autonomy The Government is focusing on rehabilitated physical
infrastructure, gradually increased investments and professional staff in the utilities. This will enable
utilities to provide better service and to raise the level of tariffs to cover operation and maintenance. The
Government is committed to the creation of modern tariff regulation, in which tariffs are cost-based and
predictable. Because the scope for raising tariffs is limited by the population's income levels, lifeline
tariffs are provided by the Apa Canals, in which a minimum amount of water is provided at a subsidized
tariff.
The large cross-subsidies from industries to domestic consumers are gradually being phased out but since
tariffs for public institutional and commercial enterprises are up to ten times the average tariff for
domestic consumers, this can only be done gradually. The Apa Canals are moving closer to end the cross
subsidy between industry and domestic customers. MAC will assist the individual municipalities in
deciding on the tariff through the provision of benchmarking indicators that they publish annually.
Municipalities will be able to compare their own tariff levels and cost levels with other municipalities
and judge to what degrees tariff increases are justified. With gradually increased hours of service per day
and with extended and more precise metering, individual Apa Canals will also gain more reliable
consumption and billing data which will make it possible to analyze who is subsidizing and who is
receiving subsidies. Such data will be valuable to restricting subsidies to the general population and
gradually targeting them at a smaller number of better identified poor consumers. This will be possible
by the fact that water consumption rises with income levels: wealthier consumers consume more water
per capita. MAC's annual report on utility data will also include the tariff schedules for participating Apa
Canals and MAC will also be able to provide ad hoc advice on the calculation and implementation of
tariffs.



6
PID
Improved Donor Coordination to meet the MDCA financially weak water supply and wastewater
sector depends on external financial assistance to fund new investment. This dependence introduces the
danger, however, of uncoordinated external financial assistance, particularly when there is a multitude of
bilateral programs. To reduce this risk, METD has under its National Action Plan asked the World Bank
to establish and lead a Donor Coordination Task Force and use this forum to direct donor assistance to
meet the MDGs. METD has also requested the Bank to work with other Donors on longer term strategy
development aspects, including cost recovery, financial systems/planning, and staff training. This process
would be a continuous and evolving process that would continue during project implementation.
Periodic meetings of the Donors would also benefit from the annual compilations of monitoring
indicators that MAC would prepare under the project. Since 1996, MAC also compiled technical,
financial, and managerial monitoring indicators. These represent a standardized and valuable database
that could evolve into quality regulation for the sector. The minor cost of updating this database on an
annual basis would be directly contracted with MAC and paid by the credit.
2. Objectives
The project development objective is to enhance the welfare of the population living in some of the
poorest rural areas and medium-sized towns and cities by improving the quality, efficiency and
sustainability of water supply and sanitation services as outlined in the Government's National Water
Action Plan. The project would achieve this objective by: (i) rehabilitating and improving operations of
selected water and sewerage systems to increase service quality and efficiency; (ii) strengthening selected
Apa Canals (water utilities) to improve their operational and financial sustainability; (iii) piloting the
involvement of the local private sector in the above; and (iv) rehabilitating water and sanitation services
in targeted rural areas.
Pilot two concepts
The project would target the cities of Cahul, Orhei and Soroca (Annex 2 for additional information) and
surrounding rural areas and pilot two key concepts. The first concept would involve a gradual transfer of
responsibility to small-scale local private operators through service contracts. The service contracts
would be piloted for 2 years by each Utility. Cahul would pilot a service contract for consumer billing
and collection; Orhei would pilot a technical facilities maintenance contract; and Soroca would pilot
meter readings. The impact of the pilots would be assessed after 2 years to determine if they produced
economies of scale, higher productivity, improved collections rates and lower costs. Apa Canals could
then decide whether to renew the contracts or seek alternatives.
The second concept to be piloted would involve Donor coordination and to facilitate reaching the
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) currently being established by the Ministry of Environmental
and Territorial Development (METD) in the most efficient way possible. METD has asked the World
Bank to establish a Donor Coordination Task Force. A number of Donors and international financing
agencies operate in the sector, but do not exchange information in a systematic and coordinated manner.
This lack of coordination has led to a duplication of work and methodologies, sometimes even in the
same city. As part of project preparation, the Bank, with other Donors, undertook a comprehensive water
and sanitation sector review to improve sector knowledge, identify staffing and other institutional
constraints, review operating practices and prepare a phased and prioritized long-term sector investment
program based on least-cost solutions. The Ministry established the Donor Coordination Task Force to
manage the overall Donor program, ensure that duplication does not take place, and to facilitate reaching
the MDGs for Moldova. This pilot would be a continuous and evolving process that would be monitored
annually to determine its success in targeting those areas most in need, in exchanging information and in
avoiding duplication and in reaching the MDGs.



7
PID
Summarizing then, the cost for Moldova of meeting the MDG targets would be in the order of $ 220
million during the 2000-2015 period, or about $ 15 million annually' Given that the sector is investing
nowhere near such levels the remaining annual investment cost to meet the MDGs will need to be higher
still to compensate for the late start.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
*   The Bank's primary advantage is that it has the stature and reputation in Moldova of
being capable of preparing and implementing difficult projects with major associated
policy/strategy issues. The Bank would serve as an honest broker to support the needed
sector reforms and continuous dialogue with the different levels of Government. Also,
through Bank involvement the stakes are raised for any possible backtracking on
commitments.
*   The Bank would serve as a catalyst for securing other Donor financing for
well-coordinated, high-priority and economically and financially justified investments.
*   Without the Bank's support, the improvement and reform in the water and sanitation
sector of Moldova would progress at a far slower rate. The condition of water and
sanitation services and related public health and environmental issues in the country
would continue to deteriorate. The funds provided by the Bank would allow the
financing of investments and services to support the project objectives.
*   Through Bank involvement, a sound financial management system would be set up and
accounts would be audited annually, in accordance with international auditing standards,
for Apa Canals. Furthermore, procurement of goods and services in accordance with the
Bank's procurement guidelines would help minimize the cost of equipment purchase and
installation.
4. Description
Component A: Investments for Improved Urban Water Efficiency
Least-cost priority investments that are economically justified based on a broad investment strategy for
system improvement and lowering energy and other operating costs (e.g., leak detection and repair,
network  rehabilitation, pressure  zoning  and  equipment for operations.); and  Technical
Engineers/Advisors would be hired under Component D to assist METD and Apa Canals to conduct
additional measurements and analysis and identify further least-cost priority investments.
Component B: Village Water Supply
Urgent water and sanitation improvements; organization and staffing of community waterworks to
operate and maintain the improved systems; implementation of cost recovery procedures to cover at a
minimum system operation and maintenance; and training for the newly formed waterworks and where
applicable, protection of shallow wells; a National Hlygiene and Sanitation Promotion Campaign; and
development of community groups under the rural development components focusing on the poorest
areas and economically disadvantaged segments of the population identified by the Social Assessment.
Component C: Institutional Strengthening
Institutional strengthening and capacity building program under the National Water Action Plan;



8
PID
financial improvements and upgrading of equipment and materials; technical assistance with the
Financial Action Plan; training of Apa Canal personnel based on a needs assessment to be prepared by
the Apa Canals; and assessment and piloting of potential options to facilitate the involvement of local
private sector operators in the sector; drafting of legislation.
Component D: EnLineerin2 Services/Technical En2ineers/Advisors
Assistance to Apa Canals in the planning, design and implementation of investment programs;
engineering services for the preparation of final designs and bidding documents; and technical
advisors/assistance with procurement and supervision of construction for investments.
Component E: Proiect Implementation Unit
This component would assist with implementation of the project, salaries, operating expenditures related
expenses and audits to ensure that the Bank's procurement guidelines are observed.
A. Investments for Improved Urban and Sanitation Services
B. Village Water Supply
C. Institutional Strengthening
D. Engineering Services/Engineers/Technical Advisor
E. Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
F. Unallocated
5. Financing
Total (US$m)
BORROWER                   $0.50
IBRD
IDA                        $12.00
EXPANDED COFINANCING $1.50
Total Project Cost         $14.00
6. Implementation
On-Lending Arrangements. The credit proceeds would flow to the Apa Canals via a Development Credit
Agreement (DCA) with the Ministry of Finance on behalf of the Government of Moldova and Subsidiary
Credit Agreements between the Ministry of Finance and each Apa Canal.
The Government would receive the standard IDA terms with a 10-year grace period, a final maturity of
40 years, a service charge of .75% and a commitment fee of .50%. Given the sector's characteristics and
the financial position of the utilities, the on-lending terms should (if possible) be equal to the standard
IDA terms. The on-lending terms would be confirmed at negotiations planned for April, 2003.



9
PID
Institutional Arrangements.  A project-funded PIU has been created with the specific task of
implementing the project during 2003-2007 under the overall responsibility of METD. The Ministry
already established within its organization the PIU since October, 2001. A Government decision has
been provided to give the PIU the status of a separate legal entity reporting to the Ministry. The fully
staffed PIU consists of a Project Head, Procurement Officer, Engineer, Financial Manager, Accountant
and a translator. All except the Translator have been hired. The PIU would not be a permanent part of
METD but would exist only as long as the project is implemented. It would free the METD from the task
of implementation, thereby making the METD role of setting policy clearer. The PIU, in close
coordination with the Apa Canals, would be responsible for all procurement, financial management and
disbursement aspects. There would be one Special Account and all payments would be made directly
from that account.
Implementation Arrangements. The project would be managed by the PIU in full coordination with the
Apa Canals and where needed, assisted by Technical Engineers/Advisors or NGOs. The Technical
Engineers/Advisors may assist with identification and implementation of investments and improvements
in network rehabilitation and operations, commercial practices and institutional strengthening. Under no
circumstances are the Apa Canals, PIU or villages subordinate to the Technical Advisors under the
proposed institutional structure.
The Rural Component would be handled by a coordinating NGO under a competitively awarded contract.
The NGO would report to the PIU. The NGO would also consist of technical experts. It would assist the
organization of a local water user association in each village selected and oversee the creation of a
Village Water Working Group, including appointed and elected members. It would be responsible for:
(i) ensuring the establishment and maintenance of effective billing and collection by the local water users
association; (ii) auditing of the village water users associations and itself be subject to auditing to be
submitted to the PIU; (iii) monitoring the environmental, technical and financial operation of the
associations as designated in the operational manual; and (iv) organizing dissemination workshops to
build on lessons learned as a model for subsequent applications. Activities in each village would be
designed to meet village-specific needs.
Procurement Arrangements. A Procurement Officer has been hired and will attend training from
February 17-28 along with Project Head Engineer to ensure that procurement is undertaken efficiently in
a timely manner and in accordance with the Bank guidelines. The PIU would have overall responsibility
for project implementation, including procurement actions in coordination with the Apa Canals.
Financial Management: (See Annex 6b for detailed Review of Financial Management Arrangements):
The PIU was established in the year 2001 as an implementing unit, created specifically to implement the
Pilot Water Supply and Sanitation Bank-financed project. The PIU is a legal entity, with its own statute
established by Government Decision. The PIU reports to the Ministry of Ecology and Territorial
Development and Ministry of Finance.
Project funds will flow from: (i) the Bank, either via a single Special Account which will be replenished
on the basis of SOEs or by direct payment on the basis of direct payment withdrawal applications; and
(ii) the Government, via the Treasury at the Ministry of Finance (MOF) on the basis of payment requests
prepared by the PIU.
The Credit Agreement will be signed between the World Bank (IDA) and the Government of Moldova.
The Government will authorize the METD, through the PIU, to use the credit proceeds. There will be a
single SA, for the whole project implementation. A number of four Project Agreements will be signed,
one with each of the four apa-canal entities involved in the project. The PIU will execute the payments
on behalf of the apa-canal entities, and of behalf of the villages selected, acting as a payment 'agent'.



10
PID
Disbursements. Disbursements from the IDA Credit will be made based on transaction based
disbursement methods (i.e., from the Special Account with reimbursements made based on Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs) and full documentation, and direct payments from the Credit Account). The
Government will establish, maintain and operate, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, a
separate Special Account denominated in a freely convertible and stable currency. The task team and the
client, using the Bank's criteria for special account banks, evaluate the extent to which local commercial
banks meet the requirements and that the client will select a bank, subject to the Bank's approval. The
PIU will use a local project account for the counterpart contributions to the Project.
Flow of Funds. The PIU will handle all Credit proceeds and will make payments from the SA, acting as
an 'agent' for the Apa Canals, executing the payments from the SA on behalf of the Apa Canals. The
Apa Canals will make their own payments in respect of their contributions to the project from their
current accounts and may also contribute in kind (labor) to the implementation of the project.
7. Sustainability
The sustainability of the project would largely depend on: (i) successfully operating the Apa Canals on
an increasingly autonomous and commercial basis, with full support from all levels of Government; (ii)
achieving financial viability by gradually decreasing losses and increasing revenues to cover adequate
operating and maintenance expenditures, the debt service and eventually also a portion of investments;
and (iii) the long-term impact of the technical assistance component on the efficiency and operations of
the sector. It would be critical for the project to educate consumers on the importance of paying for
services received and to target funding only to least-cost investments that reduce energy and other
operating costs.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The proposed Water Supply and Sanitation project would be the Bank's first operation in this sector in
Moldova. The lessons learned from overall Bank experience with projects and reflected in the proposed
project design are notably the importance of:
(a)   Lessons learnt from the kinds of service contracts patterned on similar contracts used in
Santiago de Chile and in Lima, Peru since the early 1980s and the mid-1990s,
respectively. Those contracts have been successful in reducing costs by about 20%. The
sample contracts from these two cities have been used for the drafting of the contracts in
the project cities in Moldova, although they have been adapted for the smaller size and for
local conditions. One lesson gained from Santiago and Lima is the importance of having
solid supervision of the quality of the service contractors' work.
(b)   Creating client ownership at all levels of Government by preparing the project in close
collaboration and implementation with the local stakeholders. Total commitment by the
Ministry, Apa Canals and Municipal Governments is necessary to ensure that preparation
and implementation proceed smoothly;
(c)   Setting realistic and prudent efficiency improvement targets, including as a basis for
sound financial projections. During project preparation, a Financial Action Plan has been
agreed upon, with a specific collection increase program that will be updated and
monitored bi-annually;
(d)   Establishing a sound institutional framework to ensure that the project is sustainable in
this regard. A clear definition of project responsibilities and processes is necessary,



11
PID
which would be set forth in the project implementation plan; and
(e)   Ensuring implementation readiness to avoid potential delays in the project after
effectiveness.  Bid documents are currently being prepared so that the first-year
investments can be executed immediately after effectiveness.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues:
The project will have no negative environmental effects and will not raise any resettlement or property
rights issues since it focuses on rehabilitation of the existing network and facilities. The project will
cover only rehabilitation, not extension of services. All work will be executed either within existing
facilities or within rights of way of public street networks. The project will not affect any known
archeological or historical sites. Bidding documents will specify requirements for keeping work sites
pollution-free, returning sites to their original conditions and minimizing dust, noise and related work
nuisance.
The project is expected to bring environmental and health benefits because: (a) rehabilitation and
improved operation and maintenance of the water network will reduce water losses and decrease the
volume of water intake and sewage; (b) improvement in operations will contribute to better day-to-day
environmental management (reduction of leakages, lowering operating costs related to energy usage,
better sanitation practices and maintenance of the sewerage network and better compliance with
environmental regulations).
The EMP for the project contains all information on potential environmental impacts, proposed
mitigation measures and monitoring actions. The consultations were conducted with the representatives
of municipal and national authorities, universities, research and design institutes, NGOs and the general
public. All these meetings are documented in the annexes to the EMP.
Details of the project have been presented at several seminars and published in local newspapers, and
made available in public libraries of the project cities and the capital city of Chisinau. EMP, supported
by the Bank, is currently being implemented in the area by the PIU and METD. It has a substantial
component for environmental monitoring. It is likely that it can be used to monitor the project impacts.
Also, the World Bank Water Utilities Performance Indicators toolkit for the water utilities was
implemented in all utilities in Moldova and would be used for the environmental performance of the
selected utilities.
10. List of factual technical documents:
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Seema Manghee
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433



12
PID
Telephone: (202) 473-5702
Fax: (202) 614-0902
Email: Smangheegworldbank.org
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:   (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily
included in the final project.
Tables, Charts, Graphs:
Processed by the InfoShop week ending:  05/23/2003
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
SEARCH         FEEDBACK      SfTE MAP      SHOWCASE



