Environmental Management Plan for Stefan-Voda Apa Canal
Moldova Water Supply and Sanitation Project (P074469)
1.    Introduction
This document summarizes the environmental management plan (EMP) to ensure that the rehabilitation
and operation of the water supply system in Stefan-Voda will meet the requirements of the World Bank
environmental assessment policy as described in OP/BP/GP 4.01, as well as laws of the Republic of
Moldova and regulations on environmental expertise and impact assessment, and will follow the best
environmental practices. The investment program is to be financed by IDA under the proposed Moldova
Water Supply and Sanitation Project. The Project has no significant environmental impact and does not
pose a risk to human health and thus for the purposes of OP 4.01 has been categorized by the Bank as
Category "B".
The EMP will cover the following operations: (a) management of water resources including the
abstraction of groundwater from underground water sources, and control drinking water quality; and (b)
water distribution operations and prevention of water wastage from the Stefan-Voda Apa Canal
operations and by consumers. Ministry for Environment and Territorial Development will be responsible
for the EMP implementation and monitoring. Ministry for Environment and Territorial Development
controls the standards drinking water and wastewater effluent quality. Ministry of Health and its State
Sanitary Inspection controls the potable water safety standard and quality of the effluent.
__             The summary of the Project environmental issues, mitigation program, and associated costs is
summarized in Annex A. The budget for implementing the EMP in all project sites in Moldova is
$200,000, and specifically for Stefan-Voda $30,000. This includes salary of the environmental specialist,
C9    0        the cost of monitoring, technical assistance associated with water resource management, and technical
W     >        assistance with the development of legal and institutional framework.
2.     Baseline Conditions
Apa Canal Stefan-Voda supplies a population of about 12,000 persons, inluding about 10,000 urban and
1,600 rurak population. The utility is not only dealing with water and wastewater but has such other
communal services as solid wastes, street cleaning and maintenance of green areas.
40% of population are living in private houses in a well defined area of the town, and the remaining 60%
are living in 3-5 storey buildings. Appr. 40% of persons are connected to water supply system. 97% of all
consumers have meters. Service hours are one hour in the moming and 1.5 hour in the evening. Most
people in private houses have their own shallow wells and are not connected to centralized water system.
Water is provided from artesian wells at app. 235 m depth. The water level is 195 m below the ground
level. There are 11 wells in the town and 7 outside at Slobodzia village. The latter are not in operation and
at present not known. Slobodzia is located 7.5 km from the town, and a 300-mm pipe is installed from
Slobodzia to Stefan-Voda.
The water from the wells is pumped into a reservoir (2 x 1000 m 3). From here the water is pumped into
the distribution system. Water from Slobodzia is also pumped to this reservoir when it is operating. The
capacity of artesian wells was originally 10 m3 per hour but now it is only 6 m3 per hour; 15000 m3 per
month. Only 4500 m3 per month is consumed (all is metered). That is 37.5 I/person per day. There is no
meter on the wells pumping to the reservoirs, meaning that abstracted water is not metered. Wastewater is
only collected from the 3 storey buildings, and not from private houses that have septic tanks. These are
emptied by vacuum tankers on the initiative of the houses owners.
The total pipe length is 26 km, The age is between 25-50 years and the losses are assessed at 78%.
Number of breakdowns in the distribution system ws 14 in 2001, this is a high figure given an intermittent
water supply. The Sanitary-Epidemiological Center tests the drinking water: bacteriological - test interval



is one month; chemical - test interval is three months. The overall efficiency of pumping water from the
wells and into the distrubution system is about 27%, ideally it should be 60-70%.
The stress placed on the pipe work by the intermittent supply is quite severe and is likely to be a
significant factor in the increased pipeline burst frequency. An interrupted water supply may bring out the
health hazards because of infiltration of sewage into water pipelines under surge, or damage to pipelines
due to water hammers and also to water meters. Additional problems include the lack of accurate
production. Some of the existing pumps operate out of their optimum duty point, which results in high
energy consumption.
High losses and lack of equipment at almost all facilities of the Stefan-Voda Apa Canal result in low
water quantity and unsatisfactory supply throughout a day.  Booster stations cannot provide the
appropriate pressure to the distribution system.
Water losses from transmission mains, secondary and tertiary distribution network are accounted at 60%.
The transmission mains were not properly repaired for at least 10 years that results in many of pipe-
breaks. There is no leakage control equipment in Stefan-Voda, and high permeability of the city surface
does not allow timely control of this. All of these result in both: leakage of drinking water into
groundwater, and in suction of the contaminated groundwater into the distribution network during the
water supply interruptions.
3.1    Project Description
Investment components to address the main issues and problem areas identified are focused on
accelerated network rehabilitation and improvement of customer metering. The main elements are as
follows: installation of new production meters, immediate "Find and Fix" leak detection and repair to
remove the backlog of bursts that exist within the network, immediate service connection repair program,
expertise for a leak detection training program, permanent on-going active leakage control, network
zoning, replacement of non-domestic meters to increase accuracy and therefore revenue, block metering
of all apartment blocks, metering of domestic houses to achieve 100% coverage, prioritized mains
replacement - the implementation of mains replacement in specific areas having high losses, installation
of multi level electricity meters to reduce the production costs. The components of the project also
include the purchase of needed vehicles and repair tools.
In addition, a pump replacement where economically justifiable, based on the results of energy efficiency
study, will be implemented over the following two years of the medium term investments.
As the city wells have no chlorination unit, it should be installed to assure water quality that meets the
health requirements.
High priority investment (first year). It involves production metering, metering of non-domestic
consumers and apartment blocks, leak detection and emergency repair of the network, energy efficiency
study, purchase of vehicle and repair tools, purchase of vehicle and repair tools, and network zoning.
Medium term (year two and three). Mains replacement program. Energy efficiency program: including
pumps replacement, water treatment and wastewater treatment plants operation improvement.
3.2    Policy, Legal and Administrative Framework
The following laws, standards and norms are directly applied for the environmental sustainability of this
project:
Construction Norms and Regulations (CHnf 2.04.01-04-85);
The Rules on Surface Water Protection approved by the State Environmental Protection Committee
Nr.03-13/57-442 of March 1, 1991
The Water Code of Moldova Nr.1532-XII of June 22, 1993
Law on the Nature Protection Nr.1515 of June 16, 1993
Law on Drinking Water Nr.272 of February 10, 1999



Law on Sanitary-Epidemiologic Welfare of Population Nr.1513-XIII of June 16, 1993; and
Law on Protection of the People Health of 1993.
Environmental issues likely to be associated with the project include:
* Quality of water resources;
* Morbidity with water-borne diseases;
* Development and supervision of leak detection programs;
Disposal of water treatment sludge;
* Underground water pollution by the construction run-offs;
* Disturbance during construction;
* Protection of air quality from the construction dust;
* Disposal of demolition debris;
* Protection of cultural resources.
4.     Identification of Impacts and Potential Mitigation Measures'
Impacts on quality of water resources
The project should affect improvements in the physiological and microbiological quality of water
supplied to Stefan-Voda consumers. At the same time it will not affect the quality of small rivers, which
are however not used for water supply.
Morbidity with water-borne diseases
The project will result in reduction in morbidity associated with improper water treatment and
distribution. The life expectancy will increase.
Development and supervision of leak detection programs
General groundwater movement and flows will not be affected by the proposed project. Since the water
reservoirs will be sealed, no groundwater can enter them, and no fresh water will affect the condition of
groundwater near water reservoirs. Implementation of the leak detection program will stabilize the water
table in the city and will reduce the groundwater discharges into wastewater system. That will also
improve the efficiency of the treatment process at Stefan-Voda wastewater treatment plant.
Disposal of water treatment sludge air controlfor chlorination process
The project will result in enforcement of the proper disposal of the water treatment sludge and prevention
of sludge run-offs into watercourses and into groundwater. The existing Moldova construction standard
(CHuH 2.04.02-85) requires special measures for handling collection and burial of the water treatment
sludge, and air control for chlorination process. These measures will be implemented by contractor and
supervised by Environmental Specialist in the Project Implementation Unit.
Undergrounid water pollution by the construction run-offs
Civil works will be conducted during very short in time. Additionally, Moldova Construction Code
requires proper measures for protection of groundwater from construction run-offs. Environmental
Specialist in the Project Implementation Unit as part of his/her contract supervisory duties will undertake
monitoring and supervise the protection measures during the construction phase.
The detailed measures and actions are presented within the Annexes A-E



Disturbance during construction
These impacts will occur during the rehabilitation works on transmission pipelines and distribution
network, but will be only short-term and affect different people at different times. It can cause the
following: restriction on access to buildings, noise due trench excavation, possible effect of vibration on
old buildings, closure of roads and section of roads, causing increased traffic, dust from construction
activities, and movement of construction traffic. For residents of the streets where these works are being
conducted, these impacts will be felt but only for a short period. Impacts will also be moderate for people
using or passing through the affected areas.
The conditions of the contract will include requirements for the work to be performed as per international
specifications. The contact will be properly prepared and supervised that will result in minimization of the
disturbance. Monitoring of the impact during the construction phase will be undertaken by Environmental
Specialist in the Project Implementation Unit as part of his/her contract supervisory duties and by the
Municipal Department for Environment. Dedicated and fully trained personnel will be appointed to carry
out this monitoring.
Protection of air qualityfrom the construction dust
The contractor will employ dust suppression measures during the construction process and transportation,
and vehicle emissions. The contractor will use traffic routing to avoid build up areas and bottlenecks.
Also it will be required for contractor to provide routine control and maintenance for all equipment used
for construction and transportation. It will be obliged to run the equipment only when required.
Disposal of demolition debris
As the Project will mainly rehabilitate the water production and distribution systems in Stefan-Voda, the
generation of the demolition debris during the implementation will be limited. Moldova Construction
Code requires proper measures for the removal of demolition debris. Environmental Specialist in the
Project Implementation Unit as part of his/her contract supervisory duties will supervise the
implementation of these measures during the construction phase.
Protection of cultural resources
Currently, no important historical objects are known within Stefan-Voda and its vicinities, therefore there
is low possibility that historical zones could be potentially affected by the Project. There will be
continuous liaison between the Project and the Ministry of Culture and also with concerned NGOs in the
city in case that cultural properties are found during the construction works.
5.     Public Consultation Plan
There is a general concern that the Project should be managed in an environmentally acceptable way and
the need for inter-agency coordination, training, public awareness, high quality construction, monitoring,
and good management is widely seen. The Project team and Project PIU will continue the cooperation
with all stakeholders, concerned public interest groups and NGOs. The social survey that was conducted
during the Project preparation confirmed this view. In relation to that, it is planned to organize several
public meetings with residents and industries that will be affected during the Project implementation.
Details of the project have been and will be presented at several seminars and published in local
newspaper, and will be available in public library of the town of Stefan-Voda and the capital Chisinau.



Annex A
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR STEFAN-VODA
The adverse impacts of the project are limited and are primarily related to the impacts associated with the construction including noise, dust and increased traffic
loads on local roads. No resettlement is required. No known archaeological or cultural cites within the project area. An outline mitigation plan for the
construction, operation and decommissioning phase impacts is provided in Annex A below.
Component and       Impact or Concern           Mitigation         Responsible Authority        Monitoring         Responsible Agency for
Activity                                       Opportunities         for Implementing          Requirements           Monitoring and
Mitigation                                     Enforcement
Construction          Environmental
Potential Construction
Related Environmental
Impacts or Concerns
Include
Rehabilitation of  Improvement of the water  none required        Contractor              not applicable          not applicable
Water Treatment   quality
Plants
Replacement of   Reduction of water leaks  none required          Contractor              not applicable          not applicable
transmission      and water losses,
mains             improvement of the
efficiency of operations
Underground water       follow best management  Contractor               Periodical underground  State Sanitary Inspection,
pollution by the        practices to prevent                             water quality tests     Regional environmental
construction run-offs   accidental or intended                                                   agency
release of toxic waters,
general prevention of
water leaks, control of
excavation levels
Dust generation         employment of dust      Contractor               Periodical tests for air  State Sanitary Inspection
suppression measures, use                       pollution, immediate
traffic routing measures,                        actions in case of
bund construction areas                          complains from nearby
residents
Construction     Potential contamination of  minimize waste       Contractor              Construction supervision  Municipal department for
Waste Disposal    soils and watercourses as  generation during                                                     solid waste collection
a result of improper    construction; reuse                                                      disposal, State Sanitary
disposal of demolition  construction waste where                                                 Inspection, Regional
debris                  practical; use appropriate                                               environmental agency



methods for storage of
waste materials; and
dispose waste on proper
site
Socio-Economic
Potential Construction
Related Socio-Economic
Impacts or Concerns
Include
Water mains and   Noise, vibration and dust  limit construction work to  Contractor        periodic inspection of   Municipal environment
water treatment   disturbances to residents  normal daylight working                       construction activities to  protection office
plants            and commercial          hours, employ noise                              ensure equipment noise
rehabilitation    enterprises             bunds or other noise                             and dust abatement
activities                                suppression devices                              systems are in place; work
is curried out during
normal construction hours
Temporary problems      minimize time for the    Contractor              not applicable           construction supervision,
related to water quality  replacement operations,                                                 State Sanitary Inspection
due to replacement and  conduct actual
construction works      replacement works during
the night time
Temporary interruptions  minimize time for the   Contractor              not applicable           not applicable
of water supply due to  replacement operations,
repair works            water supply interruptions
can be only at during the
night time
Damage to               identify potential       Contractor              ensure project is evaluated  municipal department of
cultural/heritage       encountering                                     for potential to damage  culture
structures - not likely in  archeological or cultural                    archeological or cultural
Dushanbe                relics and acquire                               relics, ensure necessary
archeological permits as                         permits in place
per State regulations
Reduced access to       provide alternative safe  Contractor             periodic inspection of   municipal development
residences and or       access, inform state                             construction sites to    board, state road police
businesses during the   automobile inspection and                        ensure alternative safe  inspection
period of construction  request for detour                               access is provided
Reduced pedestrian      provide alternative safe  Contractor             periodic inspection of   municipal development
access                  access                                           construction sites to    board, state road police
ensure alternative safe  inspection
access is provided



Operation         Potential Operation
Related Environmental
Impacts or Concerns
Include
Environmental
Rehabilitation of  Disposal of water      proper handling and      Stefan-Voda Apa Canal   implementation of        municipal department for
Water Treatment   treatment sludge        concentration procedures                         standards for handling   solid waste disposal, State
Plant                                     for sludge collection;                           sludge waste, periodical  Sanitary Inspection,
appropriate methods for                          tests for groundwater    Geology Administration,
storage of waste                                 pollution near the disposal  Ministry for Environment
materials; and dispose                           site                     Protection
waste on proper site
Air pollution from      proper following of the  Stefan-Voda Apa Canal    implementation of       State Sanitary Inspection
clorination facilities   construction norms,                              standards for handling
control of operation, and                        chlorination materials,
chlorine emissions                               periodical tests for
prevention                                       chlorine content in air
Development and   Positive effect on water  none required          not applicable          not applicable           not applicable
supervision of    losses reduction,
leak detection    improvement of the
programs          efficiency and reduction
of energy consumption
Socio-Economic
Potential Operation
Related Socio-Economic
Impacts or Concerns
Include
Operation of      Improved quality of     none required            not applicable          not applicable           not applicable
Improved Water    water, uninterrupted
Utility           service, increased
coverage



Annex B
B. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
B.1    Equipment Purchases Estimate*
#   Type of Equipment      Number of         Unit Cost, $       Total Cost, $
Units
1.   Consumers meters                 340               29.4             10.000
2.   Leak detection                     2              10.000            20.000
equipment
3.   Computer           Computers - 10                  1.000            20.000
equipment and      Other equipment - 8             1.250
software
4.   Construction       Excavators                                       150.000
equipment          Asphalt cutters
Vibratory plates
5.   Chlorination       4 sets                         2.500              10.000
equipment
6.   Network repair     Polyethilene pipes                              120.000
materials          metal pipes
Fittings
7.   Materials for      Meters - 50                       40             20.000
production metering
8.   Materials for wells  Polyethylene pipes                             80.000
rehabilitation     Filters cleaning
9.   Pumps and electrical 3 x 75 m /h - 20 m           3.500             60.000
equipment          3 x 75 m3/h - 30 m             8.800
_2 x 75 m3/h - 50 m            11.550
10. Equipment for                                                       160.000
canalization works
Grand Total                                              660.000
* the number of units and costs will be specified on the implementation stage
B.3    Consultant Services
Consultant services (local and intemational) will be necessary for the following programs:
institutional strengthening, financial capacity building, environmental impact assessment and
safeguard review for the Stefan-Voda Apa Canal. Consultants will also be involved in the preparation
of the operational plan, business plan and health assessment as well. A separate consultant study will
provide a Legal review and social assessment and community participation plan for the whole Project
and for the Stefan-Voda Apa Canal in particular.
B.4    Special Studies
Geological and hydrology studies may be required on reserve sources for drinking water. The cost
special studies are up to $10,000.



Annex C
SCHEDULE
Present (preferably in Chart Form) Start Dates and Finish Dates for:
* Mitigation Activities
June  July  Aug   Sept   Oct 1 Nov [Dec    Jan   Feb IMar    Apr   May   June   July
I  I     I     I     I     IX     IX    IX    IX    I X-rx IX   IX    IX     I X  I
* Monitoring Activities
June  July  Aug   Sept   Oct   Nov   Dec   Jan   Feb   Mar   Apr   May   June   July
2002                                       2003         -     -
* Training Activities
June  July  Aug   Sept   Oct   Nov   Dec   Jan   Feb   Mar   Apr   May   June   July
2002                         l             2003
X         I       x X       l                    X                X           -,
Annex D
INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
The schedule of potable water quality testing is coordinated with the Regional Center of Preventive
Medicine Stefan-Voda. There are four water sampling sites, and the water samples are taken and tested
regularly once a month. Within the utility there is no laboratory equipment and experts for testing the
potable and waste water quality. The tests results are provided to the utility and Mayor's office and are
displayed on the Announcement board at the Stefan-Voda water utility.
There is no special established system for informing the population in case of accidents, however in
this case the people will be informed by TV and radio.
Waste water is collected and discharged into the biologic ponds; the total amounts of collected water
are low, and there are no discharges of untreated waste water into the natural water sources.
Annex E
CONSULTATION WITH LOCAL NGOs AND PROJECT-AFFECTED GROUPS
The Project should be managed in an environmentally acceptable way and the need for inter-agency
coordination, training, public awareness, high quality construction, monitoring, and good management
is widely seen. The Project team and Project PIU will continue the cooperation with all stakeholders,
concerned public interest groups and NGOs. It is planned to organize several public meetings with
residents and industries that will be affected during the Project implementation.



Details of the project have been and will be presented at several seminars and published in local
newspaper, and will be available in public library of the cities of Orhei and the capital Chisinau.
Local NGOs in Cahul to be involved into the project discussion:
1. Territorial organization of MEM-Stefan-Voda. MEM - Ecological Movement of Moldova-
Tatiana Marin, Stefan-Voda, Str. 31 August #8, tel.: +373 242 23361;
2. Center for Sustainable Development ,,Rural-21" - Vitalie Rusanovschi, Stefan-Voda,
Str.Libertatii # 1, tel/fax: +373 242 23223;
3. ,,Renasterea" NGO - Nicolae Grosu, village of Talmaza Stefan-Voda region, tel: +373 242
41425; fax: +373 242 41203.
Government officials that will lead the public consultation process:
Stefan-Voda Apa Canal
MD 4201, Stefan-Voda, Str.Industriala, #2
Head - Nicolae Danila, tel/fax: + 373 242 24328
Head of the Regional Ecological Agency, Member of Regional Council
- Nicolae Nastas, tel: + 373 242 22757
Mayor of Stefan-Voda - Gheorghe Anghel, tel: + 373 242 23053
Deputy Mayor of Stefan-Voda - Vasile Godiac, tel.: + 373 242 22153.



Annex F
Minutes of Meeting on EMP discussion
with the community representatives in Stefan-Voda
November 13, 2002                              Stefan-Voda
Apa canal Stefan-Voda
The meeting was attended by the representatives of local community, local authorities, environmental
NGO and Stefan-Voda Apa Canal. Information on the project was published in the local daily
newspaper; copies of EMP translated in local language (Romanian) were distrubuted to the meeting
participants at the beginning of event.
List of attendees:
1. Godiac V.
2. Nacai B.
3. Sirbu M.
4. Boian V.
5. Dunischin M.
6. Andreev I.
7. Tomov M.
8. Caraman S.
9. Rusanovschi V.
10. Barcari A.
11. Nastasi N.
12. Podilei I.
13. Bulbuc I.
14. Gaju V.
15. Popa V.
16. Rusu N.
17. Marin T.
18. Dodorov S.
19. Teslun G.
20. Vlas I.
21. Radu P.
22. Ursachi E.
23. Cruban Z.
24. Danila A.
25. Fulga I.
26. Cotoman N.
27. Fulga A.
28. Cocu E.
29. Verebcean N.
Scopes of the meeting:
1. Information preparation and dissemination regarding the improvements in water supply and
sanitation system, awareness rising and creation of public support for improved system;
2. Discussions on EMP for Stefan-Voda town;
3. Public participation and community involvement into the project implementation.



Issues discussed:
1. Basic information on the WSSP in Stefan-Voda was outlined by the Director of Stefan-Voda
water and waste water utility, Mr.N.Danila.
2. Discussion was held on EMP. The main problems discussed inluded:
- environmental and social risks associated with the civil works and untreated wase water
discharges;
- the role of citizens, municipal authorities, community, NGOs, Ministry of Ecology and other
institutions in successful implementation of the project and further sustainable operation of
water supply and sanitation system in the town, avoiding environmental hazards and
accidents;
- plan of information dissemination concerning the advantages of upgraded water system
operation, including publications in local rayonal newspaper;
- project implementation requirements;
- public participation as an integral part of planning process;
- public awareness and information of population on environmental impacts;
- measures to be taken by the utility and contractor to reduce the impacts during the
construction stage (noise, air pollution, damage to roads, etc.);
- tariffs for after and wastewater for population and work with consumers;
- environmental monitoring and test procedures.
The participants were very active in discussion and supportive for the project. They also recognise the
potential environmental impacts of project implementation, especially on the stage of construction
and discussed the mitigation measures.



Moldova: Pilot Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Environmental Assessment
Rehabilitation of the Water System of the town of Stefan-Voda
A.    BACKGROUND
1. Project Objective. The overall goal of the project is to enhance the welfare of population
living in Stefan-Voda by improving the access to water supply and sanitation services. The
strategy is to assist in creating a framework that would enable the implementation, sustainable
management and regulation of essential water supply and sanitation infrastructure.
2. Environmental Category. The investment is to be financed by IDA under the proposed
Moldova Pilot Water Supply and Sanitation Project. The proposed project is classified as
Category B because its potential adverse impacts on human population or environmentally
important areas, including wetlands, forests, grasslands and other natural habitats are not
significant and are site-specific. Few of them are irreversible, and in most cases mitigatory
measures do not require a specific study and can be designed quickly. In accordance with World
Bank Operational Policy 4.01 (January 1999) the Project is rated as Category B and requires the
preparation of Environmental Assessment that includes an EMP.
3. Investment Components. Investment components to address the main issues and problem
areas identified are focused on accelerated network rehabilitation and improvement of customer
metering. The main elements are as follows: installation of new production meters, immediate
"Find and Fix" leak detection and repair to remove the backlog of bursts that exist within the
network, immediate service connection repair program, expertise for a leak detection training
program, permanent on-going active leakage control, network zoning, replacement of non-
domestic meters to increase accuracy and therefore revenue, block metering of all apartment
blocks, metering of domestic houses to achieve 100% coverage, prioritized mains replacement -
the implementation of mains replacement in specific areas having high losses, installation of
multi level electricity meters to reduce the production costs. The components of the project also
include the purchase of needed vehicles and repair tools.
In addition, a pump replacement where economically justifiable, based on the results of energy
efficiency study, will be implemented over the following two years of the medium term
investments.
As the city wells have no chlorination unit, it should be installed to assure water quality that
meets the health requirements.
High priority investment (first year). It involves production metering, metering of non-
domestic consumers and apartment blocks, leak detection and emergency repair of the network,
energy efficiency study, purchase of vehicle and repair tools, purchase of vehicle and repair
tools, and network zoning.
Medium term (year two and three). Water mains replacement program. Energy efficiency
program including pumps replacement, water treatment and wastewater treatment plants
operation improvement.



B. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND MITIGATION PLAN
The adverse impacts of the project are limited and are primarily related to the impacts associated
with the construction including noise, dust and increased traffic loads on local roads. No
resettlement is required. No known archaeological or cultural cites within the project area.
An outline mitigation plan for the construction, operation and decommissioning phase impacts is
provided in Table 1 below.



Table 1. EMMP for Stefan-Voda
Component and     Impact or Concern          Mitigation         Responsible      Monitoring      Responsible Agency
Activity                                Opportunities       Authority for    Requirements    for Monitoring and
Implementing                         Enforcement
Mitigation
Construction        Environmental
Potential Construction
Related Environmental
Impacts or Concerns
Include
Rehabilitation  Improvement of the      none required         Contractor       not applicable    not applicable
of Water        water quality
Treatment
Plants
Replacement of  Reduction of water leaks  none required       Contractor       not applicable    not applicable
transmission    and water losses,
mains           improvement of the
efficiency of operations
Underground water       follow best          Contractor        Periodical       State Sanitary
pollution by the        management practices                   underground      Inspection, Regional
construction run-offs  to prevent accidental or                water quality tests  environmental agency
intended release of
toxic waters, general
prevention of water
leaks, control of
excavation levels
Dust generation         employment of dust    Contractor       Periodical tests  State Sanitary
suppression measures,                  for air pollution,  Inspection
use traffic routing                    immediate actions
measures, bund                         in case of
construction areas                     complains from
nearby residents



Construction    Potential contamination  minimize waste      Contractor      Construction     Municipal department
Waste Disposal  of soils and watercourses  generation during                 supervision      for solid waste
as a result of improper  construction; reuse                                  collection disposal,
disposal of demolition  construction waste                                    State Sanitary
debris                 where practical; use                                   Inspection, Regional
appropriate methods                                    environmental agency
for storage of waste
materials; and dispose
waste on proper site
Socio-Economic
Potential Construction
Related Socio-Economic
Impacts or Concerns
Include
Water mains     Noise, vibration and dust limit construction work  Contractor  periodic       Municipal
and water       disturbances to residents  to normal daylight                inspection of    environment
treatment       and commercial         working hours, employ                 construction     protection office
plants          enterprises            noise bunds or other                  activities to
rehabilitation                         noise suppression                     ensure equipment
activities                             devices                               noise and dust
abatement
systems are in
place; work is
curried out during
normal
construction hours
Temporary problems     minimize time for the  Contractor     not applicable   construction
related to water quality  replacement operations,                             supervision, State
due to replacement and  conduct actual                                        Sanitary Inspection
construction works     replacement works
during the night time
Temporary interruptions  minimize time for the  Contractor   not applicable   not applicable
of water supply due to  replacement operations,



repair works            water supply
interruptions can be
only at during the night
time
Damage to              identify potential     Contractor       ensure project is  municipal department
cultural/heritage       encountering                           evaluated for     of culture
structures - not likely in  archeological or                   potential to
Dushanbe                cultural relics and                    damage
acquire archeological                   archeological or
permits as per State                   cultural relics,
regulations                             ensure necessary
permits in place
Reduced access to       provide alternative safe  Contractor   periodic          municipal
residences and or       access, inform state                   inspection of     development board,
businesses during the   automobile inspection                  construction sites  state road police
period of construction  and request for detour                 to ensure         inspection
alternative safe
access is provided
Reduced pedestrian      provide alternative safe  Contractor   periodic          municipal
access                  access                                 inspection of     development board,
construction sites  state road police
to ensure        inspection
alternative safe
access is provided
Operation        Potential Operation
Related Environmental
Impacts or Concerns
Include
Environmental
Rehabilitation   Disposal of water      proper handling and    Stefan-Voda Apa  implementation of municipal department
of Water        treatment sludge        concentration          Canal            standards for    for solid waste
Treatment                               procedures for sludge                   handling sludge   disposal, State
Plant                                   collection; appropriate                 waste, periodical  Sanitary Inspection,



methods for storage of                tests for        Geology
waste materials; and                  groundwater      Administration,
dispose waste on                      pollution near the  Ministry for
proper site                           disposal site    Environment
Protection
Air pollution from     proper following of the  Stefan-Voda Apa  implementation of State Sanitary
chlorination facilities  construction norms,  Canal          standards for    Inspection
control of operation,                 handling
and chlorine emissions                chlorination
prevention                            materials,
periodical tests for
chlorine content
in air
Development     Positive effect on water  none required     not applicable   not applicable   not applicable
and supervision  losses reduction,
of leak detection  improvement of the
programs        efficiency and reduction
of energy consumption
Socio-Economic
Potential Operation
Related Socio-Economic
Impacts or Concerns
Include
Operation of    Improved quality of    none required        not applicable   not applicable   not applicable
Improved        water, uninterrupted
Water Utility   service, increased
coverage                                                    .



1. Environmental Capacity Building and Training Program. A detailed training
program would be funded through the project with the assistance of local or international
consultants. The training will focus on the following:
* Construction quality assurance procedures, protocols and inspections;
* Water supply and sanitation environmental management;
* Environmental monitoring and test procedures;
* Environmental audit;
* Handling of special/hazardous wastes; and
* Basic public health education, public awareness and community relations.
In addition, there is also a requirement for technical capacity building within Stefan-Voda
utility in respect with the following:
* Contract management and enforcement of contract conditions;
* Financial management including full cost accounting and cost recovery;
* Preventive maintenance procedures and arrangements;
* Strategic planning of water and wastewater service provision.
It is envisaged that the training would be provided through a variety of mechanisms,
including: on-site training during construction and operation; workshops and seminars on
key issues conducted by experienced professionals; short-term overseas placement with
environmental regulatory authorities responsible for water and wastewater monitoring.
2. Project Monitoring. The details of project monitoring are shown in the Table I above.
The Ministry of Environment and Territorial Development bears overall responsibility for
monitoring the EMP and would conduct specific environmental reviews once a year.
Responsibility for monitoring will be shared by the PIU, Regional Ecological Agency
subordinated to the Ministry of Environment, Ministry of Health (Sanitary
Epidemiological Stations), the Office of the Mayor, the User Association, and the Works
Managers/Contractors.
3. Reporting. The PIU with the help of local/international consultants would be
responsible for annual reports outlining the progress of EMP implementation. The reports
would include project findings (lessons learned), environmental issues, if any, status of
mitigation measures taken and next steps. The reports would be submitted to the Ministry
and the World Bank as part of the progress report.
4. Project Supervision. Staff of the WB local office would supervise the environmental
issues including mitigation measures. Progress on mitigation measures would be included
in regular Bank supervision reports, including Project Status Report updates and mid-
term reviews.



5. Public Consultation Plan. The project should be managed in an environmentally
acceptable way and the need for inter-agency coordination, training, public awareness,
high-quality construction, monitoring and good management system is evident. The task
team and PIU would continue the cooperation with all stakeholders, public interest
groups and NGOs. It is planned to organize several public meetings with residents and
industries. Details of the project have been and would be presented at several seminars
and published in local newspapers, and would be available
Consultations with the Stefan-Voda occurred during the preparation of the PWSS and
into 2002 (See Annex 1 - Minutes of Consultation). Discussions were also held with the
Mayor of Stefan-Voda. During these sessions participation of the villagers in the
implementation process were discussed including the provision of financial and in-kind
contributions. Consultation will continue as part of the representational process in place.
6. EMP Cost Estimate and Schedule. It is estimated that EMP implementation would
cost for Stefan-Voda $30.000 for staff, consultants and training activities. EMP
implementation would be integrated into the overall schedule. The budget and
implementation schedule for EMP would be discussed and agreed upon with the
borrower.



Annex 1
Minutes of Meeting on EMP discussion
with the community representatives in Stefan-Voda
November 13, 2002                                             Stefan-Voda
Apa canal Stefan-Voda
The meeting was attended by the representatives of local community, local authorities,
environmental NGO and Stefan-Voda Apa Canal. Information on the project was
published in the local daily newspaper; copies of EMP translated in local language
(Romanian) were distrubuted to the meeting participants at the beginning of event.
List of attendees:
1. Godiac V.
2. Nacai B.
3. Sirbu M.
4. Boian V.
5. Dunischin M.
6. Andreev I.
7. Tomov M.
8. Caraman S.
9. Rusanovschi V.
10. Barcari A.
11. Nastasi N.
12. Podilei I.
13. Bulbuc I.
14. Gaju V.
15. Popa V.
16. Rusu N.
17. Marin T.
18. Dodorov S.
19. Teslun G.
20. Vlas I.
21. Radu P.
22. Ursachi E.
23. Cruban Z.
24. Danila A.
25. Fulga I.
26. Cotoman N.
27. Fulga A.
28. Cocu E.
29. Verebcean N.



Scopes of the meeting:
1. Information preparation and dissemination regarding the improvements in water
supply and sanitation system, awareness rising and creation of public support for
improved system;
2. Discussions on EMP for Stefan-Voda town;
3. Public participation and community involvement into the project implementation.
Issues discussed:
1. Basic information on the WSSP in Stefan-Voda was outlined by the Director of
Stefan-Voda water and waste water utility, Mr.N.Danila.
2. Discussion was held on EMP. The main problems discussed included:
- environmental and social risks associated with the civil works and untreated
waste water discharges;
- the role of citizens, municipal authorities, comrnunity, NGOs, Ministry of
Ecology and other institutions in successful implementation of the project and
further sustainable operation of water supply and sanitation system in the town,
avoiding environmental hazards and accidents;
- plan of information dissemination concerning the advantages of upgraded water
system operation, including publications in local rayonal newspaper;
- project implementation requirements;
- public participation as an integral part of planning process;
- public awareness and information of population on environmental impacts;
- measures to be taken by the utility and contractor to reduce the impacts during
the construction stage (noise, air pollution, damage to roads, etc.);
- tariffs for after and wastewater for population and work with consumers;
- environmental monitoring and test procedures.
The participants were very active in discussion and supportive for the project. They also
recognize the potential environmental impacts of project implementation, especially on
the stage of construction and discussed the mitigation measures.



