Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3763 MD 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Pilot Water Supply and Sanitation Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 9, 2003 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER  3763 MD 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated June 9, 2003, between REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project;  
 
(B) 
Parts A and C of the Project will be carried out by the Participating Apa 
Canals (as defined in Section 1.0
2
of this Agreement) with the Borrower’s assistance, 
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make part of the proceeds of the credit 
provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Credit) available to the Participating Apa 
Canals, as set forth in this Agreement; and  
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;  
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the plan, satisfactory to the 
Association, prepared and adopted by the Borrower, and constituting an integral part of 
the PIP (hereinafter defined), describing the environmental mitigation, monitoring and 
institutional measures for the Project; 
 
(b) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
Page  4
-
2
-
(c) 
“Lei” means the lawful currency of the Borrower; 
 
(d) 
“MECTD” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Environment, Construction 
and Territorial Development, the on-line Ministry responsible for sector policy; 
 
(e) 
“National Action Water Plan” means the action plan prepared and 
adopted by the Borrower by Government Decision No. 519, dated April 23, 2002, to 
provide a strategy and sustainable plan for the water sector; 
 
(f) 
“Participating Apa Canal” means any water utility established and 
operating in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations of the Borrower,   
meeting certain eligibility criteria and approved by the Association for participation in the 
Project; and “Participating Apa Canals” means collectively all Participating Apa Canals; 
 
(g) 
“PIP” means the Project Implementation Plan for the carrying out of the 
Project prepared and adopted by the Borrower, as the same may be amended from time to 
time with the agreement of the Association; 
 
(h) 
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit established by the 
Borrower under the MECTD to manage the implementation of the Project; 
 
(i) 
“Project Coordinator” means the staff member of the PIU responsible for 
overall management of Project implementation;  
 
(j) 
“Service Contract” means the performance-based service contract to be 
entered into between each of the Participating Apa Canals and a local operator, with 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, for the operation and maintenance of 
the Participating Apa Canals; 
 
(k) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;  
 
(l) 
“Steering Committee” means the working group of a maximum of seven 
persons established by the Borrower within the MECTD, headed by the Minister of 
Environment, Construction and Territorial Development, and including representatives of 
the MECTD, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy, and the State 
Chancellery of the Borrower, a representative of the Apa Canals and a representative of 
civil society, to provide policy guidance regarding Project implementation;  
 
(m) 
“Subsidiary Credit” means a credit made by the Borrower to a 
Participating Apa Canal under a Subsidiary Credit Agreement (hereinafter defined);  
 
(n) 
“Subsidiary Credit Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower, represented by its Ministry of Finance and MECTD, and each 
Participating Apa Canal pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may 
Page  5
-
3
-
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary 
Credit Agreement; and  
 
(o) 
“Technical Advisors” means specialists, with qualifications, experience 
and terms of reference acceptable to the Association,  who may assist the Participating 
Apa Canals in the carrying out of the Project. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eight million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 8,800,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for  
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.  
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2007 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. 
The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
Page  6
-
4
-
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 
1
and November 1 commencing November 1, 2013 and ending May 1, 2043. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 1, 2023, shall be one percent 
(1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) 
of such principal amount. 
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of 
each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of 
the Credit shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or 
more after the date on which the Association notifies the 
Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph (b) have 
occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a
minimum of five years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c)  
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
Page  7
-
5
-
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end: 
 
(i) 
shall carry out Parts B, D and E of the Project through its 
MECTD and Parts A and C of the Project through the 
Participating Apa Canals, with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate water supply, sanitation, 
environmental, administrative and financial practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project; 
 
(ii) 
shall assist the Participating Apa Canals to carry out Parts A and 
C
of the Project; and 
 
(iii) 
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, shall 
cause the Participating Apa Canals to perform in accordance 
with the provisions of their respective Subsidiary Credit 
Agreement all the obligations therein set forth in relation to Parts 
A
and C of the Project, and shall take and cause to be taken all 
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and 
other resources necessary or appropriate to enable the 
Participating Apa Canals to perform such obligations, and shall 
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with such performance. 
 
Page  8
-
6
-
(b) 
For the purposes of Parts A and C of the Project, the Borrower shall 
relend a portion of the proceeds of the Credit to the Participating Apa Canals under a 
subsidiary credit agreement (the Subsidiary Credit Agreement) to be entered into between 
the Borrower and each Participating Apa Canal, under terms and conditions which shall 
have been approved by the Association and which shall include those set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Subsidiary Credit 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall 
otherwise  agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive a Subsidiary 
Credit Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
(d) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
 
Page  9
-
7
-
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to 
the Project. 
 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
(A) have the records, accounts and financial statements referred 
to in paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts 
for the Special Account, for each fiscal year audited; and (B)  
cause the Participating Apa Canals to have their records, 
accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, all in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to 
the Association, consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association, who shall be appointed by 
November 30, 2003, and who shall carry out the first such audits 
under (A) and (B) for the year ending on December 31, 2003; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and certified copies of the financial 
statements of the Participating Apa Canals referred to in 
paragraph (b) (i) (B) of this Section, for such year as so audited; 
and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
 
Page  10
-
8
-
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Association a Financial Monitoring Report for such period, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and  
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than 45 days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the 
Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure 
under the Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each Financial 
Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after each 
subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
 
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that each Participating Apa 
Canal shall maintain in the fiscal year ending on December 31, 2006, a ratio of 
Page  11
-
9
-
total operating expenses to total operating revenues not higher than 100%, 
decreasing to 90% by the fiscal year ending on December 31, 2007, and, 
thereafter, maintain said ratio for each of its fiscal years.  
 
(b) 
Before October 1, 2006, and, thereafter, before October 1 in each 
of the Participating Apa Canal’s fiscal years, the Borrower shall, on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by each Participating Apa Canal and satisfactory to the 
Association, review whether each Participating Apa Canal  would meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next 
following fiscal year, and shall furnish to the Association the results of such 
review upon its completion. 
 
(c) 
If any such review shows that a Participating Apa Canal would not 
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Participating Apa Canal’s 
fiscal years covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly take all 
necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the structure or 
levels of the Participating Apa Canal’s rates) in order for the Participating Apa 
Canal to meet such requirements. 
 
(d) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
the term “total operating expenses” means all expenses 
related to operations, including administration, adequate 
maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and 
provision for depreciation calculated on a straight-line basis 
on the average current gross value of the Participating Apa 
Canal’s fixed assets in operation,  but excluding interest 
and other charges on debt and taxes on profit. 
 
(ii) 
the term “total operating revenues” means revenues from 
all sources; and 
 
(iii) 
the average current gross value of the Participating Apa 
Canal’s fixed assets in operation shall be calculated as one-
half of the sum of the gross value of the Participating Apa 
Canal’s fixed assets in operation at the beginning and at the 
end of the fiscal year, as valued from time to time in 
accordance with sound and consistently maintained 
methods of valuation satisfactory to the Association. 
 
Page  12
-
10
-
Section 4.04. (a)  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that each Participating Apa 
Canal shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and 
expenditures of the Participating Apa Canal shows that the estimated net revenues 
of the Participating Apa Canal for each fiscal year during the term of the debt to 
be incurred shall be at least 1.3 times the estimated debt service requirements of 
the Participating Apa Canal in such year on all debt of the Participating Apa 
Canal including the debt to be incurred. 
 
(b) 
For purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the 
Participating Apa Canal maturing by its terms more than 
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred. 
 
(ii) 
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan 
contract or agreement or other instrument providing for 
such debt or for the modification of its terms of payment on 
the date of such contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement 
providing for such guarantee has been entered into. 
 
(iii) 
The term "net revenues" means the difference between: 
 
(A) 
the sum of revenues from all sources; and 
 
(B) 
the sum of all expenses related to operations 
including administration, adequate maintenance, 
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding 
provision for depreciation, other non-cash 
operating charges and interest and other charges 
on debt and  taxes on profit. 
 
(iv) 
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate 
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if 
any) of, and interest and other charges on, debt. 
 
(v) 
The term “reasonable forecast” means a forecast prepared 
by the Participating Apa Canal not earlier than twelve 
months prior to the incurrence of the debt in question, 
which both the Association and the Borrower accept as 
Page  13
-
11
-
reasonable and as to which the Association has notified the 
Borrower of its acceptability, provided that no event has 
occurred since such notification which has, or may 
reasonably be expected in the future to have, a material 
adverse effect on the financial condition or future operating 
results of the Participating Apa Canal.  
 
(vi) 
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be 
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the 
Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such valuation 
shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of 
exchange at which such other currency is, at the time of 
such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a 
rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Association 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
Any Participating Apa Canal shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the respective Subsidiary Credit Agreement. 
 
(b) 
The PIP shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated or waived 
without the Association’s prior consent. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the events specified in paragraphs (a) 
and (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, and shall continue for a period of 
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the 
Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
 
Page  14
-
12
-
(a) 
at least one Subsidiary Credit Agreement, satisfactory to the Association, 
has been executed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower and a Partipating Apa Canal; 
and  
 
(b) 
at least one Participating Apa Canal has issued a proposal, satisfactory to 
the Association, for expression of interest for the Service Contract.  
 
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Subsidiary Credit 
Agreements referred to in Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement have been duly authorized 
or ratified by the Borrower and the respective Participating Apa Canal and are legally 
binding upon the Borrower and each Participating Apa Canal, in accordance with their 
terms. 
 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
7,
Cosmonautilor Street 
 
Chisinau 2005 
 
Republic of Moldova 
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
(3732) 22810    
(3732) 221 307 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Page  15
-
13
-
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  16
-
14
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA 
 
By /s/ Mihail Manoli 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Luca Barbone 
Authorized Representative 
Page  17
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Works 
2,600,000 
80% 
 
(2) 
Goods 
2,560,000 
100 % of foreign 
 
expenditures, 100% of 
 
local expenditures (ex- 
 
factory cost) and 80% of 
 
local expenditures for 
other 
 
items procured locally 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services, 
570,000 
100% for foreign          
 
including auditing  
 
consulting firms and 
 
services, and training 
 
foreign individual 
 
consultants, 75% for 
 
local consulting firms 
 
and local individual 
 
consultants and 100% 
 
of eligible social charges, 
 
and 100% for training 
(4) 
Incremental Operating                
 
Costs of the PIU 
 
(a)  PIU staff salaries 
260,000                 75% for local consulting   
 
firms and local 
individual  
 
consultants and 100% of 
eligible social charges 
 
(b)  Other 
80,000              
 90% 
 
Page  18
-
16
-
(5) 
Unallocated                                
2,730,000
TOTAL  
8,800,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower;  
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;  
 
(c)  
the term “foreign consulting firm” means a consulting firm which is 
registered or incorporated in the territory of any country other than that of the 
Borrower; 
 
(d) 
the term “foreign individual consultant” means an individual 
consultant who is not a citizen of the territory of the Borrower; 
 
(e) 
the term “local consulting firm” means a consulting firm which is 
registered or incorporated in the territory of the Borrower; 
 
(f) 
the term “local individual consultant” means an individual consultant 
who is a citizen of the territory of the Borrower; 
 
(g) 
the term “eligible social charges” means the employer’s contribution 
to social and medical charges assessed by the Borrower on employment contracts 
with citizens of the Borrower; 
 
(h) 
the term “training” means training for Participating Apa Canals staff, 
MECTD staff, PIU staff and sector specialists; and  
 
(i) 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs of the PIU” means expenditures 
incurred by the PIU on account of management of Project implementation for office 
supplies, rent, utilities, communications, office equipment, operating expenses, bank 
charges for the Special Account, and salaries of staff, including eligible social charges, 
but excluding salaries of civil servants, and such other expenditures as may be agreed 
upon by the Association. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) Categories (1) and (2) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this 
Page  19
-
17
-
Schedule in respect of each Participating Apa Canal, unless: (i) the Subsidiary Credit 
Agreement, satisfactory to the Association, has been executed and delivered on behalf of 
the Borrower and the respective Participating Apa Canal; (ii) the respective Participating 
Apa Canal has signed its Service Contract with the local operator, satisfactory to the 
Association; and (iii) the respective Participating Apa Canal has prepared an action plan, 
satisfactory to the Association, on planned expenditures for investments not identified in 
the procurement plan. 
 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) works under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (b) goods under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each; (c) services under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent each for consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent each for individual 
consultants; (d) incremental operating costs of the PIU; and (e) training, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  20
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to enhance the welfare of the population 
living in some of the poorest rural areas and medium-sized towns and cities by 
improving the quality, efficiency and sustainability of water supply and sanitation 
services through: (a) rehabilitating and improving operations of selected water 
and sewerage systems to increase service quality and efficiency; (b) strengthening 
Participating Apa Canals to improve sustainability; (c) improving the financial 
viability and commercial practices of the Participating Apa Canals; (d) starting to 
involve the local private sector in the above; and (e) rehabilitating water and 
sanitation services in rural areas. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives. 
 
Part A
:
Investments for Improved Urban Water Efficiency
Carrying out of least cost priority investments that are economically 
justified based on a broad investment strategy for system improvement and 
lowering energy and other operating costs, including: (a) rehabilitation of the 
water distribution systems, including piping and other items generally identified 
with water distribution systems and leak detection equipment and surveys; (b) 
provision of equipment and structural rehabilitation of facilities; (c)  provision of 
water measuring equipment; and (d) provision of water supply technical and 
administrative support systems. 
 
Part B
:
Village Water Supply
(1) 
Carrying out of urgent rehabilitation and protection of village 
water supply and sanitation. 
 
(2) 
Carrying out of a national hygiene and sanitation promotion 
campaign. 
 
(3) 
Training of community groups on public hygiene focusing on the 
poorest areas and economically disadvantaged segments of the population. 
 
Part C
:
Institutional Strengthening
Page  21
-
19
-
(1) 
Carrying out of an institutional strengthening and capacity building 
program under the National Action Water Plan. 
 
(2) 
Training of the Participating Apa Canals’ personnel based on a 
needs assessment to be prepared by the Participating Apa Canals and the 
Technical Advisors.  
 
(3) 
Carrying out of an assessment and piloting of potential options to 
facilitate the involvement of local private sector operators in the sector. 
 
Part D
:
Engineering Services and Advisors
Provision of: (a) technical assistance to the Participating Apa Canals in the 
planning, design and implementation of programs; (b) engineering services for the 
preparation of final designs and bidding documents; and (c) technical assistance 
for procurement and for supervision of construction of the civil works. 
 
Part E
:
Project Management
Provision of technical assistance and incremental operating costs to the 
PIU for purposes of Project management, including in the areas of procurement 
and financial management and auditing services.
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2007. 
Page  22
-
20
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix I thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to 
be carried out by domestic contractors.
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 
2. International 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Procurement Guidelines.  
 
3. National 
Shopping
Page  23
-
21
-
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.  
 
4. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. 
The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the 
Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the 
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) all contracts for goods and works procured in 
accordance with international competitive bidding procedures, referred to in Part B 
above; and (ii) the first two contracts for works procured in accordance with national 
competitive bidding procedures, referred to in Part C.1 above, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to: (i) the first contract for goods procured in accordance 
with international shopping procedures, referred to in Part C.2 above; (ii) the first 
contract for goods procured in accordance with national shopping procedures, referred to 
in Part C.3 above; and (iii) the first two contracts for small works procured in accordance 
with the procedures for small works, referred to in Part C.4 above, the following 
procedures shall apply: 
 
(A) 
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures 
and small works procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Page  24
-
22
-
Association a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received; 
 
(B) 
prior to the execution of any contract under shopping procedures 
and small works procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Association a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; 
and  
 
(C) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of  this Section. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 
and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Page  25
-
23
-
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Auditing services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
4. 
Single Source Selection
Services for the National Water Action Plan which are estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to 
consultants of any requests for proposals.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  26
-
24
-
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, terms of reference and 
terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
 
(c) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000; and (ii) each contract for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than the equivalent of 
$50,000, the terms of reference of the consulting firms and the individual consultants 
shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall 
be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
Page  27
-
25
-
SCHEDULE 4
 
Implementation Program 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the requirements set 
forth or referred to in the PIP. 
 
2. 
(i) 
The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that the PIU 
shall be fully operational in a manner satisfactory to the Association by July 15, 2003.  
 
 
(ii) 
The Borrower shall maintain the PIU until completion of the Project with 
staff, in particular, but not limited to, the Project Coordinator, procurement manager and 
financial officer, and resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
shall assign to it responsibility for overall Project management and coordination, 
including: 
 
(a)  
preparation of withdrawal applications under the Credit; 
 
(b)  
management of the Special Account referred to in Section 2.02 
(b) of this Agreement;  
 
(c) 
maintenance of records and accounts related to the Project and 
arranging for the audit thereof; 
 
(d) 
participation in administration of bidding procedures and of 
contracts under the Project; and 
 
(e)  
preparation of quarterly progress reports and submission thereof 
to the Borrower and the Association not later than 30 days after 
the end of each quarter, the first such report to be furnished to 
the Association not later than December 31, 2003. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through the PIU, shall prepare and furnish to the Association by 
November 30 in each year, for its review and concurrence: (a) an annual work program 
for the Project for the following calendar year, including procurement and financing 
plans; and (b) an annual progress report. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall maintain the Steering Committee until completion of the 
Project, with composition and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.  
 
5. 
The Borrower shall ensure that all measures necessary for the carrying out of  the 
Environmental Management Plan shall be taken in a timely manner and in compliance 
with: (a) environmental standards satisfactory to the Association; and (b) all applicable 
laws and regulations of the Borrower relating to health, safety and environmental 
Page  28
-
26
-
protection, and shall include adequate information on the carrying out of such measures 
in the quarterly progress reports referred to in paragraph 2 (e) of this Schedule. 
 
6. 
The Borrower shall ensure that each Participating Apa Canal shall take, in a 
timely manner, all measures necessary for the carrying out of the Environmental 
Management Plan with respect to Parts A and C of the Project and in compliance with: 
(a) environmental standards satisfactory to the Association; and (b) all applicable laws 
and regulations of the Borrower relating to health, safety and environmental protection, 
and shall include adequate information on the carrying out of such measures in the 
quarterly progress reports referred to in paragraph 2 (e) of this Schedule. 
 
7. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association outlined in the relevant supplemental letter, the carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof;  
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association on or about September 30, 2005, a mid-term report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by December 31, 2005, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
Page  29
-
27
-
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Principal Terms and Conditions of 
the Subsidiary Credit Agreements 
 
The following terms and conditions shall be included in the Subsidiary Credit 
Agreements entered into pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement: 
 
Part A
:
Terms
1. 
Each Participating Apa Canal shall repay to the Borrower the aggregate amount 
of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account, from time to time, for 
carrying out Parts A and C of the Project (the Subsidiary Credit) over a period of not less 
than twenty (20) years and not to exceed forty (40) years, including a grace period of not 
less than five (5) years and not to exceed ten (10) years. 
 
2. 
The Subsidiary Credit shall be denominated in United States Dollars and repaid 
to the Borrower, at least semi-annually, in Lei, at the official sale rate of exchange as 
determined by the National Bank of Moldova on the respective dates on which the 
proceeds of the Subsidiary Credit are repaid by the Participating Apa Canal. 
 
3. 
The Participating Apa Canal shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Subsidiary Credit, withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at the maximum rate of 
1.5% per annum. 
 
4. 
The Participating Apa Canal shall pay to the Borrower a portion of the applicable 
commitment charges payable under Section 2.04 of this Agreement, allocable to the part 
of the proceeds of the Credit relent but not withdrawn by the Participating Apa Canal. 
 
5. 
All Subsidiary Credit Agreements shall be subject to the Association’s prior 
review and agreement. 
 
6. 
Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, each 
Participating Apa Canal shall enter into the respective Subsidiary Credit Agreement within 
six months of the Effective Date of this Agreement. 
 
Part B
:
Obligations to Carry out the Project Activities 
1. 
The Participating Apa Canal shall declare its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, 
and, to this end, shall carry out, with the Borrower’s assistance through the 
MECTD, the activities related to the Participating Apa Canal as described in Parts 
A
and C of the Project, and in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in the PIP, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
Page  30
-
28
-
appropriate administrative, financial, water supply, sanitation and environmental 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Parts A and C of the 
Project.  
 
2.  
The Participating Apa Canal shall duly perform all its obligations under 
the respective Subsidiary Credit Agreement. Except as the Borrower and the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Participating Apa Canal shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Credit Agreement or any provision thereof.  
 
3. 
The Participating Apa Canal shall, as part of its responsibility for 
implementation of Parts A and C of the Project prepare and furnish to the 
Borrower and the Association by November 30 in each year, for its review and 
concurrence, an annual work program for Parts A and C of the Project and 
prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Association semi-annual reports on 
the progress of Project implementation.    
 
4. 
Procurement of the goods, works and services required for Parts A and C 
of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
5. 
The Participating Apa Canal shall maintain records and procedures 
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Parts A and C of the Project 
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the goods, 
works and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose 
their use in the Project. 
 
6. 
(a) 
The Participating Apa Canal shall, at the request of the Borrower 
and the  Association, exchange views with the Borrower and the Association with 
regard to the progress of Parts A and C of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under the respective Subsidiary Credit Agreement, and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Credit and shall enable representatives of the 
Borrower and of the Association to visit the facilities, construction sites or other 
activities to be financed under the Subsidiary Credit Agreement.  
 
(b) 
The Participating Apa Canal shall promptly inform the Borrower 
and the Association of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere 
with the progress of Parts A and C of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by the Participating Apa Canal of its 
obligations under the Subsidiary Credit Agreement.  
Page  31
-
29
-
7. 
The Participating Apa Canal shall properly operate and maintain the 
facilities financed from the proceeds of the Credit. 
 
Page  32
-
30
-
Part C
:
Implementation Conditions
1. 
Not later than the signing of the Subsidiary Credit Agreement, the 
Participating Apa Canal shall appoint an existing employee of said Participating 
Apa Canal with terms of reference, qualifications and experience satisfactory to 
the Borrower and the Association, who shall be responsible for coordination with 
the Borrower’s implementing agencies.  
 
2. 
The Participating Apa Canal shall cooperate fully with: (a) the MECTD as 
an executing agency to ensure that the purposes of the Project will be 
accomplished; and (b) the PIU to enable the PIU to carry out its responsibilities 
relating to Project management, including among other things, the administration 
of the Special Account, Project accounting, financial management, reporting, 
auditing arrangements and procurement. 
 
3. 
The Participating Apa Canal shall carry out the measures included in the 
Environmental Management Plan with respect to Parts A and C of the Project in a 
timely manner and shall provide to the PIU adequate information on the carrying 
out of such measures for inclusion in the progress reports referred to in paragraph 
2
(e) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
4. 
The Participating Apa Canal shall inform the Borrower and the 
Association about any investment project which significantly affects the financial 
situation of the Participating Apa Canal, and shall inform the Borrower and the 
Association of the results of relevant feasibility studies in order to enable the 
Borrower and the Association to provide their opinion regarding said investment 
project. 
 
Page  33
-
31
-
SCHEDULE 6 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $500,000, until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,000,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall 
specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for 
Page  34
-
32
-
the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
Page  35
-
33
-
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions.
 
