Moldova: Pilot Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Village Water Supply Component
Draft
E649
Environmental Management Plan
Rehabilitation of the Water System
Of the Village of Corjeva
Project Implementation Unit
Chisinau
October, 2005






Table of Contents
I.    Introduction
II.   Project Description
III.  Discussion of Impact
IV.   Mitigation and Monitoring Plan
V.    Institutional Arrangements
VI.   Training requirements and costs
VII.  Consultations and Disclosure
VIII. Environmental Safeguards for all contracts for works



Moldova: Pilot Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Environmental Management Plan
Village of Corjeva
I.    INTRODUCTION
1.1   The environmental review for the Pilot Water Supply and sanitation (PWSS)
Project, designated as Category B on the basis of minimal impact from rehabilitation,
provided for the preparation of an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) for the
Project. The EMP was provided to the Bank in August of 2002. At that time there was
only a preliminary shortlist of targets for inclusion under the village component. This
document, therefore, has been prepared by the PIU of the PWSS for the village of
Corjeva in order to assure compliance with the understanding of the 2002 EMP and the
overall safeguard requirements of the World Bank and permitting requirements of the
Government of Moldova.
1.2   The investment proposed for Corjeva covers the main section of the village but
excludes an adjacent area. Should investment be expanded or redefined to address the
remaining section, a separate EMP would be prepared for that section.
1.3   The information provided in this EMP follows the information provided in the
EMP for the PWSS provided to the INFOShop of the World Bank on November 14,
2002. It also confirms with instructions provided to the PIU by the World Bank
Safeguard Specialist on September 1, 2005.
II.   PROJECT DESCRIPTION
2.1   Description of the Village- The village of Corjeva has a population of about 4,000
people. It is located on a hill that slopes to the right bank of the Nistru River. The
majority of the villagers farm adjacent plots of land or work outside the village. There is
no industry located in the village. The village has a kindergarten as well as a combined
primary and secondary school. There is a village library and an office for the office of
the mayor.
2.2   The city follows a grid pattern. Most household lots include a small garden area,
and many are walled or fenced. Most of the houses are served by telephone, electricity,
and gas, the later of which has been made available recently though a local gas users
association.
2.3   Baseline Situation: The water system is over 40 years old and suffers from a lack
of maintenance. Currently the system is not operating, and the residents are forced to
draw water from shallow wells with uncertain water quality. The majority of homes in
the central section of the village were connected to and served by the previous system.



2.4   Obiective of the Project: The objective of the project is to restore the service
level of the existing but malfunctioning system. The work to be performed includes the
replacement of pipe, repair of the artisan wells, replacement of pumps, and the
installation of individual water meters.
III.  DISCUSSION OF IMPACT
3.1   The primary impacts expected from the project are confined to
* Impact on immediate locality from Rehabilitation of artesian wells
* Impact on immediate locality from replacement of distribution pipes
* Hygiene and sanitation
* Chance Finds: not likely but plans for notification of Ministry of Culture and
work stoppage.
IV.   MITIGATION AND MONITORING PLAN
4.1   Although it is not anticipated that there would be any significant impact resulting
from the rehabilitation, every effort will be made to minimize whatever impact may
occur. Since the impact is expected to be minimal, the steps to be taken and the
corresponding monitoring process are shown in summary form in Appendix 1.
4.2   Cost: It is not anticipated that there will be any costs that exceed the regular
exercise of good practice by the contractors.
4.3   Institutional Responsibility: Responsibility for monitoring will be carried out by
the PIU, the Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources (including local level
representation), Ministry of Health, Sanitary Epidemiological Stations, the Office of the
Mayor, the User Association, and the Works Managers/Contractors. (See Appendix 1).
V.    INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
5.1   Role of PIU: The PIU is the initiating agent for the contracts and will assure that
all work is in compliance with World Bank policies and procedures related to safeguard
protection.
5.2   Role of User Association:  The user association will be responsible for
environmental issues upon the acceptance of the works, in collaboration with the Office
of the Mayor. It is responsible for the provision of relevant data in the Office of the
Mayor.
5.3   Role of Office of the Mayor: The Office of the Mayor is the technical owner of
the system and is responsible, in collaboration with the user association, for the operation
of the rehabilitated water system. The Mayor is responsible for acting on the basis of the
available information his office is provided.



5.4   Ministry of Health, Sanitary Epidemiological Stations: These stations provide
monitoring of drink water quality. This information is provided to the Ministry with a
copy to the Mayor.
5.5   Works Manager/Contractors: The activities related to the works being performed
in the village are crucial to the immediate and temporary impact on the community. They
will be responsible for following the specific provisions on safeguard protection included
in their contracts and must report any safeguard issues immediately to the PITU.
VI.   TRAINING REQUIREMENTS AND COSTS
6.1   PWSS: Training will be provided under the general training program offered
under the PWSS. Areas to be included are:
* System hook up and operations
* Computer training
* Sanitation and Hygiene
6.2   Case Moldova: Under a supplemental grant training related to building a user
orientation is providing selected training to the village, including:
* Environmental issues
* Losses
* Tariff calculations
* Legal issues
* Review of government specifications for water service provision
VII.  CONSULTATIONS AND DISCLOSURE\
7.1   The consultation process is important to the transparency of project preparation.
The situation in Corjeva involves an advance period of ownership of utility issues by the
gas user association and village meetings related to fund-raising for the rehabilitation of
the water system that predated the effectiveness of the PWSS. This factor was one of the
reasons for the selection of the village for inclusion on the original short-list of villages
for the village water supply component of the PWSS.
7.2   Consultations with the village occurred during the preparation of the PWSS and
into 2004. Discussions were also held with the Mayor of Cojorvo. During these sessions
participation of the villagers in the implementation process were discussed including the
provision of financial and in-kind contributions. Consultation will continue as part of the
representational process in place under the gas users association which will be
reconstituted to include a water user function as well.
7.3   Although there is this history of consultation, a review of this EMP and the issues
discussed herein will be held before the .initiation of construction. Minutes will be
attached in the final version of the EMP.



VIII. ENVIRONMENTAL SAFEGUARDS FOR ALL WORKS CONTRACTS
8.1   One of the major areas of impact will relate to works undertaken during the
rehabilitation by contractors and impact on the local residents during the performance of
these works. All contracts will require that works be performed in terms of best practice,
including the minimization of dust and noise and appropriate work-site management. A
sample of the terms to be provided in all contracts is provided in Appendix 3. This will
be adapted by the PIU for use in Moldova.



Appendix 1
Mitigation and Monitoring Plan for the village of Corjeva
The project includes many positive benefits including the reduction of water leaks, water losses and the re-establishment of system
service. The adverse impacts of the project are limited and primarily related to the impacts associated with the rehabilitation process,
including noise, dust, and increased traffic loads on local roads. No resettlement is required. No known archaeological sites are
included in the project area, but provision will be made for chance finds. The mitigation and monitoring plan is provided below.
Component and        Impact or         Mitigation      Responsible Authority    Monitoring         Responsible
Activity          Concern         Opportunities      for Implementing       Requirement        Agency for
Mitigation                           Monitoring and
Enforcement
Construction/Rehabilitation
Environmental
1.1 Rehabilitation  Impact at work site  Conformance to  Contractor as per terms  Site inspection  Project construction
of artesian wells  expected to be   standard best      in contract by PIU                       supervisor/office of
minimal           construction                                                the Mayor
practice
1.2 Replacement   Impact at work site  Conformance to  Contractor as per terms  Periodic site   Project construction
of distribution   expected to be    standard best      in contract by PIU     inspections       supervisor/office of
pipes             minimal           construction                                                the Mayor
practice
Chance finds of   Terms in contracts  Contractor as per terms  Report submission  Project construction
archaeological or  call for work     in contract by PIU     for findings and  supervisor/office of
historical value  stoppage for chance                       certification if  the Mayor
finds and                                 none in monthly
notification of                          report             Ministry of Culture
Ministry of Culture
1.3 Installation of  Impact at work site  Standard good  Contractor as per terms  Contractor as per  Project construction
water meters      expected to be    practice, advance  in contract by PIU     terms in contract  supervisor/office of
I minimal          notice to residents                      I by PIU           the Mayor



Socio-Economic!
1.1 Rehabilitation  None expected   Not applicable    [Contractor]           Not applicable    Not applicable
of artesian wells
1.2 Replacement   Noise, vibration,  Limit work to    Contractor as per terms  Periodic site   Project construction
of distribution   and dust          normal daylight    in contract by PIU    inspections       supervisor/office of
pipes                               hours, advise                                              the Mayor
community on
work schedule, use
noise/dust barriers
or suppression
devices
Road/street traffic  Close/cover     Contractor as per terms  Periodic site   Project construction
and safety        openings and/or site in contract by PIU  inspections       supervisor/office of
signage/reflectors                                         the Mayor
to warn population
Temporary water   System/household   Contractor [standard   Periodic site     Project construction
quality problems  flush program      good practice]        inspections       supervisor/office of
with hook-up                                                                  the Mayor
1.3 Installation of  None expected  Not applicable    [Contractor]           Not applicable    Not applicable
water meters
Operation
Environmental
1.1 Rehabilitation  Continue quality of Testing of water  MoH, Sanitary      Periodic report   Office of the Mayor
of artesian wells  water            quality            Epidemiological
Stations
1.2 Replacement   Water leaks and   Monitoring System  Water User            Review of         Water User
of distribution   losses            to track spikes in  Association/Office of  consumption      Association
pipes                               use               the Mayor               records
Through-put level  Conduct education  Water User            Design program    Water User
on sanitation and  program and       Association/PIU/Follow- and conduct of   Association/Office



system safety    analysis of future  up to Case Moldova   study            of the Mayor/PIU
needs
1.3 Installation of  None expected  Not applicable   [Contractor]          Not applicable   Not applicable
water meters
Social
1.1 Rehabilitation  None expected  Not applicable    [Contractor]          Not applicable   Not applicable
of artesian wells
1.2 Replacement  None expected     Not applicable    [Contractor]          Not applicable   Not applicable
of distribution
pipes
1.3 Installation of  None expected  Not applicable   [Contractor]          Not applicable   Not applicable
water meters
1.4 Water Users  Improved technical Training         PIU                   Post completion  PIU
Association      operation                                                 report, six months
[building on                                                               after installation
existing gas user
association]
Improved          Training          PIU, Chase Moldova    Post completion  PIU
management and                                           report, six months
_ tariff collection                                          after installation



Appendix 2 Minutes of Consultation



Appendix 3
Sample Contract Provisions
(Republic of Georgia)
0.13.1   This section describes the environmental mitigation requirements to be
followed by the Contractor and measures to be carried out by the
Contractor related to environmental protection.
0.13.2   Contractors shall follow all Georgian laws and regulations related to
environmental protection.  Additionally the contractor will work in
compliance with the terms specified in the Environmental Management
Plan (EMP) for the specific project segment under contract.
0.13.3   Permits
0.13.3.  Ecological Passport: Under Georgian law on Environmental Permits the
a        Contractor is responsible for the preparation and approval by the
corresponding environmental authorities of the "Ecological passport."
Ecological passports shall include but not be limited to:
1.    Technologies and methodologies utilized by the Contractor;
2.    specification of natural resources to be used (quantity and quality):
i.e. all raw material, including gravel, fill, and bituminous materials
as well as fuel and energy;
3.    Specification of final work output;
4.    list and characteristics of harmful substances to be utilized;
5.    description of climate conditions in the region where the work is
carried out and any special related concerns;
6.    meteorological characteristics and coefficients of emission into the
atmosphere;
7.    Specification of water supply sources and treatment of waste water;
8.    Specifications for cleaning equipment and processes;
9.    List of hazardous substances generated in the course of production
by the Contractor;
10.   Emissions from  construction equipment, vehicles and motor
transport.



0.13.3.  Cultural Properties: Under the Georgian Law on Cultural Heritage the
b        contractor, prior to conducting any construction activities is required to
have an archaeological clearance from the Center for Archaeological
Studies (CAS).
0.13.3.c  Materials: The contractor will restrict the use of materials to sources
appropriately licensed under Georgian legislation for permits.  The
contractor will be responsible for having on file evidence of such permits.
0.13.4   Noise and Dust: The Contractor shall elaborate and adopt effective
measures both in management and technology to minimize noise,
especially in proximity to residential areas. The contractor should conduct
appropriate prior maintenance to minimize the noise-level of equipment.
The use of high-level noise generating plant and equipment shall not be
carried out at night unless otherwise approved by the Ptoject Manager. All
noise not relating to the construction shall be avoided as far as possible.
The contractor will specify and follow mitigation measures to control dust
from the operation of equipment and construction. If stone crushing
operations are undertaken at site, care shall be taken to ensure that any dust
emanating from the operations is contained to prevent nuisance to
adjoining properties.
0.13.5   Waste material and rubbish: Waste material and rubbish shall be piled
and disposed in time or removed to a dumping place approved by the
Project Manager and the local environmental protection department. If the
disposal or removal can not be carried out in time, the Contractor shall
cover the waste materials to protect the site from pollution.
0.13.6   Staff Conditions: The contractor shall provide the personnel involved in
construction with living conditions, health, and sanitation services.
0.13.7   Sewage: The contractor will contain, collect, and treat any sewage in
accordance with the requirements of environment protection and as
approved by the Project Manager and the local department of
environmental protection.
0.13.9   Social Issues:  The contractor will follow  social mitigation actions
outlined in the Land Acquisition or Resettlement Action plan for each
segment. In the case of disputes, the contractor will refer the issue to the
Project Manager.



0.13.10  Chance Finds:  Unexpected incidents involving land use, including
squatters, or cultural properties uncovered during construction will be
immediately referred to the Project Manager for appropriate resolution. In
the interim the contractor will cease operations at the contested point. The
extent of the restricted area will be confirmed by the Project Manager (see
policy Frameworks in the EMP).
0.13.11  Supervision and Monitoring. The Supervising Engineer serving as the
project manager will be responsible for monitoring and verifying that all
construction is in compliance with the terms of the EMP and that there
have been deviations from neither the terms of this contract or the EMP.
0.13.12  Payment. There will be no payment for actions taken in support of the
environmental protection as specified in this section. All costs associated
with this task will be considered as being covered by the overall payments
specified in the contract for the construction work.



I
I



I
i
i
i
11
i
I
I
4
I
i



