Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2546 SL
(Amendment)
Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 15, 1994
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT NUMBER 2546 SL
(Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 15, 1994, between the REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (Structural Adjustment Credit), dated October 15, 1993, (the 
Development Credit Agreement) for the purpose of assisting in the financing of the 
program referred to in Recital (A) of the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement 
(the Program);
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional 
assistance towards the financing of the Program by increasing the amount made 
available under the Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to one hundred forty thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 140,000); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agree-ment;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Amendments to the Development
Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by:
(i)
deleting the word "and" at the end of definition "h";
     (ii)
deleting the period at the end of definition (i) and substituting 
therefor a semi-colon and the word "and";
    (iii)
adding next after definition (i) the following new definition:
"(j) 'Amending Agreement' means the Agreement Amending the 
Development Credit Agreement between the Borrower and the 
Association, dated March 15, 1994."; and
     (iv)
the deletion in definition (d), namely, "First Tranche" of the 
amount of "SDR 14,300,000" and the substitution therefor of the 
amount of "SDR 14,440,000".
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agree-ment is amended to 
read as follows:
"Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-six million 
forty thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 36,040,000) (the Credit), which 
includes an original amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-five 
million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 35,900,000) and an 
additional amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred forty 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 140,000)."
Section 1.03. Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement is amended by the 
deletion in paragraph 4 (a) thereof of the amount of "SDR 14,300,000" and the 
substitution therefor of the amount of "SDR 14,440,000".
Section 1.04. The following paragraph is added next after paragraph 5 of 
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement: 
"6.  After a date twelve months from the date of the Amending Agreement, 
no withdrawals shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay amounts to 
or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Additional Financing. At any time after such date, the Association 
may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Additional 
Financing from the Credit Account or any part thereof."
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Agreement shall not become effective until evidence 
satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that the 
execution and delivery of this Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been duly 
authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pur-suant to Section 2.01 
of this Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or opinions 
satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association showing, on 
behalf of the Borrower, that this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, 
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its acceptance of the 
evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Agreement shall not have come into force and effect by a 
date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement, this Agreement and all 
obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the Association 
establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section. If this Agreement shall 
terminate under the provisions of this Section, the Development Credit Agreement shall 
continue in full force and effect, as if this Agreement had not been executed.
Page  3
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
By /s/ Thomas K. Kargbo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Katherine Marshall
Acting Regional Vice-President
Africa
