Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2546-3 SL
(Third Amendment)
Third Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 18, 1996
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT NUMBER 2546-3 SL
(Third Amendment)
THIRD AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 18, 1996, between the REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (Structural Adjustment Credit), dated October 15, 1993, as amended by 
the Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement dated March 15, 1994 and the 
Second Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement dated January 23, 1995 (the 
said Agreements being hereinafter together referred to as the Development Credit 
Agreement) for the purpose of assisting in the financing of the program referred to in 
Recital (A) of the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement (the Program);
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional 
assistance towards the financing of the Program by increasing the amount made 
available under the Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 200,000); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Amendments to the Development
Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by:
(a)
the deletion of the definition "Third Tranche" in definition (f) thereof 
and the substitution therefor of the following new definition:
'(f)
"Third Tranche" means an amount equivalent to SDR 11,000,000;';
(b)
the addition, next after definition "Second Amending Agreement" in 
definition (k) thereof, of the followin new definition:
'(k)
"Third Amending Agreement" means the The Third Agreement Amending 
the Development Credit Agreement between the Borrower and the Association, 
dated January 18, 1996;';
(c)
the deletion of definition "Amending Agreements" in definition (l) 
thereof and the substitution therefor of the following new definition:
'(l)
"Amending Agreements" means the First Amending Agreement, the 
Second Amending Agreement and the Third Amending Agreement;';
(d)
the addition, next after definition "Second Additional Financing" in 
definition (n) of the following new definition:
'(nn)
"Third Additional Financing" means the additional financing 
provided under the Third Amending Agreement;';
(e)
the deletion of definition "Additional Financings" in definition (o) 
thereof and the substitution therefor of the following new definition:
'(o)
"Additional Financings" means the First Additional Financing, the 
Second Additional Financing and the Third Additional Financing.';
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agree-ment is 
amended to read as follows:
"Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-six million 
four hundred forty thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 36,440,000) (the 
Credit), which includes an original amount in various currencies equivalent to 
thirty-five million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
35,900,000) and the following additional amounts in various currencies 
equivalent to: (i) one hundred forty thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
140,000) (the First Additional Financing); (ii) two hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 200,000) (the Second Additional Financing); and two 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 200,000) (the Third Additional 
Financing)". 
Section 1.03. Section 2.04 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by 
the addition at the end of the said Section of the following proviso:
"provided, however, that any commitment charge on any of the Additional 
financings shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Amending 
Agreement under which such Additional Financing is provided."
Section 1.04. After a date twelve months from the date of any of the Amending 
Agreements, no withdrawals shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to 
pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Additional Financing concerned. At any time after 
such date, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn 
amount of such Additional Financing from the Credit Account or any part thereof."
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Agreement shall not become effective until evidence 
Page  3
satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that the 
execution and delivery of this Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been duly 
authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pur-suant to Section 2.01 
of this Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or opinions 
satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association showing, on 
behalf of the Borrower, that this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, 
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its acceptance of the 
evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Agreement shall not have come into force and effect by a 
date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement, this Agreement and all 
obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the Association 
establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section. If this Agreement shall 
terminate under the provisions of this Section, the Development Credit Agreement shall 
continue in full force and effect, as if this Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
By /s/ T. K. Kargbo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
Regional Vice-President
Africa
