Document of
THE WORLD BANK
Report No. 16368-TO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
ROAD TRANSPORT PROJECT
August 15, 1997
Transport Group 2
Infrastructure Department
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of May 31, 1997)
Currency Unit = CFA franc (CFAF)
US$ 1.00 = CFAF 574.5
CFAF 1,000 =USS 1.741
SDR 1.0 = USS 1.392
FISCAL YEAR
January 01 - December 31
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: Metric
I meter                               3.28 feet
I hectare (ha)         =             2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)       =              0.625 miles
I liter        3                      0.220 imperial gallon (1)
I cubic meter (m3)     =             220 1
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB                     African Development Bank
CAS                      Country Assistance Strategy
CFD                      Caisse Francaise de Developpement (French Development Fund)
DGT                      Direction Gdn&rale des Transports (General Directorate of Transport)
DGTP                     Direction Generale des Travaux Publics (General Directorate of Public Works
DMTP                     Direction du Materiel de Travaux Publics (Public Works Equipment Pool)
DTR                      Direction des Transports Routiers (Road Transport Division)
EDF                      European Development Fund
ERAC                     Economic Recovery and Adjustment Credit
ERR                      Economic Rate of Return
FRD                      Feeder Road Department
GDP                      Gross Domestic Product
GOT                      Government of Togo
ICB                      International Competitive Bidding
IDA                      International Development Agency
HDM                      Highway Design Model
hlAEP                    Ministry of Agriculture, Breeding and Fishing
MMETPT                   Ministry of Mines, Equipment. Transport, Posts and Telecommunications
NCB                      National Competitive Bidding
NCCRR                    National Coordination Committee for Rural Roads
NEP                      National Environmental Plan
NGO(s)                   Nongovernmental Organization(s)
NPV                      Net Present Value
NRSC                     National Road Safety Council
NTC                      National Transport Council
ORS                      Office of Road Safety
PIM                      Project Implementation Manual
R.MF                     Road Maintenance Fund
RSIP                     Road Sector Investment Program
RTP                      Road Transport Project
SAFICC                   commercialization firm of coffee and cocoa
SDR                      Special Drawing Rights
SET                      Secretariat d'Etat aux Transports (State Transport Secretariat)
SMEs                     Small and Medium Enterprises
SOTOCO                   Societe Togolaise du Coton (Togolese Cotton Company)
TSIP                     Transport Sector Investment Program
TSS                      Transport Sector Strategy
VIC                      Vehicle Inspection Center
Vice President:         Jean-Louis Sarbib, AFR
Country Director:       Theodore Ahlers, AFC13
Technical Manager:      Marvvonne Plessis-Fraissard, AFTT2
Task Team Leader:       Hedi Larbi, AFTT2.



REPUBLIC OF TOGO
ROAD TRANSPORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
1. BACKGROUND
A. INTRODUCTION ......................................................................                                                     1
B. MACROECONOMIC  CONTEXT ................................I......................................I
C. DEVELOPMENT CONSTRAINTS AND BROAD OBJECTIVES ..................................................2
2. TRANSPORT IN TOGO
A. TRANSPORT  SECTOR  CONTEXT .......................................................................4
B. ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL SITUATION OF THE SECTOR ..................................................5
C. SECTOR MANAGEMENT: PUBLIC AND PRIVATE STAKEHOLDERS ...................................6
D. LESSONS LEARNED FROM INVOLVEMENT OF THE WORLD BANK GROUP AND
OTHER DONORS IN THE TOGOLESE TRANSPORT SECTOR .................................................9
E. TRANSPORT  SECTOR  ISSUES AND  STRATEGY ...................................................................... I 1
3. ROAD TRANSPORT PROJECT
A. TRANSPORT  SECTOR  PROGRAM  AND  OBJECTIVES ............................................................ 19
B. PROJECT  DESCRIPTION ......................................................................                                           20
C. PROJECT  COST AND  FINANCING ......................................................................                                   23
D. PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION ......................................................................                                        25
E. PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT .29
F. ACCOUNTING, AUDITING AND REPORTING ...................................................                                                 32
G. SUPERVISION PLAN ...................................................                                                                  33
4. BENEFITS, IMPACTS AND RISKS
A. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ...................................................                                                                 35
B. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS ...................................................                                                             37
C. POVERTY REDUCTION ...................................................                                                                 38
D. PROJECT RISKS ...................................................                                                                     38
5. AGREEMENTS, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION
A. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED BEFORE NEGOTIATIONS ................................................. 41
B. RECOMMENDATION ...................................................                                                                    43
ANNEXES
A. GOVERNMENT STRATEGY LETTER (POLICY LETTER OF 29 MAY, 1996)
B. DETAILED PROJECT COSTS, SCHEDULE, AND INDICATORS
C. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
D. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
E. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
F. DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
MAPS
IBRD 28741
IBRD 28742






REPUBLIC OF TOGO
ROAD TRANSPORT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Republic of Togo
Beneficiary:           Ministry of Mines, Equipment, Transport, Posts and
Telecommunications (MMETPT).
Implementing Agencies  Direction Gen6rale des Travaux Publics (DGTP)
Direction Generale des Transports (DGT)
Poverty:               The project does not include specific targeted interventions to
reduce poverty. It will contribute to poverty alleviation by
reducing transport costs, resulting in higher farm-gate prices
for farmers, lower expenses for transport operators, and lower
prices for consumers of rural produce and manufactured
goods. The project will improve access to social services and
markets, especially in rural areas. The project will also
stimulate the private sector and create employment by
providing opportunities for small and medium enterprises
(SMEs) in road rehabilitation and maintenance.
Credit Amount:         SDR 36.0 million (US$ 50 million)
Terms:                 Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Commitment fee:        Standard IDA commitment fee
Project Description:   The Government of Togo (GOT) has identified road
maintenance as the major priority within the ten-year
program for the transport sector. Road maintenance would
cost about 109 billion CFA francs over the next six years.
The IDA Credit would address the most important priorities
of the government through the following components:
(a) National Road rehabilitation and maintenance:
US$ 48.6 million, of which US$ 24.6 million are for
rehabilitation, US$ 19.4 million are for periodic maintenance,
and US$ 3.6 million are for toll both construction, studies
and follow-up; (b) Institutional strengthening for road sector
management: US$ 3.6 million, consisting of short-term
technical assistance, training and equipment; (c) Road safety:



ii
US$ 1.0 million, of which US$ 700,000 are for the
construction and equipment of a vehicle inspection center,
and US$ 300,000 are for institutional strengthening in this
domain; and (d) Rehabilitation and management of rural
roads: US$ 1.6 million, of which US$ 1.0 million is for
rehabilitation and periodic maintenance works, and
US$ 630,000 are to strengthen rural road management and
support rural communities to foster their involvement in
managing feeder roads. The local contribution will amount
US$ 4.8 million from the Government (US$ 3.7 million), the
Road Maintenance Fund (US$ 1.0 million) and beneficiaries
(US$ 0.1 million).
Financing plan:       IDA          US$ 50 million
GOT         US$ 4.7 million, of which US$ 1.0 million
will be provided through the Road
Maintenance Fund
Beneficiaries  US$ 0.1 million estimated local, in-kind
contributions
Net Present Value:    CFAF 500 billion for the National Road rehabilitation and
maintenance component
Benefits:             All road improvements will reduce transport time and vehicle
operating costs, leading to a reduction in overall transport
costs. Reduction of transport costs will lower the cost of
transported goods, encouraging agricultural production and
trade. Reduction of transport costs will likewise lower
passenger fares, encouraging mobility. Other, non-quantified
benefits are expected to flow from IDA-supported activities
that improve management and planning. Effective use of the
priority program as an investment tool should result in higher
rates of return on investments in the transport sector as a
whole. Development of a community-based, demand-driven
rural roads maintenance strategy will lead to more effective
use of resources. Better planning and contract management,
based on improved road data, will enable maintenance of
more roads with the same budget. Improvements in road
safety will reduce the cost of traffic accidents in terms of
human life and productivity, and damage to vehicles.
Risks:                The project is part of a sectoral reform effort, therefore the
main risks to IDA-supported components relate to new and
innovative activities. These are: (a) inadequate
replenishment of the Road Maintenance Fund. The RMF
resources are directly collected and transferred by an
independent oil company ensuring independence from the



iii
general budget; (b) uncertainty of community participation
in feeder road management. The Project will support
community mobilization through local NGOs already
involved in rural infrastructure management; (c) insufficient
local SME technical capacity, including the risk of long
delays in works execution. Targeted training and technical
assistance to local SMEs will be provided along with on-site
support and supervision; and (d) lack of donor coordination.
To overcome this risk, annual sector review and biannual
donors' meeting will be organized by the GOT to coordinate
interventions and raise additional funds for the priority
program. Another minor risk concerns transformation of
sector institutions. Institutional restructuring is already well
advanced and most important reorganization will take place
prior to Credit effectiveness; support from the project will
consolidate this restructuring.
Maps:                  IBRD 28741
IBRD 28742
Project ID Number:     TG-PE-2875






1. BACKGROUND
A. INTRODUCTION
1.1   Recognizing the importance of transport to national economic growth, the
Government of Togo (GOT) has developed a Transport Sector Strategy (TSS) with the
active participation of sector stakeholders and donors. This strategy, adopted in May
1996, is to be operationalized under the Government's ten-year Transport Sector
Investment Program (TSIP) from 1997 to 2006. The TSIP comprises investments and
institutional and policy reforms designed to support implementation of strategy objectives
to rehabilitate road infrastructure, establish an effective road maintenance system and
modernize the sector's institutional environment. The GOT has requested IDA assistance
in financing the first, priority tranche of this program, aimed at improving the condition
of transport infrastructure, and assuring sound management and sustainable autonomous
development of the transport sector, with the active participation of the private sector and
local communities.
1.2   Road transport carries 98 percent of demand for transport services, using a
severely degraded road network. The priority program and the proposed IDA Credit
project therefore focus primarily on the road subsector, through rehabilitation of
infrastructure and establishment of a sustainable maintenance system. The priority
program and proposed IDA Credit also support institutional strengthening for the
transport sector as a whole.
B. MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT
1.3   Located on the Gulf of Guinea in Western Africa. Togo is a low-income country
with a population of approximately 4 million and a 1994 per capita Gross Domestic
Product (GDP) of US$ 390. Urban populations are growing at 6.5 percent per year,
double the national average growth rate of 3.1 percent. Despite this high urban growth
rate, it is expected that half of the country's population will still be living in rural areas by
2010, down from a 1993 level of 72 percent, maintaining the pressure on already fragile
rural infrastructure.
1.4   The economy is based on three main areas of activity: agriculture, services and
phosphate mining and export. Agriculture employs 75 percent of the active population,
and accounts for 38 percent of GDP. The service sector, mainly commerce and transit
activities, currently accounts for 36 percent of GDP. Phosphates make up 41 percent of
exports. Transport, supporting these main engines of growth, is therefore central to the
economy. Togo is one of the corridors to the Sahel (the Togolese corridor), in particular
to Burkina Faso (to which it channels 31 percent of its overseas imports), and to a lesser



2
extent to Niger, Mali, northern Ghana and northern Benin. The main transport
infrastructure consists of a network of more than 3,000 km of major national roads, 276
km of operating rail lines and a deep water port in Lome.
1.5   Until the early 1990's, Togo was known for its political stability and strong
economic growth. The political crisis of 1991-1993 resulted in a severe depression, from
which the Togolese economy is just beginning to recover. The 1994 CFA Franc (CFAF)
devaluation resulted in a 8.3 percent growth in GDP by 1995. However, 1995 GDP
(217.2 billion in 1978 CFAF) still lags nearly 4 percent behind that of 1989 (225.3 billion
in 1978 CFAF). Public finances have likewise improved somewhat since the crisis: the
net deficit has dropped from a 1993post-crisis high of 15.3 percent of GDP to 8.4 percent
in 1995, due to a combination of increased revenues and more contained State
expenditures. Arrears payments have dropped to CFAF 77.8 billion on a total estimated,
on December 31, 1994, at CFAF 108.9 billion, due to external debt forgiveness and
rescheduling.
1.6   To promote sustainable economic growth, the GOT has engaged in a new
development strategy, supported by the IDA Economic Recovery Adjustment Credit
(ERAC) for the period 1996-1998. In line with the Bank's 1995 Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) for Togo, ERAC's main objectives are to correct economic imbalances
and to facilitate growth in equity. These objectives translate into sectoral measures to: (a)
diversify agricultural production and exportation in which Togo has a comparative
advantage in external markets; (b) regenerate the manufacturing sector through small and
medium enterprises (SMEs) and private investment; (c) revive the service sector, in
which Togolese economic agents have been successful in the past; (d) create an enabling
environment to transform Lome into a regional trade and financial center; and (e) reduce
State expenditures, particularly those that are not directly productive, and increase
budgetary resource mobilization.
1.7   ERAC refocuses public expenditures to give priority to health, education, and the
rehabilitation of basic economic and social infrastructure, such as roads, water and
sanitation. Over the short term, the emphasis will be on the rehabilitation and
maintenance of infrastructure using labor-intensive techniques to promote employment.
The Transport Sector Strategy and the TSIP reflect these same priorities and focus on
improving and maintaining the existing road infrastructure as a means of providing Togo
with a competitive transport network. Restored transport competitiveness will enable the
country to resume its significant role in regional trade, promote agricultural production,
and reduce rural poverty.
C. DEVELOPMENT CONSTRAINTS AND BROAD OBJECTIVES
Country Assistance Strategy Linkages
1.8   The Bank's CAS for Togo promotes sustainable, private-sector led growth and
poverty reduction. To achieve these objectives, Bank assistance takes a two-pronged
approach, supporting: (a) Government efforts to mobilize and allocate resources



3
effectively, and reform public enterprises; and (b) broad policy reforms and targeted
investments to enhance participation in economic growth, especially by the poor, create a
favorable environment for private sector development, and increase the efficiency and
sustainability of natural resource management. Over the short-term, Bank assistance
focuses on rehabilitating essential transport and energy infrastructure, and restoring
social services, which suffered during the political crisis. In its current state, this
infrastructure significantly reduces the development potential of the country. Throughout
the assistance strategy, planned operations will emphasize strengthening public sector
management of infrastructure and services.
1.9   The CAS identifies degraded physical infrastructure as a major constraint to
development. Given the importance of transport to the national economy, and to regional
development, the CAS places primary importance on rehabilitating Togo's transport
infrastructure, improving sector management and service provision, and assuring the
sector sustainability. Rehabilitation and sustainable management of the road subsector
are a first priority for revitalizing the economy. Improvements in road infrastructure,
services and management will revitalize the transit trade economy, boost agricultural
production, create jobs and increase accessibility to services, especially in rural areas.
1.10  Accordingly, the proposed project focuses on rehabilitating vital road networks,
improving their management, and ensuring their sustainability. This latter recognizes the
importance of continuous and adequate infrastructure maintenance. The project therefore
promotes establishment of an efficient road maintenance system, based on a clearly
defined sector strategy and prioritized works program, that includes: (a) creation of an
autonomous Road Maintenance Fund (RMF) to mobilize resources for continuous
maintenance financing; (b) reorganization of road maintenance institutions to facilitate
involvement of the private sector and communities in infrastructure maintenance works;
and (c) streamlined, transparent procurement and management procedures.



4
2. TRANSPORT IN TOGO
A. TRANSPORT SECTOR CONTEXT
2.1   The Togolese transport system is relatively well-developed, having evolved
through strategic investment choices over the past 20 years. With adequate maintenance,
this system has the capacity to respond to Togo's medium-term development needs.
Road infrastructure consists of a dense road network (0.13 km/kM2), 9,600 km in length,
of which 1,608 km are paved, 1,461 km are earth roads, and 4,500 km are improved rural
tracks. The remainder consists of ordinary rural tracks. The principal axis,
accommodating more than 50 percent of Togo's road traffic, is the international highway,
RN1, running north from Lome to the border with Burkina Faso. The second major axis
is the coastal road, linking Togo to Ghana and Benin. The rail network consists of 570
km of rail lines, of which only the 276 km line from Lome to Blitta is currently in use.
The port at Lome, operated by an autonomous agency, is an important regional facility
with large storage capacity and more than 800 meters of berth, able to accommodate up to
3 million tons a year; an open-sea wharf at Kpeme facilitates the export of phosphates.
Air transport infrastructure consists of an international airport at Lome, with a yearly
capacity of 700,000 travelers and 10,000 tons of freight, and 6 secondary national
airports, including the airport at Niamtougou, which is operational but lacks commercial
traffic.
2.2   Supply and Demand for Transport Services. Transport activities were
profoundly affected by the crisis. Road traffic demand, which had been growing at an
annual rate of 3 to 6 percent since 1980, dropped dramatically at the beginning of the
1990s to its lowest point since the beginning of the previous decade. The return to
relative political stability in 1994 sparked a sectoral recovery, consolidated in 1995.
However, it is unlikely that anticipated demand will lead to any real increased
infrastructure capacity until 2002. After two decades of steady growth, Lome's port
traffic fell from a 1990 high of 2 million tons to 1 million tons in 1993. Air traffic fell
from 414,000 passengers and 6,512 tons of goods in 1991 to 191,000 passengers and
3,200 tons in 1994. Rail traffic has been declining steadily since 1975: passenger traffic
had ceased entirely by 1996; freight traffic had fallen from 517,000 tons to 35,000 tons
by 1994.
2.3   Road transport supply is diversified and adequate. Liberalized in the early
eighties, road transport responds to more than 98 percent of the domestic demand for
transport of passengers and freight; the remainder goes by rail. In 1995, the national fleet
was estimated at 32,000 cars, vans and trucks. At least 75 percent of this fleet is
comprised of imported used vehicles, generally in poor condition. Interurban passenger



5
transport is provided by small-scale private operators operating some 1,100 minibuses
and jitneys. Freight transport services are provided by 3 private companies and by
multiple, small (one to two-truck), individual carriers. Estimates suggest that there may
be some 1,300 trucks in the fleet. Since the disappearance in the early 1980s of the
municipal bus company, urban and periurban passenger traffic has been provided by the
informal sector. Urban transport, mainly in Lome, is provided by small operators, driving
taxis, minivans, and motorcycle taxis. The motorcycle taxis, an inexpensive transport
mode, proliferated with the economic crisis, providing employment and easy access to
urban areas with poor infrastructure.
B. ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL SITUATION OF THE SECTOR
2.4   Sector Importance to the Economy. For Togo, reliable and efficient transport
service is essential to the competitiveness of its main economic pillars: agriculture and
trade. In addition, Togo's geographic location is such that its transport system plays a
vital role in the development of regional transit trade, especially for the landlocked
countries of Niger, Burkina Faso, and Mali, as well as the neighboring countries of Benin
and Ghana. This transit activity has an important impact on the Togolese economy.
2.5   Transport Sector Contribution to Economic Development. The most recent
estimate of the actual value-added of the transport sector to GDP dates back to 1990.
Extrapolation from this data gives a 1995 transport sector contribution to GDP of 5 to 6
percent. This figure only partially reflects the real contribution to the national economic
growth, as it does not capture the contributions of numerous small-scale or informal
transport operations (estimated at 74 percent of total value-added for the transport sector),
which are difficult to measure. The latest value-added figures by transport mode,
covering 1985-1990, show that: (a) transport as a whole contributed between 6.5 percent
and 7 percent to GDP, and that (b) the dominant contribution comes from road transport
(65 to 70 percent of the total value-added for the transport sector), followed by that of
maritime transport at (13 to 17 percent). Direct employment in the sector was estimated
in 1995 at the equivalent of 26,500 permanent jobs, mainly in the transport of goods and
passengers; 80 percent of this employment is in private sector. Hence the transport sector
is an important supplier of employment.
2.6   Road Sector Finance. Road taxes and charges contribute around 10 percent of
General Budget revenues. Sectoral resources come from four tax sources: (a) customs
and excise taxes on imported petroleum products (61 percent of sector tax revenue); (b)
import duties on vehicles and spare parts; (c) taxes on road carrier revenues; and (d)
excise and other taxes on some administrative services. Tax revenue fell sharply during
the 1991-93 crisis, from CFAF 9 billion in 1990 to about 2.8 billion in 1993. As in the
general economy, stability and the devaluation brought about a slight recovery in 1994,
with revenues of CFAF 5.4 billion. The trend was consolidated in 1995 with a return to
pre-crisis levels (CFAF 9.3 billion), which have continued to rise (over CFAF 10 billion
in 1996). Transport sector revenue is expected to be on the order of CFAF 15 billion in
1997 following the recent increase in oil prices. Despite these resources, Budget
allocations to road maintenance (approximately CFAF 1.2 billion) are insufficient to



6
cover actual needs, estimated to average CFAF 3.0 billion for routine and periodic
maintenance.
C. SECTOR MANAGEMENT: PUBLIC AND PRIVATE STAKEHOLDERS
The Public Sector
2.7   Transport Sector Management. Until recently, Togo's transport sector was
managed by multiple public sector institutions. As recommended in the TSS, a
government reshuffling in August 1996 brought most of these institutions under the
supervision of the Ministry of Mines, Equipment, Transport, Posts and
Telecommunications (MMETPT). The MMETPT, through its Secretariat d'Etat des
Transports (State Transport Secretariat) (SET) and subsectoral departments, exercises
State control functions (regulation, safety, sectoral policy, financial monitoring), and the
administrative supervision of the 4 public and parastatal companies. Its Direction
generale des Transports (DGT), formerly at the Ministere du Commerce des Transports
et des Prix (Ministry of Trade, Transport and Prices) (MCTP) is responsible for sector
policy design and implementation, regulates the system and supervises the government-
owned companies in each of the sub-sectors. Legal and financial supervision of public
and parastatal companies is the responsibility of the Ministere de l 'Industrie et des
Entreprises publiques (Ministry of Industry and Public Enterprises).
2.8   Road Infrastructure Management. Table 2.1 provides a break-down of the
areas of responsibility for Togo's road network. The national road infrastructure and
some of the rural routes are under the MMETPT's Direction generale des Travaux
Publics (General Directorate of Public Works) (DGTP). Management of the remaining
network of rural roads and tracks is theoretically divided among the Ministry of
Agriculture, Breeding and Fishing (MAEP), public agribusinesses (SOTOCO and
SAFICC), and the prefectures. The DGTP is responsible for planning and managing the
1,660 km of paved and 1,461 km of unpaved roads which make up the national road
network. In mid-1994, MMETPT became responsible for 943 km of improved rural
roads, formerly under MAEP. The major agribusinesses were charged with managing
road infrastructure serving the regions in which they operate: SOTOCO covered 2,040
km of earth roads in the cotton zone, while SAFICC covered 865 km of earth roads in the
coffee and cocoa producing regions. These companies are currently being restructured,
and rural infrastructure no longer falls under their jurisdiction. Around 1,154 km of rural
road constructed through donor-supported agricultural and rural service improvement
projects are not under the aegis of any formal or informal institution. The remainder of
the network, consisting of dirt tracks, is theoretically under the authority of the
prefectures, however these local authorities have neither the management capacity nor the
necessary resources to see to its maintenance.



7
Table 2.1 Togo - Composition and Management of Road Network
Reposil AgRy RedTpe                PvdRoads        Upaed Roads         ToUrtal
MMETPT (DGTP)   National
Urban               43                              43
Interurban         1.565           1.525           3,090
MMETPT/MAEP        Main Rural                          943             943
Provincial Govt.   Rural                               143             143
Total Govt                            1,608           2,611            4,219
Agribusiness
SOTOCO          Rural                              2,140            2,140
SAFICC          Rural                               865              865
Unidentified       Tracks/Paths                      900-1,900       900-1,900
Total Non-Govt                                      3,905-4,905     3,905-4,905
Total Network                         1,608         6,516-7,516     8,124-9,124
2.9   The DGTP divides road network management among six central departments: (a)
Personnel and Training, (b) Road Network, with three functional divisions; (c) Building
and Construction; (d) Equipment Pool (DMTP); (e) Management and Accounting; and,
recently, (f) Rural Roads. At the local level, deconcentrated (line) departments in each of
the five regions are charged with maintaining roads and public structures, periodic traffic
counts, force-account works, supervising contracted works, routine maintenance, and
managing equipment consigned for public maintenance works. Each regional departmnent
covers three to five districts, which are responsible for works on sections of the network
within district jurisdiction (normnally between 120 to 250 km per district). In line with
TSS recommendations, the Feeder Roads Department (FRD) has been created within the
MMETPT, and incorporates the former Service des pistes rurales (Feeder Roads Service)
under MAEP to unify feeder road management. The FRD will be responsible for
developing and implementing a new rural road maintenance strategy based on community
participation and partnerships between local villages, government institutions and donors.
2. 10 Road Safety. SET, through the Direction ginirale des Transports (DGT), is now
responsible for road safety management including policy design and implementation.
Police and the gendarmerie are responsible for traffic control, but their intervention does
not address this basic objective and mainly results in extorting funds from drivers. Driver
training and examinations are poor. The only institution presently attempting to address



8
road safety is the Prevention Routiere togolaise (Togolese Road Safety Organization), a
private association with no permanent staff or official status, whose only source of
income is a once-yearly headlight inspection fee.
The Private Sector
2.11  Interurban transport. As noted earlier, interurban transport is provided by
numerous, small-scale, private operators. Ease of entry and liberalization of the activity
have encouraged a rapid increase in supply. The interurban rolling stock is quite old: in
1995, the fleet was 12 years old on average, with 20 percent of the stock over 15 years
old. The stock is replenished by imported used vehicles, a common regional
phenomenon. Two drivers unions for passenger transport (USYNDICTO and
SYLICONTO), and one freight transport union (UTRABO) play an important role in the
functioning of interurban travel services by managing all stations, supervising the orderly
rotation of vehicle loading, collecting fares for drivers, and regulating the various
mandatory taxes. The unions also manage a solidarity fund of drivers' contributions as a
service to members.
2.12 Urban transport. Urban transport is similarly provided by numerous small-
scale, individual operators, the majority of which operate in the informal sector. The fleet
of taxis and minibuses is old and in bad condition. Less than 30 percent of the vehicles
are insured. Private sector operators enjoy free access to the road transport profession
and a conducive regulatory framework, but suffer from an excess of supply and extortion
by police at multiple checkpoints.
2.13  Local Public Works Sector. Experience with contracting out routine
maintenance to local small and medium enterprises (SMEs) shows promise in promoting
productivity. The 1993 IDA-funded Transport Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1861-TO),
promoted contracting out small repairs (patching, masonry, road repair) to SMEs. The
European Development Fund (EDF) has also funded several routine maintenance
operations through local SME contracting. In 1994-95, taking advantage of a
restructuring in the Transport Rehabilitation Project, approximately 80 contracts for
routine maintenance (patching, drainage system repair and cleaning, repaving, road
shoulder repair) were awarded to some 30 SMEs. Despite structural weaknesses caused
by inactivity during the 1991-93 political crisis, the SMEs proved effective in providing
road maintenance. Further support would improve the management capacity of these
SMEs, and enable them to carry out future works more efficiently.
2.14 Associations and Nongovernmental Organizations (NGOs). Togolese society
is characterized by deep traditions of association and community, especially in rural
areas, centered on the institution of "village chiefdoms." Since independence, new types
of local social organization have emerged to promote local development, supported by
larger domestic and international institutions. Today there are over 2,500 formal and
informal associations of different types (NGOs, cooperatives, local associations)
throughout the country involved in a variety of sectors, such as health, literacy,
agricultural production and marketing, and rural infrastructure (mainly water and roads).
The most wide-spread of these new organizations are some 1,500 village development



9
committees, supported by the Ministry of Social Affairs, which organize village
participation in local development activities. The 381 village agricultural groups,
supported by the major agribusinesses (SOTOCO and SAFICC), organize and develop
agricultural production in the agricultural export-producing zones. Other community
organizations have developed since the end of the 1980s through international NGO
development projects. By 1995, there were at least 20 local, and 5 international NGOs
involved in rural infrastructure projects (water supply and feeder road management)
throughout the country. This network of community associations suffers from a lack of
material resources, of coordination with traditional institutions, and competence in
specific areas of intervention. Despite these difficulties, the network of associations in
Togo provides a strong foundation on which to build community participation in local
development.
D. LESSONS LEARNED FROM INVOLVEMENT OF THE WORLD BANK
GROUP AND OTHER DONORS IN THE TOGOLESE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Donor Involvement
2.15  The EDF and IDA are the major active donors in the transport sector. Other
donors have provided significant assistance in the past: German Cooperation (KFW) in
the development of the Port of Lome, the French Development Fund (CFD) in rural roads
and airport infrastructure, and FIDA along with the United Nations Development
Program in feeder road infrastructure. The African Development Bank (AfDB) has
assisted Togo in paving and rehabilitating part of the national road network. Apart from
IDA, EDF remains the major contributor to transport sector development through projects
of road paving, construction of new feeder roads in cocoa and cotton-producing zones
and routine and periodic maintenance of the national road network. EDF also supported
development of the private construction sector in its last national road maintenance and
rehabilitation operation (1990-1992). Donor assistance to Togo was interrupted by the
1991-93 political crisis, and is only beginning to resume, led by IDA in 1993, and shortly
to be followed by AfDB. Other donors are willing to resume financing once Togo has
complied with their political and institutional conditions.
Past IDA Involvement
2.16 IDA has been associated with Togo's transport sector since 1968, and has led
active donor assistance to the sector. It has financed seven sector projects, with a
combined credit of US$ 133 million, of which six have been concluded and one is
nearing completion. IDA has focused its lending on roads, as the most important of the
country's transport infrastructure, but has also supported a rail operation. Of IDA's
support to the road sector, five projects have dealt primarily with national roads, one
project focused on feeder roads and one project addressed both. Taken together, the IDA
projects constitute a significant and prolonged effort which has achieved some, though
not fully satisfactory, results. Despite major achievements, inadequate road maintenance
has remained the leading sector issue.



10
2.17 The soon-to-be-completed Transport Rehabilitation Project (CR. 1861-TO) aimed
at achieving major sectoral reforms to facilitate private sector involvement in road
maintenance, develop public sector management capacity, improve road safety and secure
road maintenance funding. However, project implementation was severely hampered by
the political and economic crises of the early 1 990s. The project was restructured in 1994
to focus on priority maintenance for the national network and on rebuilding road network
administration capacity.
Lessons Learned
2.18 Six major lessons flow from IDA project experience in Togo's transport sector:
(a) Current arrangements for road maintenance financing are inadequate.
Resources for road maintenance financing are allocated in the National General Budget
by the Treasurer. Although the funding exists on paper, it has never been provided in full
or on time, even during periods of fiscal soundness. Adequate road maintenance
financing could be ensured by an independently financed, autonomous fund, governed by
road user representatives and other sector stakeholders.
(b) The force account has proven to be seriously ineffective in carrying out
maintenance of road networks, despite support and supervision efforts. Force account
labor is oversupplied, underskilled and poorly supervised, resulting in low productivity.
New equipment deteriorates quickly due to poor maintenance, and inappropriate use.
Maintenance works should be contracted out to take advantage of competition and wider
skills.
(c) Administrative obstacles and excessive control by high level bureaucrats are
stifling sector institutions, and prevent them from developing adequate competencies
and responding to sector needs. Cumbersome procedures, especially in procurement, a
top-heavy hierarchy, and lack of resources have discouraged initiative and destroyed
capacity-building efforts in previous operations. Procurement procedures should be
revised and simplified, and institutions should be restructured to facilitate accountability
and individual initiative.
(d) Entrenched long-term technical assistance (TA) and untargeted training have
proven ineffective. TA should be short-term and focused on beneficiary needs.
Likewise training should correspond to beneficiary-identified needs, and be provided on
site, whenever possible, by qualified trainers.
(e) Current public sector institutional arrangements lack necessary resources and
capacity to manage the dispersed feeder road network. Community participation and
partnerships between the State, the community and donors would spread the burden for
network maintenance and management, and allow each institution to focus its efforts and
resources more effectively.
(f) Donor coordination is critical to sustain sector reforms. Past sector gains from
donor projects have remained unconsolidated due, in part, to lack of coordination. The
Transport Sector Strategy provides a coherent framework for future interventions, and the



11
TSIP defines clear priorities to guide donor assistance. Regular meetings should be held
between the Government and donors to follow up TSS and TSIP implementation.
E. TRANSPORT SECTOR ISSUES AND STRATEGY
The 1995 Transport Sector Strategy
2.19 A Participatory Process. Within the framework of its economic revitalization
program, the Government of Togo identified the need to define a transport sector
development strategy to reestablish sectoral efficacy and allow it to play its role in
restoring national economic competitiveness. The Transport Sector Strategy was
developed through intensive stakeholder participation and consultation, and consisted of
the following principle steps: (a) analysis of sectoral issues and identification of
priorities and strategic directions; (b) Government discussions of analysis results with
public and private stakeholders (including local sectoral professional organizations),
World Bank missions, and other donors; and (c) a three-day national seminar at the end of
November 1995 organized by the Togolese authorities to discuss and widen consensus on
the strategic recommendations resulting from this process. The seminar facilitated
discussion and issue resolution among the widest possible arena of sector stakeholders,
including the private sector, professional organizations, and formal and informal groups
of transport service users, in addition to public sector entities and donors.
2.20  Infrastructure maintenance is the priority. The TSS concludes that
maintenance and better use of existing investments take priority over new investments.
This conclusion translates into two fundamental sector priorities: (a) to rehabilitate road
infrastructure, and establish an effective maintenance system; and (b) to modernize the
institutional environment to make best use of the comparative advantages of the public
and private sectors. Road infrastructure is singled out for particular emphasis because,
while port and airport infrastructure and services are financially self-reliant and provide
adequate service to their users, road infrastructure has fallen into critical condition due to
lack of maintenance, leading to a continuously declining level of service and increasing
transport costs.
2.21  Within the framework of this strategy, the GOT has defined the following
concrete measures in the TSIP to achieve the priorities set above: (a) initiate a road
network rehabilitation and maintenance program, meeting economic and financial
criteria, that includes: (i) establishment of an autonomous Road Maintenance Fund to
ensure adequate and regular maintenance financing, (ii) encouragement of, and eventual
full reliance on the private sector to carry out road maintenance, and (iii) standardized
management of rural roads, and participation of rural communities in maintenance works;
and (b) strengthen the institutional framework and improve administrative capacity to
manage and plan the sector, including road safety.



12
Road Infrastructure Management: Issues and Strategy
Issues
2.22 A well structured road network that could, if adequately maintained, easily
meet mid-term demand. The Togolese road network consists of the national network and
the rural road network (see Table 2.1). The national network is formed by a set of north-
south radial highways, centered on Lome, which cross a set of east-west roads. The
network includes roads linking prefectures and international highways, the most important
of which is RN 1, linking Lome to the Burkina Faso and Niger borders (Cinkasse) in the
north. RN1 is complemented by a coastal road crossing from Ghana to Cotonou. The
network of radial roads is relatively well developed and most of it is paved.
2.23  Of Togo's 8,000 to 9,000 km of road, 3,133 km are national roads and 5,000 to
6,000 km are rural roads. About 54 percent of the national network is paved; the remainder
consists of gravel or earth roads. The rural road network encompasses rural roads that have
been upgraded under a variety of social and agricultural projects, and rural paths that have
never been improved.
2.24 A road network in critical condition. The 1990-93 political turmoil and resultant
fiscal crisis have taken a heavy toll on road infrastructure. Over the last six years,
disorganized public administrationand lack of government finance has limited road
maintenance solely to curative operations on the most damaged routes (those in danger of
complete closure), financed by foreign assistance. The total lack of periodic or even routine
maintenance over the last six years has resulted in increasing degradation of all routes. A
network inspection conducted in late 1995 showed that 63 percent of the paved and 80
percent of the unpaved national network are in a bad to fair condition. Road degradation
was aggravated by: (a) the suspension of external aid, which had been nearly the sole source
of periodic maintenance financing; (b) an already aging network, 50 percent of which is an
average of 15 years old; and (c) inadequate technical design of at least 50 percent of paved
roads, making them extremely sensitive to the lack of maintenance. The national earth road
network is now also in poor condition, but the effects of inadequate maintenance have been
mitigated somewhat by a decline in traffic during the crisis. The most vulnerable sections
of this network must be rehabilitated soon if interruptions in traffic flow, particularly during
rainy seasons, are to be prevented in the years to come.
2.25 Weak road management capacity, an ill-adapted maintenance policy,
inefficient force-account operations and insufficient financing of road maintenance
The DGTP is adequately organized, but suffers from a lack of staff management, absence of
a training policy and lack of professionals qualified in the areas of road maintenance,
planning and works supervision. The maintenance policy, subject to the vagaries of foreign
aid, is ill-adapted and costly, giving priority to heavy rehabilitation works at the expense of
regular routine and periodic maintenance. This policy is revealed in distribution of
maintenance expenditures over the last ten years: 2 percent for periodic maintenance, 20
percent for routine maintenance and 78 percent for rehabilitationworks



13
2.26 Routine maintenance, when performed, is executed by DGTP through its
decentralized force account. Although force-account brigades have abundant staffand
equipment, they have low productivityand lack flexibility. Force-accountinefficiency
stems from: (a) insufficient budget resources; (b) slow commitment and disbursement
procedures, limiting the actual amount of disposable resources; (c) inadequate supervision
and monitoring, compounded by poor programming; and (d) ill-adapted administrative
procedures, especially in procurement. DGTP management of public works equipment is
deficient. As a result, the fleet (262 vehicles) is deteriorating and less than 40 percent is
currently available for use. There is virtually no control of equipment use.
2.27 Local SME development, which could increase the country's road maintenance
capacity, is severely constrained by lengthy contracting and payment procedures for public
procurement and the lack of a stable, sustainable market. These factors destroy any
incentive for SMEs to invest in developing human or material capital.
2.28  Maintenanceprogramming, currently limitedto curative maintenance, is overly
simplistic and inefficient. Data necessary for effective maintenance programming, such as
condition of network, past maintenance, traffic counts, network inspections, are virtually
non-existent. The network has deteriorated to the point that programming must focus on
emergency maintenance, with limited prioritization. Investment programming seems to be
largely ad hoc, especially for rehabilitationworks, with no economicjustification.
2.29 Government budget allocations for road maintenance are inadequate and irregular
(around CFAF 1.2 billion, whereas annual maintenance requirements reach CFAF 3.0
billion). Untimely release of funds delays commitment and disbursement. Budget
utilization is hampered by burdensome paperwork procedures imposed by the Treasury. In
addition, a substantial part of the allocated budget covers the fixed operating costs of the
DGTP, thus limiting the amount actually available for maintenance works.
2.30  In addition to the issues described above, the rural road network suffers from
multiple interventions with no coordination. Rural network management is supposedly
distributed among a number of agencies, as shown in Table 2.1. Much of this network
either falls betweenjurisdictions, or suffers from weak institutional management capacity.
In 1994 the MMETPT, through the DGTP, assumed responsibility for management of 943
km of rural roads previously under control of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
Development. Agribusiness companies (SOTOCO and SAFICC) also are theoretically in
charge of the rural track network serving their production area, though most of the network
is not identified. SOTOCO has occasionally undertaken road maintenance works with CFD
support; otherwise neither company has invested in road maintenance. Investment
decisions largely depend on the availability of foreign financing with no coordination
among Togolese institutions and donors, which often leads to these resources being wasted.
Most of the improved rural tracks were built without providing resources or determining
responsibility for their future maintenance. Construction standards for some tracks are too
high for the role they are expected to play and the actual traffic they handle.



14
Government strategy
2.31  Road infrastructure management is the most important government activity in the
transport sector. As delineated in the national TS S, the government intends to establish an
efficient infrastructure management system to attain the following strategic objectives: (a)
reduce transport costs; (b) safeguard infrastructure investments to provide adequate service
to the economy; (c) alleviate poverty by opening up remote rural zones and poorly serviced
urban areas; and (d) reinforce the competitiveness of the Togo transit corridor. To achieve
these objectives the strategy adopted by the GOT consists of the following measures.
2.32 Appropriate Public Sector Role. The role of the public sector is redefined and its
management and planning capacity will be reinforced. The DGTP will reorganize and
disengage from force-account works, focusing instead on maintenance programming and
supervision. Its force account will be redeployed as individual contractors to provide
manual routine maintenance. The public equipment pool is to be transformed into a
cornmercial equipment-leasingentity serving public and private operators. Prior to
negotiations, the GOT established the Equipment Leasing Company. During
negotiations, the GOT agreed to take all action necessary or appropriate on its part
to privatize progressively the Equipment Leasing Company. Finally, DGTP's
management capacity will be improved through: (a) creation of a procurement and contract
management unit; and (b) reactivation of its personnel management administrationby
appointing more qualified professional and supervisory staff, instituting an adequate
training program, and establishing a road data system to facilitate road network
management. Initial redeployment of DGTP's labor force took place prior to appraisal of
the proposed project, and routine manual maintenance is now being performed. Prior to
negotiations, the GOT completed the first phase of the redeployment. The GOT
agreed during negotiations that further redeployment of the labor force
(privatization) is to be carried out in the course of the first two years of project
implementation. In addition, agreementhas been reached on DGTP reorganization,
including establishment of a Contract Management Unit and redefinition of line
departments.
2.33  Private sector development Building on the positive experience of maintenance
by local contractors, the GOT is resolved to involve the private sector in road maintenance
and will contract out routine and periodic maintenance works. The following measures will
be taken to facilitate this participation and promote private sector development: (a) adapt
bid packages to the capacity of local civil works industry for routine and small-scale
periodic maintenance; (b) simplify procurement procedures and devolve maintenance
procurement authority to MMETPT; (c) reduce delays in contractor payment through
adequate and regular maintenance financing, with streamlined management (see paragraph
2.34); and (d) provide technical assistance to SMEs to develop their management capacity
and improve their productivity. The MMETPT has been vested with procurement authority
for maintenance works prior to project appraisal. The GOT agreed during negotiations
on the use of bank standard bid documents for procurement of works, goods and
services.



15
2.34 Road maintenance financing. Secure regular and adequate financing for road
maintenance by establishing an autonomous Road Maintenance Fund. The RMF will be
funded directly through road user fees based on gasoline consumption and road tolls. The
RMF will finance only contracted-outmaintenance works and will be autonomously
managed to assure timely disbursements and payments to contractors. Revenue destined for
the RMF is to be collected by a parastatal oil company and deposited in a RMF account to
be established in the Banque Centrale des Etats de l 'Afrique de l 'ouest. Legislation to
establish the RMF has been adopted and will shortly be enacted. The Ministry of Finance
(MOF) has issued a bylaw to provide adequate arrangements for collection of road user
charges allocated to the RMF. Prior to negotiations, the GOT established the RMF,
adopted the 1997 road maintenance program and budget and launched the first
RMF-funded bidding invitations for routine maintenance works on the national
network
2.35  Priority maintenance program. The newly designed rehabilitationand
maintenance strategy for the road network elaborates a priority program to guide public
expenditure programming over the next ten years. This program is designed to reflect
appropriate, needs-based maintenance techniques and standards and expected economic
returns on investments. It is also designed to be adaptable to different financing scenarios.
Priority will be given to expenditures that safeguard road infrastructure capital to: (a)
reduce transport costs by maintaining the network in an acceptably functioning condition;
(b) guarantee the accessibility of agricultural production zones, and (c) consolidate the
competitiveness of the transit corridor. Given the critical condition of the network, the GOT
will have to mobilize around CFAF 109 billion over the next six years to finance the
prioritymaintenanceprogram. The GOT should secure donorparticipationin financingthe
priority program. The GOT confirmed during negotiations that the priority
maintenance program will be updated annually by the DGTP and submitted for
IDA and donor review prior to its adoption by the RMF's board, the Road Council.
2.36  Rural networkmanagement. The GOT is determinedto set up an adequate
management system for the rural network to ensure an acceptable level of service capable of
supporting social and economic activities in rural areas. Given limited State resources, the
new system features a partnership between Government institutions and local communities
based on clear distribution of responsibilitiesand mutual commitments, especially for
network maintenance. A National Coordination Committee for Rural Roads (NCCRR),
with broad representation, will be established to coordinate investment and periodic
maintenance interventions to ensure that priorities are respected and that resources are not
wasted. The feeder road department (FRD), transferred from the MAEP, will be integrated
into the DGTP and become a permanent technical secretariat of the NCCRR. The
restructured FRD will assure management of the data base, coordination of the priority
maintenance program, and design of the government strategy for feeder roads, as well as
support to local community participation development efforts. A Rural Road Management
Manual will be developed to define methods of identification,technical design by level of
service, criteria for evaluation and selection of investment options, programming and
methods of execution. This Manual will be used by FRD to prepare for decisions to be
made by NCCRR. The adoption of the Manual is a condition for Board presentation.



16
A network inventory along with a priority maintenance program for the next six years are
being carried out. Effective creation of NCCRR, with adequate representation, is a
condition for Board presentation. During appraisal, the GOT confirmed the merging of
the FRD within the DGTP.
2.37 Local communities will provide regular manual routine maintenance for selected
low-traffic,public rural roadsthat serve their needs. This contributionwill be mobilized
from users and beneficiaries of these roads through fees or in-kind contributions of
maintenance work. For routine works requiring mechanical techniques, periodic
maintenance and repair of critical spots, the State will provide financial and technical
assistanceas needed. ExperiencedNGOs will help communitiesorganizethemselves,
select their network and mobilize resources. MMETPT line departments, supported by
skilled FRD technicians, will assist local communities in defining maintenance needs for
their network, and in preparing requests for Government financial participation in
mechanized maintenance works. With the exception of manual routine maintenance, works
should be contracted out to local SMEs and designed to use labor-intensive techniques to
maximize the impact of road works on employment. A pilot project promoting rural road
management by local communities will be launched to test the feasibility of reapportioning
management responsibility. This pilot will build on similar initiatives undertaken by local
rural associations in response to the economic recession induced by the political crisis.
Sector Management and Regulatory Regime
Issues
2.38 Poor management and coordination capacity. Public management of the sector
is characterized by lack of coordination and weak management capacity of transport sector
agencies. As noted in Section 2.C., several government and non-govemmentinstitutions
intervene in the management of the sector. MMETPT, through DGTP, manages the
national network and the maj or rural roads; responsibility for the remainder of the rural
network is theoretically divided among several government agencies, and government-
owned agribusiness companies. Investment programming is shared between the Ministere
du Plan et de l'Amenagementdu Territoire (Ministry of Planning and Land Management)
and other public institutions; however, since 1990, there has been no economic accounting
for the sector, nor monitoring of the effectivenessof public investments. DGT has poor
capacity to design and plan policy, and lacks an information system to provide statistical
and economic data on transport sector activities. In general, the finctioning of public
institutions is hampered by overall weaknesses in physical and human resources, especially
the professional qualification of supervisory staff.
2.39  Lack of Road TransportEfficiency. The road transport industry, with its ease of
entry, is characterized by a multitude of small service providers with poor quality vehicles,
only a few of whom operate in the formal sector. Productivityis reducedthroughthe
combined effects of a number of factors, notably the dispersal of the industry among several
providers, the age and poor condition of the fleet, excess supply, and the numerous
roadblocks that impede operators efficiency. Financial return is also low and does not allow



17
truckers and carriers to self-finance or make use of bank loans, ensuring the continual
degradation of the rolling stock.
2.40  Current regulations lack coherency. The sector is generally deregulated, but
present regulations are outdated and incomplete. Generally, land transport regulations favor
the development of private initiative, although a few, poorly enforced tariffs act to inhibit it
slightly. In maritime transport, the Government plays a dominant role through the
implementation of the Code of Conduct of Conferences, but with mixed results.
Procurementprocedures remain cumbersome and inefficient. Private transport law is not
only antiquated but fragmented and not generally applied. The consequence is uncertain
enforcement, in which courts and arbitration seem to play a limited role. Law is deeply
imbued with local custom; the legal framework is somewhat ambiguous and gives rise to
multiple interpretations, which may compromise modernization efforts, even if, at present,
it provides flexibility in day-to-day management.
Government Strategy
2.41  The Government has already initiated several measures, part of the TSS
recommendations, aiming at addressing the above legal and institutionalissues. Transport
departments and FRD have been united under the MMETPT. Also under MMETPT, SET
has been created in August 1996, incorporating DGT and its subsectoral divisions, to take
charge of sector coordination, planning and policy design and implementation. SET is
reviewing the jurisdictions of sector institutions to clarify their respective responsibilities
and define coordinating mechanisms. A National Transport Council (NTC) is to be
established to follow up sector policy design and implementation, and ensure participation
by professional organizations and users. Bylaws establishing NTC and organizing SET and
its departments are under preparation. The GOT has also committed itselfto set up an
Interministerial Committee to design and oversee the implementation of appropriate
measures to reduce road checkpoints and mitigate their adverse impact. An action plan
comprising selected measures, satisfactory to IDA, to mitigate road checkpoints
effect will be transmitted by the GOT prior to Board presentation. This action plan
will be adopted after having consulted transport industry representativesand will be
published locally.
2.42  SET is also revising sector legislation and regulations with the objective of: (a)
aligning them on the official political choices of liberalization and promotion of private
initiative; (b) eliminating statutory impediments to the establishment of true competition in
the transport market, which is a prerequisite to improve and develop the competitiveness of
the Togolese economy. Prior to negotiations, the GOT submitted for IDA review
draft legislation to: (a) establish a Road Transport Code to endow the sector with
appropriate legislation; and (b) incorporate the guiding principles of the
Government Sector Policy Letter into a comprehensive legal framework (Transport
Policy Law), applicable to private and public institutions. The GOT will adopt the
above draft legislation and submit it to Parliament prior to Board presentation.
2.43  To facilitate policy design and investment planning, sectoral information will be
strengthened and consolidated through a data base. The new computerized system will



18
collect, process and analyze statistical and economic data to generate information on
transport costs, investments, and the supply and demand for different types of transport
services. In addition, management and supervision tools will be developed within the
different branches of the DGTP and the DGT to facilitate their work and improve their
efficacy, especially: revision of the main operational manuals, computer equipment to
facilitate information gathering and analysis, computerization of technical management
tasks, and developmentof performance indicatorsto monitor physical and financial
progress in sector programs and projects.
Road Safety
2.44 High level of road accidents. Although vehicle ownership rate is low (10-12
vehicles per 1,000 inhabitants), the accident rate in 1994 was 107 fatalities per 1 0,000
vehicles, 10 times the rate in most industrialized countries, and 15 percent higher than
average for developing countries. There are more than 3,000 accidents per year in Togo,
with 3,703 injuries and 270 deaths in 1994. The level of risk for accidents, based on 1994
statistics, is 97 injuries and 7 fatalities per 10,000 inhabitants. This is on the same order of
magnitude for European countries which have 40 times the rate of vehicle ownership.
2.45  A road safety action plan has been developed and partially applied under the IDA-
funded Transport Rehabilitation Project. To consolidate the gains and pursue the
objectives sought under this project, GOT intends to implement the following action
plan: (a) establish a National Road Safety Council (NRSC) to design and oversee road
safety policy and an Office of Road Safety (ORS) to manage and implement the
Government policy; (b) build and outfit a Vehicle Inspection Center (VIC) in Lome; (c)
revise the Road Code; (d) undertake, on regular basis: (i) collection and processing of
data on road accidents, (ii) information and public awareness campaigns, and (iii) training
of road safety officers and driving instructors; and (e) implement a priority program of
road improvement and safety on the RN1 (North-South axis) and elimination of
dangerous intersections in Lome. The GOT has already drafted legislation to establish
NRSC and ORS; enactment of this legislation is expected in 1997. The GOT confirmed
during negotiations that the ORS will be established during the first year of the
project implementation.



19
3. ROAD TRANSPORT PROJECT
A. TRANSPORT SECTOR PROGRAM AND OBJECTIVES
3.1   The GOT's Transport Sector Investment Program is a ten-year operation to realize
the objectives of the Transport Sector Strategy. The first, six-year tranche, the Road
Sector Investment Program (RSIP), comprises priority investments amounting to CFAF
109 billion, of which approximately 80 percent will be allocated to rehabilitate existing
road infrastructure. Table 3.1 outlines the components of this first tranche; more detail is
given in Annexes B and C. The RSIP was designed within acceptable macro-economic
parameters (22 percent of public Gross Fixed Capital Formation), and comprises only
those maintenance operations that generate at least a 12 percent economic rate of return
(ERR) and respect the country's constraints on investment and recurrent-cost financing.
Following consultations between the GOT and donors during the December 1995 and
March 1997 donor roundtable, the Government agreed during negotiations to update
the priority investment program annually to ensure that it addresses emerging
sector priorities, and to coordinate donor participation. This will enable the GOT to
ensure that sector investments are coherent and economically justified, and that adequate
financing is available.
3.2   Objectives for the Road Sector Investment Program. The Government's six-
year RSIP (1997-2002) includes the priorities defined under the 1996 Transport Sector
Strategy, described previously, and established in the Government Sector Policy Letter
(see Annex A). The main strategic objectives of the RSIP conform precisely to those
defined by the Government in the ERAC. These objectives aim to help the country to: (a)
open the economy to facilitate private sector development, accelerate the economic
recovery and firmly establish economic growth; (b) reduce the deficit by rationalizing
(redirecting) public expenditures; (c) prioritize rehabilitation and maintenance over
extension of the country's infrastructure; and (d) reduce poverty by providing basic
public infrastructure and services, and creating employment.



20
Table 3.1. Togo - First Tranche Road Sector Priority Investments (1997-2002)
(Current CFAF Million)
Category             1997      1998     1999     2000      2001     2002    TOTAL
A. Rehabilitation
Paved roads                      4,717   13,401    13,462    8,058    8,446    9,072   57,155
National earth roads               -        521       537      552      567       -      2,177
Structure repairs                  -        132       136      140      144       -        553
Rural roads                        -        311       642      879      901       811    3,544
Subtotal rehabilitation             4,717   14,366   14,778    9,629   10,058    9,882   63,430
B. Periodic maintenance
Paved roads                        -       2,440    4,358    2,583       -        -      9,381
National earth roads                56    1,207    1,506    1,217    2,034       417    6,438
Rural roads                        -        148       359      543      158       637    1,845
Subtotal periodic maintenance          56    3,795    6,224    4,343    2,192      1,054   17,665
C. Routine maintenance
Paved roads                       1,120    1,143    1,064    1,020    1,082       989    6,418
National earth roads              1,221    1,255    1,293    1,329    1,364    1,398    7,858
Rural roads                        -        116       479      861    1,010    1,165    3,631
Subtotal routine maintenance        2,341    2,514    2,836    3,210    3,456    3,552   17,908
D. Institutional strengthening
Road sector                         88      970       679      570      557       164    3,028
Rural roads                        -         78        80       82       84       -        324
Subtotal institutional strengthening   88    1,048      758       652      641       164    3,353
E. Road safety                        -         91      394        11        8       -        505
F. Studies and works supervision
Paved roads                        377    1,267    1,426       851      676       726    5,324
National earth roads               -        119       123      126       57       -        426
Ruralroads                         -         49        92      126       98       115      481
Subtotal studies and supervision      377    1,435    1,642    1,104       830      841    6,230
TOTAL                               7,580   23,250   26,632   18,949   17,185   15,494  109,091
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.3     The proposed IDA project will address the most important priorities of the RSIP
to complement and reinforce IDA's ongoing assistance to support Togo's economic
recovery and sustained growth. More specifically, the project will support operations to
(a) rehabilitate and maintain both national and rural roads; (b) provide regular and stable
road maintenance financing from local resources; (c) encourage private sector
involvement in subsector development; (d) improve road safety; and (e) revitalize and
strengthen the management capacity of transport sector institutions. Two important
innovations mark the proposed IDA Credit: (a) the crossover from permanent to short-
term technical assistance, with measurable objectives and results; and (b) the introduction
of mechanisms for user participation in decision-making on road maintenance financing,
through the Road Council (the RMF board) and in management of the rural road network.
3.4     The proposed US$ 50 million IDA Credit will finance works, goods and services
for four components. First, IDA will support remedial maintenance on the paved road
network, rehabilitation of critical sections of RN 1, and rehabilitation and regraveling of



21
the most important sections of the national unpaved road network to improve their
condition to a level that facilitates sustainable maintenance. The IDA Credit will also
support institutional strengthening to improve public sector management capacity to
improve sector coordination, investment planning and monitoring, road maintenance
programming and implementation, and to facilitate private sector involvement in
transport and public works. IDA funds will likewise contribute to improving road safety.
Finally, IDA will participate in building mechanisms for beneficiary and community
participation in rural road management capacity. The four components are outlined
below. Annex C gives a more detailed description of each component, while component
costs are detailed in Annex B.
Project Components
3.5   Road repair and maintenance (US$ 48.6 million). The objectives of this
component are to: (a) reduce transport costs by restoring the national road network up to,
and maintaining it in, a functional state; (b) improve the competitiveness of the Togolese
transit corridor; and (c) improve the accessibility of rural areas and support agricultural
development.
3.6   This component comprises works included in first-tranche priority program
(1997-2002), as well as related technical studies and works supervision. The works focus
in particular on: (a) priority rehabilitation and periodic maintenance of paved roads,
including remedial maintenance works (patching campaigns) over the entire paved road
network, and rehabilitation of approximately 105 km of the North-South axis; and (b)
rehabilitation of national unpaved roads by eliminating critical points where needed over
the entire network (916 km or 64 percent of the network), periodic maintenance
(regraveling) of the most heavily traveled sections of the network (517 km, about
36 percent of the national earth road network), and rehabilitation of road structures (small
bridges and culverts) along the national earth road network; (c) construction and
management of 3 toll booths, if warranted by studies; and (d) consultancy services for
subcomponents (a) and (b), and for the engineering design of rehabilitation and
maintenance works.
3.7  Institutional strengthening (US$ 3.6 million). The objectives of this component
are to: (i) improve the economic efficiency of the transport sector; and (ii) increase public
sector effectiveness and management capacity through: (a) better availability of statistical
and economic information on the transport sector; (b) enhancing the performance of
small, private, road transport operators and construction contractors; (c) establishment of
coordinating structures for State and professional organization activities in the sector; (d)
improved road infrastructure management, planning and works execution, and the
dedicated promotion of local road SMEs; and (e) ensuring adequate, stable and
sustainable financing for road maintenance works through a Road Maintenance Fund,
partly replenished by road toll revenue.
3.8   This component focuses on institutional support to the DGTP, relevant SET
departments, mainly the DGT and DTR, and private road transport and public works
companies. The Credit will also finance incremental operating costs.



22
(a) At the level of the DGTP, support consists of: (i) short-term technical
assistance: 4 person-months (p/m) in organizational and personnel management, 5
p/m in management and administration of maintenance works contracts, 8 p/m in
road maintenance planning, programming, and monitoring (design, establishment
and management of road data bases), 6 p/m in planning, programming, and
supervision of engineering and project feasibility studies; (ii) 6 p/m of technical
assistance for RMF management, to set up accounting systems, internal
management control, and audits of the RMF over the life of the project; (iii)
incremental operating costs during the two first years of the Project; (iv) purchase
of 9 vehicles and 7 microcomputers and appropriate software (road data base,
personnel, etc.) to strengthen the management functions listed above; (v) training
in different fields related to road management, planning and policy design, as
detailed in Annex C; (vi) several studies including road counts and RSIP
updating, as detailed in Annex C.
(b) Support to the DGTP and the RMF will also include: (i) feasibility studies on
establishment of road tolls, and TA for contracting out toll booth management;
and (ii) technical studies on toll booth construction.
(c) Support to the DGT will consist of: (i) 4 p/m of assistance to establish an
operational system for gathering, processing and using transport statistics, 3 p/m
technical assistance to strengthen capacity to perform statistical analyses, studies
and sector investment planning, 2 p/m of local consultant assistance to update
current regulations and promulgate new sector regulations, and 4 p/m of technical
assistance (TA) to assist and train local truckers and passenger carriers (formal
and informal) in road transport management techniques; and (ii) purchase of 1
vehicle and 6 microcomputers with software and printers.
(d) At the level of the DTR, support will include: (i) 6 p/m of technical assistance
to computerize procedures for issuing transport documents; (ii) installation of 7
personal computers, basic data management software, and 4 printers; (iii)
rehabilitation of DTR buildings; (iv) training for DTR and DGT staff to
strengthen the management enhancement listed above; and (v) training for SMEs
in various fields such as accounting management.
3.9   Road Safety Improvement (US$ 1.0 million). The objectives of this component
are to: (a) reduce the social costs associated with development of road traffic in Togo by
treating dangerous stretches and intersections; (b) improve transport conditions and safety
for all users; and (c) establish the necessary framework and institutions for effective road
safety management and supervision in Togo.
3.10 This component includes: (a) construction and equipment of a Vehicle Inspection
Center in Lome, including the relevant technical studies and works supervision; and (b)
technical assistance and support for the following studies: (i) improvements in transport
safety and conditions (to be included in technical studies for road rehabilitation), (ii)
collection and analysis of data on traffic accidents, (iii) road safety campaigns in schools



23
and for the public at large, (iv) training of driving school instructors and driver's license
examiners, and (v) support to the newly established Office of Road Safety.
3.11  Feeder Road Management (US$ 1.6 million). The rural road maintenance and
management component aims at: (a) improving access to agricultural areas and services
in rural areas; (b) improving the planning and management of the rural road networks by
rationalizing investments in rural feeder roads and standardizing norms for their
maintenance; and (c) mobilizing local community participation in rural road maintenance
and management.
3.12  Expanding on the latter objective, this component is a pilot operation to test
community participation in feeder roads management. It is based on a partnership
between Government and local communities, in which the communities select roads to be
included in the program, according to local priorities and criteria defined in the Project
Implementation Manual, and provide manual routine maintenance on these roads. The
Government will finance periodic maintenance on these roads, and will provide technical
assistance to communities, as needed. This pilot will cover 3 different zones,
representative of the country's socio-economic profile, and will include: (a) elimination
of critical spots over approximately 300 km of rural roads distributed over the 3 zones;
(b) NGO assistance to mobilize community participation in rural road management and
contribute to implementation of priority maintenance works, and (c) assistance to the
DGTP and the NCCRR to strengthen their capacity to coordinate investments, programn
rural road maintenance, and promote community participation.
3.13 Technical Assistance over All Components. The IDA Credit will finance a total
of 56 p/m of TA for the institutional strengthening component, 11 p/m for the road safety
component and 73 p/m (of which 58 are to be provided by local consultants) for the rural
road network rehabilitation and management component. This TA will consist entirely of
studies and short-term assistance.
C. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
3.14 The total cost of project components financed by IDA amounts to
US$ 54.8 million (CFAF 28.2 billion), including counterpart financing from the
Government of Togo, exclusive of taxes but including contingencies. These costs are
priced as of July 1996 on the basis of recent equipment and civil engineering
procurement. The IDA-financed components will be implemented over the next four
years between January 1998 and March 2002. Financial contingency provisions have
been established on the annual inflation rates given in Table 3.2 below.



24
Table 3.2. - Annual Inflation Rates (percentage) and exchange rates (CFAF/$)
1997     1998       1999      2000      2001      2002
Local Inflation   4.3%      4.0%      4.0%       3.0%      3.0%     3.0%
Foreign Inflation  1.7%     2.0%      2.4%       2.6%      2.4%     2.2%
Exchange Rate      507       511       515       518       521       553
Table 3.3.- Estimated Cost of IDA-Financed Components
%      % Total
CFAF million              USS thousand        Foreign    Base.
Compo %. 0>t00nentll:0  i0tLocal   Foreign    Total   Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange   Costs
A National roads               8,178   12,809   20,987  15,906   24,910  40,816    61%        88%
B Institutional strengthening    291     1,420    1,711     566    2,761   3,327    83%        7%
C Road safety                     93      355       448    181       691    872    79%         2%
D Rural roads                    132      589       721    256    1,140   1,396    82%         3%
Total BASELINE COSTS =         8,695   15,173   23,868  16,909   29,502  46,411    64%        100%
Physical contingencies                   1,338    2,172   1,623    2,601   4,225    62%        9%
Price contingencies              785    1,344    2,129   1,523    2,609   4,133    63%         9%
Total PROJECT COSTS        1  10,314   17,855    28,169 [ 20,055   34,713  54,768    63%      118%
N.B. Figures have been rounded, and totals may not reflect the exact sum of their component subtotals.
3.15    The proposed IDA Credit of US$ 50 million will finance 91 percent of the cost of
project components, net of duties and taxes. This will cover approximately
US$ 31.5 million (63 percent) of foreign costs, and US$ 18.5 million (37 percent) of local
costs. Detailed information on the financing arrangements for the IDA components is
given in Annex B, and summarized in Table 3.4 below. Counterpart financing
(US$ 4.7 million) will be provided as follows: US$ 3.7 million as a GOT budget
allocation, mainly for road network rehabilitation works, US$ 1.0 million from the RMF
to contribute to periodic maintenance of unpaved roads, and US$ 0.1 million from the
beneficiaries to contribute to rural road rehabilitation. Local counterpart funds provided
from the Government budget will be made available through project accounts
administered by the DGTP. Prior to Credit effectiveness, the GOT will open a DGTP
Project account and make an initial deposit (CFAF 133 million). The GOT agreed
during negotiations to replenish the DGTP Project account with the same amount
(CFAF 133 million) on a regular quarterly basis over the period 1998-2001.



25
Table 3.4.- Financing Arrangements for IDA-Supported Components
(US$ thousands, including contingencies)
Component             IDA   GOVT   RMF  BENEF  Total
A National roads                  44,090  3,476  1,029    -   48,595
B Institutional strengthening     3,477    106    -     -    3,583
C Road safety                      914    68    -       -      982
D Rural roads                      1,518    8    -       82   1,608
TOTAL 50,000  3,658  1,029    82  54,768
Additional beneficiary participation related to the project  163
D. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Project Implementation Manual
3.16 Detailed project implementation procedures are recorded in a Project
Implementation Manual (PIM). In particular, PIM will include procurement
arrangements, standard bidding documents, key performance indicators, quarterly
reporting formats, selection criteria for priority roads and works, detailed instructions for
ex-post road work supervision, environmental guidelines for road works, economic
justification methodology, and copies of official documents, such as the Ministry of
Finance delegation of road work procurement authority to the MMETPT. Prior to
negotiations, a draft PIM was discussed. The GOT agreed during negotiations to the
final PIM, which is to be adopted by the Government (MMETPT and Ministry of
Finance) prior to Board presentation. It may be updated as necessary during project
implementation, with IDA concurrence. Project implementation, arrangements and the
Credit are summarized below.
IDA Credit Coordination
3.17 An IDA Credit Coordinator, attached to the MMETPT, will coordinate project
implementation, including: (a) overall coordination of the IDA-financed components; (b)
liaison with SET and donors to ensure adherence to the TSS and to administer and update
the entire Transport Sector Investment Program; and (c) management of expenditures
under the IDA Credit, including Credit allocation. Prior to negotiations, the
MMETPT nominated a Project Coordinator, acceptable to IDA.
3.18 The GOT agreed during negotiations to carry out, 24 month after Credit
effectiveness, jointly with the Association and other donors, a mid-term review of the
progress made in executing the priority investment program and the proposed project.
This review will cover: (a) the implementation of measures designed to strengthen the
financial reporting, monitoring, accounting and auditing capabilities of the different
Borrower agencies involved in project implementation; (b) the overall progress made in
the program and Credit implementation; (c) the adequacy of the Borrower's counterpart



26
funding as well as the level of budgetary allocations and actual expenditures for routine
maintenance; (d) the functioning of the Road Maintenance Fund; and (e) the need to
redesign and/or restructure project components experiencing implementation difficulties.
Not later than one month prior to the mid-term review, the Borrower will furnish to the
Association a report, for its review and comments, on the preceding topics, including an
evaluation of the progress achieved in complying with project implementation, and
recommendations resulting from studies conducted under the project.
3.19 Before October 31 of each year of project implementation, the DGTP will
prepare and submit for review by IDA and the RMF Road Council, the updated road
rehabilitation and maintenance program with the request for financing priority works
from the Credit and the RMF, before its incorporation into the PIP. The Government has
agreed to include in its request only those investments: (a) that are necessary to improve
road infrastructure and which have an economic return higher than 12 percent, and (b) for
which routine maintenance funding is demonstrated through projected resources for the
Road Maintenance Fund. The Government agreed during negotiations not to
undertake any new investments before ensuring the financing of the existing
network rehabilitation . Choice of rehabilitation sites will be prioritized by level of
economic return and degradation.
3.20 At least every two years, the Government will organize a roundtable to examine
project financing and to define the annual tranches for the priority program. The first
roundtable will be held on March 1997; subsequent roundtable will take place before the
end of 1999 and 2001. At these roundtables, the Government will provide the donors
with a detailed report, to include: (a) the implementation status of the investment and
maintenance programs; (b) performance indicators; and (c) progress achieved in applying
policy and institutional measures in each of the transport subsectors, as defined in the
TSS.
Implementation of the National Road Network Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Component
3.21  The road component will be carried out by the MMETPT, through the DGTP.
Per the amended Public Procurement Decree, the DGTP will issue calls for bids, award
contracts, sign (or cause to be signed) said contracts, and manage rehabilitation, routine
and periodic maintenance contracts that are financed by the RMF or by the Credit. Such
procurement will be carried out in accordance with procedures set out in a Road
Maintenance Procedure Manual and performance indicators pertaining to the timing of
each procurement step to be performed by the DGTP. The DGTP will recruit consultants
to carry out technical studies and supervise works financed by the Credit. The GOT
agreed during negotiations that consultants appointed for works supervision will
assist the DGTP in finalizing the bidding documents and evaluating the resulting
bids. The GOT agreed during negotiations on environmental guidelines for
environmental impact assessments to be included in technical studies of road works.
Final technical studies and bidding documents for a first tranche of paved roads
rehabilitation works are underway, and will be completed prior to Board



27
presentation. It was agreed that the Credit and the RMF will only finance rehabilitation
and maintenance works that are contracted out.
3.22 Prior to October 31 of each year of project implementation, the MMETPT will
prepare and transmit for IDA review: (a) a report on project implementation status and
projections for the road maintenance program, including routine maintenance to be
financed by the RMF; and (b) an update of the priority program for the following year.
The Government will undertake new rehabilitation works financed by the Credit after
approval by IDA of annual maintenance program. IDA approval will be based on, inter
alia: (a) actual performance each year of planned routine maintenance works, accepted by
RMF board and IDA, and adequate funding of works by the RMF; and (b) effective
collection by the RMF of the entirety of user fee revenues raised at the fee level
determined for the year. RMF operating costs and DGTP incremental operating costs
will be limited to less than four percent of RMF total revenues. The Government has
agreed to grant the RMF the authority to raise resources directly through justified road
tolls, to be established during project implementation, and through a user fee on
petroleum products. The Government has set this fee at CFAF 15/liter for 1997, and
agreed during negotiations to increase the fee by CFAF 5/liter per year over the
period 1998-2001. The RMF will use these resources to finance all routine maintenance
of the national road network, and an increasing share of periodic maintenance of unpaved
roads, as set out in Annex B. Should the RMF not be able to mobilize sufficient funds to
finance road maintenance at the agreed level, the Government will increase its allocation
to the RMF to cover at least the required level for routine maintenance of the national
road network (see Annex B). Prior to June 30 of each year, the Government will
provide IDA with audit reports of the RMF accounts, performed by an external auditor
and based on terms of reference acceptable to IDA.
Institutional Strengthening Component Implementation
3.23 This component will be carried out by the DGTP and the DGT. Each executing
agency will prepare an annual training and support program, in close collaboration with
the beneficiaries. These annual programs are to be transmitted for IDA review before
October 31 of each year. The DGTP will be responsible for implementing its own
program of support, in addition to the training program for the private construction sector.
The DGT will carry out the support program for the DGT and the DTR, as well as the
training program for transport industry operators. The DGT and the DGTP will appoint
consultants to design and carry out training programs, and set up management
information systems in each of the ministries.
Road Safety Component Implementation
3.24 The DGT will initiate the Road Safety Component. During the first year of
project implementation, the DGT is to develop a road safety program conforming to the
Government policy set out in the TSS. This program will be reviewed by IDA and
carried out by the ORS. This program will be updated and transmitted for IDA review
before November 30 of each year. Activities for the following year should be approved



28
by the SET before being implemented by the ORS. The ORS will keep the SET and IDA
informed of component implementation through quarterly progress reports. The DGTP
will be responsible for building the Vehicle Inspection Center (VIC) to benefit from its
delegated authority and streamlined procurement procedures. Design of the Center and
preparation of bidding documents will rest with the DGT, assisted by the DTR.
Preparation of the VIC construction and equipment bidding documents, satisfactory
to IDA, is a condition for Board presentation. The VIC will be operated by the ORS
to benefit from its autonomy and ensure that an adequate level of service and
maintenance of Center equipment is provided. Measures to eliminate accident-inducing
spots on the road network will be identified by the ORS and implemented by the DGTP
as part of the network maintenance works.
Feeder Road Management Component Implementation
3.25 The MMETPT will implement the rural road component through the DGTP and
its regional departments. Programming and contract administration will follow the same
procedures as those outlined for the national road network and will use the same standard
bidding documents. The reorganized FRD, within the DGTP, will manage the feeder road
data base and the priority maintenance program. Restructuring of the FRD and
merging within the DGTP is a condition for Board presentation. In conjunction with
NGOs, the FRD will provide technical expertise at the regional level to promote
community participation in feeder road management and maintenance. Adoption of the
Rural Road Management Manual is a condition for Board presentation. The GOT
agreed during negotiations that the financing by the Credit of the rehabilitation
work program for each selected rural community will require adherence to
eligibility criteria spelled out in the Guide and that it is further conditioned upon
receipt by IDA of the evidence indicating that local partners have actually carried
out, or caused to be carried out, initial site preparation for rehabilitation works and
manual routine maintenance works for which they are responsible, and which make
up their contribution to the project.
3.26  Works programming and phasing will be determined in close collaboration with
the local communities responsible for individual road sections with the help of a
specialized NGO and DGTP road technicians. The final program will be confirmed by the
NCCRR, assisted by the FRD. No rehabilitation or maintenance works will be carried
out with IDA financing until the necessary arrangements to finance and carry out routine
maintenance have been defined and finalized in a written agreement with the requesting
communities. Rehabilitation works will be contracted out to SMEs using simplified
bidding documents satisfactory to IDA. The DGTP will select NGOs and support local
communities in accordance with Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (January
1997). The NCCRR, aided by the FRD, will monitor execution of this component and its
pilot, with the objective of defining a national strategy for rural road maintenance. In
addition, the FRD will conduct periodic assessments of the component with the objective
of providing advice on corrective measures and fine-tuning -the feeder roads strategy.



29
E. PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
Procurement
3.27 Table 3.5 below summarizes expected procurement by expenditure category.
Detailed procurement procedures and arrangements are provided in Annex B. Unless
otherwise indicated below, procurement arrangements for items financed by the Credit
are as follows: (a) all equipment and civil works contracts will be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding (ICB or NCB for works, and ICB, NCB and Local Shopping for
goods); (b) all civil works construction will be supervised by consultants acceptable to
IDA under agreed-upon terms of reference; (c) consultants and experts for technical
assistance will be recruited in accordance with provisions stated below; (d) procurement
decisions for civil works and goods in excess of US$ 100,000 equivalent, for consulting
services with firms, and for consulting services with individuals or training activities in
excess of US$ 50,000 (covering 85 percent of all procurement) will be subject to prior
approval by IDA; (e) notwithstanding para. (iv) above for all equipment contracts less
than US$ 20,000 equivalent and awarded by shopping procedures, prior review by IDA
will be required for documents listed in Schedule 3, Section I, part D para. 2 of the Credit
Agreement; (f) procurement decisions for consulting services with firms in excess of
US$ 50,000 equivalent but less than US$ 100,000 equivalent will be subject to prior
approval by IDA, as specified in detail in the Credit Agreement, Schedule 3, section II,
part D, para. 2; and (g) post-review procedures will be applied for contracts in amounts
below these specified thresholds. Contracts for civil works which are unlikely to attract
international competition will be awarded on the basis of procedures for locally
advertised competitive bidding (NCB), according to procedures reviewed and accepted by
IDA. Procedures for launching calls for bids, bid evaluation, contract award, signature
and approval will be carried out in conformance with procedures included in the PIM,
finalized during negotiations.
3.28 The Bank's standard bidding documents will be used. The GOT agreed during
negotiations to Bank standard bidding documents and standard bid evaluation
reports for goods and civil works under ICB, civil works under NCB which might
interest local SMEs, and consultant services contracts, and the processing time for
key procurement activities.
3.29 Civil Works. All contracts for civil works in excess of US$ 400,000 equivalent
will be awarded on the basis of ICB. Contracts for civil works under US$ 400,000
equivalent, but not exceeding US$ 4.6 million in aggregate may be awarded on the basis
of NCB. International enterprises are best qualified to execute major improvement works
on unpaved roads or bridges, and works on paved roads, such as rehabilitation. Local
contractor capacity is to be developed under the RTP through on-site assistance to carry
out contracts for routine, and light periodic maintenance of paved and unpaved roads.
International firms are usually not interested in minor, scattered improvements on the
unpaved or rural road networks; packaging of such works will be tailored to the abilities
of local contractors. Therefore, 90 percent of works is expected to be awarded by ICB,
and 10 percent by NCB. Foreign firms, if interested, may participate in NCB.



30
Table 3.5.- Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ thousands, net of taxes)
Category                  ICB      NCB   OTHERS N.B.F  TOTAL
I Civil Works
(a) Comp A: national roads               41,490    3,556     -    -      45,046
IDA                                (37,341)  (3,200)    -    -    (40,541)
(b) Comp B: rehabilitation of DTR buildings         195      -    -        195
IDA                                    -       (176)    -    -       (176)
(c) Comp C: ORS construction               485       -                     485
IDA                                  (436)      -                    (436)
(d) Comp D: rural roads                     -       817                    817
IDA                                    -      (735)                  (735)
2 Equipment
(a) Comp B: DGTP equipment                  -       453      52  -         505
IDA                                    -       (408)    (47)  -      (455)
(b) Comp B: DGT equipment                   -       191      -    -        191
IDA                                    -       (172)    -    -       (172)
(c) Comp C: ORS equipment                  194       -       -    -        194
IDA                                  (174)      -       -    -       (174)
(d) COMP D: DGTP equipment                  -        84      -    -         84
IDA                                    -        (76)    -    -        (76)
3 Consultants, training, NGO and services
(a) Comp A: DGTP consultants                -        -     3,549  -       3,549
IDA                                    -        -    (3,549)  -     (3,549)
(b) Comp B: DGTP consultants                -        -     1,921   -      1,921
IDA                                    -             (1,921)  -     (1,921)
(c) Comp B: DGT consultants                 -               605  -         605
IDA                                    -               (605)  -      (605)
(d) Comp C: DGT consultants                 -               304  -         304
IDA        -                                           (304)  -      (304)
(e) Comp D: DGTP consultants                                707  -         707
IDA                                                    (707)  -      (707)
4 Incremental operating costs                -                165  -        165
IDA                                                    (149)         (149)
TOTAL   42,169    5,297   7,303   -      54,768
IDA  (37,952)  (4,767)  (7,281)  -    (50,000)
3.30   Consultancies. All consultancies financed by IDA will be contracted in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (January 1997).
Consultants' services will be procured under contracts awarded on a quality and cost-
based selection. The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than
US$ 100,000 can comprise entirely national consultants. Nevertheless, three different
types of selection may be authorized for consultancies under the conditions following: (a)
Least cost selection: advisory services and services for audit, and training under
components B, C and D of the project and estimated to cost less than US$ 150,000 may
be procured under contracts awarded by least cost selection; (b) Single source selection:
advisory services and services for training under components B, C and D estimated to
cost less than US$ 100,000 may be procured under contracts awarded by single source
selection with the Bank prior agreement; and (c) Individual consultants: advisory services



31
and services for training under components B, C and D and estimated to cost less than
US$ 50,000 may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants. Services
for assistance to local communities under the rural road component would be executed by
experienced NGOs or consultant specialized in community participation area. The GOT
confirmed during negotiations that the consultants responsible for works
supervision will assist the DGTP in finalizing the bidding documents and evaluating
the resulting bids. NGOs will be hired after careful selection following consultation
made on the same basis as for consultant services.
3.31   Goods will be procured by ICB, with the exception of goods contracts each less
than or equal to US$ 50,000 equivalent, which in aggregate do not exceed US$ 750,000
will be procured by NCB. Contracts each estimated to cost less than US$ 20,000, which
in aggregate will not exceed US$ 100,000 may be procured by national shopping.
Disbursement
3.32 The Credit is to be fully disbursed by March 31, 2002, and the Credit closing date
will be September 30, 2002. Annex B presents the estimated disbursement schedule for
the IDA Credit, the detailed disbursement schedule, Credit categories and disbursement
percentages. The Credit will be disbursed as follows in Table 3.6.
Table 3.6.- Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit
category                                   % of expenditures
Amount of       to be financed by IDA
:__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ .cred it
i Civil Works
Comp A: national roads                    37,457 90% local, 100% foreign expenditures
Comp B: rehabilitation of DTR buildings      167 90% local, 100% foreign expenditures
Comp C: ORS construction                     406 90% local, 100% foreign expenditures
Comp D: rural roads                          675 90% local, 100% foreign expenditures
2 Equipment
Comp B: DGTP equipment                       436 90% local, 100% foreign expenditures
DGT equipment                         164 90% local, 100% foreign expenditures
Comp C: DGT equipment                         163 90% local, 100% foreign expenditures
Comp D: DGTP equipment                        70 90% local, 100% foreign expenditures
3 Consultants, training, NGO and services
Comp A: DGTP consultants                    3,279              100%
Comp B: DGTP consultants                    1,775              100%
DGT consultants                       561               100%
Comp C: DGT consultants                      284               100%
Comp D: DGTP consultants                     651               100%
4 Incremental operating costs                   140      90% till December 31, 1999
5 PPF refinancing                               500
6 Non allocated                               3,273 _
TOTAL      50,000



32
3.33  Special Accounts. To facilitate disbursement and reduce the volume of
withdrawal application, a special account will be opened in CFA francs for the DGTP.
The authorized allocations amount to US$ 1.5 million equivalent. The amounts are
estimated to cover approximately four months of expenditures. The Special Account will
be opened upon Credit effectiveness, and would finance expenditures under all project
categories. The GOT agreed during negotiations to management by the DGTP of the
Special Account and payment of expenditures. Upon Credit effectiveness, an amount
of US$ 750,000 equivalent, representing 50 percent of authorized allocations will be
deposited in the Special Account. The remaining balance will be made available as
needed. The Special Account will be used for all payments representing less than 20
percent of the authorized allocations. Request for replenishments would be submitted
monthly and include bank statements and reconciliation statements.
3.34  All replenishment requests are to be fully documented, except for: (a) civil works
and equipment contracts of less than US$ 200,000 equivalent; (b) contracts of less than
US$ 100,000 for consultant services provided by firms; (c) contracts of less than
US$ 50,000 for consulting services by individuals; and (d) training, studies and operating
expenses which may be claimed on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs). All
supporting documents for expenditures will be retained by the DGTP for review by
periodic Bank supervision missions and external auditors.
F. ACCOUNTING, AUDITING AND REPORTING
3.35  The DGTP will be responsible for accounting for Credit expenditures and Special
Account transactions including Statement of Expenditures. All expenditures under the
Credit will be recorded and consolidated by the DGTP under the supervision of the Credit
Coordinator, who will countersign all withdrawal applications. Nomination by the
DGTP of an accountant, acceptable to IDA, to operate and maintain the existing
accounting system, is a condition for Board presentation. The GOT agreed during
negotiations to the annual auditing of the Credit account, the Special Account,
Statements of Expenditures by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The GOT
also agreed during negotiations to the annual auditing of RMF and ORS accounts
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The setting up by the RMF of an
accounting system and designation of an accountant, acceptable to IDA is a
condition for Board presentation. Auditor missions will include the detailed audits of
Credit accounts and SOEs with an opinion; the audit of the Special Account with a
separate opinion and management letter, to include the analysis of the internal control and
accounting procedures along with recommendations to management. Auditor reports will
be submitted to IDA not later than six months after the close of their fiscal year. In
addition to Credit audit reports, the RMF and the ORS will also furnish to IDA, not later
than six months after the close of their fiscal year, separate audit reports on their
respective operations. The DGTP, the RMF and the ORS will select project auditors
prior to Board presentation, and their contracts will be signed prior to Credit
effectiveness.



33
3.36 The Credit Coordinator in the DGTP will prepare, and submit for IDA review, a
quarterly progress report within one month after the end of each quarter. This report will
include: (a) progress achieved with respect to agreed-upon implementation and
disbursement schedules; (b) key performance indicators; and (c) work programs -and cost
estimates for the coming quarter and for the entire project, including those to be financed
by the RMF. Performance indicators are listed in Annex B. The main purpose of the
report will be to provide timely and updated information on implementation of project
components, highlighting issues and problem areas, recommending actions and
commenting on progress in resolving previous issues. The DGTP will prepare a
completion report within six months of the final disbursements in accordance with IDA
guidelines. The GOT agreed during negotiations to reporting formats and
requirements, and key performance indicators, and agreed that the DGTP will
submit to IDA copies of all consultant reports and studies financed through the
proposed project.
G. SUPERVISION PLAN
3.37 The GOT agreed during negotiations that the MMETPT will hold a project
launching workshop as soon as the Credit becomes effective, and that IDA will
conduct a mid-term review two years from the date of Credit effectiveness, during which
the status of the entire project will be reviewed in detail. During this mid-term review,
IDA will pay particular attention to: (a) compliance with covenants, especially those
pertaining to financing and auditing; (b) progress in implementing project components;
the results of the road and institutional strengthening subcomponents, and variance from
appraisal estimates; (c) status of RMF operations and financing of road maintenance; (d)
status of the preparation of Togo's ruraf roads strategy based on the results of the IDA-
supported pilot operation. The review will be carried out jointly by IDA, the
Government, the DGTP, the SET, the RMF, and eventually other donors as they resume
support to the transport sector. Corrective measures may be proposed as a result of this
review, including necessary modifications in the scope of the proposed project, and in the
Project Implementation Manual.
3.38 The proposed supervision program for IDA components and the key performance
indicators for monitoring their progress were designed during appraisal and were
confirmed during negotiations. The first two years of project implementation will
require 24 staff weeks of supervision, and the following years 20 staff weeks per year. A
table presenting the proposed mission activities and staffing, and a list of performance
indicators are provided in Annex B. Routine supervision by IDA should normally
include a transport specialist and an engineer experienced in road maintenance and,
periodically, procurement specialists.
3.39  The supervision should ensure that the priority investment program and road
maintenance program conform to macro-economic conditions. The supervision will pay
particular attention to RMF operations, in particular resource use and replenishment.
Preparation of the priority program, with its annual tranches, will require specific skills in
transport economics and highway engineering. IDA's annual review of the priority



34
program will require expertise in economic analysis, and road construction and
maintenance standards. IDA will play a major role in donor coordination during donors'
meetings, where these programs will be revised and updated. The meetings will take
place during IDA supervision missions. Involvement of a number of small enterprises in
civil works execution will also require close supervision and special attention to ensure
acceptable quality standards and timely completion of works.



35
4. BENEFITS, IMPACTS AND RISKS
A. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
4.1   Project Benefits. All road improvement will reduce transport time and vehicle
operating costs, leading to a reduction in overall transport costs. Reduction of transport
costs will lower the cost of transported goods, encouraging agricultural production and
trade. Reduction of transport costs will likewise lower passenger fares, encouraging
mobility. Other, non-quantifiable benefits are expected to flow from IDA-supported
activities that improve management and planning. Effective use of the priority program as
an investment tool should result in higher rates of return on investments in the transport
sector as a whole. Development of a community-based, demand-driven rural roads
maintenance strategy will lead to more effective use of resources. Better planning and
contract management, based on improved road data, will enable maintenance of more
roads with the same budget. Improvements in road safety will reduce the cost of traffic
accidents in terms of human life and productivity, and damage to vehicles. Economic
analyses for individual IDA components are summarized below, and detailed in
Annex E.
4.2   Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance. Economic analysis undertaken during
preparation covered all road sector investments for the Government's ten-year program.
Even though the four IDA components are but part of this larger priority program,
economic analysis of the larger program facilitates rational selection of investments by
IDA and other donors. This analysis included a section-by-section review of proposed
trouble spot repairs, regraveling and rehabilitation of unpaved roads, and definition of
optimal maintenance strategies for both the paved and unpaved road networks. ERRs
were also calculated for maintenance cost flows. Cost streams include the cost of works
required to bring key sections of the network up to a service level at which regular
maintenance is viable, in addition to maintenance costs. Benefits are taken to be savings
in vehicle operating costs due to improved road surfaces; time savings were not included.
The base case is defined as continuation of the lowest level of service, or deterioration to
this level, at which vehicles can still actually use the road. This is the only way to
generate a baseline level of vehicle operating costs, which may then be compared to the
"with-investment" level. In practice, it should be noted, in a case in which no road
maintenance is undertaken, roads become impassable and traffic virtually ceases. Only
minimum maintenance costs are included in the base case, since, in their present state,
some roads cannot even be maintained without remedial repair to upgrade their standard
to a minimum required to maintain traffic flows.



36
4.3   Paved road works include only rehabilitation of badly deteriorated sections of the
interurban network. Cost-benefit analyses were carried out during program preparation
using the Highway Design Model (HDM). Rehabilitation design and work costs were
based on technical standards developed during TSS preparation, and recent works costs
provided by the DGTP. The HDM vehicle operating cost module was calibrated to
account for used cars, which make up the core of Togo's vehicle fleet. The results of the
economic analysis are shown in Annex E. The ERR of the priority program over the
paved network is about 460 percent. The total Net Present Value (NPV) at a 12 percent
discount rate, is estimated at CFAF 440 billion, while the Net Present Cost is estimated at
CFAF 37 billion. The rehabilitation of the three road sections (Lom6-Ts6vi6, Tsevi&
Noste, Attakpam6-Blitta) as currently proposed for IDA financing shows a very high
ERR (infinite or 192 percent). Additional program financing is still being sought, in any
case the IDA Credit will participate in the financing of the rehabilitation of one of the
most deteriorated section of RN1. Sensitivity analysis shows that a drop in the rate of
patching from 50 to 20 percent would reduce the NPV of the proposed investment by 4
percent, and raise overall maintenance costs by 4 percent. This demonstrates the need for
regularly performed routine maintenance over the life-span of the network (see Annex
E).
4.4   An optimal maintenance strategy for the unpaved road network was defined'
building on empirical evidence of road deterioration and earth road maintenance
experience in Togo and neighboring countries. The objective is to optimize the allocation
of road maintenance resources so as to maximize the number of practicable itineraries.
The optimal maintenance strategy for a given section maximizes the present value of the
difference between the cost of maintenance works and user cost savings. A 12 percent
discount rate was used. Cost-benefit analysis was also carried out to rank reviewed'
sections and select priorities. Vehicle operating costs were determined- using HDM with
appropriate adjustments for composition of traffic using the-earth road network. Cost of
works was based on private sector contracting. The ERRs for works on the 51 stretches
of unpaved national roads proposed for IDA financing range from 340 percent
to -2 percent, depending on'the section. The NPV, at'a 12 percent discount rate, is
estimated at CFAF 59 billion.' Works programming is directly prioritized by key
economic advantages, and only those sections with an ERR higher than 12 percent and
positive NPV will be considered under this project (49 sections, see- Annex E for more
details).
4.5   Sensitivity analyses were conducted over different values for the most important
variables: level of traffic (30 percent less than estimated), level of service over the entire
network (fair), and cost of works (30 percent more than estimated). Economic returns
remain high for the most heavily trafficked sections. However, ERRs for sections with
ERRs less than 20 percent in the Base Case dropped dramatically: 4 sections showed
ERRs under the 12 percent project inclusion ceiling. Following-this analysis, the project
would finance only the most heavily trafficked unpaved roads (first and second priority
option).



37
4.6   While it is not possible to quantify the benefits of the other activities financed
under this component (road safety improvement, institutional strengthening, training and
studies for improved management, strengthening of SMEs, and overall IDA Credit
management), these activities will certainly generate benefits by lowering traffic accident
rates, improving the efficiency of resource use, and encouraging competition in the
private construction sector.
4.7   Feeder Road Management. There is no reliable data or approach to estimate
increased revenues for the beneficiaries of pilot rural areas from the additional
agricultural production, and better access to markets and services, which improved road
conditions are expected to induce. Farmers can be expected to make rational choices on
the sections of road to be proposed for rehabilitation and maintenance, based on their own
assessment of benefits likely to accrue to them. The component has been designed, in
fact, to apply selection criteria used in Government-sponsored programs, which take into
account user savings, increased agricultural production, and social and poverty impacts.
Should it not be possible to calculate an ERR, other simple criteria will be used, such as
population density or agricultural production per kilometer of road to be included in the
project. Taking a broader view, this component represents the minimum investment
required for the Government to design a viable rural roads strategy to replace the
unsuccessful and uneconomic approaches of the past, characterized by costly repeated
rehabilitation of umnaintained rural roads. The requirement of community contribution
to project costs, sufficient to ensure routine maintenance of included road sections, has
been adopted as a means to exclude economically unjustified investments from being
financed under this pilot program.
B. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
4.8   Togo has developed a National Environmental Plan (NEP), with Bank assistance,
which defines the country's environmental policy. Implementation arrangements for this
policy, as defined in the NEP, ensure that economic development takes into account the
need to protect the environment over the long term. In line with environmental policy,
the RTP proposes specific measures to reduce any negative impacts from transport
activities to be undertaken under the project. The main environmental problems caused
by land transport are user safety, erosion and risk of flooding from road works, and
vehicular air pollution in concentrated urban areas. Fossil fuel consumption is another
potential problem, but this is minimized by the low rate of personal vehicle ownership,
and the intensive use of two-wheeled vehicles.
4.9   The proposed project does not include any new road construction, thereby
limiting the environmental impact. More directly, the project supports the NEP by
providing for development of a transport environmental action plan and environmental
guidelines (see Annex D). It also proposes to perform environmental impact assessments
prior to beginning any rehabilitation works, with particular attention to: (a) drainage
systems and road shoulders to reduce soil erosion; (b) treatment of accident-inducing
points (redesign, signage); and (c) treatment of local quarries for any project-related
material mining operations.



38
4.10  Improvement of road safety is an important element of the proposed project. An
action plan has been proposed to establish a sustainable system of road safety financing
and management in Togo. The Bank-financed Transport Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1861-
TO) has begun road safety improvement measures, such as data systems, training for
drivers license examiners, and information campaigns. The Lome Urban Development
Project (Cr. 2620-TO) is undertaking other measures, such as redressing dangerous
intersections in Lome, creation of separate cycle paths, and drainage of flood-prone areas.
C. POVERTY REDUCTION
4.11  The transport sector plays a vital role in the reduction of poverty in Togo, both
through its general contribution to economic growth and through its direct role in creating
employment. The proposed project will moreover contribute to poverty reduction
through activities that: (a) offer new economic opportunities, especially to rural
populations, through improved rural infrastructure and services; and (b) generate
employment in both urban and rural areas.
4.12  The strategic choice to concentrate on maintaining existing infrastructure, rather
than undertake new investments, and to establish an adequate system of rural
infrastructure maintenance and development, will contribute substantially to reducing
poverty. In effect, reduction in transport costs stemming from infrastructure
improvements will lower costs of goods and services for all consumers, and therefore
increase purchasing power. Improvement in rural services (improving accessibility of
rural areas and reestablishing existing infrastructure) will enable rural populations, who
are the most touched by poverty, to be integrated into the modem economy. Access to
urban markets, with all of the facilities they provide, will enable rural populations to
improve their productivity, revenue and quality of life.
4.13  Labor-intensive road maintenance works performed by SMEs and autonomous
management of resources for infrastructure maintenance (RMF) facilitate the creation of
employment for unskilled and semi-skilled workers, reducing the rate of urban and rural
unemployment of unskilled workers from which the country is suffering. Promotion of
competent SMEs for works requiring technical expertise is one of the measures proposed
by the TSS. Some of these measures are already underway within the Urban
Development Project.
D. PROJECT RISKS
4.14 Generic Risk. The major risk to the project is posed by Togo's lingering fiscal
difficulties. If successful, the project will contribute greatly to the country's economic
revitalization, however success hinges on a prior ability to mobilize resources for the
RMF. Without these resources, road infrastructure vital to economic development,
already in critical condition, will continue to deteriorate to a point at which it becomes an
economic liability. This risk is mitigated by Government commitment to the CAS
objective to rehabilitate essential transport infrastructure, and the TSS recommendation to
place absolute priority on rehabilitation and maintenance of road infrastructure.



39
Mitigating measures within the RTP include: (a) as a condition of negotiation, the
establishment of the RMF with autonomous management, an independent agency to
collect revenues, and direct transfer of funds, without transit through the Treasury; and
(b) Government commitment to install toll booths on rehabilitated trunk roads to generate
revenues for the RMF.
4.15  Project-related Risk. The project is part of a sectoral reform effort, therefore the
main risks to IDA-supported components relate to new and innovative activities. These
are: (a) inadequate replenishment of the Road Maintenance Fund (discussed above); (b)
uncertainty of community participation in feeder road management; (c) insufficient local
SME technical capacity, including the risk of long delays in works execution; and (d)
lack of donor coordination. Another minor risk concerns transformation of sector
institutions, which should be mitigated by focusing project conditions on the institutions
most vital to project implementation.
4.16  Involvement of local communities in rural road maintenance and management
and the effectiveness of NGOs expected to support these communities is assumed but
uncertain. Many communities already perform routine road maintenance in the absence
of Government service. However, these maintenance efforts are scattered and
unprogrammed, and often suffer from inadequate technical capacity. The project will call
on local and/or international NGOs to mobilize and support local communities in road
maintenance and management. Communities and NGOs will receive further support
from DGTP engineers. DGTP field operatives will also act as liaisons between
communities and local and central administrations, to expedite NCCRR approval of local
maintenance programs, and facilitate local requests for maintenance works financing.
NGOs will be carefully screened well in advance of field operations, and will be offered
external assistance during the first year of the component. Should some local
communities show little motivation to organize into associations or collect funds, it
would merely slow the pace of implementation and delay development of the
Government's rural road maintenance strategy, without compromising project objectives.
4.17 In the past, SMEs in Togo, although active, have proven to be technically weak in
carrying out maintenance works contracts, resulting in significant delays in completion
and technical flaws. The following measures have been included in the project to smooth
implementation and further SME development. Through the project, DGTP will provide
targeted training to all SMEs prior to implementation of each type of maintenance
operation, to include works organization, relevant methods and techniques, and quality
control. This will be supplemented by on-site training and supervision. In addition,
works packages will be small and simple. For some highly technical works, SMEs may
undergo prequalification.
4.18  Donors were active in supporting Togo's transport sector before the 1991-93
political crisis, however their assistance tended to be piecemeal and uncoordinated. Since
the crisis, donors have been slow to resume lending to Togo. Given past experience and
current trends, there is a potential risk to maintaining donor coherence in sectoral
interventions. This risk is fairly small, since all transport sector donors participated in the
development of the TSS, and were consulted by the GOT before it approved the Sector



40
Strategy Note in May 1996. However, risk remains that donors will continue their
individual, scattered efforts. Indeed donors are already earmarking funds for rural road
programs, once lending resumes, well in excess of what is needed. Adoption of the
priority programn for feeder roads, and establishment of the NCCRR will help donors
reallocate their funds and optimize their interventions. The GOT will also hold donor
meeting every two years to discuss progress in implementing the sector strategy and the
RSIP, with the objective of coordinating interventions and raising additional funds for the
program.
4.19 A final, less important risk concerns institutional transformation. The DGTP has
taken the lead in reorganizing itself; DGTP staff have already accepted and assimilated
elements of this reorganization. The process began from within in 1991 and has made
steady progress ever since. The Credit will finance training and short-term technical
assistance for the DGTP to facilitate its restructuring and provide adequate management
tools, such as: a road data base, a management information system to assist in
maintenance programming, and relevant documentation.



41
5. AGREEMENTS, CONDITIONS AND
RECOMMENDATION
A. AGREEMENTS REACHED
5.1   Prior to appraisal the Government has taken the following actions: passed the
Declaration of General Government Policy for the Transport Sector (adopted by the
Council of Ministers on May 28, 1996) (paragraph 2.20); passed legislation to transform
the DMTP into an autonomous Equipment Leasing Company (paragraph 2.32); adopted
the law creating RMF including road user fee, set at CFAF 15 per liter for 1997 with
direct transfer to the RMF account and granted RMF the authority to raise resources
directly through justified road tolls to be established during project implementation
(paragraph 2.34); delegated authority to MMETPT to process and sign procurement
contracts (of an amount up to CFAF 500 million) for road maintenance works (paragraph
2.33); initiated first phase of DGTP force-account labor redeployment (paragraph 2.32);
drafted legislation for the Transport Policy Law and Road Transport Code (paragraph
2.42); and launched study to inventory the network of rural roads and define priority
maintenance program (paragraph 2.36).
5.2   Prior to negotiations, the Government took the following measures:
* established the Equipment Leasing Company, and transfer DMTP staff and
equipment to the new company and initiate leasing activities (paragraph 2.32);
* completed first phase of DGTP force-account labor redeployment (paragraph
2.32);
*  established the 1997 road maintenance program and budget, and launch the
first RMF-funided bidding invitations for routine maintenance works on the
national network (paragraph 2.34, 4.14);
*  submitted for IDA review draft Road Transport Code and a Transport Law
(paragraph 2.42);
*  prepared draft Project Implementation Manual (PIM) (paragraph 3.16); and
*  nominated a Project Coordinator, acceptable to IDA (paragraph 3.17).
5.3   During negotiations, the GOT confirmed its commitment on the following
measures:
*  redeployment of DGTP's labor force as individual contractors to provide
manual routine maintenance (paragraph 2.32);



42
*  adoption of Bank standard bidding documents and standard bid evaluation
reports for goods, civil works and services to be procured under the project
(paragraph 2.33, 3.28);
*  annual update of the priority maintenance program and its financing needs (by
DGTP) and submission to IDA and donor review (paragraph 2.35, 3.1, 3.19);
*  establishment of ORS during the first year of the project implementation
(paragraph 2.45);
* replenishing DGTP Project account quarterly with CFAF 133 million during
1998-2001 (paragraph 3.15);
*  final Project Implementation Manual including reporting formats,
procurement procedures, auditing and project financial management
(paragraph 3.16, 3.36);
* mid-term review jointly with IDA and other donors, to be carried out 24
months after Credit effectiveness (paragraph 3.18);
*  confirmation that no new road investments will be undertaken before ensuring
the financing of the existing network rehabilitation program (paragraph 3.19);
*  environmental guidelines for environmental assessment to be included in
technical studies of road works (paragraph 3.21);
*  increasing the road user fee collected by the RMF by CFAF 5 /liter per year
over the period 1998-2001 (paragraph 3.22);
*  approval by IDA of annual maintenance program based on, inter alia: (a)
actual yearly performance of planned routine maintenance works, accepted by
RMF board and IDA, and adequate funding of works by the RMF; (b)
effective collection by the RMF of the entirety of user fee revenues raised at
the fee level determined for the year (paragraph 3.22); and (c) for rural roads
financed by the IDA Credit and the RMF, adherence to eligibility criteria
spelled out in the Manual, and evidence indicating that local partners have
actually carried out manual routine maintenance works for which they are
responsible (paragraph 3.25);
*  supervision plan and key performance indicators to monitor the project
implementation (paragraph 3.38);
*  confirmation that the consultants responsible for works supervision will assist
the DGTP in finalizing the bidding documents and evaluating the resulting
bids (paragraph 3.21, 3.30);
* management of the Special Account by DGTP (paragraph 3.33);
*  annual audit of the Credit account, the Special Account and statement of
expenditures (paragraph 3.35);
*  annual audit of RMF and ORS accounts (paragraph 3.35);



43
* submitting to IDA (by DGTP) copies of all consultant reports and studies
financed through the proposed project (paragraph 3.36);
* organization (by MMETPT) of a project launching workshop as soon as the
Credit becomes effective (paragraph 3.37); and
* Progressive privatization of the Equipment Leasing Company (paragraph
2.32).
5.4   Prior to Board presentation, the Government took the following measures:
* established and activate the NCCRR, with adequate stakeholder
representation, to coordinate feeder road investments (paragraph 2.36);
* adopted the Rural Road Management Manual by an Arrete
Interminsteriel(paragraph 2.36, 3.25);
* adopted program measures to reduce road checkpoints and their impact on
transport profitability (paragraph 2.41);
 adopted the draft legislation for the Transport Policy Law and the Road
Transport Code and submit these to Parliament (paragraph 2.42);
 adopted the PIM agreed-upon during negotiations (paragraph 3.16);
* prepared bidding documents for a first tranche of paved road rehabilitation
works, satisfactory to IDA (paragraph 3.21);
* prepared bidding documents for VIC construction and equipment, satisfactory
to IDA (paragraph 3.24);
 implemented FRD restructuring and merging within DGTP by an Arrete
Interminsteriel(paragraph 3.25);
* selected project auditors (DGTP, RMF and ORS) (paragraph 3.35).
* setted up an accounting system for the RMF and nominate an accountant,
acceptable to IDA (paragraph 3.35); and
* nominated an accountant with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA
for managing the Project accounts. (paragraph 3.35).
5.5   The Government will take the following measures prior to effectiveness:
* open DGTP Project Account and make an initial deposit (CFAF 133 million)
(paragraph 3.15); and
* sign contracts for project auditors (DGTP, RMF and ORS) (paragraph 3.35).
B. RECOMMENDATION
5.6   Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project constitutes a
suitable basis for an IDA Credit of US$ 50 million to the Republic of Togo.






ANNEX A
GOVERNMENT STRATEGY LETTER
(POLICY LETTER OF MAY 29,1996)






MINISTERE DU COMMERCE, DES PRIX                       REPUBLIQUE TOGOLAISE
ET DES TRANSPORTS                                Travail - Liimt6 - Patiie
MINISIERE DE L'EQUIPEMENT,
DES MINES ET DE L'ENERGIE
N 696 / MCPT I MEME
DECLARATION DE POLITIQUE GENERALE
DU GOUVERNEMENT POUR LA RESTRUCTURATION
DU SECTEUR DES TRANSPORTS ADOPT-EE EN CONSEIL
DES MINISTRES DU 29 MAI 1996
I     INqTRODUCTION
Le secteur des trasports en tant que support et vecteur de d&veloppemnnt, joue um role
capital dans la vie 6cononique du Togo. L'exploitation dos infrastructures routi&res, portuireu,
a6roportuaires et feroviaires pendant une longue periode a aussi comme dautres sectos
confird au Togo de bonnes performances econoniques, mais dopuis 1992, le pays a lravers6
une p6riode de turbulence sociale ct politique qui ra plonge dans une crise 6conotmique
prononcee. La depression econornique qui s'en est suivie a mis en grande difficulte le swcteur
des transports caractdris6 dans sa globalit6 par des cofits ilev6s et de longs delais
d'acherninements suivis dun 6tat de d6gradation continue de rinfrastructure. C'est danm le cadre
de ses efforts de redressement de recnomie nationale, que le gouvemement en colaboration
avec les insttutions de Bretton Woods acieve actuellement la mise en plce dun programme
d'ajustoment et de relance de l'conomie couvrant ia periode 1996 - 1998. L#objectif recherche
par les autort6s togolaises est la restauration des grands 6quhlibres macro-6conomiques, en vue
de crer les conditions indispensables a une croissance soutenue et durable au profit de la
population-
II. CONTEXTE MACRO ECONOMIOUE
1. Le contexte macro economique actuel est caractense par une contrainte budgetaire tres
forte. En effet la crise socio-politique, exacerb&e par une grave g6nerale do Novembre 1992 i
Aout 1993 a serieusement affect6 rappareil de production nationale et le fonctionnement des
structures economiques et sociales du pays.
...n



-2 -
Le produit national brut a considerablement baisse de meme que la production industrielle et
miniere atteignant parfois 9 % pour le PNB et 41 % pour la production industrielle et miniere.
De la meme maniere, les exportations ont chute rapidement deteriorant ainsi la balance globale
sous Veffet conjugue de la baisse des concours exterieurs.
Sous l'effet conjugue de I'ajustement de la parite du franc CFA intervenu en Janvier 1994 et du
retour de la stabilite sociale, la croissance economique a repris avec un accroissement du PB
de 11 %. Cette reprise semble se confirner en 1995 grace a la reprise en particulier des
services et des exportations. La situation des finances publiques stest egalement amelioree,
toutefois le deficit budgetaire demeure eleve (10 %) du PEB. Ce deficit ne sera retabli que si la
situation s'ameliore d'une maniere durable.
2. Strategie economique
Pour relancer la croissance economique, le gouvernement entend suivre une strategie, soutenue
par un Programme d'Ajustement Structurel et de Relance Economique (PARE), couvrant la
periode 1996-1998 dont les principaux objectifs sont d'enrayer les desequilibres economniques
et favoriser la croissance dans 1'6quit6 a travers les-inesures strategiques suivantes:
- diversifier la production et les exportations agricoles pour lesquelles le Togo
jouit dun avantage comparatif sur le marche exterieur;
- regenerer le secteur manufacturier grace aux PME et aux investissements
pnves;
- desengager l1'tat des activites de production pour lesquelles le secteur prive
dispose de meilleurs avantages comparatifs par rapport au secteur public;
- Relancer le secteur des services, domaine dans lequel les operateurs
gconomiques togolais ont reussi par le passe et;
- creer un environnement favorable a la promotion des investissements privms
permettant de redonner a Lome son dynarnisme en tant que place cornmerciale
et financiere regionale.
En matiere de finances publiques, l'objectif est de reduire les depenses, notanmuent celles non
directement productives, et accroitre la mobilisation des ressources.
ml. PRIORITES ECONOMIOUES AU NIVEAU SECTORIEL
En adoptant sa nouvelle strategie de developpement economique, le gouvernement s'est fixe
des priorites en matiere d'allocation des ressources budgetaires. Dans le domaine des depenses
courantes, la priorite sera donn6e en faveur de la sante, l'education, l'entretien des routes, ainsi
que la rehabilitation des infrastructures necessaires, d'une part, a l'activite economique (routes
et pistes) et d'autre part, a la sante publique: eau et assainissement. A court terme, l'accent
sera mis sur la rehabilitation et l'entretien de l'infrastructure en privilegiant les techniques a
forte intensite de main d'oeuvre pour favoriser l'emploi.
Imglication des Drioritis economiuues sur le secteur des transports
Dans le domaine des infrastructures, le retablissement d'un entretien normal est une necessite
d'autant plus importante que le Togo joue un role significatif au plan du commerce regional et
qu'il doit maintenir un reseau de transports et de communication fiable permettant d'offiir le
meilleur service au moindre couit.
..J3



-3-
En reconnaissant le r6le du secteur des transports dans la relance de l'6conomie nationale le
Gouvemrnement a elabore une strategie de developpement de ce secteur pour: (i) identifier les
obstacles a lever et les reformes a entreprendre pour dynamiser les activites du secteur ; et (ii)
definir les actions prioritaires et le programme des investissements futurs du secteur. Pour
atteindre les objectifs de sa strategie de relance, le Gouvernement devra desormais traduire
dans les faits la priorite accordee a l'entretien et a la rehabilitation de l'infrastructure du pays.
IV. ETAT ACTUEL DU SECTEUR
Le diagnostic du secteur a permis de relever les faiblesses suivantes:
Institution et rfelementation
- la faiblesse des institutions dans le domaine de la planification economique et
financiere, de linformation technique et economique necessaire a la realisation des
actions de developpement, sur le plan materiel et de la qualification des ressources
humaines;
- 1'insuffisance de clarte dans le partage des competences et dans la coordination
necessaire entre les differentes institutions;
- un vide important en matiere de droit prive des transports ne permettant pas de
s6curiser les investissements prives;
- une reglementation parfois rigide telle que la fixation des tarifs limitant l'efficacite des
operateurs et la repartition du trafic maritime engendrant des surcouts des transports
aux produits togolais;
- la lourdeur des procedures de passation des marches publics.
Gestion des Infrastructures routieres
L'inefficacite de la gestion actuelle se traduit par:
- une degradation prematuree de l'ensemble du reseau routier due a une politique
d'entretien inadaptee, et a l'insuffisance notoire des credits d'entretien courant et
periodique;
- une faiblesse marquee de productivite de la regie resultant d'une mauvaise utilisation
des rares ressources disponibles (ressources humaines et moyens materiels);
- I'absence des conditions de mobilisation positive des PME en faveur du
developpement du sous-secteur;
- une gestion administrative lourde, exacerbee par les pratiques de gestion liees a
l'unicite de caisse;
..J14



-4 -
- l'insuffisance de coordination des differents intervenants dans le domaine des pistes
rurales et un gaspillage manifeste au niveau des investissements rarement entretenus;
- le mauvais etat, le faible taux de disponibilite et les defauts de gestion du materiel des
travaux publics.
TransRorts routier et securite routiere
Les principaux problemes releves des transports routiers togolais resultent:
- des contr6les administratifs multiples sur les routes exerces par plusieurs institutions
occasionnant des arrets fr6quents et prelevements indus mettant en peril financier les
operateurs. Ce mode de controle a favorise le non respect de la reglementation et la
disaffection de l'assurance obligatoire pour les operateurs;
- d'une regulation inadequate (tarification, tours de chargement dans les gares et au
port, etc.) empechant l1emergence de societes structurees offrant une bonne qualite de
service;
- du niveau eleve du risque d'accidents de la circulation (par rapport au faible taux de
motorisation du pays) dua a l'inobservation du code de la route par les conducteurs et a
l'etat defectueux des routes et a l'absence de controle technique adequat des vehicules
en fonctionnement;
- de l'absence d'equipements collectifs amrnages (gare routieres, parkings, etc.) pour
l'accueil des operateurs et des usagers.
Transport maritime et zestion Dortuaire
La politique de transport maritime adoptee jusqu'alors s'avere inadequate suite:
- a la repartition du trafic maritime suivant les accords de la CNUCED (regle des 40/
40 / 20) qui engendre une gestion monopolistique des droits de trafic, par le CNCT, a
travers le Comite Portuaire, et des surtarifs rencherissant les produits importes ainsi
que les produits togolais a 1'exportation;
- a la situation financiere catastrophique de la SOTONAM malgr6 les privileges dont
elle jouit en matiere de repartition de trafic (75%).
Port Autonome de Lome
Au niveau du Port Autonome de Lome, on note un tres bon niveau de securite offert aux
operateurs, une politique commerciale active et une restructuration des effectifs des dockers
professionnels. Par contre, on observe des insuffisances notoires dans 1'entretien de
l'infrastructure et des equipements de manutention, des couts de fonctionnement eleves ainsi
qutune productivite insuffisante en depit.d'une reprise du trafic.
..J5



-5-
Transport aerien
- la faiblesse du niveau d'activites de l'aeroport et son impact sur la situation financiere
de la SALT;
- I'insuffisance de coordination entre la Direction de I'Aviation Civile et la SALT au
sujet de l'approbation des tarifs et du demarchage des usagers potentiels de l'aeroport.
V.  NOUVELLES ORIENTATIONS STRATEGIOUES DE DEVELOPPEMENT
DU SECTEUR
A - OBJECTIFS GENERAUX
La definition d'une politique de d6veloppement des transports s'inscrit dans les objectifs de la
strat6gie economique du pays soutenue par le Programme d'Ajustement Structurel et de
Relance Economique que le Gouvemement a initie pour sortir de la crise que le pays a comue
ces cinq dermires annees.
Cette strategie de developpement du secteur est denc un acte volontaire concretisant la priorite
du Gouvernement pour le secteur des transports.
Les objectifs de la politique du Gouvernement pour le secteur sont:
(i) l'ramlioration de l'efficacite du secteur pour soutenir la relance de 1'6conomie et contribuer a
la croissance economique ; (ii) I'amelioration de la competitivite des produits togolais sur les
marches interieurs et exterieurs par une reduction des couts de transports et une meilleure
qualit6 de service offert ; (iii) I'amelioration de la mobilite des biens et des personnes et la
reduction de la pauvrete (iv) la mise en oeuvre d'un developpement autonome et durable du
secteur.
B - POLITIOUE DU GOUVERNEMENT DANS LE SECTEIUR
Les nriorites
La strategie du gouvemement dans le secteur des transports comprend les mesures decrites ci-
dessous qui ont ete determinees en fonction de 1tetat actuel du secteur et des objectifs declares
precedemment. La mise en oeuvre de ces mesures vise dans un premier temps a eliminer les
principaux blocages que connalt le secteur et a jeter les bases pour le retablissement. de
1'efficacite des differents sous-secteurs de -.ransports et la competitivite regionale du corridor
togolais.
A cet effet, les priorites du gouvernement dans le secteur sont:
- I'arnelioration de l'etat de l'infrastructure de base: en effet, les besoins du reseau
routier sont tres importants du fait du retard d'entretien accumule jusque Ua. Un
programme pnriotaire sera propose sur la base de critere economique optimisant ainsi
les investissements du secteur;
..J6



-6 -
- la mise en place d'un environnement reglementaire favorable au d6veloppement des
investissements prives dans le secteur et a l'arnelioration de l'efficacit6 econornique des
operateurs,
- le renforcement et l'amelioration de la capacite de gestion et de planification des
institutions intervenant dans le secteur;
- le choix des investissements dans le secteur sur la base de critere de rentabilite
economique.
Les mesures et reforme
La mise en oeuvre de la politique se fera a travers les mesures suivantes:
1 - Le renforcement institutionnel et la Dromotion de l'initiative Drivee
- la creation d'un Conseil National des Transports (CNT), organe consultatif
representant r'ensemble des operateurs du secteur des transports pour assurer le suivi
et la definition des orientations de la politique des transports du gouvernement;
- le recentrage des activites de ia Direction Generale des Travaux Publics sur les taches
de conception, de programmation et de controle des travaux d'entretien routier alors
que l'ex6cution des travaux sera confiee aux PMEE
- la creation d'un fonds d'entretien routier autonome alimente directement a partir des
recettes de la fiscalite du secteur au titre de redevances d'usage des infrastructures sur
les produits petroliers et de peages a installer sur certaines routes et par des
contributions d'organismes beneficiaires. Les recettes de ces fonds seront destinees
exclusivement a l'entretien courant et periodique du reseau routier classe dans un
premier temps;
- la transformation de l'actuelle Direction du Materiel des Travaux Publics en une
societe autonome de location de materiel de travaux publics aux operateurs publics et
prives;
- la poursuite de la restructuration des chemnins de fer par la SNCT, Societ Nationale
des Chemins de Fer du Togo. A cet effet, lEtat assurera la compensation du personnel
en surplus et permettra a la sociitvd'utiliser une partie du patrimoine pour assurer le
financement;
- la restructuration du CNCT dont les activites seront recentrees sur le soutien et la
defense des inter8ts des chargeurs. De ce fait, le CNCT abandonnera les activites de la
repartition du trafic maritime;
- la privatisation ou la liquidation de la SOTONAM au plus tard courant 1996;
..J7



- 7 -
- 1'etablissement et la mise en execution de contrats de performance avec les
etablissements ou societes du secteur qui resteront publics ou d'economie mixte
(SALT et PAL) afin d'ameliorer l'efficacit6 de leur gestion;
- le renforcement de la planification sectorielle par la refonte du systeme de definition,
de programmation et d'execution des investissements du secteur et une meilleure prise
en compte des charges recurrentes;
- I'amelioration du systeme d'information economique et financiere du secteur par la
production de comptes economniques et de bases de donnees relatifs aux transports et
a la gestion routiere;
- le recours aux entreprises privees et particulierement aux PME pour la realisation des
travaux d'entretien des routes et pistes pour ameliorer l'utilisation des ressources et
favoriser la creation d'emplois;
- la reforme des procedures de passation des marches publics pour accrolitre la capacite
d'absorption de credits du pays, et accelerer l'execution des programmes
d'investissements et des travaux A l'entretien;
- I'amelioration de la coordination dans le sous-secteur aerien pour une meilleure
exploitation des potentialites qui y existent;
- le redressement financier de la SALT en limitant ses activites a l'execution de son
contrat de concession actuel et en &vitant de 1'engager dans la gestion et le
financement d'aeroport sans rentabilit6 financiere;
- la mise en place d'un droit prive de transports pour securiser les operateurs
economiques et les usagers du systeme de transport et pour promouvoir le
developpement du transport urbain et interurbain;
- la creation, a moyen terme, d'un departement ministeriel unique des transports et de
l'equipement;
- la promulgation des textes de creation de l'office de Securite Routiere et du Conseil
National de Securite Routiere, la rehabilitation du controle technique des vehicules et
la prise en compte des mesures de protection de 1'environnement.
2 - La facilitation des transports et la competitfivit du corridor toeolais
- I'aUllgement et la moralisation des controles routiers pour ameliorer la viabilite des
transports;
- 1'encouragement par des incitations specifiques des transporteurs a se regrouper en
vue d'un renouvellement plus aise de leur parc et afin de solliciter l'emergence de
societes organisees permettant une meilleure productivite du systeme routier;
- la professionnalisation de l'activite de transitaire par une meilleure application de la
legislation en vigueur;
...8



- 8-
- rnlioration des procedures douanieres tant au niveau du port qu'au niveau des
escortes terrestres afin de diminuer les delais de mise a disposition et de transit
routier;
- au niveau du port, la revision et la mise en place d'un systeme tarifaire transparent, la
contractualisation progressive de l'entretien du materiel et des equipements portuaires
et liberalisation progressive de la manutention du port;
- la concertation sous-regionale pour ameliorer les facilitations.
3 - La liberalisation des transDorts
La reglementation actuelle sera profondement remaniee et alleg6e en vue de supprinmer les
situations de monopole et les obstacles a rexercice de la profession de transporteur. 11 s'agira
concretement des mesures et refornes suivantes:
- d'abandonner, au niveau du CNCT, le role de repartition des cargaisons;
- de proceder, au sein du pavillon national, a la liberalisation irnediate (ler semestre
1996) des 40 % de droits de trafics nationaux qui seront soumis a la concurrence entre
les operateurs togolais;
- de proceder a la liberalisation totale du trafic maritime, en abandonnant l'application
de la regle de repartition des cargaisons, au plus tard fin 1997;
- d'entamer une r6flexion, au niveau de la sous-region, sur les quotas de trafic routier de
transit et regional afin d'introduire plus de concurrence entre les operateurs pour les
inciter a ameliorer leur productivite.
4 - La rehabilitation et 1'entretien de l'infrastructure
L'etat du reseau routier appelle une attention particuliere de la part du gouvernement qui
mettra tout en oeuvre pour sauvegarder le patrimoine actuel et arreter la degradation actuelle
du reseau de base. A cet effet, le gouvemement s'engage a.:
- mettre en oeuvre un programme prioritaire de rehabilitation de l'infrastructure sur la
base de critres econorniques pour optimiser l'utilisation des ressources. Le
programme prioritaire defini dans le cadre de cette strategie sera la base de la
progranmation des investissemeni! publics pour les dix prochaines annees;
- mettre en oeuvre une politique d'entretien courant systematique du reseau routier et
d'entretien periodique defini sur la base de criteres econorniques pour maintenir le
reseau national en etat de fonctionnement continu et eviter les surcouts induits par
l'entretien curatif et la degradation prematuree du reseau;
- ameliorer la programmation et la conception des travaux d'entretien des pistes rurales
amenagees en y impliquant 1'ensemnble des acteurs et en confiant 1'entretien courant
manuel aux communautes locales dans le cadre d'un partenariat entre les structures de
l'Etat et les beneficiaires directs;
...9



-9 -
- confler desormais la gestion des gares routieres a des operateurs prives sur une base
contractuelle avec les collectivites locales;
- engager immediatement la rehabilitation de l'infrastructure portuaire et de mettre en
place une politique d'entretien courant systematique pour sauvegarder le patrimoine
portuaire et gviter les surcouits de l'entretien curatif
VI.   PLAN D'ACTIONS
Les mesures que n6cessite cette politique du gouvernement, sont resumees dans un plan
d'actions ditaillU annexe a la pr6sente declaration et en font partie integrante.
Ce plan d'actions prevoit la mise en place, au plus tard en juin 1996, d'un comnite charge de
suivre la mise en oeuvre de la strategie.
A l'instigation de ce comit6 de suivi, seront prepares et promulguis, au plus tard fin 1996, les
textes relatifs aux nouvelles institutions a cr6er dans le cadre de la strategie; c'est-a-dire, le
Conseil National des Transports, le Conseil National de la Securite Routiere, le Fonds Routier,
la Societe de Location du Materiel des Travaux Publics ainsi que r'actualisation des textes
regissant le secteur des transports.
Le projet de document portant sur la strat6gie de developpement du secteur des transports
1996 - 2000 incluant, outre la problematique et les objectifs retenus, le programme sectoriel
(plan d'actions a entreprendre ainsi que le progranmme d'investissements prioritaires et son
financement) sera e1abore au plus tard fin septembre 1996.
Un second s;minaire sur la strategie sera organise, en octobre 1996: son objectif est de
soumettre le programme sectoriel aux differents acteurs du secteur.
Le gouvernement soumettra sa strategie de developpement a une table ronde des bailleurs de
fonds, au cours du quatrieme trimestre 1996 pour arreter les modalites de financement du
programme prioritaire de cette strategie.
...1/10



-10-
VII. CONCLUSION
La presente declaration de politique generale pour le secteur des transports est la manifestation
de la volonte du gouvernement et de son engagement i mener toutes les reforrmes necessaires a
l'amelioration de l'efficacit6 du secteur des transports afin d'assurer des bases solides a notre
economnie nationale dans le cadre du programme de relance de 1'economie du pays. Elle se veut
la r6f6rence de toute action a mener au cours de la periode concernee en la matiere, et i ce titre
appelle une diligence soutenue de la part des institutions du secteur pour sa mise en oeuvre et
la collaboration de nos partenaires en developpement pour soutenir son succes a travers la
participation a son financement.
Fait a Lome, le. 2 8 JUIN 1996.
\4\   r06,   e Premier Ministre
~$MIER V~   Edem KODJO
Ministre du Commerce, des                                  Ministre de lEquipement,
Prix et des Transports                                     des Mines et de lEnergie.
Kozo   nsah Jof~re APPOH                                          T m       A JO



Organigramme de la Direction Gn&rale des Travaux Publics
|Directeur Genirall
I                I ~~~~~~~cellule des ma,rche6s|
l               |    ~~~~~~~~et contrats |
Directeur
General Adjoint
Direct on du              Direction de Contr81e etIDirection des Routes|                                  Drction des Pistes                  Direction des
Personnel et de la                    de Gestion                      ..Rurales                                                                    Batiments
Formation 
division du I division de      division de   division de la     division de    division       sion de         division de planification    division des   division du
personnel  I a formation|    controle et     comptabi1ite      I'entretien    d'etudes et   planification        des pistes rurales         etudes       controle des
de gestion                         routier    de contrales    routiere                                     architecturales   travaux
Directions regionales
Maritime: chef lieu Lom6
Plateaux: chef lieu Atakpame
Centrale: chef lieu Sokode
La Kara: chef lieu Kara
Savanes: chef lieu Dapaong
T           T
|service 1    service|



Annex B
Page 2 of 13
ROAD FUND RESOURCES AND EXPENDITURES
Table B-1: Road Fund resources forecast, 1997-2002 (CFAF million)
Resources forecast                       1997  1998  1999 2000  2001  2002 TOTAL
Road userfee                             2194  3014  3880 4796  5763  6784   26431
Govt Contribution (labor force wage)      300   300       0     0      0      0     600
Road tolls                                  0      0   194   321  1230  1365    3111
TOTAL                                    2,494  3,314  4,074 5,117  6,993  8,149   30,142
Table B-2: Toll resources forecast, 1997-2002 (CFAF million)
traffic in 94 (vehld)  :  Fee per vehicule (CFAF/vehic)         Toll resources (CFAF million)
Road tolls                           1997  1998  1999 2000 2001 2002    1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 TOTAL
Tsevie-Notse                 9600       0     0     0    0  200   200         0    0    0    0  862  888    1750
Lome Kpalime                 3062       0     0   150  180  200  200          0    0  194  240  275  283        993
Blitta Kara                  1036       0     0    0  180  200   200          0    0    0  81.3   93  95.8    270
Lome Hitlacondii             1065       0     0     0    0    0   200         0    0    0    0    0  98.5        98
TOTAL                       14763 _                                           0    0  194  321 1230 1365   3111
Table B-3: Assumptions made for the forecasts
y       vPsE:  1:00i:;:00770   ;0400 7777::     997 :19F98 ON9:20 io    20Q17T;7020
Road user fee (FCFA/1)                            15    20    25    30    35         40
Consumption (m3)                       133881
Annual traffic and consumption growth     3%
rural roads 1to be maintained (in)
Source of linancing        1997  1998   1.,999  l2000    0   2   TOTAI
IDA                                         0     50   200   300   300   300    1150
already rehabilitated rural roads           0    100   300 1000  1000  1000    3400
CFD                                         0      0   500  1000  1500  1500    4500
EDF                                         0   300   600   900  1000  1500    4300
TOTAL (km)                           1      0    450  1,600 3,200  3,800  4,300   13,360
TOTAL (CFAF million) *                      0     50   200   360   400   450    1,460
* Does not include physical and price contingencies
Table B-4: Road Fund expenditures forecast, 1997-2002 (CFAF million)
197   99       199      2000      2001      02 TOTAL 
Routine Maintenance
Paved network                                  1,120     1,143     1,064    1,020     1,082      989     6,418
National earth roads                           1,221     1,255     1,293    1,329     1,364     1,398    7,858
Participation to feeder road maintenance         -          58      239       431       505      583     1,816
Periodic Maintenance
Participation to period. mainten. on the network  58       245     1,074    2,090     3,755     4,941    12,164
Rehabilitation (counterpart)
National earth roads                             -          52       54        55        57       -        218
Structure repairs                                -          13       14        14        14       -         55
Recurrent costs
Staff restructuring expenses                     -        420       180       -         -         -        600
Operating costs (2 % of budget, limited to 80)    48        64       78        80        80       80       430
Support to DGTP (2 %)                             48        64       78        99       136      158       583
TOTAL *                                           2,494    3,314     4,074     5,117    6,993     8,149    30,142
including price and physical contingencies



Annex B
Page 3 of 13
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Component                  Action / indicator                                                                                 target of reference value
Overall project            Annual updating of the rolling Investment Program                                                  before October 31 every year
Donor meeting                                                                                      March, 1997; and every year 1998-2001
Quarterly project progress report                                                                  one month after each quarter
Financial audit (Project, OSR and FER)                                                             6 months after each year
Project disbursement profile                                                                       38 % in 1998, 55 % in 1999, 80 % in 2000, 100 %
in 2001
Road rehabilitation        Rehabilitation: paved road, annual km                                                              50 km in 1998, 54 km in 1999
activity performance      Road repairs (grosses reparations): paved roads, annual km                                         1465 km in 1998, 1565 km in 1999-2002
indicator                  Regraveling (rechargement): earth roads, annual km                                                 175 km every year 1998-2000
Elimination of trouble spots (points critiques): national earth roads, annual km                   365 km every year 1998-2001
Routine maintenance carried out, percentage of national road (paved and earth network)             75 % in 1998, 85 % in 1999, 100 % in 2000-01
Annual amount of contracts awarded to local Small Contractors, financed by the project or the RMF  500 million CFAF in 98, increas. 10 % every year
1999-2001
Percentage of contracts completed on schedule                                                      80 % in 1998, 90 % in 1999, and after
Institutional strengthening   Percent of roadmenders under contract                                                           70 %in 1998, 100 %in 1999
Installation of the Road Data Base                                                                fully operational in 1998
DGTP                    Time needed to evaluate bidding (works and studies)                                                15 working days
Time needed to award contracts                                                                     5 working days
Time needed to sign contracts                                                                      5 work. days for under 500 million CFAF contracts
I month for over 500 million CFAF contracts
Time needed to pay enterprises/suppliers on a special account                                      5 working days
FER                     Collection of the RMF resources (collected user fees / estimated user fees)                        90% in 1998, 100% in 1999 and after
Increase of the RMF revenues provided by the user fees                                             23% in 1998,20% in 1999,17% in 2000,15% in
2001, 3 % in 2002 and after
Time needed to pay enterprises/suppliers be the RMF                                                5 working days
Operating costs of the RMF                                                                         maximum 2 % of the RMF revenues
DGT                     Publication of transports statistics, every semester.                                              I month after every semester
Time needed to deliver transport document (driving license, etc.)                                  3 working days in 1999
Road safety                Road accident evolution                                                                            number of accident for 10,000 vehicules decreased
by 10 % in 1999 and 3 % after, number of deadly
Percentage of vehicles controlled by CCTV                                                          accidents decr. by 3 %
Number of road safety campaign                                                                     90 % of national fleet
Number of driving school teachers and driving license examiner trained                             3 every year (1998-200 )
40 every year (1999-2001)
Rural roads                Number of community structures involved in rural road management                                   5 in 1998, 15 in 1999 and 30 after
Routine maintenance and manual works by beneficiaries on rural roads: km maintained annually       50 km in 1998, 150 in 1999, 300 in 2000
Periodic maintenance and trouble spot elimination by DGT on rural roads on which communities are involved  50 km in 1998, 150 in 1999, 300 in 2000



Annex B
Page 4 of 13
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST AND DISBURSEMENT
Table B-5: Summary of Project costs, base cost and total including
contingencies
:    :%  % Total
CFAF million                US$ thousand          Foreign     Base
Component              Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange  : Costs
A National roads                  8,178    12,809    20,987  15,906    24,910  40,816      61%        88%
B Institutional strengthening       291     1,420     1,711     566      2,761    3,327    83%         7%
C Road safety                        93       355       448      181       691     872     79%         2%
D Rural roads                       132       589       721     256      1,140   1,396     82%         3%
Total BASELINE COSTS              8,695    15,173    23,868  16,909    29,502  46,411       64%h      100%
Physical contingencies              835     1,338     2,172    1,623     2,601    4,225    62%         9%
Price contingencies                 785     1,344     2,129    1,523     2,609   4,133     63%         9%
Total PROJECT COSTS              10,314    17,855    28,169  20,055    34,713  54,768       63%       118%
Table B-6: Project disbursement and disbursement profiles (US$ thousand)
disbursement Cumulative       Cumuiative   Cumulative disbursement
Semester  by semester  disbursement  disbursement %           0(standard)
_______T:X;i:0i::;i:|i; ::p i-:;            rojetic;tp:t AFRICA*   1TOGOl
1997
0%     0%          0%
1998        9,534        9,534             19%      3%         3%
9,534       19,067             38%     10%         10%
1999        9,710       28,777             58%     18%         18%
9,710       38,488            77%      26%        22%
2000        4,551       43,038             86%     38%         30%
4,551       47,589             95%     50%         38%
2001        1,205       48,795             98%     62%         50%
1,205       50,000           100%      70%        54%
2002                                               78%         62%
86%        74%
2003                                               90%         78%
98%        90%
2004                                               98%         94%
100%        98%
2005                                               100%        100%
* transport sector
all sectors
Graph B-1: Disbursement profiles
100%
90% T-
80%
70%
60%                                                                 __ __ __
/0%        .1'+---project
40%                                            ---~~~~~~~~~aAFRICA
20%
10%
0%     2  3  4  5 -      7 .       1
1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10 11 12 13 14 15 16



Detailed Project financing                                          AnnexB
Table B-7 (US$ thousand)                                        Page 5 of 13
Total Incduding Contng.ncies    For.   IDA       GOVT   FR       SENEF
1998    1999    2000    2001    Total   Exch.   Total   Totll  Total   Totl
COMPOSANTE A: r6habilitation/entretien du r6seau national
A. travaux de rehabilitation
1. rehabilitation des routes revetues
r6habilitation (IDA)                         9,588   9,815     -        -    19,403     60%  17,463   1,940     -        -
etudes techniques et contr6les                 767     785     -        -     1,552     60%   1,552     -
2. rehabilitation des routes nationales non revetues  1,020   1,044   1,066   1,087   4,216  60%   3,794  -      422
etudes techniques et contr6les                 82       83      85      87     337     60%      337     -       -
3. rehabilitation des ouvrages de drainage      259      265    271      276   1,071     60%      964     -       107
etudes techniques et contr6les                 21       21      22      22      86     60%       86     -       -
B. travaux d'entretien
1. entretien p6riodique
b. grosses reparations r6seau revetu         4,772   4,884   4,986      -    14,642     60%  13,178   1,464
6tudes techniquesetcontr6les                 382     391     399      -     1,171     60%   1,171     -
e. entretien periodique des routes non revetues  1,632   1,668   1,702  -     5,001     70%   4,501     -       500
etudes techniques et contr6les               131      134     137     -       402     60%     402      -
C. construction des peages
travaux                                        -       233     237     242     712      60%     641      71     -
SUBTOTAL COMPOSANTE A                          18,653  19,323   8,904   1,715  48,595           44,090   3,476   1,029      -
COMPOSANTE B: gestion du secteur
A. 6tudes, formation et assistances techniques
1. AT et 6tudes pour la DGTP
affectation et restructuration du personnel     23      23      23      24      93      80%      93     -       -
appuigestion                                   270     138      86      80     573      80%     573     -       -
audits financiers et techniques                 31      31      32      33      127     80%     127     -       -
studes techniques                              162      74     169      48     453      80%     453     -       -         -
2. formation pour la DGTP                        92       94      96      98     380     80%      380     -       -        -
3. Frais additionnels de fonctionnement          82       84     -       -       165     80%      149      17     -        -
4. Appui et formation a la DGT-DTR              221      168     128      87     605     80%      605     -       -        -
5. am6nagement des locaux DTR                   195      -       -       -       195     60%      176     20      -
6. appui et formation des PME
a. formation des PME                            51      52      53      54     211      80%     211     -
b. appui aux PME                                20      21      21      22      84      80%      84     -
SUBTOTAL AT et Formation                        1,148     685     609     445   2,887            2,851     36               -
B. Equipements pour la DGTP, la DGT et la DTR
1. DGTP
materiel informatique                           36      36     -        -       72    100%       64       7
documentation                                   14      21      11       6      52    100%       47       5     -         -
logiciels                                       15      15     -        -       31    100%       28       3
vuhicules                                      351     -        -       -       351    100%     316      35     -         -
2. DGT
materiel informatique                           34      35     -        -       69    100%       62       7
logiciels                                        1       1     -        -        2    100%        2       0
v6hicules                                       39     -       -        -        39    100%      35       4     -
3. DTR
materiel informatique                           28      29     -        -       57    100%       52       6     -         -
materiel audiovisuel                             4       4     -        -         8    100%       7       1     -
logiciels                                        8       8     -        -        16    100%      15       2     -
SUBTOTAL Materiel                                530      149      11       6     696             626      70      -        -
SUBTOTAL COMPOSANTE B                           1,678     834    620      450   3,583            3,477    106      -        -



Detailed Project financing                                              Annex B
Table B-7 (US$ thousand)                                           Page 6 of 13
*ota *fcilunContIngen4cis      For        IDA W0    GOVT   FR             77NEF
sa      1999     20040 2M ; 001    Total.   Exch.   Tot: al    ToTl   Toal    Total
COMPOSANTE C: s6cunt6 routbere
construction du centre technique                   -       485      -                485      80%     436       48
etudes techniques et contr6les                     -         39     -        -        39      60%       39
equipement du centre technique et de l'OSR          35      159     -        -       194      80%      174      19
campagne de prevention                              10       10     -        -        21      80%      21
formation des formateurs                            20       21     -        -        41      80%      41      -        -
AT diverses                                        113       52      21       16     202      80%     202
SUBTOTAL COMPOSANTE C                               178     766       21       16     982              914       68      -        -
COMPOSANTE D: oestbon du reseau rural
A. travaux de r6habilitation sur les routes rurales
operations pilotes, elimination des points critiques  198  202    206      210     817      80%      735     -        -         82
etudes techniques et contr6les (rehabilitation)   40       40      41       42      163     80%      163
SUBTOTAL travaux                                    238      243     248      252     980              899               -         82
C. AT pour la gestion du r6seau rural
1. assistance a la DGTP et a la DPR
a. planification et programmation reseau
consultant intemational                          15      16       16      16       63     80%       63
consultant local                                  3       3        3       3       13     80%       13
b. participation communautaire
consultant intemational                          10      10       11      11       42     80%       42
consultant local                                  8       7        7       8       31     80%       31
2. assistance aux communautes par les ONG
a. appui technique
consultant intemational                          10      10       11      11       42     80%       42
consultant local                                 12      13       13      13       51     80%h      51
b. appui A la miss en place structures communautaires
consultant intemational                          20      21       21      22       84     80%       84
consultant local                                 12      13       13      13       51     80%       51      -       -         -
c. missions d'valuation                           10       10      11       11      42      80%       42
d. fonctionnement ONG
Aquipements                                     20       21      21       22      84      80%       76       8
honoraires                                      30       31      32       32     125    100%       125     -
SUBTOTAL Materiel                                   153     155      158      161     628              620        8
SUBTOTAL COMPOSANTE D                               391     398      406     414   1,608              1,518       8      -         82
TOTAL PROJET                                     20,900  21,321   9,952   2,595  54,768              50,000   3,658    1,029       82



Detailed Project costs                                                             Annex B
Table B-8                                                                Page 7 of 13
Base cost                Base cost             cost incl. contgcles      cost Incl. contgoles
CFAF million               USS '000                CFAF million               USS '000
Foreign   Local   Total   Foreign   Local   Total   Foreign   Local   . Total   Foreign   Local   Total
COMPOSANTE A: r6habilitationlentretien du reseau national
A. travaux de r6habilitatlon
1. rehabilitation des routes revetues
rehabilitation (IDA)                         5,064   3,376   8,440    9,871   6,581  16,452    5,973   3,982   9,954   11,642   7,761  19,403
etudes techniques et controles                 405     270     675      790      526   1,316      478     319      796      931     621   1,552
2. rehabilitation des routes nationales non revetues  1,077  718   1,795    2,086   1,391   3,477    1,306  871   2,177    2,530    1,686   4,216
etudes techniques et contr6les                  86      57     144      167     111     278       105      70     174      202      135    337
3. rehabilitation des ouvrages de drainage       274     182    456       530     353     883       332     221     553      643      428   1,071
etudes techniques et contr6les                  22      15      36       42      28      71        27      18      44       51       34      86
B. travaux d'entretien
1. entretien periodique
b. grosses reparations reseau revAtu          3,780   2,520   6,300    7,344   4,896  12,240    4,522   3,015   7,537    8,785   5,857  14,642
etudes techniques et contr6les               302     202     504      588      392     979      362     241     603       703     469   1,171
e. entretien periodique des roOtes non revetues  1,515  649   2,164    2,943   1,261   4,204    1,802     772   2,574    3,501    1,500   5,001
etudes techniques et contr6les                104      69     173      202     135     336       124      83     207      241      161     402
C. construction des peages
travaux                                        180      120    300       347     232     579      221      148     369      427     285      712
SUBTOTAL COMPOSANTE A                          12,809   8,178  20,987   24,910  15,906  40,816   15,251   9,738  24,990   29,667  18,938  48,595
COMPOSANTE B: gestion du secteur
A. 6tudes, formation et assistances techniques
1. AT et etudes pour la DGTP
affectation et restructuration du personnel     35       9      44       68       17      85       38       10      48       74       19      93
appuigestion                                   220      55     275       428     107     534      236       59     295      459      115     573
audits financiers et techniques                 48      12      60       93       23     116       52       13      65      101      25      127
etudes techniques                              173      43     216       335      84    419       187      47      234      362      91    453
2. formation pour la DGTP                        144      36     180      279      70      349      157      39     196       304      76     380
3. Frais additionnels de fonctionnement           64      16      80      125      31      156       68      17      85       132      33     165
4. Appui et formation a la DGT-DTR               231      58     289      449      112    561       249      62     312       484     121     605
5.am6nagementdeslocauxDTR                         52      34      86      101      67      168       60      40     100       117      78     195
6. appui et formation des PME
a.formationdesPME                               80      20      100      155      39     194       87       22     109      169      42      211
b. appul aux PME                                32       8      40        62      15      77       35        9      44       68       17      84
SUBTOTAL AT et Fonnation                        1,079     291   1,370    2,094      566   2,660    1,169     317   1,487    2,270      616   2,887
B. Equipements pour la DGTP, la DGT et la DTR
1. DGTP
materiel informatique                           35      -       35        68     -        68       37      -        37       72      -        72
documentation                                   25              25        49     -        49       27      -        27       52      -        52
logidels                                        15      -        15      29      -        29       16      -        16       31      -        31
vehicules                                      173      -       173      338     -       338      179      -       179      351              351
2. DGT
materiel informatique                           34              34        65     -        65       35      -        35       69      -        69
logiciels                                        1    -           1        2     -         2        1      -         1        2      -         2
vehicules                                       19      -        19       37     -        37       20      -        20       39      -        39
3. DTR
materiel informatique                           28      -       28        55     -        55       29      -        29       57      -        57
materiel audiovisuel                             4               4         8     -         8        4      -         4        8      -         8



Detailed Project costs                                                                Annex B
Table B-8                                                                  Pae8of13
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ae cos                                               0 :;--... ca           cs Ic. con,1,ls    .        os-t mc-f- ;-i . cont. a
logiciels                                         8      -         8        16      -        16        8      -         8        16      -        16
SUBTOTAL Mat6riel                                  342      -       342       667      -      667       357      -       367       696      -       696
SUBTOTAL COMPOSANTE B                             1,420     291   1,711     2,761     566   3,327     1,626      317   1,843     2,966     616   3,583
COMPOSANTE C: securift routere.
construction du centre technique                  169       42     211       328      82     410       200      50      250      388       97     485
etudes techniques et controles                     10        7      17        20      13      33        12       8       20       24       16       39
equipement du centre technique et de l'OSR         74       19      93       145      36     181        80      20      100       155      39      194
campagne de prevention                              8        2      10        16       4      19         8       2       11        17       4       21
formation des formateurs                           16        4      20        31       8      39        17       4       21        33       8       41
AT diverses                                        78       20      98       152      38     190        83       21     104       162      40    202
SUBTOTAL COMPOSANTE C                              366       93     448       691     181     872       400      105     505      778      204      982
COMPOSANTE D: gest/on du rdseau rural
A. travaux de r6habilitatlon sur les routes rurales
operations pilotes, elimination des points critiques  282  70    352       545      136     682      337       84     422       653      163     817
etudes techniques et controles (rehabilitation)   56      14      70       109       27     136       67       17      84       131       33     163
SUBTOTAL travaux                                   338       84     422       656     164     818       405     101      506       784     196      980
C. AT pour la gestion du r6seau rural
1. assistance A la DGTP et a la DPR
a. planification et programmation reseau
consultant intemational                         24       6       30       46       12      58        26       7       33       51       13      63
consultantlocal                                  5       1        6        9        2      12         5       1        7       10        3       13
b. participation communautaire
consultant intemational                         16       4       20       31        8      39        17       4       22       34        8      42
consultant local                                12       3       15       22        6      28        13       3       16       24        6      31
2. assistance aux communautes par les ONG
a. appui technique
consultant intemational                         16       4       20       31        8      39        17       4       22       34        8      42
consultant local                                19       5       24       37        9      46        21       5       26       41       10      51
b. appui A la mise en place structures communautaires
consultant intemational                         32       8       40       62       15      77        35       9       44       68       17      84
consultant local                                19       5       24       37        9      46        21       5       26       41       10      51
c. missions d'6valuation                          16       4      20        31        8      39       17        4      22        34        8      42
d. fonctionnement ONG
equipements                                    32        8      40        62      15       77       35        9      44        68       17      84
honoraires                                     60      -        60       116      -       116       65      -        65       125      -       125
SUBTOTAL Materiol                                  251       48     299       486      92      578      272       52     324       528     101      628
SUBTOTAL COMPOSANTE D                              589      132     721     1,140     256   1,396       677      163     831     1,312     297   1,608
TOTAL PROJET                                     16,173   8,695  23,868   29,602  16,909  46,411    17,855  10,314  28,169    34,713   20,055  54,768
Physical contingencies                            1.338     835   2,172    2,601    1,623   4,2251 
Price contingencies                               1,344     785   2,1291   2,609    1,523   4,133
TOTAL Including contingencies                    17,855  10,314  28,1691  34,713  20,055  54,768                     _



Detailed Procurement arrangement                                  Annex B
Table B-9 (US$ thousand)                                 Page 9 of 13
of which IDA financed
ICB     NCB    other   TOTAL  ICB        NCB    other  TOTAL
COMPOSANTE A: r6habilitationlentretien du r6seau national
A. travaux de rehabilitation
1. rehabilitation des routes revetues
rehabilitation (IDA)                      19,403     -       -    19,403  17,463      -       -    17,463
6tudes techniques et contr6les               -       -     1,552    1,552     -       -    1,552    1,552
2. rehabilitation des routes nationales non revetues  3,373  843  -  4,216   3,036     759     -      3,794
etudes techniques et controles              -       -       337      337     -        -      337      337
3. rehabilitation des ouvrages de drainage    803     268     -      1,071     723     241     -        964
etudes techniques et contr6les              -       -        86       86     -        -       86       86
B. travaux d'entretien
1. entretien periodique
b. grosses reparations reseau revUtu      13,910    732      -     14,642  12,519     659     -    13,178
etudes techniquesetcontr6les               -       -     1,171    1,171     -       -    1,171    1,171
e. entretien periodique des roOtes non revetues    4,001   1,000  -  5,001   3,601    900     -      4,501
etudes techniques et contr6les             -       -       402      402     -        -      402      402
C. construction des peages
travaux                                      -      712      -       712      -       641     -       641
SUBTOTAL COMPOSANTE A                       41,490   3,556   3,549   48,595  37,341   3,200   3,549   44,090
COMPOSANTE B: qestion du secteur
A. etudes, formation et assistances techniques
1. AT et etudes pour la DGTP
affectation et restructuration du personnel  -       -       93       93      -       -       93       93
appui gestion                                -       -       573     573      -       -      573      573
audits financiers et techniques              -       -       127     127      -       -      127      127
Atudes techniques                            -       -       453     453      -       -      453      453
2. formation pour la DGTP                     -       -       380      380     -        -      380      380
3. Frais additionnels de fonctionnement       -       -       165      165     -        -      149      149
4. Appui et formation A la DGT-DTR            -       -       605      605     -        -      605      605
5. amenagement des locaux DTR                 -       195     -        195     -       176    -         176
6. appui et formation des PME
a. formation des PME                         -       -       211     211      -       -      211      211
b. appui aux PME                             -       -       84       84      -       -       84       84
SUBTOTAL AT et Formation                       -       195   2,691    2,887      -      176   2,675    2,851
B. Equipements pour la DGTP, la DGT et la DTR
1. DGTP
materiel informatique                        -       72      -        72      -        64     -        64
documentation                                -       -        52      52      -       -       47       47
logiciels                                    -       31      -        31      -        28     -        28
vehicules                                    -      351      -       351      -       316     -       316
2. DGT
materiel informatique                        -       69      -        69      -        62     -        62
logiciels                                    -        2      -         2      -         2    -          2
vehicules                                    -       39      -        39               35    -         35
3. DTR
materiel informatique                        -       57      -        57      -        52    -         52
materiel audiovisuel                         -        8      -         8      -         7     -         7
logiciels                                    -       16      -        16      -        15    -         15
SUBTOTAL Materiel                              -       644      52      696      -      580      47      626
SUBTOTAL COMPOSANTE B                          -       840   2,743    3,583      -      756   2,721    3,477



Detailed Procurement arrangement                                    Annex B
Table B-9 (US$ thousand)                                 Page 10 of 13
JIM     NCB    Other   TOTAL [ICB         NCB~   other  TOTL
COMPOSANTE C: s6cutite routiere
construction du centre technique               485      -       -        485     436      -       -        436
6tudes techniques et contr6les                  -       -        39       39      -       -        39       39
equipement du centre technique et de l'OSR     194      -       -        194     174      -       -        174
campagne de prevention                         -        -        21       21      -       -        21       21
formation des formateurs                        -       -        41       41      -       -        41       41
AT diverses                                     -       -       202      202      -       -       202      202
SUBTOTAL COMPOSANTE C                           678      -       304      982     611      -       304      914
COMPOSANTE D: geston du reseau rural
A. travaux de rehabilitation sur les routes rurale    -  -       -       -                -       -        -
operations pilotes, elimination des points critiques    -  817  -      817      -       735      -       735
etudes techniques et contr6les (rehabilitation)  -    -        163     163      -        -      163      163
SUBTOTAL travaux                                 -       817     163      980      -       735    163       899
C. AT pour la gestion du r6seau rural
1. assistance A la DGTP et A la DPR
a. planification et programmation reseau
consultant international                    -        -        63       63     -        -        63       63
consultant local                                     -        13       13     -        -        13       13
b. participation communautaire
consultant international                    -        -        42       42      -       -        42       42
consultant local                                     -        31       31      -       -        31       31
2. assistance aux communautes par les ONG
a. appui technique
consultant international                    -        -        42       42      -       -        42       42
consultant local                            -        -        51       51      -       -        51       51
b. appui a la mise en place structures communautaires
consultant international                    -        -        84       84     -        -        84       84
consultant local                            -        -        51       51     -        -        51       51
c. missions d'evaluation                      -       -        42       42      -        -       42       42
d. fonctionnement ONG
Aquipements                                 -        84      -        84      -        76      -        76
honoraires                                  -       -       125      125      -        -      125      125
SUBTOTAL Materiel                                -        84     544      628      -        76    544       620
SUBTOTAL COMPOSANTE D                           -        901     707    1,608      -       811    707    1,518
TOTAL PROJET                                 42,169   5,297   7,303   54,768  37,952   4,767   7,281   50,000



Annex B
Page 11 of 13
SUPERVISION INPUT INTO KEY ACTIVITIES
Missions            Activities                                           Expected skills  Staff input (SW)
requirement
Mission I           Supervision mission                              Transport specialist 3
First Year          Project launching                                       Engineering  3
Start of design studies                        Procurement specialist 2
Procurement review for equipment, studies, TA     Training specialist 2
training and civil works                       Environment specialist  I
Training program discussion
11
Mission 2 and 3     Supervision mission                              Transport specialist 4
First Year          Implementation of civil works, procurement             Procurement 4
services                                        Road safety specialist 2
Equipment                                       Highway engineering  4
Follow-up on training                          Environment specialist 0.5
Review of RMF performances and discuss
priority                                                             14.5
Program for road safety
Feeder roads follow up
Mission 4           Supervision mission to review executing          Transport specialist 2
Second Year         agencies                                            Financial analyst 2
Performance and audits                            Training specialist 2
Technical assistance performance, training          Agro-economist  I
Implementation and works execution, first result  Road safety specialist  I
of rural road pilot operation                  Environment specialist 0.5
8.5
Mission 5 and 6     Supervision mission to review overall progress   Transport specialist 3
Second Year         of the project emphasis on:                             Engineering  3
road maintenance                               Procurement specialist 3
donors' coordination                             Transport economist  3
works execution                                Environment specialist 0.5
12.5
Following years     Same patterns as for Mission 4 and 5 (including                     Year 3 - 20
one to prepare mid-term review meeting to be                        Year 4 - 20
held at the beginning of the third year)



ANNEX B                              PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SHCEDULE
Page 12 of 13
1997           '1998           1999            2000            2001
ID   TaskName                               tr  tr  tr  tr tr tr trttr ltr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr
I   Comp. A: national road network                                        ;
2       rehab paved road
3           techn studies, bid and award
4           techn studies, execution
5           bid and award (works)
6           works
7        rehab earth road, phase I
8           bid and award (techn studies)
9           techn studies, execution
10           bid and award (works)
11           works
12       rehab earth road, phase 2
17       rehab earth road, phase 3
22       rehab earth road, phase 4
27       regraveling
28           studies, bid and award
29           works
30   component B: instit. strengthening
31       Technical Assistance
32       Equipm., bidding and award:computer
33       delivery
34       Equip., bidding and award: others
35       delivery
36   component C: road safety
37       technical center building
38          techn studies, bid and award
39          techn studies, execution
40           works, bids and award
41           works
42      technical assistance
43   component D: rural roads                   .                                                          .m .
44       rehabilitation
45      technical assistance
Task                                  Rolled Up Task
Road Transport Project              Progress                              Rolled Up Milestone O
Milestone                             Rolled Up Progress
Summary



Annex B
Page 13 of 13
DETAILED PROGRAM FINANCING
During the Donors' round table held in Lome, Togo on March 12-13 1997, the financing of
the road priority maintenance program was agreed as presented in Table B- 10.
Table B-O10: program financing forecast (CFAF million)
Category             IDA      GOT       RUF              EDF (1) OPEC (2)   CFD       Kowelt   ADB   Financing   Tota
ciarlies                                                  Gap
A. Rehabilitation
Paved Roads                     8,959    5,716       -        -      19,765    2,751      -       5,541    7,333      7,091   57,155
National earth roads            1,959      -        218             -            -        -         -        -          -      2,177
Structure repairs                498       -         55       -        -         -        -         -        -         -         553
Rural roads                      380       -         -         42    3,122       -        -         -        -          -      3,544
Subtotal rehabilitation           11,796    5,716      273       42   22,888      2,751      -       5,541    7,333     7,091    63,430
B. Periodic maintenance
Paved Roads                     6,783      938       -                 -         -        -         -        -        1,660    9,381
National earth roads            2,317      -      4,121            -        -             -         -        -         -       6,438
Rural roads                       -        -        185       -        -         -       1,661      -        -         -       1,845
Subtotal periodic maintenance     9,100      938    4,306        -        -         -      1,661       -        -        1,660    17,665
C. routine maintenance
Paved Roads                       -        -       6,418      -        -         -        -         -        -          -      6,418
National earth roads              -        -       7,858      -        -         -        -         -        -          -      7,858
Rural roads                       -        -       1,816    1,816      -         -        -         -        -          -      3,631
Subtotl routine maintenance         -         -      16,092    1,816      -         -        -         -        -         -      17,908
D. Institutional strenghtening
Road sector(3)                  2,121       91      816       -        -         -        -         -        -          -      3,028
Rural Roads                      320         4       -        -        -         -        -         -        -          -        324
Subtotal Institutional stranght   2,441       95       816       -        -         -        -         -        -         -       3,353
E. Road sarety                      470       35       -                                                                           505
F. Studies and Woks supervision
Paved Roads                     1,399      -         -        -       1,757      245      -        493       652       779    5,324
National earth roads             426       -         -        -        -         -        -         -        -          -        426
Rural roads                       84       -         -        -        250       -        147       -        -          -        481
Subtotal studies and supervision  1,909       -        -         -      2,007      245       147      493       652       779    6,230
TOTAL                            26.717     6,784   21,487     1,858   24,896    2,995    1,807    6,034    7,984       9,530  109,091
(1) indicative program 1997-2002
(2) OPEC program over 4 years
(3) for the RMF: operating costs






Annex C
Page I of 16
ANNEXE C
DESCRIPTION DETAILLEE DES COMPOSANTES
Composante A : Entretien et Gestion du Reseau Routier
Objectifs de la composante
1.    Cette composante a pour objectifs de reduire les couits de transport et d'ameliorer la
competitivite du corridor de transit togolais grace a la rehabilitation et l'entretien du reseau routier
national afin d'ameliorer son etat de fonctionnement. Un objectif subsidiaire et non moins important
est le desenclavement des zones de production agricole pour promouvoir les activites rurales.
Description du contenu
2.    Cette composante comprend des travaux inclus dans le programme prioritaire 1997-2002,
constitu6 d'operations d'entretien periodique et de rehabilitation de premiere priorite sur les routes
rev8tues et les routes classees non revetues. La justification economique a ete prouvee (Benefice
Net Actualise positif et Taux de Rentabilite Interne -TRI- superieur a 12 %). Les travaux routiers
d'entretien periodique et de rehabilitation a financer par le credit de l'IDA dans le cadre du
programme prioritaire comprendront:
pour les routes rev8tues:
*  Ia r6habilitation des sections les plus degrad6es (105 km) sur 1 ou 2 troncons de I'axe Nord-
Sud (soit environ 15 % de l'ensemble de I'axe nord-sud en cas de non intervention des autres
bailleurs de fonds): sections Attakpame-Blitta ou Lome- Notse.
*  le rattrapage du retard d'entretien sur l'ensemble du reseau bitume permettant de proceder, en
deux ans, au rebouchage de tous les nids de poule et de prevenir la degradation acceleree du
reseau en attendant les travaux de rehabilitation ou d'entretien periodique prevus au
Programme.
pour les routes class6es non rev8tues:
*  la rehabilitation de l'ensemble du reseau national non revetu par l'elimination des points
critiques. Est concerne  'ensemble des sections du reseau ne'cessitant de tels travaux (sauf la
sectionAfagnagan-Agome Glozou ayant un TRI<12%) soit 916 km sur les 1440 km de routes
nationales non revetues (64 %): 58 km en Region Maritime, 200 km dans la Region des



Annex C
Page 2 of 16
Plateaux, 173 km en Region Centrale, 267 km dans la Region de Kara et 218 km dans la
Region des Savanes;
* la rehabilitation des ouvrages d'art et des ouvrages hydrauliques sur les routes nationales en
terre;
* le rattrapage du retard en entretien periodique par rechargement en laterite sur les sections
prioritaires du reseau national soit 517 km (priorite 1 et 2 voir Tableau C-2 et Annexe E) qui
se divisent en 120 km en Region Maritime, 240 km dans la Region des Plateaux, 85 km en
Region Centrale, 72 km dans la Region de Kara et 0 km dans la Region des Savanes. Le reste
du reseau sera finance par une contribution du FER, de la CFD et d'autres bailleurs de fonds.
3.    Construction des peages routiers. II est prevu, dans le cadre de l'augmentation des
ressources du FER, de developper les peages routiers sur le reseau revetu au fur et a mesure de leur
rehabilitation. Des etudes de faisabilit6 sont prevues dans le cadre de ce projet (composante
renforcement institutionnelle) qui permettront de definir les meilleurs emplacements pour la mise en
place de ces peages, la date optimale de mise en oeuvre et les amenagements necessaires pour la
construction des postes de p6age. Apres finalisation de ces etudes, les travaux seront inclus dans le
programme prioritaire routier, trois postes a peages seront finances par le credit IDA. Les etudes
techniques pour la construction des postes de peages sont egalement incluses dans la composante
renforcement institutionnel.
4.    Etudes et controle. Les etudes techniques et le contr6le des travaux realis6s dans le cadre de
cette composante, y compris les etudes d'impact des travaux sur l'environnement, seront confies a
des bureaux d'etudes dans le cadre de contrats passes conformement aux regles de l'IDA et seront
finances par le credit. Le projet comprend d'autres etudes et des audits lies au reseau national,
presentes dans la composante B renforcement institutionnel.
5.    Le Tableau C-3 consigne la liste detaillee des tron,ons des routes nationales du reseau
rev&tu et le Tableau C-2 ceux du reseau non revetu faisant partie des investissements physiques du
programme 1997-2002. Ces tableaux donnent les principales caracteristiques des troncons
(notamment longueur et trafic supporte) ainsi que la date optimale et le couit des travaux proposes;
les resultats de l'analyse economique se trouvent dans l'annexe E (TRI, NPV). Le Tableau C. I
presente la synthese des cofits de la composante dont une partie correspond a la tranche des travaux
decrits ci-dessus et dont le financement est prevu par le credit.
Organisation institutionnelle pour la mise en oeuvre
6.    Cette composante sera g6ree par la DGTP qui assure la responsabilite de 1' ensemble du
projet. Le processus de mise en vigueur sera le suivant:
la Direction Generale des Travaux Publics (DGTP), agence d'execution chargee de la
programmation et de la bonne execution des travaux routiers sera responsable de la
mise en auvre des etudes, controles et travaux programmes dans cette composante. Elle
assurera toute la procedure de passation des marches dans le cadre des nouvelles
procedures de passation de march6s retenues pour l'execution du projet et des travaux
fmances par le FER.



Annex C
Page 3 of 16
* le FER sera le principal bailleur de fonds pour les travaux d'entretien routier en
finan9ant d'une part une partie de la contrepartie des travaux d'entretien periodique sur
routes non revetues finances par l'IDA et d'autre part la totalite de l'entretien courant
du reseau a charge de la DGTP,
* les entreprises privees nationales et internationales assureront en principe l'execution de
la totalite des travaux d'entretien routier sous le controle de la DGTP, a l'exception des
travaux en regie sous contrats (entretien courant manuel par des cantonniers). Les
travaux de rehabilitation seront executes sur appel d'offre international.
7.    En tant que responsable de la mise en ceuvre de la composante, la DGTP assurera le suivi et
l'evaluation du deroulement de l'ensemble des activites qui s'y rapportent, y compris celles
concemant l'appui technique au FER, par la mise en place d'un systeme de suivi comportant des
indicateurs de suivi administratif, physique et financier. La DGTP assurera la passation des march6s
et la gestion des contrats correspondants selon la procedure decrite dans le Manuel de Mise en
Oeuvre (MMO).
8.    La DGTP adoptera les documents types de passation des marches et les contrats standards
convenus lors des negociations du projet. La contrepartie du gouvemement sera deposee dans un
compte projet gere par le FER. Des versements trimestriels seront operes par la Tresorerie Generale,
versements correspondants a des avances sur les depenses programmees pour le trimestre qui suit.
9.    Au 31 octobre de chaque annee, la DGTP preparera l'actualisation du programme de
rehabilitation et d'entretien du reseau national pour les cinq prochaines annees ainsi que le
programme des travaux prioritaires pour l'annee qui suit. Ce programme sera soumis pour avis a
l'IDA avant sa transmission pour approbation au Conseil des Routes, organe de gestion et de
decision du FER.



Annex C
Page 4 of 16
Tableau C. 1. Synthese des co&ts de la composante A:
Entretien et Rehabilitation des Routes Nationales, (millions de FCFA)
coOtdo   oOtrCM Finnca
A. travaux de rehabilitation
1. rehabilitation des routes revetues
rehabilitation (IDA)                         105 km    8440     9954      8959      4903      5052        0         0
etudes techniques et contr6les                         675       796       796       392       404        0         0
2. rehabilitation des routes nationales non revetues  916 km    1795  2177  1959      521       537       552       567
etudes techniques et controles                         144       174      174        42        43        44       45
3. rehabilitation des ouvrages de drainage               456       553      498       132       136       140       144
etudes techniques etcontr6les                          36        44        44        11        11       11         12
subtotal travaux de r6habll'aftion                       11,646    13,699    12,431     6,001     6,183       748       767
1. entretien periodique
b. grosses r6parations reseau revetu                   6300     7537      6783      2440      2514      2583       0
etudes techniques etcontroles                        504       603       603       195      201       207        0
e. routes non revetues (rechargement)
financement IDA                            517 km    2164      2574      2317      834       858       882        0
etudes techniques et controles                        173      207       207        67       69        71         0
SUBTOTAL travaux d'entreffen                              9,141    10,921     9,910     3,836     3,642     3,743       -
C. construction des peages
travaux                                                300       369       332        0        120       123       126
SUBTOTAL construction des peages                            300       369       332       -         120       123       126
TOTAL cornposante A                                      20,987    24,990    22,673     9,837     9,946     4,613      894
1/ le cout de base ne comprend pas les imprevus physiques et financiers
2/ le coOt reel comprend les imprevus physiques et financiers
3/ part financee par l'IDA



Annex C
Page 5 of 16
Tableau C-2: Routes nationales du reseau non rev8tu (millions de FCFA)
-  I -  nv e -  s - -  .lse     .  e6tudedo d tnclutdanslI
(FCFA)        cas de base   sensiblilt       pioj!t
trafkC  long.            entr.                                       Entr.
Rot*is -       a1 n twe          pdo       zone  (tmja) (kin)   Pts Cflt. period.  TMI _BNA 12%Y    TRI    Pts crit prWod.
Sokod6-Tchamba                     1    Centrale    326   34.0       9.20  208.08 270%   7167.99        54%    100%    100%
Ts6vie-Kev6                        1    Maritime    191   32.0             195.84 175%   3511.28        101%            100%
Assahou-Batoume-Fredu Ghana         1    Maritme    180   22.0       4.35  134.64 162%   2263.731       95%    100%    100%
Notse-Tohoun-Fre du Benin          1    Plateaux    250   57.0    18.40  348.84 245%   919472          101%    100%    100%
Atakpame-Ountivou                   1    Plateaux    150   47.0      2.60  287.64 127%   3818.771       73%    100%    100%
Nots6-Agou-RN5                     1    Plateaux    150   50.0             306.00  94%   3644.94        39%             100%
Ani6.Kolokop6-Dagou (RNIO)         1    Plateaux    250   46.0             281.52 220%   7243.7         49%             100%
Tchamba-Kamboli-Fredu Bbnin        2    Centrale      61   51.0      3.80   81.93 164%   1649.41         89%    100%    100%
Niamtougou-Koum6a                  2    Kara          96   10.8             17.35 264%    573.87       130%             100%
Koumea-Pya                         2    Kara          50   11.6             21.30 125%    294.53        72%             100%
RN18(Koum6a)-Siou                  2    Kara          63    9.5             15.26 176%      321.9       95%             100%
Koum6a-Sioukawa                    2    Kara          50   12.3             19.76 139%    315.51        79%             100%
Kante(RN1)-Nadoba-FreduBenin       2    Kara          76   28.0             25.70 343%   1175.57       159%             100%
Agbatope-Havb-Gati                 2    Maritime      75   16.0    21.05   36.72 143%    679.43         92%    100%    100%
Akoumape-Tchepko                   2    Maritime      90   20.0             91.80 114%    965.06        70%             100%
Aldavou-Aveve-Afagnagan            2    Maritime      92   30.0             27.54 220%   1249.85        62%             100%
Ountivou-Tohoun-FreduBenin         2    Plateaux      50   40.0    17.00   64.26 160%   1106.55        102%    100%    100%
Soutouboua-Landa mono              3    Centrale      35   30.0    13.00   27.54 166%    580.85        105%    100%
Bassar-Kabou-Gu6rin-Kouka          3    Kara          52   62.0    19.18  284.58  75%   1564.86         49%    100%
Guerin-Kouka-Katchamba             3    Kara          30   26.0      4.35   41.77 110%    403.32        71%    100%
Sarakawa-Kant6                     3    Kara          75   57.0   676.35   91.57  44%   1905.69         29%    100%
Niamtougou-Siou                    3    Kara          33   13.0             20.89 133%    231.32        86%
RN18-Pya-hodo-Tcharn               3    Kara          50    5.4             24.79  61%    120.23        39%
Bafilo-Dacko-Bassar                3    Kara          27   59.5    14.55   54.31 103%    769.16         61%    100%
Have-Adangbe                       3    Maritime      30   10.0      4.55    9.18 110%    149.75        69%    100%
Tabligbo-Gboto-Tokpli              3    Maritime      52   17.6             80.78  68%    428.48        44%
Nyamassile-Kpessi-Fredu Benin      3    Plateaux      28   41.5             38.10 127%    546.46        72%
Hiheatro-KIabe-Apegame-Kougnohou   3    Plateaux      44   46.0    13.05   73.90 156%   1129.42         99%    100%
Bretelle Gando-Saagbiabou          3    Savanes       40   15.6             14.32 105%    258.99        44%
RN1-Cinkass6-Fre du Ghana          3    Savanes       50    3.0    13.55    4.82  59%       71.28       40%    100%
Dapaong-Ponio-Fre du Burkina       3    Savanes       75   38.0   717.85  174.42  26%    887.04         17%    100%
Naki est-Galongachi                3    Savanes       41   27.0             43.38 121%    562.19        70%
Landomono-Kambouli-Fredu Benin     4    Centrale      20   58.0    60.70   53.24  51%    451.52         33%    100%
Siou-Pagouda                       4    Kara          14   18.4    16.05   84.46  15%       20.81     <         100%
Awandjelo-Atchangbad6              4    Kara          20   10.0    22.75   16.07  35%       68.83        23%    100%
Soumdina-RN16                      4    Kara          20   10.2             18.73  68%      89.98       45%
Lassa-Lama haut                    4    Kara          20    8.0             18.36  45%      59.12       29%
Bassar-Natchamba-Fredu Ghana       4    Kara          30   34.2    17.15  156.98  43%    420.67         29%    100%
Vogan-Badougbe;                    4    Maritime      45   12.0             55.08  61%    249.92        40%
Wogba-Togoville                    4    Maritime      20    9.0              8.26  97%      80.47       63%
Zebe-Agouegan-Agbanaki             4    Maritime      25   23.0             21.11  64%    205.38        33%
Hahotoe-Togoville-Zalive           4    Maritime      21   34.5             55.42  39%    212.82        23%
Keve-Zolo-Fre du Ghana             4    Maritime      10   15.0             24.10  28%      30.81       21%
RN4-Agou lbo6(RN9)                 4    Plateaux      30   10.1    21.15   46.36  34%    108.88         22%    100%
Mango-Mogou-gando-Fredu Bnin       4    Savanes       37   40.0    12.20   36.72  81%    598.04         38%    100%
Mango-koukombou-Frdu Ghana         4    Savanes       12   14.0             22.49  32%      42.62       21%
Dapaong-Borgou-Mandouri-Fredu Bnin    4    Savanes    30   93.0    48.00  149.41  72%   1288.54         45%    100%
Mangou-Borgou                      4    Savanes       28   44.0    25.75   70.69  84%    610.95         56%    100%
Vogan-Tagbati-Tabligbo             5    Maritime       6   17.0      5.00   78.03 &4   M                          0%
Afagnagan-AgomeGlozou              5    Maritime      15    9.5    18.05   43.61  13%        5.63               100%
RN1-Kongo-Fre du Ghana             5    Savanes        5   11.0     -       11.02  12%             ., 0%
TOTAL                                                      1440     1800   4108            69275   montant:   1795    2164
km:    916      517



Annex C
Page 6 of 16
Tableau C-3: Routes nationales du r6seau rev8tu,
programme prioritaire 1997-2002 (millions de FCFA)
Ng  tr1w    ~     TAnaversalas11100 Kaate tre                     2         1         2         3         5         1         6
Natoide   avuxt00 Traznversl. lta uxnjLogii                      390,      349,      292;      27         6        24         82-
1. Entretien courant
- Entretien des abords     Axe Nord - Sud                                 326       358       345       303       313       245       1890
- Point it temps           Transversale Maritime                          153       163       127       121       128        136       828
Transversales Kara et Centre                   122       114       125       135       152       118       766
Transversale Plateaux                          390       349       292       270       265       264 1129
Total                                    991       984       889       829       867 764             6313
2. Grosse Renparation
Axe Nord - Sud                                2920       909
Transversale Maritime                          376
Transversales Kara et Centre                   410
Transversale Pla       23aux                  2118       91
Total                                   0826      1000                                               6825      6300         92%
3. Entreaion ptriodique
Recharqement par         Axe Nord - Sud:
5 cmde baton br umineux   - Loma-Tsvie           35  9432  optimum        0         0         0         0         0         0          0
Tt- avie-NotseMn      80  9600  optimum         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Transversale Mar       4pme 0         u                   0         O         O         0          0       3
- Avepozo-Hillacondji    29  3391   s6v6re      0         0       1550        0         0         0        1550
Total                                     0 3 2 r46045                                                            0 0  0  0  1610
4. RelhabUlitatlon
Renforcement par:         Axe Nord - Sud9
-18 cm de graveleux       - Pya -Kante           44   434  optimum                                               3504                 3504
latcritique et           - Kant-Mango           88   294 optimum -1                                                       7008      7008
4cm d'enrbes           TMangoe-Dapaong        71   528 savre                                        5655                           5655
(sand asphalt)          - Dapaong-Cinkasse     40   323 optimum -3                                             3185                3185
r   Blitta-Sokode     80  1208   severe
sauf pour Lome-Tsevie     Sokode-Kara             75   986  optimum
et pour Tsavie-Nots:     - Lom-Tsevi            35  9432   sbvere                 4250                                              4250       4250        100%
Renforcement par:          Tsvio- T i-N          80  9600   sevbre                 7285                                              7285       4190         58%
0 cm de grave bitume et  N- tsbAtakpame         66  1089  optimum                          5256                                     5256    ou b/en
- Scm debetonbitumineux   Atakpame-Blitta     105   681 optimum-1   8344                                                            8344      8440        101%
et             Tranversaes MarUtCment
sauf pour Kpalimel-Atakpame  - Lome-Vogan         43   324  optimum
travaux firnit6s a1 1'elimination  -Aneho-Aklakou  16   634   s6vbre
des points bas             -Aneiho-Anfoln        I11  1134   sevbre
-Vo,qan-Anfoin         9   541   severe
-Ts6vib-Tabligbo      42   852 optimum *4
-TabligboAnfoin    . 32   795  optimum
Transvermales Kara et Contrae:
- Tchitchao-Aviation   9   708   sevbre                                      895                           895
- Kara-Kabou          52  1627  sAvbre
Transversale Plateaux:
- Kpalimb-Atakpame    103   720 optimum -6                        1818                                     1818
Total                                   8344      11836     7078      6580      6689      7008      47200      8440        100%
Total EntretUen courant et perlodigue et R1habilitation y.c. retard      16159    13519       9514      7379      754       7772      60888     14740        100%
les chiffres indiquent la nombre d'annee de difference pour la rbalisation des travaux par rapport b la strategle optimale ou sevbre
y compris contrepartie du gouvemement



Annex C
Page 7 of 16
Composante B : Renforcement Institutionnel
Objectifs de la composante
10.   Cette composante a pour objectifs: (a) d'ameliorer l'efficacite economique du secteur
des transports, (b) d'accroitre l'efficacite des services de l'Etat dans les roles de promotion,
d'orientation, de gestion, de suivi et de regulation de l'activite du secteur du transport, et
enfm (c) d'ameliorer la coordination du secteur. Ces objectifs seront atteints grace aux
mesures suivantes : (i) amelioration de l'information statistique et economique du secteur, (ii)
appui aux entreprises du secteur artisanal et a celles du secteur des travaux publics, (iii) mise
en place des structures de concertation entre l'Etat et les organisations professionnelles du
secteur et rationalisation de la gestion des services publics rendus aux usagers, (iv)
amelioration de la gestion du r6seau routier national par une meilleure programmation de
l'entretien routier et un contr6le rigoureux des travaux de maintenance, (v) amelioration de
l'efficacite du systeme d'entretien routier par une utilisation optimale des ressources
disponibles et reelle promotion des PME locales, et enfin (vi) mise en place d'un financement
adequat, stable et durable des travaux d'entretien routier.
11.   La composante couvre le renforcement institutionnel aux principales directions du
Secretariat d'Etat au Transport (SET) A savoir la Direction Generale des Transports (DGT) et
la Direction des Transports Routiers (DTR). Elle porte egalement sur l'amelioration de la
capacite de gestion de la DGTP, l'appui au demarrage du FER pour soutenir l'efficacite des
systemes de financement et de gestion de l'entretien du reseau routier national.
Description du contenu
12.   Le contenu de cette composante est decrit ci-apres en distinguant le programme des
actions d'appui institutionnel aupres de la DGTP, des structures du SET (DGT, DTR) et des
entreprises privees de transport routier et de travaux publics.
au niveau de la DGTP
13.   L'assistance technique et logistique. Le volet << assistance technique et logistique >
comprendra les services de consultants A court terme et les appuis logistiques suivants:
(a) assistance A la DGTP pour l'affectation et la restructuration du personnel dont
celui de la regie, comportant l' intervention d'un expert en gestion des ressources
humaines pour 4 homme-mois pour la mise en place d'un fichier actualise du
personnel et la definition quantitative et qualitative des emplois necessaires A
l'accomplissement des missions de la DGTP, la finalisation du plan de redeploiement
du personnel de la regie (2eme phase), le demarrage de son application et son suivi au
cours de la periode de restructuration,
(b) assistance A la DGTP pour l'encadrement et la formation d'une cellule de gestion
des marches comportant l'intervention d'un specialiste en administration des marches
publics pour 5 homme-mois pour (i) l'assistance A la redaction des manuels de
procedures de passation de marches et des dossiers d'appel d'offres type pour



Annex C
Page 8 of 16
differents types de travaux dont ceux confies aux PME, (ii) I'appui technique lors des
premiers depouillements d'appel d'offres et de la preparation des premiers marches,
et (iii) les missions de suivi au cours des annees suivantes,
(c) assistance a la DGTP pour la rationalisation de l'ensemble des activites de gestion
du reseau a la charge de la DGTP par un appui de 8 homme-mois r6partis pendant la
duree du credit et comprenant: (i) l'assistance a la DGTP pour augmenter sa capacite
en matiere de planification et d'evaluation des projets (y compris les etudes de
faisabilite) par l'intervention d'experts pour 5 homme-mois repartis sur la duree du
credit, et (ii) la mise en place d'une banque de donnees routieres (BDR) (3 homme-
mois), la mise en route des equipements et logiciels informatiques et la formation du
personnel pour la gestion de la BDR,
(d) une assistance de 6 homme-mois a la programmation, le suivi et le controle des
travaux d'entretien du reseau national,
(e) la mise en place d'un systeme de gestion et de controle interne et une assistance au
Fonds d'Entretien Routier (6 homme-mois),
(f) la prise en charge de frais de fonctionnement additionnels pendant les deux
premieres annees du projet a hauteur de 150 000 $ equivalent.
(g) I'acquisition de 7 micro-ordinateurs et des logiciels necessaires au renforcement
des activit6s dont le support est pr6vu ci-dessus ainsi que de 9 vehicules de liaisons
les etudes et audits
14.   Le volet << etudes et audit > comportera : (a) les audits periodiques du Fonds
d'Entretien Routier et des comptes du projet sur la duree du projet, (b) l'elaboration d'un
systeme pour aider la DGPT a faire les comptages routiers deux fois par an sur le reseau
routier national (definitions des postes de comptage, des frequences, etc.) et le traitement des
donnees collectees, (c) des etudes de factibilite technique et economique pour l'actualisation
du programme d'investissement du secteur routier, (d) les etudes de faisabilite pour la mise
en place de peages routiers et dans la mise en place des procedures de gestion des peages
dont les recettes seront allouees directement a l'entretien de l'ensemble du reseau routier au
travers du FER, et (e) les etudes techniques permettant la preparation des dossiers d'appel
d'offres de travaux pour la construction des peages retenus (4 homme-mois).
laformation
15.   Le volet << formation >> comportera des seminaires et stages de formation organises sur
place ou a l'etranger lorsque cela se justifie, et tel que recapitule dans le Tableau C-4 et
comprenant: (a) 20 cessions de formation dans les differents domaines lids a la gestion et a la
planification de l'infrastructure routiere et l'analyse economique des projets routiers, (b) la
participation des responsables de la DGTP a 16 seminaires ou congres dans des domaines
directement en rapport avec leurs activites, pour ameliorer leur capacite de gestion et
favoriser I'6change d'experiences dans la region, et (c) un programme d'appui et de
formation des PME de travaux publics dont le contenu sera developpe en fonction des
besoins specifiques lies a la nature des interventions qui seront demandees aux PME.



Annex C
Page 9 of 16
au niveau de la DGT
16.   Le volet assistance et formation pour la DGT (dont la DTR) comprendra:
(a) l'assistance pour la mise en place d'un systeme operationnel de recueil, de traitement et
d'exploitation statistique de donnees sur le secteur des transports (4 homme-mois),
(b) l'assistance pour le renforcement de la capacite d'analyse statistique, d'etudes et de
planification des cadres de la DGT comportant l'intervention d'un economiste des transports
pour 3 homme-mois pour la mise en place des methodes et outils de travail, et les missions
d'encadrement et de suivi de cette mise en place,
(c) l'appui d'un expert juriste (2 homme-mois) pour l'actualisation de la reglementation du
secteur et la preparation des projets de nouveaux textes,
(d) I'assistance et la formation dans le domaine de l'activite du transport routier en
particulier: (i) la collecte des donnees relatives a cette activite, (ii) le diagnostic des PME du
secteur et l'evaluation de leurs besoins en formation, (iii) la mise A jour des donn6es relatives
aux couits et aux conditions d'exploitation des vehicules, et (iv) la mise au point d'un
programme de formation approprie aux transporteurs, pour l'equivalent de 4 homme-mois,
(e) l'assistance pour l'informatisation des procedures de delivrance des documents de
transports (cartes grises, autorisations de transport, permis de conduire, etc.), comportant
l'intervention d'un expert informaticien pour 6 homme-mois comprenant la mise en oeuvre,
l'encadrement et la formation,
(f) la refection des locaux de la DTR afin d'amenager les locaux a l'informatisation des
documents de transports et A la reorganisation du fonctionnement de la direction
(g) la fourniture de 6 micro-ordinateurs avec logiciels et de deux imprimantes pour equiper la
DGT et ses differents services en outils appropries pour le suivi et la gestion du secteur et
l'achat d'un vehicule de liaison;
(h) la fourniture de 7 micro-ordinateurs et de 4 imprimantes pour la DTR pour l'exploitation
du systeme de gestion des documents de transport.
17.   La formation dans le domaine du transport routier concernera d'une part le personnel
de la DGT et de la DTR et d'autres part les PME du secteur. Ce volet comprendra un
programme de seminaires et de stages de formation organises sur place ainsi que d'eventuels
stages de formation A l'etranger tels que detaille dans le programme de formation du MMO
du programme. Ce programme comprendra notamment: (a) des stages, sur place, d'initiation
et de familiarisation (une semaine) A l'utilisation de l'outil informatique et de logiciel de base
(tableur, traitement de texte, etc), (b) des seminaires, sur place, de courte duree (une semaine)
avec animateurs experimentes en matiere d'organisation comptable et de gestion
d'entreprises de transport ainsi que de calcul de couits de revient, (c) des seminaires de
formation dans des domaines tres specialises tels que : (i) 1'6valuation et la programmation
des projets d'investissements, (ii) les techniques documentaires et de communication-
diffusion, et (iii) les politiques de transport et l'integration regionale, etc.
18.   La formation des PME de transports routiers sera incluse dans le plan de formation du
sous-secteur des transports routiers et sera realisee par assistance itinerante en entreprises en



Annex C
Page 10 of 16
annees 2 et 3 au titre de la poursuite des actions de formation a la gestion et a la tenue de
tableaux de bord de gestion par un specialiste en conseil d'entreprise de transport (4 homme-
mois).
Organisation institutionnelle pour la mise en oeuvre
19.   La DGTP et la DGT seront responsables, chacun en ce qui le concerne, de la bonne
execution de cette composante. Chacune des agences preparera le programme annuel
d'assistance et de formation qu'elle mettra en oeuvre apres avis de l'IDA. En tant que
responsable de l'ensemble du projet, la DGTP assurera le suivi et l'evaluation du
deroulement de 1' ensemble des activites de la composante, par la mise en place d'un systeme
de suivi comportant des indicateurs de suivi administratif, physique et financier en etroite
collaboration avec la DGT et la DTR pour les volets qui les concernent. Les procedures
detaillees de mise en oeuvre de cette composante et les modalites de coordination entre la
DGTP et la DGT seront clairement definies dans le Manuel de Mise en Oeuvre du
Programme.
20.   Les marches des prestations (etudes et assistances) A fournir dans le cadre de cette
composante seront passes selon les procedures d'appel A la concurrence recommandees par
l'IDA dans le manuel "emploi de consultants par la Banque Mondiale"d'aout 1981.
L'acquisition des equipements prevus sera faite par appel A la concurrence internationale ou
nationale selon les cas. Le MMO decrit la procedure A suivre par la DGTP et la DGT, pour la
passation des marches dans le cadre de la presente composante.



Annex C
Page 11 of 16
Tableau C-4. Synthese de la composante B: Renforcement Institutionnel,
(millions de FCFA)
Finance
co*t  cofitde co6t teel  ment
-nf4: unitaire  base 1/    21          IDA       1998      11999      2000       2001
A. etudes, formation et assistances techniques
1. AT et etudes pour la DGTP
affectationetrestructurationdupersonnel          4 homme-mois  11.0          44       48        48        12        12         12        12
appui geston                                    25 homme-mois  11.0         275       295      295       138        71         44        41
audits finanders et techniques                      forfait                  60       65        65        16        16         17        17
etudes techniques                                   forfait                 216       234      234        83        38         88        25
2. formation pour la DGTP                         36 cessions        5.0      180       196      196       47         48        50         51
3. Frais additionnels de fonctionnement           80 forfait                  80        85        76       42         43         0         0
SUBTOTAL AT&formation DGTP                                                     855       923      914       337       228        210        147
4. Appui etfornmation Ala DGT-DTR                    forfait                  289      312       312       113        87        67         45
5. amenagement des locaux DTR                        forfait                  86        100       90       100        0          0         0
SUBTOTAL AT&fornation DGT-DTR                                                  375       411      401       213        87         67        45
6. appul et formabon des PME
a. formabon des PME                             50 cessions        2.0      100       109       109       26        27         28        28
b. appuiauxPME                                   4 homme-mois  10.0          40       44        44        10        11         11        11
SUBTOTAL AT&fornmaton PME                                                      140       153      153       37         38        39         40
B. Equipements pour la DGTP, la DGT et la DTR
1. DGTP
materiel informat[que                              forfeit                   35       37        33        18        19         0          0
documentabon                                        forfait                  25       27        24        7         11         6          3
logiciels                                        3 unitKs          5.0       15       16        14        8          8         0          0
vehicules                                           forfait                 173       179       162      179         0         0          0
2. DGT
materiel infonmatique                              forfait                   34       35        32        17        18         0          0
logiciels                                        2 unites          0.5       1         1         1        1          1         0          0
vehicules                                           forfait                  19       20        18        20         0         0          0
3. DTR
materiel infonaetique                              forfait                   28       29        26        15        15         0          0
materiel audiovisuel                                forfait                  4         4        4         2          2         0          0
logiciels                                        8 unites          1.0       8         8        8         4          4         0          0
SUBTOTAL MatUriel                                                              342       357      321       271        77         6          3
TOTAL composante B                                 56 homme-mois              1711      1843      1789      858       429        321       235
70 cessions
1/le coOt de base ne comprend pas les impr6vus physiques et financiers
21 le cout reel comprend les imprevus physiques et financiers
3/ part financee par l'IDA
Composante C: amelioration de la securite routiere
Objectifs de la composante
21.    La composante securite routiere a pour objectifs de reduire les coaits sociaux associes
aux accidents de la route au Togo par le traitement des principaux points d'accumulation
d'accidents, l'amelioration de la s6curite et des conditions de transport de personnes et de
biens, et la mise en place de structures necessaires A une gestion et un contr6le efficace de la
securite routiere au Togo.
Description du contenu
22.   Cette composante comporte deux sous-composantes, a savoir: (a) une sous-
composante << investissements physiques > portant sur la construction et l'equipement d'un
Centre de Controle Technique Automobile (CCTA) A Lome, et (b) une sous-composante
<< appui institutionnel >> portant sur la mise en place effective des structures de
fonctionnement et de gestion de l'OSR et l'assistance a son demarrage.



Annex C
Page 12 of 16
23.   La construction et l'equipement d'un Centre de Contr6le Technique Automobile a
Lome constitue un element important pour le contr6le de l'etat des vehicules et la reduction
des accidents dus a des defaillances mecaniques. La construction de ce centre a ete prevue
dans le programme de securite routiere etablit en 1990 et dont la realisation a ete retard6e
faute de structure adequate pour sa gestion. Le site d'implantation est deja retenu et les
dossiers d'appel d'offre sont quasiment prepares. La programmation de l'investissement est
prevue pour les deux premi&res annees du projet. Les etudes techniques et le controle des
travaux realises dans le cadre de cette composante seront confies a des bureaux d'etudes dans
le cadre de contrats passes conformement aux regles de 1'IDA et seront finances par le cr6dit.
24.   Les actions d'appui institutionnel visent a consolider les acquis du Projet de
Rehabilitation des Transports. Elles porteront sur: (i) des etudes d'amelioration de la securite
et des conditions de transports, (ii) la consolidation du systeme de collecte et de traitement
des accidents de la route, (iii) la fornation des formateurs d'auto-ecole et des examinateurs
de permis de conduire et (iv) des campagnes de prevention routiere aupres du grand public et
de sensibilisation dans les etablissements scolaires. Elles comprendront donc trois volets, a
savoir les etudes, l'assistance technique et logistique, et la formation.
25.   Les etudes concerneront les solutions d'amenagement des points noirs de l'axe RN1
et quelques carrefours reputes dangereux dans la ville de Lome. Ces amenagements seront
6tudies dans le cadre des etudes techniques necessaires a la rehabilitation de l'axe Nord-Sud.
26.   L'assistance/formation sera apportee dans le domaine de: (a) l'amelioration de la
collecte et le traitement des donnees d'accidents de la circulation routiere avec l'intervention
d'un expert en gestion de bases de donnees informatisees pour 4 homme-mois assiste d'un
specialiste d'enquetes pour 3 homme-mois pour l'etablissement d'un formulaire de releves
d'accidents pour la police, l'informatisation du fichier central de la gendarmerie, la mise au
point d'un registre au niveau des centres hospitaliers, et la formation du personnel, (b)
l'organisation des campagnes de prevention routiere aupres du grand public et de
sensibilisation dans les etablissements scolaires, (c) des stages pour la formation des
formateurs d'auto-ecole et des examinateurs de permis de conduire, et (d) l'appui au
demarrage de l'office de securite routiere (OSR) qui sera cree pour la gestion de la securite
routiere, incluant l'exploitation du centre de controle technique des vehicules (4 homme-
mois).
Les cofits de mise en oeuvre de cette composante sont resumes dans le Tableau C-5, ci-apres.
Organisation institutionnelle pour la mise en oeuvre
27.   Pour beneficier de la delegation de passation des marches au MMETPT, la DGTP
assurera la construction du CCTA (gestion des contrats) et le traitement des points noirs dans
le cadre des travaux routiers. Les travaux seront realises par des entreprises selon des
procedures d'appels a la concurrence acceptables par l'IDA. La mise au point du dossier
d'appel d'offres du CCTA et des specifications des equipements necessaires sera assuree par
la DGT. Le programme de securite routiere sera initie par la DGT. Ce programme sera
elabore conformement a la politique du gouvemement en matiere de securite routiere. Son
adoption et la supervision de sa mise en oeuvre sont du ressort du Conseil National de



Annex C
Page 13 of 16
Securite Routiere (CNSR - organe de coordination et de participation a l'echelle nationale qui
sera institu6 avant le demarrage du projet). Des son etablissement, l'OSR prendra en charge
l'execution du programme adopte par le CNSR. L'OSR etablira des rapports trimestriels
indiquant l'etat d'avancement de l'execution du programme, qui seront transmis au SET, au
CNSR et a 1'IDA. Au mois de novembre de chaque annee, l'OSR actualisera le programme
de base en fonction des realisations effectives et proposera le contenu des activites de l'annde
qui suit, a l'adoption du CNSR et a la revue de l'IDA. L'OSR assurera egalement
l'exploitation du CCTA dans le cadre d'une concession qui lui sera attribuee par le
MMETPT. La decision de creation de l'OSR, organe autonome de gestion de la securite
routiere, doit etre prise (adoption du decret de creation) avant les negociations du present
projet. L'engagement des autorites togolaises sur l'exploitation du CCTA par l'OSR est une
condition de decaissement du projet au profit de cette composante.
28.    En tant que responsable de la mise en mzuvre de l'ensemble du programme , la DGTP
assurera le suivi et l'evaluation du deroulement de l'ensemble des activites de cette
composante, par la mise en place d'un systeme de suivi comportant des indicateurs de suivi
administratif, physique et financier en etroite collaboration avec la DGT, la DTR et l'OSR
suivant les modalites definies dans la Manuel de Mise en Oeuvre du Programme.
Tableau C-5. Synthese de la composante C  S&urite routiere,
(millions de FCFA)
coot: coot de coOt r6el Finaricem
unit   unitaire base I/   2t   entjiDA  1998 1999 2000: 201
31 _______________
construction du centre technique  forfait         211    250    225    0   250   0    0
etudes techniques et contr6les  forfait            17      20     20     0   20   0    0
6quipement du centre technique et de l'OSR  forfait  93   100     90    18  82   0    0
campagne de pr6vention          forfait            10      11     11     5    5    0    0
formation des formateurs        forfait            20     21      21    10  11   0    0
ATdiverses                      forfait            98     104    104   58  27  11   8
TOTAL COMPOSANTE C                                 448    505    470   91  394  11   8
I/ le coOt de base ne comprend pas ies imprevus physiques et financiers
2/ le coOt r6el comprend les imprevus physiques et financiers
3/ part financ6e par l'IDA
Composante D: Entretien et gestion du r6seau de pistes rurales
Objectifs de la composante
29.   La composante << Entretien et gestion du reseau de pistes rurales >> a pour objectifs:
(a) de maintenir en etat de fonctionnement le reseau de pistes rurales, de garantir le
desenclavement des zones de production agricole et d'ameliorer la desserte des zones rurales
enclavees, et (b) d'ameliorer la gestion et la planification du reseau des pistes rurales pour en
assurer la perennite et utiliser au mieux les ressources disponibles. Ces objectifs seront
recherches par la rationalisation des investissements et des niveaux d'amenagement des
pistes rurales, la mobilisation de la participation locale dans la gestion et l'entretien du reseau
rural, et enfin la rehabilitation du reseau le plus degrade.



Annex C
Page 14 of 16
Description du contenu
30.   Cette composante comporte une operation pilote de gestion du reseau rural portant sur
l'assistance (i) a la mise en place de structures communautaires pour la gestion du reseau des
pistes rurales et (ii) au renforcement de la capacite de la DGTP par l'intermediaire de la
Direction des Pistes Rurales et l'appui au Comite National de Coordination (CNC) en matiere
de coordination des investissements, de programmation de l'entretien du reseau de pistes
rurales et de promotion de la participation communautaire.
31.   Cette operation comporte le financement de travaux d'elimination de points critiques
sur environ 300 km de pistes rurales qui auront e  choisies par des communautes locales,
dans les zones test et dont l'e1igibilite a ete prouvee (voir manuel de mise en oeuvre).
32.   L'appui institutionnel couvrira des besoins necessaires pour la mise en oeuvre de
l'operation pilote comprenant le renforcement de la capacite de gestion de la Direction des
Pistes Rurales une fois integree a la DGTP, et l'appui aux ONG selectionnees pour la
promotion de la participation des comrnmunautes locales dans la gestion et l'entretien des
pistes rurales.
33.   L'assistance technique et logistique comprendra les services de consultants et les
appuis logistiques suivants:
(a) l'assistance a la DGTP (DPR) pour la planification et la programmation de l'entretien du
reseau de pistes rurales comportant l'intervention d'un expert routier international specialise
en organisation et prograrmmation des travaux d'entretien de pistes rurales (3 homme-mois)
et d'un expert routier local (3 homme-mois) pour l'elaboration d'un guide de normes
d'amenagement des pistes rurales et pour l'encadrement du personnel dans la mise en
application des procedures de gestion, de programmation, de contr6le et de financement de
l'entretien des pistes rurales, et du suivi de 1'ex6cution des travaux en appui aux
communautes locales.
(b) l'assistance a la DGTP (DPR et directions regionales) pour la promotion de la
participation communautaire comportant l'intervention d'un consultant international et d'un
consultant national ayant une experience dans le domaine de la mobilisation sociale et de
l'animation pour respectivement 2 et 7 homme-mois sur 5 ans pour l'appui a l'organisation
des campagnes de sensibilisation des usagers sur l'entretien des pistes rurales, la mise en
place des structures de concertation entre les differents acteurs et beneficiaires des pistes
rurales, et les missions de suivi,
(c) l'assistance a la mise en ceuvre de l'operation pilote de prise en charge de la gestion du
reseau des pistes rurales par des associations locales au travers d'une ONG internationale
associee a des ONG locales, comportant : (i) l'appui technique aux structures
communautaires pour la prise en charge de la gestion des pistes rurales dans les zones
retenues a titre pilote et les missions d'encadrement et de suivi, de l'entretien des pistes
rurales (specialiste en entretien des pistes rurales 26 homme-mois sur la duree du projet, dont
2 pour un expert expatrie), (ii) l'organisation et la mobilisation de la participation
communautaire (28 homme-mois dont 4 pour un specialiste expatrie dans l'appui a la mise
en place des structures communautaires de gestion des pistes rurales dans les zones retenues),



Annex C
Page 15 of 16
(iii) une mission d'evaluation et de suivi periodique de l'operation pilote (4 homme-mois sur
la duree du projet), et (iv) un appui logistique en equipements de deplacements et en frais
additionnel de fonctionnement de la DGTP et des ONG chargees de la promotion de la
participation communautaire dans les zones retenues.
34.   Les besoins d'assistance technique et logistique notamment pour l'operation pilote
seront revus A la lumiere des resultats de l'etude en cours sur la definition de la consistance
de cette operation pilote et du programme prioritaire d'entretien des pistes rurales.
Organisation institutionnelle pour la mise en oeuvre
35.   Les r6les des differents intervenants dans la mise en oeuvre de cette composante
relative A la gestion et A l'entretien des pistes rurales seront comme suit:
(a) la Direction G6nerale des Travaux Publics (par l'intermediaire de la DPR et de ses
directions regionales), assurera la coordination et la planification des investissements au
niveau des pistes rurales. Elle sera responsable de la mise en ceuvre de la composante en
assumant la gestion du programme prioritaire et la preparation des elements de prise de
decision pour le Comite National de Coordination qui statuera sur les programmes
d'entretien proposes par les communautes locales.
(b) les communautes locales seront mobilisees pour le choix et le suivi de la participation a la
r.alisation des travaux de rehabilitation qui seront dans le cadre de cette operation pilote.
Cette participation, sous forme financiere ou de realisation de travaux, representera environ
10 % du couit des travaux de rehabilitation. Les communautes rurales devront obligatoirement
etre impliquees a ce stade pour toutes les pistes de leur zone d'influence avec l'appui
technique des ONG et de la DGTP, par l'interm6diaire de la DPR et des Directions
Regionales.
(c) les communautes locales seront egalement mobilisees grace a l'appui des ONG pour
prendre en charge la gestion et l'entretien manuel du reseau des pistes rurales qu'elles ont
choisies dans leur zone d'influence avec l'appui technique de la DGTP pour l'etablissement
des programmes d'entretien, la preparation des dossiers d'eligibilite des operations de
traitement des points critiques et la surveillance des travaux realises sur leur reseau. Ces
programmes seront revus et decides (pour financement par le projet) par le Comite National
de Coordination des Pistes Rurales (CNC). L'eligibilite des propositions des communautes
locales sera decidee sur la base de criteres convenus au prealable et indiques dans le guide
d'entretien des pistes rurales (voir manuel de mise en oeuvre).
36.   Le Tableau C-6 presente la synthese du contenu et des couts de cette composante.



Annex C
Page 16 of 16
Tableau C-6. Synthese de la composante D: Entretien et Rehabilitation des
pistes rurales, (millions de FCFA)
Finance
coot  coOt do coOt r6el  ment
unWt:       unitaire base 1/    21       IDA   1998 1999 2000 2001
A. travaux de r6habilitation sur les routes rurales
operations pilotes, elimination des points critiques  300 km forfait          352      422      380    101  104  107  110
etudes techniques et contr6les (r6habilitation)        forfait                70       84        84     20   21   21   22
Subtotal Travaux                                                                422      806       464    122  125  128  131
C. AT pour la gestfon du r6seau rural
1. assistance a la DGTP et a la DPR
a. planification et programmation reseau
consultant intemational                            3 homme-mois   10         30       33       33      8    8    8    8
consultant local                                   3 homme-mois    2         6        7        7       2    2    2    2
b. participation communautaire
consultant intemational                            2 homme-mois   10         20       22       22      5    5    6    6
consultant local                                   7 homme-mois    2         15       16       16     4    4    4    4
2. assistance aux communautes par les ONG
a. appui technique
consultant intemational                            2 homme-mois   10         20       22       22     5    5    6    6
consultant local                                  24 homme-mois    1         24       26       26     6    6    7    7
b. appui a la mise en place structures communautaires
consultant international                           4 homme-mois   10         40       44       44     10   11   11   11
consultant local                                  24 homme-mois    1         24       26       26      6    6    7    7
c. missions d'evaluation                            4 homme-mois    5         20       22        22     5    5    6    6
d. fonctionnement ONG
_quipements                                         forfait                 40       44       39      10   11   11   11
honoraires                                          forfait                 60       65       65      16   16   16   17
Subtotal gestion du r6seau rural                                                299       324      320    78   80   82   84
TOTAL composante D                                    73 homme-mois             721       831      784    200  20S  210  216
I/ le coOt de base ne comprend pas les imprevus physiques et financiers
21 le coOt reel comprend les imprevus physiques et financiers
31 part financee par l'IDA



ANNEX D
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESMENT






1
Executive summary
1.         The project will aim at rehabilitating Togo's main road and rural
roads network and setting the bases for its long term maintenance. Since no
new roads will be opened up in the framework of the project, the expected
environmental impacts will be milder than in the case of new roads. In addition,
the project will encourage labor intensive road maintenance activities that are
generally more environmentally friendly than highly mechanized activities. An
environmental assessment has been undertaken, during which 1.700 km of
roads have been observed in all ecological areas of the country, consultations
have been undertaken with rural and urban populations affected by road
rehabilitation initiatives, and all key administrative bodies have been contacted.
Field observations revealed that the project will have minor
negative environmental impacts that can be easily mitigated. The dirt roads
are in acceptable condition, which will only require mild rehabilitation by
resurfacing and eliminating critical points. The tarred roads are in variable
conditions, certain tracks will require heavy rehabilitation in the short term.
On a social standpoint, the consultative approach that has been retained for
the rehabilitation of rural roads will ensure that the needs of the rural people
will be taken into account when selecting rural roads to be rehabilitated.
2.    The main environmental impacts and the accompanying mitigation
measures will be:
*     Laterite quarries that are opened up along the roads and that, if not
rehabilitated after use, could induce erosion and standing waters. The
rehabilitation of these areas is technically straighfforward and easily
implemented. On a case by case approach, these quarries may be
restored by leveling the grounds and spreading back organic soil on the
area, vegetative cover may then be restored through tree planting or
grass propagation. In other cases, laterite quarries may be transformed
into water reservoirs that would greatly benefit the local populations.
Wetlands may be harmed by road crossing and ineffective road drainage
infrastructure, this may lead to an imbalance of fragile ecosystems, loss
of agricultural land used during the dry season, and eutrophication of
certain water bodies, in addition to ecological losses due to the
degradation of the ecosystems. The project will improve drainage
infrastructure, which will result in the restoration of the original water
transfers that naturally regulate wetlands.
The drainage of roads (runoff waters) sometimes leads to the
accelerated formation of gullies and to erosion alongside the roads. It
has generally been observed that the present drainage infrastructure
carries water to areas with adequate vegetative cover and that erosion is



2
generally not exacerbated by road drainage.  Guidelines include
provisions for improving the downstream portion of road drainage
systems.
Atmospheric pollution linked to road rehabilitation and maintenance is
very low and negligible compared to other sources of air pollution such
as general passenger and freight vehicles traffic. The main problem at
present is the dust generated by major rehabilitation works which can
cause discomfort and health hazards to local populations, as well as
mild damage to nearby crops or natural vegetation. This is easily
controlled by frequent watering of construction sites which is already
widely practiced by road construction companies.
*    The destruction of human habitat is rarely a problem. In the few cases
where households had to be evicted, compensation measures not
satisfactory. Population displacement will not take place under this
project.
3.         In urban an peri-urban zones environmental impacts and
mitigation measures are the following:
The limited infiltration surface that characterizes urban areas increases
the risks of flooding, especially when taking into consideration the almost
level topography of the major cities of southern Togo.   The
reconstruction of urban drainage infrastructure, their maintenance, and
the paving instead of tarring of roads, all undertaken within the project,
greatly improve the water drainage situation in urban areas.
*    Atmospheric pollution issues are more serious in urban areas due to the
density of traffic, the large affected population, and the limited airflow
that characterizes them. Even more care is generally taken by road
construction companies in order to minimize dust displacement. Vehicle
emissions could be greatly diminished by instating vehicle pollution
standards and an inspection system. The latter problem is further
exacerbated by the derelict mechanical state of most personal and
commercial vehicles, which in turn makes them more polluting. Instating
pollution standards and vehicle inspection are presently being
considered.
Habitat destruction and relocation of city dwellers will generally be
avoided in the project. Past experiences in Togo have shown that when
dwellings have to be destroyed, the levels of compensation are not
realistic. Recommendations for instating a better compensation systems
have been made in the study.



3
4.         In the framework of the implementation of the national
environmental action plan, Togo has just prepared an environmental law that
includes environmental impact assessment requirements and the need do
develop sectoral environmental guidelines. In this respect, the project will be
on the forefront since it will propose the first set of sectoral environmental
guidelines developed in, jointly with the public works administration and other
concerned administrations.
5.         Institutional coordination will be very important in order to
implement environmental guidelines.  In this respect, the newly created
Togolese Ministry of Environment will play a key role, coordinating the
administrative bodies in charge of public works, rural development, forestry,
and urban management. At present, the organizational chart and the mandate
of the Ministry of Environment are not clearly defined, it is thus difficult to
assess the capabilities of this institution to play its role. In the meantime, it is
recommended that the leading institution in terms of monitoring environmental
issues related to road rehabilitation and maintenance be the general directorate
for public works.
The environmental impact assessment of the project has also
presented a conceptual framework for undertaking the necessary
environmental impact assessments and the corresponding mitigation plans
related to future road rehabilitation and maintenance works. In addition, an
environmental directive for the directorate of roads has been developed (see
following section). Since environmental concerns will be part of the "cahier des
charges" submitted to companies in order to prepare bids, the likelihood of
adequate treatment of environmental concerns is greatly increased by the
project. Never the less, a concise environmental training program for the
technicians of the directorate of roads and the directorate of rural roads has
been planned for.
The risks associated with environmental considerations of the
project are:
* the general lack of environmental awareness among the staff of the
general directorate of public works
* the present lack of efficient institutional framework for environment
* a generalized lack of social concern in development projects in Togo
In order to minimize these risks; it is necessary that the project
include the following:



4
* to undertake a practical training program for selected members of the
general directorate of public works related to mainstreaming environmenta!
issues in road rehabilitation initiatives;
* to set up an environmental desk within the general directorate of public
works that will monitor environmental impact assessments, both for main
roads and rural roads,
* to adopt the environmental directive of the general directorate of public
works
* to elaborate an environmental handbook to help the staff of the general
directorate of public works consider environmental issues and elaborate
mitigation plans; and
* to elaborate and adopt a clear set of guidelines to compensate social
groups that would be negatively affected by certain types of road
rehabilitation works.



Annex E
Page I of 16
ECONOMIC EVALUATION
This annex summarizes the results of the economic evaluation for all works included in the priority road
program, with detailed justification for works on the earth and paved network that are proposed for IDA
financing. At the end of the annex, there is a listing of all road works included in the priority program as of
December 1996, including traffic, length, costs, net present value and Economic rate of return where
available.
PAVED ROADS
(COMPONENT A)
Methodology
1.    The economic evaluation for paved road sections included in the project used the
Highway Design Model (HDM) to define an optimal maintenance strategy from among
20 different, locally-tailored strategies. For a given road and set of maintenance works,
the model simulates the aging of the road and links it to costs of maintenance and vehicle.
In this way, different strategies may be compared to each other, and to a "without-
project" case, and an optimal strategy may be defined through cost/benefit analysis, even
assuming a drop in available resources. For the purpose of this analysis, 20 possible
maintenance strategies were classified by decreasing Net Present Value (NPV), which
corresponds to classification by decreasing maintenance cost . An optimal strategy can
be selected for different funding scenarios from this classification. Economic cost and
benefit were discounted over a 20-year period at a 12 percent discount rate.
Data
2.    Road data, such as International Roughness Index (IRI), length, deflections, type
of construction, and assessment of general condition, were collected in the field when not
already available. The IRI, evaluating road surface condition, is the basic element of the
HDM. The HDM calculates IRI evolution over time for a given maintenance strategy,
and mathematically links IRI to the Vehicle Operating Cost (VOC). In 1995, the average
IRI (5.1 m/km) indicated that Togo's paved roads were in mediocre condition, although
1 Details on paragraph 10



Annex E
Page 2 of 16
the situation varies over the network. Four types of construction, each with distinct
technical perfonnance, were identified in the Togolese paved network.
3.    Traffic. Routine DGTP traffic counts provided most of the relevant data, however
additional traffic counts were carried out to confirm available data or to determine daily
traffic levels on roads for which no data existed. Annual traffic growth over the next 20
years was determined from data such as annual traffic growth over the last 10 years, fuel
consumption, and growth in general and per capita GNP. Two categories of vehicle (cars
and trucks) were considered for the HDM simulation. Table E. 1 lists annual traffic
growth used in the economic evaluation.
Table E.1. Annual traffic growths by type of vehicle and by region.
Roads of differenttregions    Cars   Trucks
RN 1 (North-South axis)   4.0 %    2.2 %
Maritime area      3.0 %    1.5 %
Plateau area      2.0 %    1.5 %
Central area      2.5 %    1.5 %
Kara (North) area   5.0 %    3.0 %
4.    Maintenance costs were derived from recent rehabilitation and routine
maintenance works either undertaken by DGTP, or contracted out to intemational and
local contractors.
Maintenance strategies
5.    Definition of maintenance strategies for the economic evaluation. A
maintenance strategy consists of a set of maintenance works. Three types of maintenance
works normally pertain to paved roads: (a) rehabilitation, double-layer pavement with
various materials; (b) periodic maintenance, single-layer paving with various materials;
and (c) routine maintenance: (i) resealing (rarely considered for the Togolese network);
(ii) pothole patching; (iii) maintenance of the road shoulders. A maintenance strategy
may be a combination of any of these types of maintenance.
6.    The twenty strategies considered for this evaluation all had the following elements
in common. Periodic maintenance works were assumed to begin in 1997, to allow
adequate time to mobilize external resources. All strategies contained basic routine
maintenance on selected road sections consisting of patching 50 percent of potholes and
shoulder maintenance (see also the sensitivity analysis below). The "without-strategy"
case consists of shoulder maintenance alone.



Annex E
Page 3 of 16
7.    Classifications of strategies by type of road construction and traffic level.
The 20 strategies were classified by decreasing economic return for every possible
combination of construction method and traffic level. The NPV provides the most
valuable economic criteria for rating the strategies, representing the savings in VOC and
maintenance costs between a given strategy and the "without-project" case. For this
evaluation, the flow of saving was discounted at 12 percent over 20 years. A per
kilometer NPV for each of the 20 strategies was assessed using the HDM for each
combination of traffic level and road construction method, to classify maintenance
strategies by decreasing economic return (decreasing NPV). Strategies thus classified
also reflect decreasing maintenance cost.
8.    Application of the strategies to the paved network. Seven scenarios were
computed using HDM that considered different maintenance strategies for each paved
road, given construction type and traffic level. These scenarios correspond to the first
seven of the 20 classified strategies, in order of decreasing economic return and
maintenance cost.
Table E.2. Optimal Maintenance Strategy and Strategy with Budget
Constraint for the South-North Axis
Strategy,              Optimal strategy           Strategy with a budget constraint
Lom-Tsevie  Routine shoulder maintenance         Routine shoulder maintenance
From 1995, 50% of potholes patched  From 1995, 50% of potholes patched
and Tsevie   annually                           annually
Nots6        From 1996, maintenance by single-layer   From 1998, single-layer paving with 12
paving                              cm of "enrobe" if IRI higher than
From 1997, double-layer paving with 10    5 m/km
cm of "grave bitume" and 5 cm of    From 2000, single-layer paving with 5
concrete-asphalt, if IRI higher than 4m/km  cm of "enrobe" if IRI higher than
From 1998, single-layer paving with 5 cm   5 m/km
of "enrobd" if IRI higher than 4m/km
9.    Results of the economic evaluation, optimal strategy and strategy with a
budget constraint. The economic evaluation indicates the different road maintenance
strategies that are acceptable from both an engineering and an economic perspective;
ERRs for the seven scenarios remain between 350 percent and 490 percent. The best
adapted strategy may therefore be chosen for given available resources. Two scenarios
are presented in this annex: the first is the optimal strategy (no budget constraint, first
scenario), the second is the strategy with a budget constraint, reflecting available
maintenance resources in Togo (sixth scenario). Table E.3 presents the economic
indicators (NPV, discounted maintenance cost and ERR) for these scenarios over the
entire network (see also Table E.9 and Table E. 10). In the strategy with budget constraint
maintenance costs were cut nearly in half (CFAF 66 billion to 37.4 billion) while NPV



Annex E
Page 4 of 16
and the ERR remain quite high. Table E. 11 presents the economic indicators for the
paved roads in the program.
10.   The paved road priority program was initially derived from the economic
evaluation. However, final maintenance strategies for specific sections of road also take
into account actual road conditions (level of deterioration), and appropriate technical
maintenance standards. As presented in Table C-3 (annex C) , the project applies either
the optimal strategy or the strategy with a budget constraint to each paved road included
in the project.
Table E.3. Economic indicators of the two scenarios for the paved network
(CFAF billion)
\ t;Striab0tegy0       ;ii |NPV (12 %)   Maintenance  ERR
0  t000 : t;  0;    ;X ;j0  i:     0   ;    ; i Cost * (12 %);               
Optimal                  493           66.0       387.3 %
with budget constraint  444.7          37.4       463.3 %
* including rehabilitation and periodic maintenance
Sensitivity analysis
11.   It is important to analyze the impact of defaulting on routine maintenance,
especially if the country's patching capacity turns out to be limited. The sensitivity
analysis examined two other maintenance strategies, using the same methodology as in
the base case, that respectively assume patching of 20 percent and 100 percent of
potholes. Economic indicators are presented in Table E.4. The analysis shows that
decreasing the percentage of potholes patched every year has a negative economic
impact. The overall discounted maintenance cost would increase by 13 percent and the
NPV would increase by 8.5 percent. However, the ERR would remain high due to the
current level of network deterioration.



Annex E
Page 5 of 16
Table E.4. Sensitivity analysis on the optimal strategy (first scenario),
Economic indicators (billion of CFAFs)
Optimal strategy    NPV (12 %)    Maintenance**     ERR
Costs (12 %)
20% of potholes     472.6           48.9           273.0 %
100% of potholes    515.4           43.2           407.5 %
50% of potholes *   494.5           46.5           371.1  %
* optimal strategy presented in paragraph 10.
** included periodic and rehabilitation
EARTH ROADS
(COMPONENTS A)
Methodology
12.   A different methodology was used to determine an optimal maintenance strategy
for the unpaved road network. The main objective of this methodology was to optimize
allocation of road maintenance resources in order to maximize the number of passable
itineraries. Under this methodology, maintenance activities for each road section must be
tailored to actual traffic levels, terrain and weather conditions to determine the service
level that optimizes the overall balance between user cost savings and maintenance costs.
Thus, the optimal strategy was based on empirical evidence of road deterioration at given
traffic and maintenance levels, and on maintenance experience and observations of earth
road conditions in Togo and neighboring countries with a similar road network. The
optimal maintenance strategy will minimize the present value of the aggregate net
maintenance cost for each road section. The net cost on a given section is defined as the
difference between the cost of maintenance (routine and periodic), and the user costs for
vehicles using the road section; the Net Present Value (NPV) of the annual stream of net
costs is calculated over 20 years at a 12 percent discount rate.
Road and Traffic data
13.   Data was collected on the entire national unpaved network. An annual inspection
campaign collected information on the precise length and width of roads, average speed
of travel over these roads, and existing trouble spots. Traffic data were collected either
by actual counts (June - July 1995) or by extrapolating from the latest counts. Annual
traffic growth is estimated at 3 percent for trucks, and 2 percent for cars, and was
calculated from annual traffic growth rates on representative Togolese roads, vehicle fleet
growth rates, and expected economic growth. The evaluation does not include
projections for traffic growth induced by road upgrading, and is therefore rather
conservative.



Annex E
Page 6 of 16
14.   Vehicle Operating Costs. Basic data were collected in Lome. Vehicle operating
costs were calculated with HDM for four different types of vehicles and five different
representative road surface conditions (measured by IRI). The HDM was adapted to
reflect local characteristics, such as percentage of used cars, average life of vehicles, and
road conditions. All costs are net of taxes and relate to constant 1995 prices.
15.   Cost of Works. Costs are based on those observed in private contract execution.
Unit costs used in the evaluation were determined in June 1995 from recently awarded
works contracts and from a survey of enterprises. The economic cost of periodic
maintenance includes all necessary works to prepare the road surface (initial grading of
the roadbed, regraveling at 15 cm), which totals an estimated CFAF 5,100 per cubic
meter of material used. All costs are net of taxes and reflect constant 1995 prices.
Optimal Maintenance Strategy
16.   To define an economically optimal maintenance policy for the national earth road
network, it is necessary to deternine: (a) the desired average level of service between
periodic maintenance works; (b) the sequencing of routine and periodic maintenance
works; (c) economic indicators for the optimal strategy; and (d) a fallback maintenance
strategy in case insufficient resources are available for road maintenance. These steps are
summarized below.
17.   Definition of Service Levels on Maintainable Earth Roads. Five service levels
ranging from "excellent" to "very poor" were identified, each corresponding to a
measurable road condition (IRI). The five service levels (niveau de service or NS) and the
corresponding roughness values are as follows:
NS5 = excellent    (IRI = 4 to 6)
NS4 = good         (IRI = 6 to 10)
NS3 = fair         (IRI = 10 to 16)
NS2 = poor         (IRI = 16 to 20)
NS 1, very poor    (IRI = 20 to 24)
The current service level of each earth road section was assessed in an inspection
campaign during Transport Sector Strategy preparation. Roads with permanent trouble
spots were ranked NS 1. HDM establishes the functional relationship between service
level and vehicle operating costs allowing VOC to be computed for each of the five
service levels.
18.   Impact of Maintenance on Service Level. Maintenance of earth roads includes:
(a) tasks that do not vary with service level (manual routine shoulder and drainage system
clearing (cantonnage) ); and (b) tasks that affect service level (routine patching (point el
temps), grading and periodic regraveling). Rainfall has an impact on manual routine
maintenance needs, and soil sensitivity to water has an impact on regraveling needs.
Analysis of roads that have not been maintained for the last few years has helped
determine the impact on earth road roughness, and hence on service levels, periodic



Annex E
Page 7 of 16
regraveling and different routine maintenance approaches at different traffic levels,
during the intervals between periodic regraveling. Table E. 12 shows the minimum
routine maintenance required to sustain a given service level. Table E. 13 indicates the
minimum frequency of regraveling in years required to maintain a given service level
over a longer period of time based on the observation that 2.5 mm of roadbed disappears
on every grading.
19.   Optimizing net maintenance cost. The most economic level of service has been
determined for each traffic level. Each traffic level generated a curve showing the overall
economic cost per km (net present value of VOC plus maintenance cost, over 20 years,
discounted at 12 percent) as a function of road maintenance costs. Table E.14 gives the
resultant determination of optimal maintenance activities by traffic, service level, and
modal split. In the short to medium term, NS4 (good) will be the highest service level on
the most heavily traveled earth roads. Total maintenance costs were estimated for the
entire earth network using the relationship between service level and maintenance
activities developed in the preceding paragraphs. Total estimated annual routine and total
periodic maintenance program costs are shown in Table E. 15 and Table E. 16. The total
annual cost of an economically optimal earth road maintenance program (net of taxes) on
all 1439 km of the earth network is about CFAF 4.1 billion for periodic maintenance
during the next five years, and CFAF 1 billion for routine maintenance.
Elimination of Trouble Spots and Drainage Repairs
20.   On the national earth roads included in the project, trouble spots were recorded
and ranked by level of passability (both during the rainy season and year-round), and by
type of problem (i.e. muddy area, broken bridge, submersion). Table E.5 shows a
summary of the classification by gravity of trouble spot. The project will redress all
trouble spots recorded in order to ensure passability on the road network throughout the
year. Since the viability of the national earth road network requires that all section be
passable at all times of the year, at least trouble spots in categories 1, 2 and 3 must be
eliminated.
Table E.5. Trouble spots on earth road network.
number of trouble spots on
national earth roads
1 permanently blocked              2
2 blocked during rainy season     23
3 temporarily blocked             16
4 naturally difficult passage     33



Annex E
Page 8 of 16
Economic Evaluation - Base Case and Sensitivity Analysis
21.   Two main cases were analyzed in the evaluation: (a) a base case with road
maintenance corresponding to the optimal maintenance strategy, as defined above; (b) a
sensitivity case, based on the assumption that road maintenance resources are insufficient
to realize the optimal maintenance program, aiming at a service level of NS3 (fair) on all
roads. ERRs have been determined for all priority program works (elimination of trouble
spots, rehabilitation of drainage structures, routine and periodic maintenance) on each
road section, in each of the two cases. Other sensitivity analyses tested how economic
results vary if the traffic decreases by 20 or 30 percent and investment costs increase by
20 or 30 percent.
22.   "Without project" scenario. Expenditures on earth roads are economically
justified when the evolution of the network without the project is considered. The
"without project" scenario assumes no investments, however includes minor operations,
such as roadside and drainage clearing, to maintain passability during the rainy season on
the most deteriorated sections. Aside from these priority sections, the rest of the network
would continue to degrade. The evolution of service levels in the "without project"
scenario is presented in Table E.6, assuming average Togolese weather conditions and
traffic composition of 10 percent heavy trucks.
Table E.6."Without Project" Scenario
CurrenttLevel:of Service   Evolution of Level of Service, "without project" scenario
NSI                    NSI continues
NS2                    NSI over 3 years
NS3                    NS1 1/2 of the time between two regraveling works (5 years max.)
NS3-4                  NS 1 2/3 of the time between two regraveling works (7 years max.)
23.   Economic indicators in the base case. Table E.7 summarizes the assumptions
and the results of the economic evaluation of the project for the base case, and shows the
following: (a) the optimal maintenance strategy produces a high global economic return;
and (b) two itineraries show ERRs less than 12 percent. Traffic on these roads is less
than 15 vehicles per day, and the investment is high with respect to VOC savings. These
itineraries will not be considered in the priority program (1997-2002). The results of the
economic evaluation for each itinerary and for the two scenarios above are given in Table
E. 17. This table presents the length and traffic for each of the 51 road sections analyzed:
(a) the cost of periodic maintenance (regraveling); (b) the cost for elimination of trouble
spots and drainage repairs; and (c) the net present value for the base case and the ERR of
the two cases.



Annex E
Page 9 of 16
Table E.7. Base Case and Sensitivity Case Assumptions and Results of the
Economic Evaluation (in CFAF billion)
Cases         Assumptions        investment   routine maintenance           ERR
cost*             cost
Base Case     - optimal             5,918             1,104              maxi 343 %
maintenance                                                 mini -2 %
strategy                                               2 sections below 12 %
Reduced       - service level NS3   5,918             662                maxi 159 %
Routine       maintenance on                                              mini -4 %
Maintenance  each road                                               4 sections below 12 %
* Including periodic maintenance, rehabilitation (elimination of road trouble spots)
Definition of level of priority among the earth roads.
24.    The ERR and traffic level provide objective criteria to prioritize among earth
roads included in the priority program. Five levels of priority were defined for national
earth roads and 4 for rural roads. See Table E.8 and Table E. 16 for further details.
Table E.8. Priority level for earth roads
National earth roads
# of roads  length*         criteria**
Priority 1     7         288    T>100
Priority 2     10       229.2   100>T>50 & ERR>100%
Priority 3     15       451.6   100>T>50 & 1000/o>ERR
or
T>50 & ERR>l00%
Priority 4     16       433.4   T>50 &
100%>ERR> 15%
Priority 5     3        37.5    T>50 & 15%>ERR
TOTAL         51       1439.7
*Length in km
**T: Traffic level (v/day)



Annex E
Page 10 of 16
Sensitivity Analysis
25.   The sensitivity analysis looked at the influence of: (a) service level to be reached;
(b) traffic levels and cost of works; and (c) a prioritization based on NPV rather than
ERR.
26.   Sensitivity to the service level to be reached. To accommodate limited
resources, a less demanding maintenance strategy was tested on the priority earth road
network. The goal of this strategy is to reach a NS3 service level (fair). The economic
evaluation, using the same methodology, proves that this strategy has also a high overall
Economic Rate of Return, though significantly lower than in the base case (see Table
E.7). Fifteen roads have an ERR below 4 percent. The annual routine maintenance
budget decreases by CFAF 442 million. The results by section are given in Table E. 17.
27.   Sensitivity to the traffic level and to the cost of works. Should the traffic level
on the unpaved network be 20 or 30 percent less than estimated in the base case
evaluation, the number of sections with an ERR of less than 12 percent rises from two to
three. In the base case, these three sections have an ERR less than 25 percent. Should
the cost of investment works on each road in the program be 20 or 30 percent higher
than expected in the base case evaluation, the same three sections have an ERR less than
12 percent (periodic maintenance costs are not affected by the change in cost of works).
These three sections therefore are considered a second priority, and warrant further
investigation during program implementation. The program establishing road priority
level is not affected noticeably by modification in these variables, provided that selection
criteria for each priority is adapted to the new data.
28.   Net Present Value (NPV). The NPV may also be used to rank the priority
program. The HDM used in the economic evaluation will compute the NPV for each
road included in the program. Roads may be ranked by decreasing NPV to prioritize
sections. The Net Present Value was estimated at two different discount rates (12 percent
and 20 percent). Results show that the discount rate has roughly no effect on road
ranking, but does affect the NPV itself. The NPV decreases from CFAF 59 billion to
CFAF 36 billion for the priority network. Two national earth roads have a negative NPV
at the 12 percent discount rate; this number rises to four under a 20 percent discount
rate. Three roads of the four roads have already been ranked in the paragraph above
29.   The level of priority is modified dramatically by selecting NPV rather than ERR.
Using a 12 percent discount rate and the NPV ranking, 12 national of the 51 national
earth roads shift priority level.



Annex E
Page 11 of 16
PAVED ROAD, TABLES
Table E.9. Net Present Value of the two scenarios applied on each paved
road by region (billion of CFAFs)
Strategy             North-     Maritime       Kara &       Plateau area    Total
South axis     area       Central area
Optimal              405.2         45.3          25.6           18.4        494.5
budget constraint     366          39.3          22.6           16.8        444.7
Table E.10. Budget for the two scenarios (million of CFAFs)
Strategy                Optimal                   Budget constraint
maintenance   routine   periodic    total    routine    periodic    total
1995-1996      7,113     3,212     10,325    6,407        0       6,407
1997-2001     4,634     61,990    66,624     4,634     34,279    40,384
2001-2006      3,265    22,934    26,199     3,845     39,453    43,298
1995-2006   } 15,012    88,136    103,148 1  16,357    73,732    90,089



Annex E
Page 12 of 16
Table E.11. ERR of every paved road work strategies
ra :< 0 g tX troad tt0tra.ffic tlengthT  :   optmalistategy h    sirategywitha budget constraint
:mantenance              :maintenance
vtd; i   0=00  Ad\ S-  Si    ; .0i kmAi;0;t N* 00cost *ti  SRERR   NPV*  cost*  ERR
North-South Lom&-Tsevi4        9343    35 106.5'    4.2        inf.   94.6       3.1
Axle       Ts6vie-Nots6        9600    60 184.4       7.7      inf.  162.7       5.4
'Notse-Atakpame     1089    66 26.7        2.8      396.7%  25.50      2.1      414.2%
tAtakpamA-Blitta     681    105 31.2        5      234.0%   31.2       5        234.0%
Blitta-Sokode       1208    80  7.1        1.5     437.5%    5         1        437.6%
Sokode-Kara          986    75  8.6        1.3   .336.3%   8.6        1.3       336.3%
,Kara-Pya            434    11  0.2         0          166.4%   0.2 o   0       166.4%
|Pya-Kante           434    44  5.8        1.5      167.8%   5.6  I    1.3      175.7%
Kante-Mango          294    88 11.3        3.1     169.0%   10.8      2.6  -   175.6%
!Mango-Dapaong       528    71  18.6       3.3      146.3%   17.6      2.7      297.7%
Dapaong-Cikass6      323    40  4.2        1.1     155.1%   4.2  |    1.1       155.1%
Maritime   Lomd-Av6pozo        4371     12  9.1 f    0.5      152.9%   7.1       0.2 
AvepozoHillakondji   3391    29 21.8       1.4       9 1Q89.   18.2    1      .
Tssvib-Tabligo       852    42  4.61    1.5         46.3%    4.6      1.5       46.3%
Tabligo-Anfoin       795    32  2.6        0.7     151.6%   2.6       0.7       151.6%
Anfoin-Aneho        1134    11   2         0.3     217.8%   1.8       0.2       218.4%
Lome-Kpalime        1199   118  1.6        0.2     185.6%   1.6       0.2       185.6%
Lome-Vogan           324    43  1.1        0.9      89.6%    1.1      0.9       89.6%
Vogan-Anfoin         541      9  0.6       0.3     131.1%   0.6  t    0.3       131.1%
An6ho-Aklakou        634     16  1.7       0.4     175.0%   1.6       0.3       175.0%
Amegnran-Afangnan    172      9  0.1       60       65.1%    0.1       0        65.1%
Kara and   Sokod6-1assar        195    58  0.9        0.3     63.9%    0.9       0.3       63.9%
Central   |Langabou-Yegue       159    57  0.3        0.1     47.4%    0.3       0.1       47.4%
|Kara-Kabou         1627    52  19.7 |    2.3    7 75.5%   16.9        1.4      342.0%
Kabou-Natchamba       88    33   0         0.1    - 34.3%    0        0.1       34.3%
ITchitchao-Aviation  708      9  2.9       0.4    1176.2%   2.7        0.3      352.9%
Kara-Ketao-Benin     590    25  1.7        0.1     120.2%   1.7       0. 1      120.2%
!Kdtao-Pagouda       267    15  0.1         0       74.4%    0.1  I    0         74.4%
Plateaux  IKpalimeAtakpam6      720   103 11.7        2.6     167.5%   10.9      2.1       167.7%
IT6mdja-Badou       301     87  1.8 ,    0.4       89.7%    1.8       0.4       89.7%
Badou-riviereWawa     59    14   0         0.1    1 15.5%    0        0. 1      15.5%
iBadou-Tomegbe       159      8  0.2 1    0.1       60.6%    0.2       0.1       60.6%
Badou-Djdji           97    10  0.1        0.1      29.8%    0.1      0.1       29.8%
Tomegbb-B1th6l        21   12.5   0        0.1    !2.7%      0        0.1        2.7%
|TomegbA-Kptp B1nE   233     14  0.6       0.2      97.3%    0.6      0.2        97.3%
,Assahoun-Ny'dov6    109      9  0.1       0.1                         0.1       33.0%
AgoufrtGhana         216    26  0.9 1    0.3        67.0%    0.9      0.3     ! 67.0%
Route du mont Agou    52    10   0          0       19.6%    0         0         19.6%
jKpalimd-Akpadap6    539      9  0.6       0.4      32.1%    0.2       0      I 150.1%
lAkpadap&-FrtGhana    162     9   0         0       48.5%    0         0         48.5%
Akpadape-Mayondi    162       6   0  '      0     1 50.2%    0         0      |50.2%
Kpalime-Klouto       270    19  0.7        0        5012%    0.7      0.2       79.9%
'Zogbanan-El1vagnar   326    10  0.6       0.3    1 41t3%    0.1       0.1      147.6%
jAd6ta-Ndigbb        390                   0.1     129.7%   0.4       0.1       129.7%
Ndigb6-Ykpa          183    10  0.3        0.1      77.2%    0.3      0.1       77.2%
Ndigbe-Sassanou       81    26  0.2        0.2      36.1%    0.2      0.2       36.1%
Akpare-Nangbeto      216    20  0.2        0.1    1 79.0%    0.2      0.1       79.0%
TOTAL                              I       493.83    46.4     - 3.711  444.61    37.5      463.3%
discounted at 12 % over 20 years and expressed in Million of CFA francs



Annex E
Page 13 of 16
EARTH ROADS, TABLES
Table E.12. Earth Road Routine Maintenance Required by Service Level
and Traffic Levels
Service Level                                     Traffic Levels (vehicle per day)
<10       10 - 50    50 - 100    100 - 200    > 200
Service Level NS1 (Very poor)
Frequency of light grading/year          0           0          0           0          0
Heavy grading (% per year)              0%          0%         0%          0%          0%
Emergency repairs (m3 /km)             lo m3       lo m3       lo m3      lo m3       lo m3
Service Level NS2 (Poor)
Frequency of light grading/year         0.25        0.5          1          2          3
Heavy grading (% per year)              5%          5%         10%         10%        10%
Emergency repairs (m3 /km)              10 m3      lo m3       lO m3      lo m3       lo m3
Service Level NS3 (Fair)
Frequency of light grading/year         0.5          1          2           3          4
Heavy grading (% per year)              10%         15%        15%         15%        20%
Emergency repairs (m3 /km)              lo m3      lO m3       10 m3      10 m3       10 m3
Service Level NS4 (Good)
Frequency of light grading/year           1          2          4           6          8
Heavy grading (% per year)              15%        20%         20%         20%        20%
Emergency repairs (m3 /km)              10 m3      lOim3       10 m3      10 m3       10 m3
Service Level NS5 (Excellent)
Frequency of light grading/year          2           4          6           8          10
Heavy grading (% per year)              20%        30%         30%         30%        30%
Emergency repairs (m3 /km)              1Oim3      1O0m3       1Oim3      10 m3       lO0m3



Annex E
Page 14 of 16
Table E.13. Earth Road Periodic Maintenance Required by Service Level
(Frequency of regraveling in number of years)
Service Levels                                 Traffic Levels (vehicles per day)
<10       10 - 50    50 - 100     100 - 200     >200
Service Level NS1 (Very poor)    15 years    15 years    15 years    15 years     15 years
Service Level NS2 (Poor)            15         15          15           15           15
Service Level NS3 (Fair)            15         15          15           15           12
Service Level NS4 (Good)            15         15          12           8            6
Service Level NS5 (Excellent)       15         12          8            6            5
Table E.14. Earth Road Traffic and Service Levels by Routine and Periodic
Maintenance Activities (optimal strategy)
Traffic and Service Levels
Routine and Periodic                       TO      Ti        T2           T3         T4
Maintenance Activities                    <10   10 - 50   50 - 100    100 - 200     >200
Optimal Service Level                     NS 4    NS 4      NS 4         NS 4      NS 4-5*
Routine Maintenance
Frequency of light grading/year            1        2         4           6           9
Heavy grading (% of length/year)          15%     20%       20%          20%         25%
Emergency works (pointa temps; m3/km)    1Om,3  1omi3       lomi3       1omi3       10 m3
Clearing of roadside vegetation
(cantonnage; no./year)**                 1.5-2.0  1.5-2.0   1.5-2.0     1.5-2.0     1.5-2.0
Mechanized drain clearing (no./year)**   1.5-2.0  1.5-2.0   1.5-2.0     1.5-2.0     1.5-2.0
Periodic Maintenance
Frequency of regraveling (in years)        15      15         15          12         8 - 6
* NS4 when truck/car modal split is 10/90, NS5 when it is 30/70.
** first figure in one rainy season area, second figure in two rainy season area



Annex E
Page 15 of 16
Table E.15. Estimated Annual Routine Maintenance Cost for Earth Roads
(millions CFAF)
Works quantities and costs           Type of Routine Maintenance Works             TOTAL
Light     Heavy    Patching    Drainage    Roadside
grading    grading    (point a    clearing  clearing
temps)              (cantonnage)
Quantities                5,329 km    293 km    14,397 m3   2,293 km   2,293 km
Total cost, routine          393       132        86         172          321        1,104
(million of CFAFs)
Table E.16. Estimated Total Periodic Maintenance Cost for Earth Roads:
Regraveling Requirements (million CFAFs)
Works quantities and costs     National earth roads
Length to be regraveled              799 km
Quantities                          805,515 m3
Total cost, periodic,
net of taxes (million CFAFs)          4,108



Annex E
Page 16 of 16
Table E.17. Earth road work program
national earth roads!I
Sokode-Tchamba                     1                   61nrle| 3  34.0 | 9.20  208.08 270%j 7167.99          54%
Tsevie-Kev                         1   IMaritime I 191 i32.0               195.a4 175%1 3511 i28             101%
Assahoum-Batoume-Fre duGhana       1    Maritime    180   22.0       4.35  134.64 162%   2263.73              95%
Notse-Tohoun-Fre du Benin           1    Plateaux    250   57.0    18.40  348.84 245%   9194.72            101%
Atakpame-Ountivou              1   1    Plateaux    150   47.0       2.60  287.64 127%   3818.77              73%
Notse-Agou-RN5                     1    Plateaux    150   50.0             306.00  94%   3644.94             39%
Anie-Kolokope-Dagou (RN10)     1   1    Plateaux    2501  46.0             281.52 220%   7243.79             49%
Tchamba-Kambole-Fre du Benin   1   2    Centrale      61   51.0      3.80   81.93 164%   1649.41              89%
Niamtougou-Koumea                  2    Kara          96   10.8             17.35 264%    573.87            130%
Koum_______a__Pya_                _2__Kara           50   11.6             21.30 125%    294.53              72%
RN18(Koumea)-Siou                  2    Kara          63    9.5          i  15.26 176%      321.9            95%
Koumea-Tchikawa                    2    Kara          50  12.3 ______       19.76 139%/6   315.51            79%
Kante(RN1)-Nadoba-Fre dui Benin    2    Kara          76   28.0             25.70 343%   1175.57             159%
Agbatope-Have-Gati             1   2   'Maritime      75   16.0    21.05   36.72 143%    679.43               92%
Akoumape-Tchekpo                   2    Maritime      90   20.0             91.80 114%    965.06              70%
Aklakou-Aveve-Afagnan              2    Maritime      92'  30.0             27.54 220%   1249.85              62%
Outivou-Tohoun-Fre du Benin        2    Plateaux      50   40.0    17.00   64.26 160%   1106.55              102%
Soutouboua-Landa mono              3    Centrale      35   30.0    13.00   27.54 166%    580.85              105%
Bassar-Kabou-Guerin-Kouka          3    Kara          52   62.0    19.18  284.58  75%   1564.86              49%
Gurin-Kouka-Katchamba              3    Kara          30   26.0      4.35   41.77 110%    403.32             71%
Sarakawa-Kante                           Kara         75   57.0   676.35   91.57  44V0  1905.69              29%
Niamtougou-Siou                1   3    Kara          33   13.0             20.89 133%    231.32             86%
RN18-Pya-hodo-Tchare               3    Kara          50     5.4            24.79  61%    120.23             39%
Bafilo-Dacko-Bassar                3    Kara          27   59.5    14.55   54.31 103%    769.16              61%
Have -Adangbe                      3    Maritime      30   10.0      4.55    9.18 110%    149.75             69%
Tabligbo-Gboto-Tokpli              3    Maritime      52:  17.6             80.78  68%    428.48              44%
Nyamassila-Kpessi-Fre du Bdnin  |   3    Plateaux     28   41.5             38.10 127%    546.46              72%
Hiheatro-Kiabe-Apegame-Kougnohou   3   |PlateauxT    44   46.0    13.05   73.90 156%   1129.42                99%
Bretelle Gando-Sagbiabou           3    Savanes       40    15.6            14.32 105%t  258.99              44%
RNI-Cinkasse-Fre du Ghana          3   |Savanes       50    3.0    13.55   4.82  59%1    71.28              40%
Dapaong-Ponio-Fre du Burkina       3    Savanes       75   38.0   717.85| 174.42  26%|  887.04                17%
Naki est-Galangachi                3 3    Savanes        41   27.0          43.38 121%l  562.19              70%
Landa mono-Kambole-Fre dui Bnin    |   4   !Centrale  201  58.0    60.70   53.24  51%,  451.52                330/6
Siou-Pagouda                       4    Kara          141  18.4    16.05   84.46  15%5    20.81                9%/0
Awandjelo-Atchangbade              4    Kara          20:  10.0    22.75   16.07  35%|   68.83                23%
Soumdina-RN16                  I   4    Kara          20   10.2             18.73  68%/.    89.98            45%
Lassa-Lama haut                    4    JKara    I    20    8.0             18.36  45%i   59.12              29%
Bassar-Katchamba-Fre du Ghana      4    Kara          30   34.2    17.15  156.98  43%j  420.67                29%
Vogan-Badougbe                 |   4    Maritime      45    12.01           55.08  61%    249.92             40%
Wogba-Togoville                    4    Maritime      20    9.0              8.26  97%      80.47             63%
Zebe-Agoegan-Agbanakin         1   4    Maritime      25   23.0             21.11  64%    205.38              33%
Hahotoe-Togoville-Zalive       |   4    Maritime      211   34.5            55.42  39%    212.82             23%
Keve-Zolo-Fre du Ghana             4    Maritime |    10   15.0             24.10  28%      30.81            21%
RN4-Agou lbo6(RN9)                 4    Plateaux      30   10.1    21.15   46.36  34%    108.88              22%
Mango-Mogou-gando-Fre du Benin     4   |Savanes,    37   40.0    12.20   36.72  81%:  598.04                 38%
Mango-koukombou-Fre du Ghana       4   ISavanes       12   14.0          |  22.49  3      4% 262             21%
Dapaong-Borgou-Mandouri-Fre du Benin  4   ISavanes    301  93.0    48.00  149.41  72%4  1288.54              45%
Mago-Borgou                        4    Savanes       28r  440    25.75.  70.69  84%    610.95               56%
Vogan-Tagbati-Tabligbo         1   5    Maritime       6   17.0      5.00   78.03  -2%    -55.77              4%
Afagnagan-Agom& Glozou         T   5   |Maritime      15    9.5    18.05s  43.61  13%1       5.63              8%
RN1-Kongo-Fre du Ghana         1   5    Savanesi       5   11.0          1  11.02  12%      -0.31              8%
TOTAL                          I__ I ,                    1,440    1,800   4,119          59,275
total without road with ERR<12 % or NPV<0 in base case        1,412    1,761 | 3,902      59,304



Annex F
Page I of I
ANNEXE F
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILES
DOCuMENTS DANS LES ARCHIVES DU PROJET
1. Etude de la strategie d'entretien des routes en terre. Scetauroute, fevrier 96.
2. Evaluation 6conomique des travaux d'entretien des routes en terre. SCET Tunisie,
octobre 1996.
3. Etude de strategie d'entretien et de rehabilitation du reseau revetu. LNBTP CEBTP,
mars 96.
4. Optimisation des travaux de rehabilitation du reseau revetu. CEBTP, novembre 96.
5. Etude de financement de 1'entretien routier. Baylatry, consultant, decembre 95.
6. Etude d'execution et DAO des travaux de rehabilitation du troncon Attakpame-Blitta.
CEBTP, ITI, LNBTP, juillet 1996.
7. Documents de la reunion sectorielle des bailleurs de fonds. Ministere du Plan et de
l'Amenagement du Territoire, Ministere des Mines de l'Equipement, du Transport, des
Postes et des Telecommunications, fevrier 97.
8. Strategie d'entretien du r6seau rural. Seddoh, Agbogbe, Dogbe, decembre 95.
9. Etude sur la strategie des transports, diagnostic-probl6matique-orientations. Baillon,
Baltagi, Cortassa, Dubosc, Taroux, octobre 95.
10. Restructuration du personnel des directions regionales. Coulibally, avril 96.
11. Strategie des transports, aspects juridiques de l'application de la strategie. Grosdidier
de Matons, aouat 96.
12. Etude d'optimisation de la DMTP. Courau consultant, decembre 95.
13. Etude de la reforme des procedures de passation des marches publics au Togo.
Scetauroute, mai 96.
14. Etude d'impact environemental. Egli, fevrier 97.






BURKINA  FASO                                             MI  l1
./ az't .>r~~~~~~ > 1R1> ) ~~~BURKINA X   
TAND4    -  \1   -ogurW S{_                                                     D 
,T-mdjooei-wtA& N                                                                        o i   UB E NI N 
\             a                     B  E  N    i N               ,GHANA     
\t,   \ , ~T t Id                                      s                  OO 0  c)
-loo   Q > 1  9<    \ o           > ~~~~~~~~~~v      _ ~Guff oF Guinea                 ~~~
G HANA  4,C                           -C/W  '                       RA   A  T  A  
tv  euernkoueK    Yhlcab \ -                         PRIORITY PROGRAM
>          e             l-t          (c4 i( 1 997- 2002 )
zoo t.    -~~~~wen ~PAVE D ROADS
f   tz    |   X  g ~~BASSAR    _ASLEhl  t
8   '    / \'*\ \  | Bas54rNJ    ,,k,_                              PERIODIC MAINTENANCE
'2                                                                    , S,\  - REHABILITATION
-9              \'1Tch-t/ 8               < U           >      b. i-'    MAIN EARTH AND GRAVEL ROADS    r
rJ s E \ 9 ~~~~~~~x jl9; / \ 1 K ~~~~~~~RAILROADS
. J   (   <    /         t   (       \ \   I  t             t   ~~~       ~        ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~PORTj
7       +-JC     4\ ) ~~~~~~~SOTOUBOUA  t                Ji         -= MAIN RIVERSWN 
z:t   \   C  E lpl/T  R   _    -fc-  i X        .~~~~~~~~~ PREFECTURE CAPITALS
\   >,   : l          \         ,;  .-+-   l. K          @~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ REGION CAPITALSj
( , -' >o- _ \ V ~~~~~~~~~~ q w _,; ~~NATIONAL CAPITALj
'~~~~ %   P17    )      Blinvt    !   ,          ,,, ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ------ PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES ;
a   24    r              -- A    t   /      ( |        -  -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~REGION BOUNDARIES  
tv   S             <      ~~~~~~~~~BLITTA  -Longoo E  ^2T-----  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES 
S J t    R7 }      rii .j 0           Y  _ (.g          \            Th. W.11d 8anB G-, n udmn 
Sv->~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h fqm`fn tt i(ao  >2 ;      
v    ;       / ' meeh D           Nyi Aojy\ .                                                 (      70
a.   2     J gbowdewe                    ._o->;)    0          25      50      7       100
fX t gf t\\< F ;(4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I_ >)KLOMSETERS 
z             9            3    Ta~~~~~~~~~~~~ A                   G4  >  5ui fo f G u in  a                 _






BURKINA FASO                                                     MA LI
I               (+ seQ   ,   5              ~                        --               NIGER
/  -Xp N E |        -             ; ,-                                         BURKINA          -
D~~vAONG.  -~~~~  Mond~~~~                        --        P~ASO 
T  ?     RKIN  y ---
) rA NDJOi^A+  orgou ---tr                                                                              '7---   r -
k. Tondjoouoe'tgqtN l,-,,. j                                                                   ' > BENIN ,-
-'NIGERIA
'\GodIsnWch   E           tB  E  N   I N                           =          GHANA
," XT   I1                                                 o        o             l7
_  >   N                                     o-  t              i -s < - j ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
.              I                                                    Gul! .-- Guit Te
1                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~2'
GHANASoo FTG
otcho,n             ~~~~~INA-
GA                      RN,o $v  Pogood                   ROAD MAINTENANCE
79                  . suerlo>ouxK;    PRIORITY PROGRAM
(I]997 -2002)
- o                      ootL -----wjoIo1      NATIONAL EARTH ROADS
}    41   1>~~-  'BASSAR               ASt 4  BsnfofIdoAi
I                0                                               -        PERIODIC MAINTENANCE
/\  ' ri                 . 2  >   rf      . \ \  .............  .    ELIMINATION OF TROUBLE SPOTS
- N' k ~ | g /    _~  Tr XAUDJO                           tLhumba 5 \- PAVED ROADS                          9
I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~UJ                    I
9.                                        )                                                , \ ( \ SOKODEi   ---- MAIN EARTH AND GRAVEL ROADS    r
MAIN RIVERS
SOOBV i,  T%,    i   u_C:AA                          SELECTED TOWNS
,                                                                     *\ uX > SOTOUBOUA  )t -^tX   _, tombop   @    PREFECTURE CAPITALS
C   E  N  T  j+ I  S   b Y b P                t 3 R E G IO N   C A P IT A L S
_n-  .         ,                'N  ,IfX,   Soto /t I                                   f*1   NATIONAL CAPITAL
B {vfi r'     1'-                 ~       4-tl  ..-  ~ ; '' ~44 ------ PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
N~~9                 g  7               ;       BliIe %.           /         S,        ---- REGION BOUNDARIES
N                  TO                       L,rTA               E0T MONO-A                   INTERFNATIONAL BOUNDARIES  )
A~ J         >9     ~          9        BEiTTA              )EsT_moN     |
<~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~S9                              Ij (                      Mopebr  K pig LorfbWcloc      |
-      a           r      ,                                           tz I  /  The bcdocar, c  _   ar d .o...i..rrZ
';-'<N  ~~~~~~~52A~~~' ~~~  1WA~~~~~~VAt             I ~~~~Th. W.cld Ao.,k Co-p. -cyjodg-ce
$ $ :< * WA1t t EA\ie t--z ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ond: Isre melormroo on oc   ecLoryo 
N        ' .>,   e  S    J   CouG                                                 anryocdorrrocroac procoof           o U
,_t, -S_,   K-                                      -h ro ob--,
)- t  Dgyi-ApvyTm- $*~           <        o_-fOE 
o-2 'C, s:    0~,_/    0                                              25 so,oo          75(Po
> }   )  :               /                  ~~~~~~~~ ~         ~ ~~o TC), j ,  KILOMETERS)
<S' 9 rT </%M m^-TR'IT1 I1 
r~~~ ~ \!<                       .. A ~  SR Tecreded  X
%>/~ ~ 'f~    <                           <X
f'   2/ - o.                   Ta Accra/ f5b  G ~~~~~6 u 4- -CF     f  GufJ  n Oa_
_, D'            1-<.-Ln,                              Gb to'  ' TobpiT .  -
ol~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



i
I
I






IMAGING
Report No.:         18368   TO
Type:      SAR



