Report No. PIC4708
Project Name                   Togo-Road Transport Project
Region                         Africa
Sector                         Transportation
Project ID                     TGPA2875
Borrower                       Government of Togo
Implementing Agency            Direction Generale des Travaux Publics
Ministry of Mines, Equipment, Transport,
Posts and Telecommunications
Lome, Togo
PID Preparation Date           January 28, 1997
Projected Appraisal Date       March 1997
Projected Board Date           June 1997
1.   Country Background.   Togo is emerging from a period of political
crisis that paralyzed the economy and devastated the country's social
and physical infrastructure. The return to relative stability in mid-
1993, resumption of the economic restructuring program and the
devaluation of the CFA franc (CFAF) have led to real GDP growth over the
last two years (1995-96) of 11 percent per year.
2.   Sector Background.   Due to Togo's geographical location and port,
transport services play a fundamental role in the national and regional
economies. The Togolese economy is based on agricultural and mineral
exports and on trade. The Togolese corridor provides crucial access to
the landlocked countries to the north, and transverse routes facilitate
trade with other coastal countries. Roads account for 98 percent of
transport services. During the 1991-93 political crisis and resulting
economic stagnation, maintenance of road networks came to a virtual
standstill, and road infrastructure deteriorated from heavy traffic use
and rains. Road maintenance suffers not only from a lack of resources,
but also from lack of management capacity and a coordinated
institutional framework. The current state of the Togo's roads
threatens economic competitiveness, social mobility and access to
services, and endangers human life.
3.   In May 1996, the Government of Togo (GOT) adopted a Transport
Sector Strategy (TSS) and Policy Letter, developed through extensive
stakeholder consultation, that sets out two clear priorities to improve
sector performance: (a) establishment of an efficient system of routine
and periodic road maintenance; and (b) modernization of the transport
sector institutional framework to optimize the comparative advantages of
the public and private sectors. These issues are addressed in a related
Transport Sector Investment Program (TSIP), of which the proposed credit
contributes to the first, priority, six-year tranche, focused on the
road subsector.
4.   Project Objectives. The proposed operation seeks to increase the
competitiveness of the Togolese economy by lowering transport costs.



Specific project objectives are to: (a) restore the viability of the
Togolese transit corridor and support the agricultural sector by
rehabilitating the main trunk roads and priority feeder roads; (b)
ensure adequate financing to improve and maintain sector infrastructure;
(c) strengthen the sectoral and subsectoral management capacities of
responsible institutions; and (d) create an enabling environment for
private sector involvement in road rehabilitation and maintenance.
5.   Project Description.   In keeping with priorities identified in the
TSS, the project places primary emphasis on rehabilitation and
maintenance of existing road infrastructure, strengthening management
capacity of sector institutions and on establishing institutional,
fiscal and regulatory frameworks to sustain the road network. The
project includes a pilot operation to involve communities in determining
maintenance priorities and providing routine maintenance for feeder
roads, and emphasizes involvement of small and medium enterprises (SMEs)
in works execution. The IDA Credit, covering the period 1998-2002,
will finance 4 components of the first, priority tranche of the TSIP:
(a) national road rehabilitation and maintenance; (b) capacity building
and strengthening of sector institutions; (c) road safety improvement;
and (d) feeder road management, including rehabilitation, routine and
periodic maintenance, and support to community participation in managing
feeder roads.
6.   Project Financing.   The proposed IDA Credit is US$50 million.   The
GOT will contribute US$5 million (equivalent), of which approximately
US$3.7 million will be provided from the General Budget and around
US$1.3 million, to finance road maintenance, will be provided by the
Road Maintenance Fund (RMF) from locally-generated revenues.
7.   Project Implementation.   The executing agency is the Direction
Generale des Travaux Publics (DGTP), under the Ministry of Mines,
Equipment, Transport, Posts and Telecommunications, with support from
the State Secretariat for Transport. The DGTP will carry out
rehabilitation of the national and rural road infrastructure, with
substantial involvement of the private sector. To facilitate this
latter, the DGTP will create an Equipment Leasing Company from the
public equipment pool, and contract out maintenance works. The RMF,
comprising user fees on petroleum products, and possibly road tolls,
will finance routine and periodic maintenance of the road
infrastructure. A financial accounting system, already established in
the DGTP and approved by the Bank, will be used to monitor project
disbursements.
8.   Project Sustainability.   The RMF will ensure available financing
for road maintenance, thereby resolving a recurrent impediment to
infrastructure maintenance for the past 20 years. The levying of tolls
on major trunk roads to be rehabilitated under the project is intended
to diversify RMF resources. GOT and donor adherence to the TSS and
priority investment program would ensure integrated improvement of the
sector, and facilitate coordination of sector interventions.
Involvement of local communities in determining priorities and providing
routine feeder road maintenance should generate a sense of ownership and
responsibility.
-2-



9.   Lessons Learned.   The GOT has shown its commitment to addressing
transport sector issues by developing and adopting the TSS and
supporting the TSIP. In so doing, it is moving away from previous, non-
viable policies, actions and arrangements. The project incorporates the
main lessons learned from past experience as follows: (a) an autonomous
Road Maintenance Fund, with revenues independent of the Treasury, will
replace inadequate and central government financing of road maintenance;
(b) the force account and public equipment pool will gradually be
privatized, and maintenance works will be contracted out to the private
sector to counter public sector inefficiencies; (c) procurement
procedures will be streamlined to facilitate works execution, and public
sector institutions will be restructured to rationalize sector
management; (d) targeted training and focused short-term technical
assistance will strengthen public and private sector capacity; (e)
community participation in feeder road management will fill gaps in
public sector ability; and (f) the GOT will use the TSS, TSIP and
regular donor meetings to ensure coordination of donor interventions in
the transport sector.
10. Poverty Aspects. Rehabilitating the road infrastructure will
improve mobility and access to markets and services, particularly in
rural areas, stimulating agricultural production and enhancing quality
of life. Providing opportunities for SMEs in road rehabilitation and
maintenance will result in creation of employment for unskilled and
semi-skilled labor. Restoring the competitiveness of the Togolese
transit corridor will contribute to economic growth and subsequently to
employment generation.
11. Environmental Aspects. The project is not expected to have any
significant environmental impacts, and is rated Category B. An
Environmental Impact Assessment will be carried out during project
preparation, and environmental guidelines and mitigation measures will
be included in design of project rehabilitation and maintenance works.
12. Project Objective Categories. Private sector development is the
primary project objective. Secondary objectives include poverty
alleviation and public sector management.
Contact Point:       Hedi Larbi
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)473-3169
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending February 14, 1997.
- 3 -



