Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2989 TO
Development Credit Agreement
(Road Transport Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated October 14, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 2989 TO 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 14, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF TOGO (the Borrower) and 
the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association):
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Association has received a letter dated June 28, 1996, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
strengthen its transport sector (the Program) and declaring the Borrower's commitment 
to the execution of the Program; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Association or 
for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or 
(b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any 
import of goods, if such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the 
Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If: (a) the 
right 
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall  have been suspended 
with respect to any amount of the Credit for a 
continuous period of thirty days, 
or (b) at any time, the Association 
determines, after consultation with the 
Borrower, that an amount of the 
Credit will not be required to finance the Project’s 
costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (c) at any time, 
the 
Association determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out 
of the 
proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were  engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the 
Credit during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without 
the Borrower having taken 
timely and appropriate action satisfactory to  the Association to remedy the situation, 
and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would 
otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or 
(d) at any 
time, the Association determines that the procurement of any contract to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the 
procedures 
set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement 
and establishes the 
amount of expenditures in respect of such contract 
which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (e) after the 
Closing Date, an amount of the 
Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from the Credit 
Account, the Association 
may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to 
make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Credit shall be canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Franc de la Communauté Financière Africaine” and “CFAF” mean the 
currency of the Borrower; 
(b)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(c)
“MMETPT” means the Borrower’s Ministère des Mines, de l’Equipement, des 
Transports, des Postes et Telecommunications; 
(d)
“DGTP” means the Direction Générale des Travaux Publics of MMETPT; 
(e)
“SET” means the Borrower’s Secrétariat d’Etat aux Transports; 
(f)
“DTR” means the Direction des Transports Routiers of SET; 
(g)
“RMF” means the Road Maintenance Fund, established and operating pursuant 
to the Borrower’s law No. 97-02 of January 10, 1997; 
(h)
“CNCPR” means the Borrower’s Comité National de Coordination des Pistes 
Page  3
Rurales, established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Décret No. 97-99/PR of 
July 2, 1997;
(i)
“Implementation Manual” means the manual setting out, inter alia, 
criteria, procedures, timetables, and guidelines for the implementation of the 
Project, adopted by the Borrower’s Arreté Interministériel of July 29, 1997; 
(j)
“Rural Road Management Guide” means the guide setting out, inter alia, 
criteria, procedures, and guidelines for the construction, rehabilitation and 
maintenance of the Borrower’s rural roads, adopted by the Borrower’s Arrêté 
Interministériel of July 29, 1997;
(k)
“Project Year” and "PY" mean the twelve-month period beginning from the 
Effective Date and ending twelve months thereafter (the First Project Year), and any 
twelve-month period beginning at the end of the First Project Year, or the end of 
subsequent Project Years;
(l)
“OSR” means the road safety agency to be established by the Borrower 
pursuant to paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(m)
“DGT” means the Direction Générale des Transports of SET; and
(n)
“SLM” means Société de Location de Matériel, established and operating 
pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No. 97-002/PR of January 10, 1997.
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirty-six million Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 36,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFAF a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2002 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
Page  4
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
May 1 and November 1 commencing November 1, 2007 and ending May 1, 2037.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 1, 2017 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A)
requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B)
requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, and technical practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
Page  5
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the continued achievement of  the objectives of the Project; 
and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
cause DGTP to open, and maintain for the duration of the implementation 
of the Project, an account (the Project Account) in a commercial bank acceptable to 
the Association and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association; 
(b)
deposit into the Project Account an initial amount equivalent to CFAF 133 
million, (the Initial Deposit) and thereafter, at quarterly intervals, deposit into 
the Project Account an amount equivalent to the Initial Deposit; and 
(c)
ensure that funds deposited into the Project Account in accordance with 
paragraph (b) above shall be used exclusively to finance the Borrower’s share of  
expenditures under the Project other than those financed from the proceeds of the 
Credit. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable 
to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each such 
year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof 
as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Page  6
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the 
last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Effective date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement have 
been hired in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement; and
(b)
(i) the Project Account referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of this 
Agreement, has been opened, and (ii) the Borrower has made the Initial Deposit 
referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement. 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for Finance 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministre de l’Economie et des Finances
B.P. 387
Lomé
Republic of Togo
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINFIE
5286
For the Association:
Page  7
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
By /s/ Kossivi Osseyi 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
  Amount of the
 Credit Allocated
            % of
   (Expressed in
 Expenditures
Categories
SDR Equivalent)
to be 
Financed
(1)
Civil works
28,000,000
100% of 
foreign
expenditures 
and 
90% of local 
expenditures
(2)
Equipment
   700,000
100% of 
foreign
expenditures 
and 
90% of local 
expenditures
(3)
Consultants' services
 5,000,000
100%
and training
(4)
Incremental
          100,000
90% until
Operating Costs
December 31, 
1999
(5)
Refunding of Project          400,000
Amounts due  
Preparation Advance
pursuant to 
Page  8
Section 2.02 
(c) of
this 
Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
        1,800,000
                            _________
TOTAL                      36,000,000
                           ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “incremental operating costs” means 
the incremental expenses incurred on account of Project implementation, management and 
monitoring, including office supplies, vehicle operation, travel and supervision costs 
but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower's civil service. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (a) for works and goods under 
contracts not exceeding $200,000 equivalent; and (b) for services: (i) for firms under 
contracts not exceeding $100,000, and (ii) for individuals under contracts not 
exceeding $50,000 equivalent, all under such terms and conditions as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to strengthen the Borrower's road transport 
sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Road Rehabilitation, Repair and Maintenance
Carrying of works, acquisition of equipment and provision of technical advisory 
services for: 
(a)
rehabilitation and maintenance of the Borrower's paved roads network, 
including rehabilitation of part of the north-south axis; 
(b)
rehabilitation and maintenance of the Borrower's national unpaved roads 
network, including the elimination of critical points on unpaved roads, and 
maintenance of the most heavily traveled sections of the network; and  
(c)
construction and operation of road toll booths.
Part B:
Institutional Strengthening 
1.
Strengthening of the capacities of DGTP in areas of administrative and personnel 
management, administration of maintenance works contracts, road maintenance planning, 
programming, monitoring and supervision of engineering and project feasibility 
studies, and construction and operation of road toll booths, through acquisition of 
equipment, provision of technical advisory services and training. 
2.
Strengthening the capacities of DGT in areas of transport statistics, sector 
investment planning, sector regulation, and road transport management techniques, 
through acquisition of equipment, provision of technical advisory services and 
training. 
3.
Rehabilitation of DTR’s building and strengthening of its capacities in 
computerized management systems, through the carrying out of civil works, acquisition 
of equipment, provision of technical advisory services and training. 
Page  9
4.
Strengthening of the management, accounting and audit capacities of RMF, through 
provision of technical advisory services.
Part C:
Road Safety 
1.
Construction and operation of a vehicle inspection center in Lomé, through the 
carrying out of civil works, acquisition of equipment and provision of technical 
advisory services.
2.
Strengthening the capacities of the OSR to: (i) carry out road safety 
information campaigns, (ii) conduct studies on transport safety, and (iii) collect and 
analyze data on traffic accidents, through provision of technical advisory services 
and training of driving schools' instructors and drivers’ license examiners.
Part D:
Feeder Road Maintenance 
1.
Implementation of a pilot program to test community participation in the 
maintenance of approximately 300 kilometers of feeder roads, through the carrying out 
of civil works, acquisition of equipment, provision of technical advisory services and 
training.  
2.
Strengthening the capacities of DGTP and CNCPR in coordinating and programming 
rural road investments, and promoting community participation in rural road 
maintenance, through the acquisition of equipment and provision of technical advisory 
services. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2002 
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.  Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors The 
provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall 
apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to be carried 
out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $400,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $4.6 million equivalent, and goods estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $750,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
Page  10
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $100,000 or less, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $20,000 or less, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier for the execution of 
any contract under shopping procedures the Borrower shall 
provide to the Association a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of 
quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under 
shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Association a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract; and
(iii)
in addition, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f) 
and 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
3.
Post Review With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for technical advisory services under Parts 
A, C, and D of the Project, estimated to cost less than $100,000 per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
Page  11
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for technical advisory services for audits, and training under Parts  
B, C, and D of the Project, estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for technical advisory services and training under Parts B, C and D of 
the Project which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines which are estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract, shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Selection Planning Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for 
proposals, the proposed annual plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection 
of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection 
plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply. 
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the terms of 
reference, the qualifications, experience and terms of employment of the consultants 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall 
be awarded only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program 
1.
DGTP shall be responsible for the implementation of Parts A, B.1, B.4 and D of 
the Project, and DGT shall be responsible for the implementation of Part B.2. B.3 of 
the Project, and for the implementation of Part C of the Project during the first 
Project Year. By the end of the first Project Year, the Borrower shall establish a 
road safety agency with organization and terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association, which shall be responsible for the implementation of Part C of the 
Project. The Project Coordination Unit of DGTP shall be responsible for the overall 
Page  12
coordination of the Project activities.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with performance indicators satisfactory 
to the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
furnish to the Association for its review and comments quarterly progress 
reports on the status of the Project;
(c)
not later than November 30 of each  year, commencing on November 30, 
1998, undertake, in conjunction with the Association, a joint annual review on all 
matters relating to the progress of the Project and, in particular, the progress 
achieved by the Borrower during the current fiscal year, having regard to the 
monitoring indicators referred to in subparagraph (a) of this paragraph;
(d)
not later than one month prior to each annual review, furnish to the 
Association: (i) for its approval, a proposed annual work program, including RMF’s 
work program, together with a proposed budget, a financing plan and a priority 
investment program, for the forthcoming fiscal year, and (ii) for its review, a report 
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the progress of the 
implementation of the Project, and the work program of RMF, during the current year;
(e)
following each annual review, act promptly and diligently in order to 
take, or assist RMF in taking, any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any 
shortcoming identified in the implementation of the Project or in the implementation 
of RMF’s work program, or to implement, or assist RMF in implementing, such measures 
as may have been agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of the objectives of 
the Project; and 
(f)
promptly after the Effective Date, take all measures necessary on its 
part to organize, in conjunction with the Association, a workshop for the launching of 
the Project implementation which shall cover, inter alia, disbursement and procurement 
procedures and detailed timetables for the implementation of the Project. 
3.
Midterm Review
(a)
Not later than 24 months after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall 
carry out jointly with the Association a midterm review of the progress made in 
carrying out the Project under terms of reference agreed with the Association.
(b)
The Borrower shall, at least four weeks prior to the Midterm Review, 
furnish to the Association a separate report describing the status of implementation 
of each component of the Project and a summary report of Project implementation 
generally.
(c)
The Borrower shall, not later than four weeks after the Midterm Review 
prepare an action program, acceptable to the Association, for the further 
implementation of the Project having regard to the findings of the Midterm Review and, 
thereafter, implement such action program. 
4.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, for the purposes of the 
Project, the Borrower shall apply the criteria, policies, procedures and guidelines 
set out in the Project Implementation Manual, and shall not amend the Project 
Implementation Manual, or any provision thereof, if, in the opinion of the 
Association, such amendment may materially and adversely affect the implementation of 
the Project.  
5.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, for the purposes of Part D of 
the Project, the Borrower shall apply the technical guidelines set out in the Rural 
Road Management Guide; and shall not amend the Rural Road Management Guide, or any 
provision thereof, if, in the opinion of the Association, such amendment may 
materially and adversely affect the implementation of Part D the Project. 
6. 
By the end of the second Project Year, the Borrower shall transfer to the 
Page  13
private sector DGTP’s road routine manual maintenance missions. 
7.
By the end of the second Project Year, the Borrower shall take all action 
necessary or appropriate on its part to privatize SLM. 
8.
By December 31, 1997, the Borrower shall adopt environmental guidelines, 
acceptable to the Association, for road works, and thereafter, apply said guidelines 
for all road works on its territory. 
9.
The Borrower shall take all measures necessary on its part to increase the road 
user fee levied by RMF on petroleum products by CFAF 5 a liter over the 1998-2001 
period.
10.
The Borrower shall cause RMF:
(a)
to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with 
sound administrative and financial practices under the supervision of qualified and 
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; and
(b)
at all times to operate and to maintain its facilities, equipment and 
other property, and from to time, promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs 
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound technical and financial practices;
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) to (4) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to CFAF 750 
million to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to CFAF 500 million until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from 
the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 5,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into 
the Special Account at such intervals as the Association 
shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other 
Page  14
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule 
for the 
payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, 
on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall 
be withdrawn 
by the Association from the Credit Account 
under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified 
by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
Page  15
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
