Document of
The World Bank
FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 1 
2  CIRCULATING eCop    Hs{
'TO BE RETURNEO .TO REpORTS DESK              Report No. P-1915-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATIO1N
To THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
FIFTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
December 7, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FIFTH IMPORTS PROGRAMI CREDIT: BANGLADESH
CURRENCY LQUIVALENTS
The value of the Bangladesh Taka (Tk.) is officially set
relative to the Pound Sterling. From May 17, 1975 through
April 25, 1976, the officiaL value was 30.0 to the Pound
Sterling. Since the latter date the value has been changed
on three occasions, the most recent being on November 3, 1976,
when it was set at 25.45 to the Pound Sterling. The Pound is
floating relative to the U.S. dollar and consequently the
Taka-U.S. dollar rate is subject to change. The exchange rate
used in preparing the data for this report is Tk. 15 = U.S.$1.
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS USED
BJMC    -    Bangladesh Jute Mills Corporation
BTMC    -    Bangladesh Textile Mills Corporation
TCB     -    Trading Corporation of Bangladesh
BPBC    -    Bangladesh Paper and Board Corporation
BCIC    -    Bangladesh Chemical Industries CorporatLon
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 tlhrough June 30



International Development Association
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FOR
EXECUTIVE                                                          For consideration on
DIRECTORS                                                          December 28, 1976
MEETING
IDA/R76-88/1
FROM:  The Deputy Secretary                                     December  27,1976
BANGLADESH: Fifth Imports Program Credit
Attached hereto is a copy of Annex XI ("Supplementary Project Data
Sheet") to the President's Report and Recommendation (IDA/R76-88), which was
distributed on December 8, 1976. This Annex corresponds to what would
normally appear as Annex IV to President's Reports and Recommendations on
project loans/credits. The reason for its not having been appended to the
President's Report in the Bangladesh documents which were originally distri-
buted, is that the practice of adding this material to President's Reports
was initiated subsequent to the date of distribution of those documents.
Distribution:
Executive Directors and Alternates
President
Senior Vice Pr sident, Operations
Executive Vice President and Vice President, IFC
President's Council
Directors and Department Heads, Bank and IFC
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH: US$50 MILLION FIFTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
PRESIDENT'S REPORT
ANNEX XI: "SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET"
SECTION I: Timetable of Key_Events
(a)    Time taken by the Country to prepare the project:    GOB did not prepare
project, but requested a Fifth Imports Program Credit in 1975 and
submitted a list of proposed eligible items in March, 1976.
(b)    IDA sent an industrial mission which was in the field from December 3,
to 20, 1975 to review selected subsectors of industry and propose
draft action programs.
(c)    i.   Date of Appraisal Mission:   March 15 - April 12, 1976.
ii.  Date of Board Presentation:   December 28, 1976.
(d)    Appraisal Mission departure:   Same as (c) above.
(e)    Negotiations completed on November 12, 1976.
(f)    Planned date of effectiveness:   60 days after signature.
SECTION_II:_ S2ecial Bank_Iml2lementation Actions
IDA to assist Borrower in locating and hiring suitable consultants to
implement agreed jute and textile industry action programs. (For details see
Tables I and II, pages 12 and 16 of the President's Report).
SECTION III:  S2ecial Conditions
Mi)    No withdrawals shall be made in excess of $25 million, in respect of
Schedule I categories 4-8 (draft DCA), i.e. fertilizer, steel and foundry,
export oriented industries, (tea processing, frozen shrimp and fish, and
leather tanning), chemical and pharmaceuticals, cement and materials for
cement manufacture.
(ii)   No withdrawals for expenditures on steel billets and for cement until
programs satisfactory to IDA are received showing for each:    demand projections,
local production targets and planned levels of import, pricing and distribution
policies, and actions to be taken to implement the programs.
(iii) The Government has anreed to carry out programs (described in Schedule 3
of Development Credit Agreement) for improvement in the performance of the jute,
textile, and pulp and paper industries.
Tbi dwument ha a resricted distribution and may be used by recipents only in the perfonmance
of their officil duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosd without World ank authoriztion.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
FIFTH IMPORTS PROGRAM
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for the equivalent of US$50
million, on standard IDA terms, to help finance a program to increase indus-
trial production through better utilization of existing capacity. Since
the amount of funds available to IDA this year is not yet clear, the draft
Development Credit Agreement is for the equivalent of US$50 million only.
If circumstances permit I intend to recommend later in this fiscal year an
amendment to this Agreement increasing the credit by an additional amount of
up to the equivalent of US$25 million.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Basic Economic Report on Bangladesh, entitled "Bangladesh: De-
velopment in a Rural Economy" (Report No. 455-BD dated September 15, 1974)
was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 1, 1974. The most
recent updating report entitled "Bangladesh: Current Economic Performance
and Short-Term Prospects" (Report No. 1038-BD, dated March 22, 1976) was
distributed on March 29, 1976.
Introduction
3.        The Basic Economic Report described the obstacles to* development
in Bangladesh and outlined a course of action to maximize the development
of the country's resources. The high ratio of population to natural re-
sources, the slow development of the productive and infrastructural base
and the weaknesses of the administrative and institutional framework led the
Report to project a growth rate of GDP of between 2% and 3.5% per year in
real terms over the five years 1973-78, the variations within that range
depending on the appropriateness of the policy framework and on levels of
aid.
4.        Encouraging progress was made in the period immediately following
Bangladesh's independence as an enthusiastic Government, supported by mas-
sive external assistance, strove to overcome the devastation of the cyclone
of 1970 and the struggle for independence in 1971. Large amounts of food
aid were distributed, refugees were resettled and vital port, road and rail
facilities were brought back into operation. A new constitution was adopted,
and the first national elections, held in March 1973, brought Sheik Mujibur
Rahman's Awami League party into power with an overwhelming parliamentary
majority.
This document ha a reitfied dbaibution and may be used by recipients only In the porformamc
of their official dutbs. Ie contens may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorlution.



-2-
5.        Overall economic progress since independence, however, has been
inadequate. Agricultural output remains insufficient for a population
growing at 3% a year. Industrial output, heavily dependent on'1mports,
has been affected badly by scarcity of foreign exchange. State enterprises
have been hampered by management deficiencies, excessive government con-
trols, shortages and price regulation. Exports have been stagnant and
barely finance a quarter of import needs. Bangladesh also has been severely
affected by an adverse shift in its terms of trade since 1973. Trade pro-
blems are compounded by dependence-on annual food imports of 1-2 million
tons, even in years of favorable weather, and by heavy reliance on imported
industrial raw materials. Government revenue has been insufficient to meet
current and development expenditure needs. Bangladesh has had to depend
on large flows of external assistance to meet the wide gap between national
output and expenditure.
6.        On August 15, 1975, a military coup ousted the Government of Mujibur
Rahman replacing him as President with Khondaker Mushtaque Ahmed, formerly
Minister of Commerce and Foreign Trade. However, events beginning on November
3, 1975, culminated in further political changes. President Ahmed resigned in
favor of a former Chief Justice of Bangladesh, A.S.M. Sayem. Martial law is
in effect countrywide. General Zia Rahman serves as Chief Martial Law Admin-
istrator, and the two chiefs of the other defense services are serving as
Deputy Chief Martial Law Administrators. The three Martial Law Administrators
and eight civilians form a President's Advisory Council. Each of the members
has responsibility for one or more ministries. Elections were scheduled for
February 1977 but were postponed indefinitely in November 1976. The current
Government has introduced some economic reforms such as subsidy reduction,
agricultural taxation and import liberalization and has indicated that it in-
tends further reforms in these areas. However, the fundamental problems of
the country, namely overpopulation, weak administration, inadequate infra-
structure and insufficient foodgrain output, will continue to confront
Bangladesh.
Current Economic Picture
7.        On July 1, 1975, Bangladesh initiated a stabilization program in
conjunction with a standby arrangement with the IMF. Its principal elements
consisted of a credit restraint program and elimination of deficit financing,
combined with some import liberalization.    This was preceded by a devaluation
of 58% in May 1975. The record so far is that the credit restraint program
has been a success: after an estimated rate of inflation of about 80% in 1974,
prices declined by 10% in 1975. The Government not only avoided deficit fi-
nancing, it retired some of its debts to the banking system in 1975. The im-
port licensing program was relaxed during 1975/76; besides increasing alloca-
tions to an average of 95% of entitlements, licenses were renewed on expiry and
there is greater fungibility in the use of exchange allocations for selected
categories of imports.
8.        At the beginning of 1975/76 the credit restrictions may have been
too pervasive and insufficiently selective; jute purchases by trading cor-
porations were hampered, production credit was scarce, and import allocations



- 3 -
could not be utilized. Measures were taken to rectify this situation. Over-
all, however, the credit restraint program has been salutary because of its
impact on the rate of Lnflation. It has been reinforced by other factors:
(a)   The rice output for 1975/76 is estimated to have been
about 13 million tons, representing an increase of about
17% over 1974/75. Rice harvests in neighboring West Bengal
have also been exceptionally good and prices have been
declining rapidly there.
(b)   Stringent measures have been implemented to curtail hoard-
ing and smuggling and the distribution controls over some
consumer goods have been liberalized.
(c)   The supply position for raw materials has improved.
Larger import allocations have been further reinforced in
real terms by substantial declines in the prices of key
imports.
9.        The devaluation in May 1975 made possible a reduction in the
price of raw jute exports from-the unrealistic level of L 200 per ton
Chittagong;l/ The reduction in price has led to a significant increase in
sales of raw jute. Exports of jute manufactures also improved substantially
as a result of the improved price competitiveness as well as a recovery in
world markets. Bangladesh's non-traditional exports have derived benefits
from the devaluation and, as a result, these exports may be expected to pick
up in the course of 1976/77.
10.       The agricultural sector did quite well in 1975/76 with overall pro-
duction increasing more than 10%. Favorable weather was essentially responsi-
ble for the good harvests and basic problems remain.     The small-scale irri-
gation program (comprising low-lift pumps, shallow and deep tubewells) has
again fallen short of its target. Procedures for the allocation of fertilizer,
though much improved, continue to be deficient. Credit is insufficient and
inadequately distributed. Because of the steep fall in the free market price,
government procurement of rice has increased dramatically - procurement in
1975/76 is estimated at 400-450 thousand tons. Nonetheless, the support price
was not maintained throughout the country because of limited purchasing
facilities and because stringent moisture content requirements and unfamiliar
payment procedures led farmers to sell their paddy at prices below the procure-
ment price. Storage facilities for foodgrain have been strained. Efforts
are under way to rehabilitate approximately 200,000 tons of derelict storage
capacity and a study is in progress of further storage requirements.
11.       In the industrial sector capacity utilization has improved in a num-
ber of industries, and the supply of raw materials and spares has improved.
But substantial stocks remain unsold in the case of a number of major consumer
1/ Since June 7, 1976 the export price of raw jute has been quoted only
in US Dollars.



- 4 -
and intermediate products due to inflexible pricing policies, production of
the wrong product, competition from imports, and a reduction in consumer de-
mand. Measures have recently been taken to reorganize the public enterprises,
which account for a major share of industrial output, in order to improve
management and labor productivity through, among other measures, providing
them with operational autonomy in matters such as staffing and pricing policies.
Details of industrial performance, policy issues and prospects are discussed
in Part III and in Annex V.
Balance of Payments
12.       The Bangladesh economy has a serious disequilibrium in balance of
payments; export earnings finance only one-third of imports. As a result, a
high level of aid inflows has been required and this trend is likely to con-
tinue in the foreseeable future. The fiscal year 1975/76 began with a rela-
tively high level of foreign exchange reserves of US$256 million, which however
still only represented 2.5 months of Imports. Bilateral and multilateral aid
flows continued to be at a high level. Excluding IMF assistance (US$106 mil-
lion), the commitment of foreign aid in 1975/76 was about US$930 million, about
two-thirds of which was in the form of food and commodity aid. The level of
aid disbursement in 1975/76 (excluding IMF assistance) is estimated at US$814
million.
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS ESTIMATES
(million US$)
1974/75          1975/76
Revised        Preliminary    1976/77
Estimate         Estimate    Projection
Merchandise Imports (c.i.f.)         - 1,402           - 1,290      - 1,350
Merchandise Exports (f.o.b.)             358               388          405
Trade Balance                   - 1,044          -    902      -   945
Other Current Account (net)                7                 1      -     1
Current Account Balance         - 1,037          -   901       -   946
Other Receipts and Payments (net)        272 /a             16           81
IMF                                       62               106           50
Amortization                         -    25           -    78      -    39
Change in Reserves (-    increase)   -   192                43      -    37
External Capital Requirements            920               814          891
Disbursement from Aid Pipeline           535               500          483
Disbursement from New Commitment         385               314          408
/a   Includes $260 million of outstanding letters of credit.
Source:   Bangladesh Planning Commission and Bank estimates.



-5-
13.       For 1976/77, the volume of foodgrain imports is projected at 1.2 -
1.5 million tons, as compared to about 1.6 million tons in 1975/76. The cost
of foodgrain imports is projected at about $350 million. Imports of capital
goods, estimated at US$210 million, are expected to rise as the pace of project
implementation improves, consequent upon the administrative reforms recently
introduced by the Government. Imports of other commodities are projected at
$790 million, predicated on the assumption that the lagged effects of good
harvests in 1975/76, a revival of the international economy and some expan-
sion of domestic economic activity will revive demand. Merchandise exports
are expected to increase in value but, given the large gap between imports
and exports, required disbursements of external capital for 1976/77 are proj-
ected to rise to $891 million, divided approximately as follows: food aid
$320 million; commodity aid $368 million; and project aid $203 million. The
aid pipeline on July 1, 1976, is estimated at $1,343 million. It should be
possible to disburse about $483 million from the pipeline, leaving about $408
million to be disbursed from new commitments in 1976/77.
The Medium Term Development Focus
14.        In its memorandum for the May 1976 Bangladesh Aid Group Meeting the
Government spelled out the focus of its development strategy for the medium-
term. Agriculture continues to be the cornerstone of its program. Within
agriculture the emphasis will be on an intensified Rural Development Strategy
which seeks "growth with equity" in the distribution of benefits. Strong efforts
are to be made to expand the acreage of high yielding varieties of seed (HYV),
to intensify "Food for Work" programs, to step up agricultural input programs
and to improve the efficiency and capability of agricultural support institu-
tions. It is too early to say to what extent the Government's intentions will
be translated into realistic programs of action, but they represent an essen-
tial first step.
15.       A determined effort is to be made to improve the efficiency of the
industrial sector and its contribution to economic growth. One element of
the new industrial strategy consists of measures to improve the climate for
private investment, such as an enhancement of the ceilings for such investment,
the payment of compensation for nationalized property, the encouragement of
foreign private investment collaboration in selected fields, the provision of
increased opportunities for private participation in domestic and foreign
trade, and steps to activate the capital market. The second element, in the
near term more important, consists of a drive to improve the performance of
public enterprises, through such measures as the grant of autonomy in matters
of staff management, pricing policies and inventory control, and creation of
distribution networks. Programs for improvement in the performance and effi-
ciency of the critical jute and cotton textiles industries, deriving from IDA's
Fourth Imports Program Credit, have commenced. The focus in industry is on
improvements in the quality of management, capacity utilization, marketing,
and profitability.
16.       The weak administrative framework, the frequent overlapping of
functions, and insufficient decentralization of authority have been impor-
tant reasons for delays in the execution of projects. The Government has



- 6 -
indicated its intention to remedy these defects and has taken some steps to
reduce administrative bottlenecks impeding project execution. A Project
Preparation Unit is to be established in the Planning Commission, (with IDA
assistance), and project preparation and implementation cells will be set up
in Ministries and Public Sector organizations, to identify, develop, and moni-'
tor projects. A study to determine what needs to be done to strengthen the
capabilities of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Agricultural Development
Corporation is underway, with assistance from IDA.
17.       Bangladesh depends heavily on foreign assistance to meet its develop-
ment expenditures. Domestic savings constitute only 7% of total investment; the
rest is financed by foreign aid. The Government has indicated its intention
to reduce this dependence and to improve its efforts to mobilize domestic
resources. In 1976/77 total revenue is expected to increase by 11%, about
twice the projected rate of growth of GDP. Some new taxes and reductions in
subsidies have been introduced: (a) the tax on urban non-agricultural land has
been re-fixed and a tax on agricultural land holdings in excess of 8.4 acres
imposed; (b) a water charge levied at 3% of the gross increased benefit accru-
ing to beneficiaries of the Ganges-Kobadak, North Bengal Deep Tubewell, Low
Lift Pump Irrigation and Dacca-Narayanganj-Demra Projects, has been imposed
and (c) the fertilizer price subsidy has been reduced by 20%.
18.       Population planning is being given high priority and is an integral
part of the Government's economic growth strategy. The Government, with the
assistance of the Association and bilateral donors, has developed a program
which emphasizes a multi-sectoral approach including motivation, communication,
and education. This involves a major effort in training medical and para-
medical personnel, in co-ordinating several agencies and in devising pro-
grams for research and evaluation.
19.       The policies and measures initiated by the Government represent a
good start. Yet they are no more than a beginning in tackling the major
problems of expanding the output of foodgrains, increasing domestic resource
mobilization, promoting exports and improving administration. Successful
implementation of the measures already initiated and formulation of additional
measures are clearly required.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
20.        Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in August 1972.
Initially Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on reactivation of
IDA credits for uncompleted projects financed under credits to Pakistan before
the independence of Bangladesh. Eleven such credits in an aggregate amount of
US$151.35 million (including US$44.1 million for the repayment of amounts that
had been disbursed under the corresponding previous credits to Pakistan) were
made to Bangladesh. In addition, 16 new credits have been made totalling
US$472.7 million. Of these US$275.0 million have been for four program credits.
The project credits have emphasized agricultural development, but also included
amounts for population, telecommunications, transport and industry. On June 18,
1976 Bangladesh became the 105th member of the IFC.



-7-
21.       The debt service ratio in 1974/75 was 15%.    For 1975/76, the ratio
is estimated at 17%. Agreements have been reached between the Government of
Bangladesh and most of the bilateral and multilateral donors concerning the
assumption by Bangladesh of a portion of the debt contracted by Pakistan
before Bangladesh became independent. Bangladesh's debt service ratio is
therefore expected to increase further in the coming years.     With respect to
the Bank Group, Bangladesh has agreed to accept liability for certain debt for
projects visibly located in Bangladesh and completed before independence.     A
consolidation loan of about US$54.9 million and a consolidation credit of
about US$31.0 million were signed on February 14, 1975. The Bank Group's
share of Bangladesh's outstanding external debt is not expected to rise
significantly over the next few years from the present level of about 22%.
22.       Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and the Bank
loan made to Bangladesh as of November 30, 1976 and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. Present disbursement performance under the program credits
is good, slightly ahead of estimates made during appraisal. In contrast, dis-
bursements under project credits have lagged far behind expectations. Reasons
for this include problems associated with release of local funds, clearance of
contracts, employment of consultants and appointment of needed staff. The
Government of Bangladesh has taken steps aimed at eliminating the most press-
ing of the present bottlenecks, and accelerated project implementation is an-
ticipated. The release of local funds for projects to semi-autonomous govern-
ment agencies now requires one application per year instead of the previous
requirement for quarterly applications. The approval of the President is no
longer required for contracts; the ceiling for contracts which can be approved
directly by the project implementing agencies has been raised from Taka 700,000
to Taka 10 million. Similarly the requirement that the President approve all
consultants' contracts has been waived. The responsibility now devolves upon
the ministries responsible for the project agencies to approve the appointment
of consulting firms for projects with National Economic Committee approval, or
for project preparation activities. Finally, the authorization of the appoint-
ment of staff is being made automatic in the case of approved projects.
23.        The IDA project lending program increasingly has concentrated on
agriculture, and specifically on food production. The Ashuganj Fertilizer,
Barisal Irrigation, Karnafuli Irrigation, Rural Development and Agricultural
and Rural Training Projects all fit into this strategy. Other priority proj-
ects are at an advanced stage of preparation - many of them in the agricultural
sector. These include an agricultural extension project and a shallow tubewell
project. While development of the rural sector must have top priority, the
growth of other sectors cannot be neglected. Particular emphasis should be
placed upon projects which provide infrastructure for the rural sector, or
which process or provide outlets for its products, or which reduce the strain
on Bangladesh's foreign exchange resources. Several sector studies supported
by IDA - for example in industry and transportation (also assisted by the
United Kingdom) - should help the Government to develop a suitable pipeline of
projects.    Further economic studies will be oriented to the same goal.    Finally,
IDA has provided funds under the Technical Assistance Credits to assist the
Government in improving project preparation and implementation capabilities.



-8-
PART III - THE PROJECT
24.       A mission visited Bangladesh from March 15 through April 2, 1976,
to appraise the proposed fifth imports program credit. It noted that a satis-
factory start had been made in putting into effect the action programs agreed
to last year. These measures, plus those agreed to in this credit, are part
of a long-term strategy to deal with basic organizaticnal and technical diffi-
culties to improve the profitability of the jute and cotton textile industries,
which together account for 41% of value added in the organized manufacturing
sector and 55% of total exports. Negotiations for the credit were held in
Washington from November 8 to 12, 1976. The Government of Bangladesh was
represented by a team led by Mr. S.A. Khair, Member, Planning Commission.
A. The Case for Program Assistance
25.       Program lending has been a feature of Bank Group operations in
Bangladesh since that country's independence. The first new credit to
Bangladesh, made in November 1972, was a program credit which financed some
capital goods as well as maintenance imports. The Credit was intended both to
restore some of the economy's pre-war capacity and to help achieve better uti-
lization of capacities in both industry and agriculture. Each of two subse-
quent program credits moved towards narrowing the focus of the credits by
directing their proceeds only towards the highest priority industries where
capacity would have lain idle for want of current inputs had program lending
not been maintained. The Fourth Imports Program Credit, which became effec-
tive on December 29, 1975, continued this trend. It also introduced, as a
new element, a longer-term development component, in the form of programs for
improving the performance of two industries of vital importance to the eco-
nomy of Bangladesh, jute and cotton textiles.
26.       Bangladesh needs program assistance because of the gross inadequacy
of its domestic savings to finance its investment and the equal inadequacy of
its export earnings. A large inflow of external capital is required merely to
achieve a very modest growth of per-capita income. At present, domestic
savings constitute less than one percent of GDP. Thus, although investment
is quite inadequate at around 7 percent of GDP, external assistance is financ-
ing about 93 percent. In the public sector, foreign capital, directly and
indirectly in the form of counterpart funds generated by commodity aid,
contributes 75 percent of the development budget.
27.       The corollary of this savings/investment disequilibrium is a simi-
larly severe imbalance in the country's external payments position. A marked
shift in the terms of trade against Bangladesh, that began in 1973, further
exacerbated an already very difficult situation as world prices for jute and
tea, which essentially make up the country's exports, weakened while essential
imports of energy, food and fertilizer became considerably more expensive. At
present export earnings are equivalent to only 30 percent of imports. The
share of capital goods in total merchandise imports is only 12 percent; the
remainder consists of food (30%), other essential consumer goods (17%), fer-
tilizer (5%), industrial raw materials (25%), and petroleum products (11%).



- 9 -
28.       These structural characteristics, both internal and. external, clearly
make it impossible to transfer the amount of external assistance required
to sustain a modest rate of growth to Bangladesh by means of project financing
alone, even if it includes a substantial provision for financing local currency
expenditures. It is generally recognized that there are limits to the extent
that the components of a country's development or investment program can be
formed into projects suitable for external financing. Usually, it is not pos-
sible to push the share of projects beyond one half the total program. As
external financing rarely goes beyond 70 percent .of total project cost, the
limits of project financing are usually reached when it approaches an amount
equivalent to 35-40 percent of total development or investment expenditures.
In Bangladesh the limit may be lower, because of the relatively small propor-
tion of large projects, and because of the still limited administrative capa-
city for project formulation.
29.       Similar structural constraints exist in the composition of imports.
Export earnings, after covering service payments, including debt obligations,
are sufficient only to finance about 45 percent of imports other than food
and capital goods. Without program assistance to finance imports of general
commodities, the supply of non-agricultural goods to the economy would be
reduced greatly. In particular, production in the industrial sector, which
provides commodities essential to the livelihood of the population and to
exports and which constitutes the beginning of the productive base on which
the economic future will depend, would be reduced substantially.
30.       As they have in the past, country members of the Bangladesh Aid
Group recognized at their meeting in May 1976, the continued need to provide
a sujbstantial part of their financial support for the country in the form of
pirogram assistance. They indicated that of total bilateral commitments of
about US$700 million they expected to make to Bangladesh in 1976/77, US$500
million, or 70 percent of the total, would be in that form. However, estimated
disbursement from these bilateral commitments plus disbursements from earlier
commitments will be insufficient to meet the import requirements of Bangladesh,
after taking account of the country's own earnings and projected disbursements
of project assistance. On present estimates, there remains a financing gap
of US$100 million, which the proposed credit by the Association is intended to
help cover, although only part of the credit will be disbursed in 1976/77.
The remaining gap can be met in several ways.    Some additional commitments may
materialize from donors who are not members of the Aid Group, though disburse-
ments from that source are not expected to be large. Beyond that, the pro-
jected reserve accumulation of about US$40 million may not materialize and
reserves may have to be depleted further. Finally, imports would have to be
reduced below estimated levels.
B. Industry Action Programs
31.       In an effort to strengthen the developmental impact of its program
assistance, the Association began in 1975, at the time of its consideration
of the Fourth Imports Program Credit, to examine with Bangladesh the problems
of its largest export-oriented and import-substituting industries and to



- 10 -
develop programs which would, over a period of time, make those industries
operate more efficiently. Programs were developed last year to improve pro-
duction, marketing and financial performance in the jute and textile indust-
ries. 1/ These two industrial branches constitute close to half of the in-
dustrial capacity in Bangladesh, and have essential links to the agricultural
and rural sectors of the economy. Attention was focused on the Bangladesh
Jute Mills Corporation (BJMC) and the Bangladesh Textile Mills Corporation
(BTMC). With respect to both these industries, the Government agreed, in con-
junction with the Fourth Imports Program Credit, to a series of specific mea-
sures designed to deal with the critical problems identified.
32.       The 1975 study of the Bangladesh jute industry reviewed the develop-
ments of the past decade, in particular the changes which had occurred in the
pattern of world demand as well as in the structure of domestic productive
capacity following independence. It noted that the Taka devaluation in May
1975 provided a major opportunity to restore the competitive position of jute
vis-a-vis synthetics and concluded that, to that end, substantial improvements
would be needed in the organization of the industry in Bangladesh, as well as
at the level of the individual producing units, to enable the jute industry to
become profitable and increase its contribution to the country's development.
Among the critical problems identified were: (a) lack of production planning
at the corporate level; (b) inadequate directions to the mills to obtain pro-
per product mix to meet existing demand; (c) inadequate marketing efforts;
(d) failure to develop appropriate preventive maintenance programs at the mills;
(e) failure to use existing capacity for spare parts production; and (f) an
inadequate information base for decision making and longer term planning. A
strategy to improve the capacity utilization in and the profitability of the
jute industry was agreed upon. Based on this diagnosis, in the short to medium
term major improvements in profitability are feasible by focussing on the fol-
lowing areas:
(a)   Financial restructuring:   The overhang of financial debts
resulting from pre-independence liabilities and subsequent
operating deficits has resulted in high interest costs, com-
prising at present about 9 percent of total production costs.
The injection of new equity by the Government to pay off some
of BJMC's outstanding liabilities to the banking sector would
help put the industry on sound financial footing.
(b)   Improved capacity utilization:   The Association study of the
jute industry in 1975 indicated that production costs would be
reduced significantly if capacity utilization were improved
by increasing export sales through aggressive marketing and
by shutting down some high-cost mills (thereby increasing
production levels of low-cost mills).
(c)   Reduced costs of raw jute:   As costs of raw jute constitute
some 40 percent of total production costs, it is important
1/   Studies of these two industries were distributed as Report No. 883-BD,
of September 25, 1975.



- 11 -
for the industry to minimize these costs (within the limits
set by the need to provide cultivators with adequate incen-
tives for producing raw jute), by strengthening the units
in charge of raw jute purchase and ensuring an adequate
supply of credit and storage space during the buying
(harvest) season of raw jute. In addition, the whole
domestic marketing and distribution system of raw jute
needs to be improved.
(d)   Improved production efficiency:   Production efficiency in
jute mills can be improved significantly through better
spare parts and maintenance programs, training of techni-
cal and managerial staff, improved inventory control, and
better production and financial planning. Many of these
steps were initiated in the first phase of the action pro-
gram, and they will be strengthened, and others introduced,
in the second phase under the proposed credit.
33.        As a first step an action program was agreed to last year in the
context of the Fourth Imports Program Credit. This action program is shown in
Table I, as are the achievements to date and the further steps agreed to under
the present credit. A more detailed discussion of the implementation of the
1975 action program is in Annex VI.
34.        BJMC established a Production Planning Directorate and has developed
initial production programs for all mills of the Corporation. As a preliminary
step a complete inventory of production capacity of the individual mills was
completed earlier this year. The staff of the Marketing Directorate has been
expanded, and an overall market study for 1976/77 was prepared in order to
permit more effective production planning. Studies are being undertaken of
markets for selected jute products (e.g. sewn hessian bags). At the mill level,
task forces have been organized to appraise the existing preventive maintenance
systems in the major producing units and to assist in effecting improvements
so as to reduce equipment down time and spare parts expenditures. An expatriate
maintenance expert team began work at the end of August 1976 1/; local counter-
parts were designated earlier and initiated necessary work. As regards local
production of spare parts, a detailed study of this problem has been under-
taken with technical assistance from the Canadian International Development
Authority (CIDA). Acting on the recommendations of that report, a plant which
manufactures various pieces of equipment and some spare parts for jute mills
has been transferred from the Engineering and Shipbuilding Corporation to the
control of BJMC where it will be used for local production of certain critical
items. Also, a Stores and Spares Department has been created which is headed
by a Deputy General Manager and will be responsible for procurement and manu-
facture of spares for the Jute Mills. In addition, an inventory of spare parts
capacity among the mills has been undertaken. Recognizing the advantages of
the steps taken so far, BJMC has requested additional assistance from CIDA
in this area.
1/   This team is being financed under the First IDA Technical Assistance
Credit (409-BD).



- 12 -
TABLE I - JUTE: AGREED ACTION PROGRAM
Fourth Program Credit Conditions                       Achievements to date                               Required Future Actions Under
Proposed Fifth Import Prgram Credit
A. World Market Studies
i)   BJIMC to carry out a world markets study      (i)  Study completed March 1976, reviewd end       (i)  First updating of market study due to be com-
for jute products --to be completed by             revised following IDA's c-Gente 7/12/76.           pleted by 4/30/77.
3/31/76.
(ii)  Study to be updated annually.                                                                    (ii)  Hire arketing consultants by 4/30/77 to
study requiremoeat of Marketing Directorate,
organise training programs and develop pro-
grms for market studies & promotion
programs overseas.
B. Production Progrms
(i)  Develop by I12/1j75 a production program      (i)  Completed on schedule.                         (i)  BJK to review production programs monthly;
for 1/1/76 to 73076.                                                                                  and to send IDA an interim report on pro-
(ii)  Copile by 3/31/76 an inventory of            (ii)  Completed by July 1976.                            duction planning by 1/31/77.
(i    To prepare by 6/30/77 a production progrmo
Productive capacity per mill,                                                                         for FY78 taking into account productive
capacity and efficiency of individual mills.
(iii)  Develop by 7/1/76 a production program      (iii)  Completed by July 1976.
for FY77.
(iv) Establish as oon as practicable a Pro-        (iv)  Directorate established and Production        Civ) Establish by 6/30/77 plant productivity
duction Planning Directorate.                      Planning Director w-a appointed by end              advisory team  to review production problems
September 1976.                                    (other then maintenanceeensultants to be
employed and commence work by 7/1/77).
C. Maintenance
(i)  Organize a Maintenance Task Forces using      (i)  Maintenance Task Forces (MTP) mnned by
expatriate experts to be hired by 3/31/76          expatriate consultants and counterparts
Ca) to initiate preventative maintenance           were organized and operative by August
programs, (b) to set up equipsent inven-           1976.
tories and (c) to assiet in implomentation
of recos,endations
(ii)  Establish adequately staffed Spare Parts     (ii)  A Stores and Spares Department headed by a    (ii)  Complete spare part production capacity
Division.                                          Deputy General Manger has been created to           invantory to be prepared by 3/31/77.
be responsible for Procurement and local
mnufacture of spares. Started inventory
of spare parts production capacity and
transferred spare parts production facility
to BJMC. Technical assistance from CIDA
agreed on principle but details not yet
worked  ut.                                 C(iii)  Consultants to adviee on spare parts pro-
duction will be recruited and begin work
not later than 6/30/77.
D. Financial Managament
(i)  Prepare by 12/15/75 a financial pro-          (i)  Completed on schedule.                         (i)  By 3/31/77 hire financial advisor and a tea
jection for FY76.                                                                                     of associates for a period of three-man
years, who ahall devise a revised cost
accounting cash flow systems and by 6/30/78
begin to introduce systoms in 16 selected
(ii)  Prepare by 3/31/76 a full financial state-   (ii)  Completed on schedule.                             mills.
ments and accounts for FY75.                                                                      (ii) Submit audited accounts for FY74 by 6/30/77,
(iii)  Prepar  by 6/30/76 projected balance        (iii)  Completed and submitted in September 1976.         for FY75 by 9/30/77 and for FY76 by 12/31/77.
sheets, profit and loss and cash flow
statements for the next 5 years including
provisions for debt servicing end strategy
for attaining adequate debt/equity ratio.
(iv)  Strengthen and expand Audit Division.       (iv)   The Audit Division has been strengthened      (iv)  Complete revaluation of assets by 6/30/77.
end staff increased from 85 to 160.            (v) gy 12/31/77 prepare reconstructed balance
sheets for each mill and recwonendation of
adjustments required to obtain appropriate
debt/equity ratio.
(vi) Asaign responsibilities and provide staff
snd facilities for the strengthened Audit
Divisin by 7/1/77.
(vii)  By 5/31/77 prepare revised financial
projections for FY78.
E. Miscellaneous         _
(i) Export Inspection - Establish an              (i)  Established but not yet adequately staffed.     i)  Establish an adsquately staffed export in-
adequately staffed export inspection                                                                  spection service in the Jute Ministry and
service outside BJMC.                                                                                 report by 3/31/77 on the organization and
(ii)  Raw Jute Marketing - Inform ID   on         (ii)  COB has reorganized 4 existing raw jute             staffing.
measure  taken to improve efficiency of           marketing agencies into 2; GOB allowed
raw jute mrketing agencies.                       private tradere to export directly and         (BJMC to report to IDA on all actions above on
BJMC to purchass raw Jute directly from        a quarterly baois.)
growers.
F. Second Phase Action Progrm
(i) To formulate comprehensive second phase        (i) Report of proposed action to be reviewed
action progrm to improve efficiency &              during negotistione.
productivity, and to strengthen productio
and financial planning, mrketing quality
control and cost accounting and controI
functions.
G. Rules of Business
(no requirement under Imports IV)



- 13 -
The 1976 Jute Action Program
35.        For the 1976 jute action program additional external assistance will
be required in marketing and financial management. It has been agreed that the
appropriate programs will be financed under the Second Technical Assistance
Credit (622-BD). The scope of work for the required consultant services and
a schedule of implementation were agreed at negotiations. It is also expected
that UNDP/UNIDO will provide assistance to the program to improve productivity.
This assistance was expected last year but did not materialize because of UNDP's
financial difficulties. The Association expects to comment on the terms of
reference for this work and to coordinate project implementation with UNIDO.
36.        As regards marketing, the technical assistance planned is required
to help in the restructuring of the Marketing Directorate, in assessing its
requirements, in organizing additional training for the staff, in developing
a detailed work program and in ensuring the establishment of appropriate pro-
cedures for using the results of the market studies in production planning and
investment decisions. In addition BJMC will receive assistance in developing
an external promotion program which will involve some of the following steps:
(a) establishment of BJMC offices in a small number of critical commercial
centers; (b) training of jute marketing officers to be attached to diplomatic
missions abroad; (c) organization of ad hoc trade missions; and (d) participa-
tion in selected international trade fairs and exhibitions. For these tasks,
the Government intends to contract with a consulting firm with experience in
market research and development; it is estimated that the equivalent of three
to four man years of assistance will be required. It has been agreed that the
team will be in the field not later than April 30, 1977 (paragraph B.2 of
Schedule 3 to the draft Development Credit Agreement). The updating of the
market study to cover 1977/78 will be completed by April 30, 1977 (paragraph
B.1 of Schedule 3 to the draft Development Credit Agreement).
37.        In the case of financial management and reporting, assistance is
required at both the Corporation and mill levels. BJMC will therefore employ
a team of consultants, the head of which will act as Financial Advisor to the
Finance Director (paragraph B.3 of Schedule 3 to the draft Development Credit
Agreement). The Financial Advisor and his associates will focus on three
major tasks: (a) to review the financial and cost accounting systems as
well as systems for cash flow analysis and projections currently used by
BJMC and the jute mills; (b) to make recommendations to improve such systems
to enable accurate cost data to be prepared for individual jute processing
mills and the principal jute products; and (c) to assist in the implementation
of such recommendations. The Corporation will implement the improved systems
in at least 16 of its larger mills by June 30, 1978 (see draft Development
Credit Agreement, Schedule 3, paragraph 3). The team of financial consultants
will initiate work not later than March 31, 1977. Revised financial projections
to cover 1977/78 will be prepared by May 31, 1977.
38.        Agreement was reached during negotiations on a schedule for the
preparation of audited balance sheets of the individual mills for 1973/74 by
June 30, 1977, for 1974/75 by September 30, 1977 and for 1975/76 by December 31,
1977 (paragraph B.4 of Schedule 3 to the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 14 -
In addition, BJMC has agreed to complete the revaluation of assets of indi-
vidual mills by June 30, 1977 and to provide by December 31, 1977 its re-
commendations of adjustments required to obtain appropriate debt/equity ratios
for the individual mills.
39.        BJMC submitted during negotiations proposals for strengthening its
(internal) Audit Division including the qualifications of the staff it will
require for this work and the training program which is considered to be
necessary to bring staff to the required level. The proposal has been de-
signed to permit the strengthened division to begin its work by July 1, 1977
(paragraph B.5 of Schedule 3 to the draft Development Credit Agreement).
40.        Under the procedures recommended and adopted by BJMC to strengthen
its production planning, the Production Planning Directorate will review
monthly its annual production program to assess actual developments in mar-
ket demand and mill output and recommend appropriate revisions to the Corpo-
ration Board (paragraph B.6 of Schedule 3 to the draft Development Credit
Agreement). BJMC will prepare an interim report on its performance under its
current annual production program, for submission to the Association by January
31, 1977. The annual production program for 1977/78 will be prepared by -
June 30, 1977; it will take into account possibilities for cost savings through
modifying individual mill production targets in light of their relative effi-
ciency. Changes in mill production capability emerging as a result of the
work of the maintenance task forces will also be taken into account in for-
mulating the annual production programs.
41.        As regards spare parts, the inventory of production capacity for
producing spare parts in individual mills will be completed by March 31, 1977.
(paragraph B.7 of Schedule 3 to the draft Development Credit Agreement). The
consultants required to advise on the organization and implementation of a
spare parts production program will be recruited by BJMC and will begin their
work with the Spare Parts Division not later than June 30, 1977. It is
expected that these experts will be financed by CIDA, but alternatively
funds could be made available under the Second IDA Technical Assistance Credit
(622-BD).
42.       BJMC will organize in each of its four zones productivity advisory
teams (paragraph B.8 of Schedule 3 to the draft Development Credit Agreement)
to review production problems (other than maintenance repair, and spare parts)
such as labor use and costs, raw material preparation, material flows and in-
ventory controls, and to recommend to mill management specific measures to
improve performance in these areas, including in particular training needs of
operating personnel. The teams are to begin work not later than July 1, 1977.
43.       During negotiations the Government agreed to establish by March 31,
1977 an adequately staffed export inspection service within the Ministry of
Jute, outside the control of BJMC (paragraph B.9 of Schedule 3 to the draft
Development Credit Agreement). With regard to raw jute procurement and mar-
keting the wide dispersion of jute production among many small growers has
created major problems in marketing the raw product. The Association expects
to identify and recommend solutions to these issues under the proposed Raw Jute
Production Project now being appraised.



- 15 -
44.       Responsibility for coordinating the technical assistance inputs
being financed or expected to be financed by IDA, UNDP/UNIDO, CIDA and UK
will lie with the Chairman of BJMC, assisted by the Financial Advisor. In
order to provide the Association with appropriate information on the progress
of the activities underway, BJMC has agreed to submit a quarterly report to
the Association (paragraph B.10 of Schedule 3 to the draft Development Credit
Agreement). The Financial Advisor shall assist in the compilation of re-
quired data.
Cotton Textiles
45.       The 1975 study of the cotton textile industry found a more favorable
situation than in the jute industry, with a steadily improving trend in output
and production performance. Nevertheless there existed wide scope for further
improvements in mill efficiency and there was need to develop a long-term stra-
tegy for the industry in view of its dependence upon imported raw materials.
Here, too, a specific action program was agreed with the Government of Bangla-
desh in conjunction with the Fourth Imports Program Credit.
46.       Annex VII contains a detailed description of the contents of the
textile action program and the action taken. The 1975 action program is sum-
marized in Table II; also shown is the progress to date in implementing this
program, and the 1976 action program agreed as part of this credit. A detailed
project for technical assistance, primarily oriented toward improving produc-
tive efficiency at the mill level, has been negotiated with UNDP/UNIDO. Mea-
sures have been taken to consolidate output of cotton yarn at the individual
mills. As a result, some improvement in production efficiency has been achieved
as shown in increased output per operating spindle, and further substantial
improvements are expected. A study to determine possibilities for local spare
parts production has been made with technical assistance from the Japanese
Government. Work has also begun to determine possibilities for local manufac-
ture of man-made fibers (see Annex VII). Studies designed to review the re-
quirements of the handloom industry and the efficiency of the domestic spin-
ning industry have also been initiated.
47.       The outline and timetables for the UNDP financed technical assistance
program were reviewed at negotiations and are considered to be appropriate.
This program and the actions initiated under the Fourth Imports Program Credit
appear to be sufficient to achieve the intended improvements in operational
efficiency in the industry. Schedules have been agreed for completion of the
studies initiated under the Fourth Imports Program credit covering the relative
efficiency of handlooms and small power looms as compared to larger mills
(paragraph C.3 of Schedule 3 to the draft Development Credit Agreement).
These studies are expected to provide data which will assist decisions con-
cerning investment and production programs for existing facilities. A revised
production program for 1977/78 will be developed by June 30, 1977 and sent to
the Association for its comments (paragraph C.1 of Schedule 3 to the draft
Development Credit Agreement). This program will take into account the
relative efficiency of individual mills in order to optimize utilization of
existing capacity and of foreign exchange expenditure. Future development of



- 16 -
TABLE II - COTTON TEXTILE: AGREED ACTION PROGRAM
h qu1red Future Actions Under Pro-
Fourth Program Credit Coeditloa                     Achievements to Date                          pound Fifth Import Program Credit
A. Production Progras
i)  Develop by 6/15/76 a **cductiee        i)   Completed by July 1976.
Progrm for FY77 including *ill-
specialization on not more than
14 yarn counts.
ii) Establish a Production Planning       ii)   BJNC established on schedule a Marketing        ii)  Develop a revised FY78 productiOn
Directorate by 7/1/76                       and Pfoduction Directorate acceptable to             pregram by 6/30/77 taking into
IDA.                                                 ccount the relative efficiency of
tudividual mills and the existence
o ef exoess capacity due to lower
d    d.
B. Production Efficiency
i)  Organize a productivity team to        i)   Delayed due to UNDP financial difftiulties
improve preventive mintenance               but UNDP is to hire consultent firn to
progras; and develop training               prepare VW for the productixtty teems
program to improve worker skills:                                                           i) + 1i)  BT1  to initiate by 12/31/77
to recommed other wasures to                                                                   programs to improve mill produc-
improve productivity & to assist                                                                tivity and local manufacture of
in implementation of recomnmnda-                                                                spare parts.
tions (no deadline).
ii)  Strengthen the technical director-    ii)   Delayed as this was expected to be part of
ate to ssseas local capacity to             UNIDO team to review production programs
produce spare parts (no deadline)           and preventative maintenance
C. Studies
i)  Initiate by 9/30/76 a study of         i)   Study was initiated by BTMC Staff.               i)  By 3/31/77 a pre-feasibility study
possibility of local production                                                                  of potential for producing man-
of man-mde fibers,                                                                              made fibers.
ti)  By 6/30/76 initiate a saple sur-      ii)   Initiated.                                      ii)  Complete study by 12/31/76.
vey of the handloom sector m*d
a census of small powerloom _mo-
ing sector.
iii)  By 6/30/76 - Initiate a study of     iii)   Study was completed in July 1976.
relative FX costs of domestic
spinning vs. imports of yarn.
tv)  By 6/30/76 - Initiate a study of      tv)   To be initiated upon completion of sam-        iv)  Complete study by 12/31/77 of effi-
efficiency of handloom and    11            ple survey (ii) above.                               ciency of handloom/small poverloom
poverloom sector vs. larger mills.                                                               vs. larger mills.
D. Rules of Business
(Was not condition of Credit
591-BD)



- 17 -
the industry should take place by expanding capacity in line with demand and
by introducing fibers based on local materials to reduce the foreign exchange
needs for imported cotton. The Government has agreed to initiate a pre-
feasibility study of the potential for producing such man-made fibers in
Bangladesh by March 31, 1977 and to complete it within nine months (paragraph
C.2 of Schedule 3 to the draft Development Credit Agreement). A study is cur-
rently underway to determine the suitability of local wood pulp for possible
production of polynosic fibers, an improved form of rayon. In addition,
specially treated jute fibers produced experimentally in the laboratories of
the Bangladesh Council for Scientific and Industrial Research have been
blended with cotton to produce various types of fabrics on a sample basis,
using spinning and weaving equipment in an operating BTMC mill. The Govern-
ment has requested the Association to assist, under the Second Technical
Assistance Credit, in assessing the commercial viability of this process.
Pulp and Paper
48.        The appraisal mission recommended, and the Government of Bangladesh
agreed, that work be initiated towards formulating an action program for the
pulp and paper industry. That industry was originally conceived to serve both
the East and West Pakistan markets, local consumption accounting for well under
half of the existing rated capacity. Even during recent periods of high domes-
tic demand and some export sales, the industry had difficulties in reaching
production targets due primarily to the poor operating conditions of the three
major mills concerned. The study by the Association concluded that before any
action program can be formulated to ensure the future viability of this indus-
try, major efforts will have to be made to re-assess market conditions for the
various products and to appraise the actual operating conditions of the major
plants. A summary of the principal conclusions and recommendations of the
study is contained in Annex VIII. The study, part of Report 1219-BD of
November 30, 1976, has been distributed separately.
49.       Assistance in evaluating rehabilitation or operational needs is
already being provided under bilateral and multilateral programs to the
Karnaphuli Paper Mill, 1/ the Khulna Newsprint Mill and the Sylhet Pulp
Mill. 2/ The major installation without such assistance is the North Bengal
Paper Mill; the Government has agreed to undertake a study to re-assess the
operating conditions of this mill including the impact of price policies.
This work will be initiated by June 30, 1977 (paragraph D.1 of Schedule 3 to
the draft Development Credit Agreement). To assist the Government in the
evaluation of the individual studies and to ensure that recommendations will
be implemented taking into account the overall prospects of the industry, a
senior pulp and paper industry consultant will be recruited; this expert will
also assist in elaborating a longer-term development plan for the branch
(paragraph D.2 of Schedule 3 to the draft Development Credit Agreement). He
1/   This study is being financed by IDA under the First Technical
Assistance Credit (409-BD).
2/   This is a newly constructed mill (1975) which is still undergoing trial
production.



- 18 -
shall initiate his work not later than December 31, 1977 (paragraph D.2
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement). The enterprises concerned
are now part of the Bangladesh Chemical Industries Corporation (BCIC). In
view of the importance of the pulp and paper industry, a separate uniit for
this branch shall be established by September 30, 1977 in the Planning Cell
of BCIC to monitor progress and development plans (paragraph D.3 of Schedule 3
to the draft Development Credit Agreement).
C.   Use of the Proceeds of the Proposed Credit
50.        Annex IV lists the industries which are eligible to import under the
proposed credit and for each industry the estimated total import requirements
and the maximum credit amounts to be allocated to each category. The latter
ceilings take account of the availability of other sources of finance and of the
need to spread the credit proceeds among eligible industries. The Government
has agreed to the list of eligible industries and the individual ceilings (see
Schedule 1 paragraph 1 to the draft Development Credit Agreement). In view
of the efforts which the Government has committed itself to undertake to improve
performance in the jute, cotton textile and pulp and paper industries, it has
further been agreed to disburse at least half of the proceeds of the credit to
the three branches combined (see Schedule 1 paragraph 2(d)). As compared to
the previous credit, the list of eligible industries has been reduced, elimi-
nating sugar and commercial vehicles in order to permit further concentration
on priority industries. The utilization of previous import credits by major
categories is shown in Annex IX.
51.       The Government will issue import licenses to the potential end-users
and has agreed that, prior to effectiveness of the proposed credit, at least
50% of the licenses to be financed under the proposed credit will have been
issued (see Section 4.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The
increase in prelicensing will provide for more rapid disbursement of the
credit proceeds during the first months after the credit has become effective.
52.       Among the export oriented activities, the jute industry's principal
import requirements (ceiling of US$10 million) comprise mainly chemicals
and spare parts. Import requirements of the pulp and paper industry to be
financed under the proposed credit (maximum of US$7 million) comprise mainly
chemicals and spare parts; the industry's requirements for chemical pulp will
continue to be met through bilateral commodity assistance. In the case of
other export-oriented industries (i.e. frozen shrimp, leather tanning and
tea), proceeds (up to $5 million) will be used for chemicals, packaging
materials and spare parts.
53.       As regards the sub-sectors producing intermediate goods, funds for
fertilizer production (up to US$12 million) are to be used mainly for import-
ing rock phosphate and sulphur for the production of triple-superphosphate
(TSP). Provision is also made for importing spares and for packaging materials
for the TSP plant, as well as for the two existing urea plants at Ghorasal and
Fenchuganj. In the cotton textile industry the credit is to finance raw
cotton, other material inputs, chemicals and spares for the mills under the
control of BTMC, in an amount up to US$35 million. Among the enterprises of



- 19 -
the steel and foundry industry, the steel mill at Chittagong, which is based
on converting imported pig iron, has the largest need for foreign exchange;
since the Chittagong mill cannot meet all the billet requirements of the
country the balance of the needs are imported. (The maximum for this category
is US$18 million.) Provision is also made for the chemical and pharmaceutical
industries (industrial chemicals, soap and pharmaceuticals only) to permit use
of proceeds for critical raw material and spare parts inputs, excluding
proprietary items, up to $5 million.
54.        Local construction activities are dependent on imports of clinker
(used as an input in the country's largest cement factory), other materials
for cement manufacture (e.g. limestone), and finished cement, as well as cor-
rugated iron sheets. The funds allocated to the construction sector would
permit a high utilization of the local cement production capacity and financ-
ing of import requirements of cement which cannot be satisfied from local
sources (maximum of US$18 million).
D. Administration of the Credit
55.        Procurement.   Responsibility for procuring most public sector
imports rests with the various public sector corporations. The Trading Corpo-
ration of Bangladesh (TCB) has responsibility for procuring cement and mater-
ials for the private sector steel and foundry enterprises. The Chief Con-
troller of Imports and Exports (CCIE), in addition to issuing all the
licenses for imports under the Credit, will be responsible for handling the
allocation of Credit funds to private sector firms.
56.        Government procurement procedures normally require international
competitive bidding or receipt of offers from a minimum of three inter-
national suppliers. As was the case in the Fourth Imports Program Credit,
the Association and the Government have agreed that importers would be re-
quired to obtain offers from a minimum of three international suppliers
for all orders estimated to cost US$100,000 or more (see Schedule 2 to the
draft Development Credit Agreement). The Association would review such con-
tracts and related documentation. Imports of goods estimated to cost less
than US$100,000 would be made through normal commercial channels.
57.        Disbursement.   Disbursement procedures would follow those of pre-
vious program credits. Withdrawal applications will be prepared by the
Bangladesh Bank and forwarded to the Association. It is expected that most
contracts under this credit would be placed within six months after signing
of the Development Credit Agreement, and that the bulk of disbursements will
be made within 18 months of that date. Letters of credit for some items, how-
ever, are likely to remain open for a considerable period, since the manufac-
turing lead time for spare parts for some machinery can be as much as 18 months.
The Credit is expected to be fully disbursed within 24 months, i.e. by about
December 1978.
Conditions of Disbursement (Cement and Steel billets)
58.        In order to avoid the difficulties caused in 1975/76 by excessive
imports of cement and steel billets (described in Annex V) it has been agreed



- 20 -
that, as a condition of disbursement for cement and for steel billets respec-
tively, the Government would present to the Association an acceptable detailed
program for such commodities, outlining expected demand, pricing and distribu-
tion policies, planned levels of production and imports, and measures designed
to implement the program (see draft Development Credit Agreement Schedule 1,
paragraph 2e and f).
Retroactive Financing for the Purchase of Cotton
59.   -    During negotiations, the Government requested that the Association
agree to retroactive financing for some raw cotton purchases, because: (a)
present stocks were low and orders had to be placed promptly to ensure con-
tinuity of supply; and (b) the Government had assumed Association financing
would be available in time for these orders, and to find alternative financ-
ing now would divert funds from other vital uses and disrupt the precarious
foreign exchange management system. The Association agreed that these ex-
ceptional circumstances justified financing up to $10 million of expenditures
made after December 1, 1976 for the purchase of raw cotton. (Category 2,
Schedule 1 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Counterpart Funds
60.       To facilitate timely provision of local currency required to carry
out development programs in Bangladesh, including development projects fi-
nanced by the Association, the Government introduced in January 1976 revised
procedures for releasing local currency resources for aid-financed development
projects, which have reduced the administrative bottlenecks impeding the
timely release of funds. The Government has agreed to deposit taka funds
equivalent to the amounts withdrawn from the proceeds of this proposed credit
in an account currently being maintained with the Bangladesh Bank and to
utilize these funds entirely to finance its development programs. As under
the Fourth Imports Program Credit the Government will furnish quarterly reports
to the Association on the amounts actually released from such Counterpart Fund
to projects financed by the Association.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association, the Recommendation of the Committee provi-
ded for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement, and the text
of a draft resolution approving the proposed Credit are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.
62.       Features of the draft Development Credit Agreement of special inter-
est are referred to in paragraphs 36 through 59 of this report. Issuance of
import licenses covering foreign exchange allocations aggregating not less
than US$25 million has been made an additional condition of effectiveness (see
section 4.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Special conditions
of disbursement require that (a) half the proceeds of the proposed credit go



- 21 -
to the jute, textile and paper and board industries, (b) no withdrawals for
steel billets be made until the Borrower has furnished to.the Association a
program satisfactory to the Association for meeting demand for steel billets
and (c) no withdrawals for cement be made until a similar program for cement
has been received (draft Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 1, paragraphs
2(d), 2(e) and 2(f) respectively). The action programs for the jute, cotton
textile and paper and pulp industries are set out in Schedule 3 to the draft
Development Credit Agreement.
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
December 7, 1976






ANNEX I
Page 1 of 4
BANGLADESH            - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KPg)--------                                    -       --
BANGLADESH                              REFERENCE COUNTRIES 619703
TOTAL        142.8                                          MOST RECENT
AGRIC.        '97.1                        1980        1970    ESTIMATE           SJRNA            THAILAND        MALAYSIA"
GNP PER CAPITA (USA)                           EO.0        90.0        1,10.0                70.0        210.0       4#40.0
POPULATION AND VtTAL STATISTICS
POPULATION *MIO-VR, MILLION)                53.9         70.8         78.6                 27.0         36.3         10.4
POPULAT ION DENS ITY
PER SQUARE KM.                           3717.0      496.0         550.0                 S40.0       71.0         32.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND               .        692.0        fl.5.0-'/             1IL0.0                   291.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUOF BIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND             4.9.8        50.3        4.9.5                41.1         44.3         42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE PER THOUSAND             27.2         22.9         28.1                19.)         13.7         12.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)               ..        40.0        130.0                   ..          0.0         40.8 ZS
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH IYRSI            38.7         4.3.3        35.&                1.7.5        55.5         56.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                    3.5          3.1           .                   2.7         3.2          2.6&
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (2)
TOTAL                                       ..          2.8'         2,1 4. ,2.2                      3.1.         2.6
URBAN                                       ...                        .3.7                            4~.9        3.6
URBAN POPULATION 12 CF TOTAL)                  ..                      7.0                 L9.9         15.o        27.8
AGE STRUCTURE IPERCENT)
0 TO 14. YEARS                          4.7.0           .         44.9                 40.0        4.5.0         44.7 
15 TO %.4 YEARS                           49.1           ..        52.2                 57.0         52.0         52.1
65 YEARS AND OVER                          3.9           .          2.9                  51.0         3.0          3 . I
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                         I.0           ..0.9                            0.8         0.9          0.9 
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                    1.6 ~          .1.4                            L. I&        1.1          1.6 
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)                ..            .            .                   .        IOV          222.2 
USERS (2 OF MARRIED WOMEN)                   ...                                            .        10.0          8.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TH(CUSANDI            17100.0     22300.0      26200.0              10920.0      16100.0       290.
LABOR FORCE INAGRICUILTURE I2)               60          710.7.090                                                  43. 0 
UNFMPL,IYED (2 OF LABnF FORCE)                 ..                     15.0;                  .                        6.0    b
INCOME nISTRISUTION
I UF PRIVATE INCOMI RECDO BY-
HIGHEST    5% OF HOUSEHOLDS               183           6. TA         .                     ..                    28.3
HIGHEST20: OFH'1USEHOLDS             44.5         '.2.3          ...                                .         56.0
LOWEST   202 CF HOUSEHOLDS                 6.9          7.9 A.                                                     3.5
LOWEST   40% OF HOJUSEHOLDS               17.9         19.6 &         ..                                 .        11.2
DISTRIBUTIONJ OF LAND CJWNERSHIP
OWNED BY TOP 102 UF OWNYERS                 ..        34.0.
I OWNED BY SMALLFST 10: OWNERS                 .          1.0k
H4EALTH AND N4UTRITION
POPULATION PER PHOYSICIAN                10000.0       7600.0 I   100./8970.0                        7970.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          110000.0      72030.0     IT. 770.0a 7o o        7540.0/1L    6650.0       10380.0Ia
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL RED              11000.0  L    8120.0      6?90.0j              1200.0        800          2   0.0~
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIFS (2 OF REQUIREMENTS)                 ..                    80.0                103.0        105.0         93.0 4
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER OAY)                     .                      40.0                 4.           52.0         49.0   A
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE F.                                       .                 13.0LO       17.0 /a      20. OM
DEATH PATE 6/THOU) AGES 1-4                    .            ..                                ..                      5.5
EDUCAT ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                           4.2.0  g.     50.0        56.0                108.10 IA      2.0 1       819.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                           8.0         15.0 LI        .                  1 0j         6.0         4'.    A
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                  10.0         10.0        10.0                 11.0         12.0         13.0 .1
VOCATIONAL ENROLLM4ENT
It OF SECONDARtY)                                       1.0          O. .7                           14.0 1.       3:001
ADULT LITERACY RATE 62)                       .                       23.0                 70.0        79.0          770
HOUJSI NG
PERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)I....                                                                                       2.3
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (III                                          .            ....                                       65. 0 /
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
I2 OF ALL DWELLINGS)                        .             ..                                ..                    43.0
RUlRAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY I2)                          .             ..                                ..                    30.0
CCNSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)                 .          6.0            .                 15.0         78.0         4.1.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOIU POP)                 .          1.0                     1:0~      10           5.0         23.0 /
ELECTRICITY   IKWH/YR PER CAP)               Is.0-       20.0         21:0Or4              22.0        124.0        382.0 
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP) I.                                           0.2                  0.6          l.A          4.0 
---------------------------------- --                                           --          -        -   -   -    -
SEE NOTES AND OEFINITICNS ON REVERSE



AM=l
Pegs 2 of 4
NOTES
oq t oharstee noted, data for 1960 refer to eny year borneo 1959 end 1961, for 1970 harwee    1966 and 1970. and fot Most Recent Estimate betneer 
1913 esd 195.
Tho 1970-75 populatIon, groth rtet is abnormally le- do    to the effects of the oar of independente and ones popolatlor nnecs        crs   the borde.t
dortig that period. nP...ently. the e-ereg popoltotn, gretb te eatimatad at 31 . pernone.
--Seleotiae of slsyai ase an objective     oa.try ie bha.ad no-lyea'aeooe         in -aeltel.tog e htgb reto of -oesio growth end no edeq..te 1eo1
of selfer  no    _orroty wih diversifying ice ..-omi    e-utor.-
soaLOtLADSH          1960   /0Ratio of popolation under 13 eod 65 ood eve     no total lebor force;    /b  1963-64;   /.  Regiterd,notoi procinio 8i
the cscy       Gd ovr,aet hospital eetshlihshaota. riy,         /e  ApProolmate enrll neon tse perneotaf.f Popuistion-
is h-l0 nod 11 -15 age groupe tee psotLvly.
1970   /   1966-67;    /b  1967-68,   Ic  Registered, sot all practicing in the reentry;    Id  Go-rnet hospinsi e-blahiieeeete
onoly;  /e  A~pp-roelte   nolmn     as per-etege of pepulatte   in 6-1 0 aed I1_-15 age groups  -apsoti-eiy.
MOST7 RECENT ESTIMATE:    /sk 1972;    /b  Ratio of popolciom, oodsr 13 aod 65 sod ova    to total leber force,    Jo  Mainly noemployed
werher   eseking their first Joh;    Id  1 969-71  __eeg .
BenMA                1970   IsRatio of popole tios no      5sd 65 so     ove  to total iabor force    lb/ Peensetl it govenmet serices only;
_____         -    ~~~ 1964-66;    Id  6-9 end 101-15 Years  fage r-eps-tively;
RA_ILAND             1970   I   1964-66;   /b  7-iS and 14-18 years of age reepsoti-ely,    In  Poblic enhoole shich ioclnds technicol ednoc.ion at th.
pos t-secedary leve.
MALAYSIA             1970   /    as tes  Wiyeia;  /b  Registered eppLiote .. o.  wool- ;  /n  Govenst noly;     Id  1964-66 ,  /s   12-18 yaars of oga,
________       -     7?f 1967,   jj  Piped estr iosida
R9, Augun t24, 1976
IaodAm)t11e~bon~~~evbo7Poonlalien nt numbs asren                                           -   Ppulatioe divided by icober of p,octi--
T6Th7~TboTiitfhn  ers  rooprietog lend area nod blond water.                     nigeesan        eo     raot nurses, "trntrsd5 or '1certified' aren
norm.j - pMaoons c elsoo orclne                eros need cnsepcsrly, or pavs-           -ad aUi-iay ysrOarel with trainIng or epaprlen-.,
-  tocl  for crops, petoe,    ekt & kitchen gardena or tn lin fsil1o.              Pplaino p+erheenitAl be      - Pepolato- divided by nuober of hoepital
bed  avilbleinpubo and rivats genrer1 and specielieed bonplt.l
GoIP Per cprks (010-1 - flip Par onpits snobs. ro tn co,rree 0 ,rhet prices            sod rehabilitation osnisrel emelodas nursiAg horse. end eatabliebowota
calonieted by see  conversion,m tshod as World Runh Atlss (1973-75 basi);,           for oustodi1 anod preventive naet.
1960, 1970 and 1975 deta.                                                          Pa  er aui qoivae  of  nepod.pie          aeli       nnutrd pero
PooLnioti, nod vitel stciatics                                                         nopita Par day1 avatalohl  supplies nomprise denestin prodution,
Porleienfeder.   Illino) - As of July first:  if not -vilable,                    imports les   oports, snd thonges in stoob   ret supplies selude
averag  of tw  end-yser ee tlmatee; 1960, 1976 sed 1975 dane.                        animla feed, esada, quantitiee neod In fend preve..slug sodlse
in dintributlen; reqolraata were etimated by PAO based on pyai-
ologinal ...ede for norml antirity sod lentil noneideriogevrn
Ponoto  eat    par_eureh      - Edd-year popesltisa par aqura kiln-             rental tenprature, body --iglta, age and sea dietributtone, of poPu-
eatr  100beiars of                                                             loeee.  ation, and alloelog 10% tel -,nts at honnehold level.
Poso'lno   dossti - sr    atnO  ox of sorb,c land - Cenpoted as shin   for         Per no pito  unyo protein (greamne       dayJ!) - Proteto coolant of Per
agricoicoral Isod only-                                        n~~~~~~~~~apita  e nes=up'py of fond per day; net aupply of food is defined 0
abnb,ve requtremente for .al mountrtea aetebliated by, oSmk Ro.nrei
Vita1 atatIatiOS                                                                       Researcb Services provide for a eOfomsc,eloan      of 60 gramso of total
Cr-do birth rot       thr coused - An-1 live births Per thousand of Oid-              protein per day, nod 20 gree   of enimal end pixies protein, or ehich 10
ytrpplto .   Yca -yaorn eti tc --sragn  onding in 1960 end 1970,            gr-e shouldbeeospa't.Iheee,.os                   -nir,       --
anod firo-ycor on--    enig   Ic 1971 for ei escemo,of 75 gr-a of total protein sod 23 gram                                     of aninal Protei  asa    vr
erode doath rao,   o   boee - th:  0001 ,Ideaths per thonasod of edys                 age for tt. worId, proposed by ff0 in the Third World food Snroy-
PoP,ico,cnyers            ~l     anergeeending in 1960 sod 1970, sod              per nant    ortai   erlfenaas          adoos-Ptinupplyofon
fin-earaesg       sdogt 1975 fo        otrcn       siee                              eie     ienola       no  Iile      indgai per. day
rats. /tou) - Annual deaths of infants under one year                           ratet I/tb~nu aso-     -.dcAt_ datbo par thousand in age group 1-4
orTgo pertlhousand)TI1i   SId-tie                                                     iio     iideitbi            ge group; eugevid atoindintor. of 'sal-
ifL. pptM- x.aAt b     firth  o,) - Average nuovlr of years of lire rssain-            nutrition.
igat bInto; onlly frIse-ea     ae-e-ge  -dlng 10 1960, 197/0 ond 2775
fnr dveloping onutrien -                                                            doto
roe - Aerge cutte  of lire dooghters a   rn    ill            XfZ    Foollnst ratio         ror     nol-Rrolnto             l  gs5
ban-tohrno          lrsprod..otiv  Period tf she exprta...aa presant age-            percentage of~ primary ell-g      pp    uretin  includes children aged
specifin fertility x-otes; usualy fiv-year avenge      ending in 1960,               6-11 years but ,kajusted for different 1angtbs of primary edunetion,
1070 and 1975 for developing unnries,                                                for countries viii nntrrse    education, amrolloevi omy anosd 100%
Poontac1ino  oroth raEl  ll - total  C-Cepo,v  Inna   grth rtes. of sOd-               stve sexe pupils are below or ehov    the effiota  school age,
yrrpopolotion forI1950-60, 1960-70 sod L9 7o-75.                                Adi    &td  rllassau  ratio - sonear   enool1 - foupoted ow shor; senerd-
Popolti     .roth rai.t   )-oro.       Computed like growth rain of tetal              ayestinreqol-es at ea            t en  years Of approve.d primary i-tirso,-
popuI.lato; dirfrernt defilIitove sof uhn areas roy effect -cmpare-                  tiens Pro-ides general, venatiocal or teanher training instruetion for
bullty of date among   oorln-pepilo of 12 in 17 yeasr of age; corrospondeons course                                                            are ganore1ly
ranPplaion Nof total) - Ratio of urban to totai Population;                      seluded.
dfr.dflrT6t~ainiloiiior irban cran    nay affnt nvomparcbilty of date              Year   of enbosilo  Prr   ed(ist and second levels) - Total yeoar of
se og-outries,                                                                    analig       t senaylv,votnalinstruction sa                 be partially
A.. atmtucraf     -a) - ebildres (0-11. years), woring age (15-614 years),             or nopi.etly     nld,
yeatrd     rs and over) as pern.ttagee of mid-rear population.             Vonatioca   soolsn      Iofscnes          Vonatioal institotiocs teolode
Aodpnencyratio - Ratio of populatie on nder 15 sod 65 end ever In                   toofliva, indusirtal    r niberptfregoc   h01h oparate indepeedant]7.
.thawf7  r agse =5thrnogh 64.:- -.   I, -:L  -                                        or as dapartavanta of secondary institution  -
Roenini  eeo    r   rtio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and oe                Adl4)ug,hJ)-Literate adults (able to read and rite) as
a":ge group o 15-6.yas                                          Parshtaje.    ORinAl a   t population aged 15 yers ed eer
Pao.lslaonab      saoenoe(essai           teen) - fxnrlstir-ttsier of
aona.ptorsof blrte 0entrl devins under aept-oe of national familyaR                     n
planeuing progreas ince Inosption                                                  AT~)     a   oo    aeae         Avrage cunbr of persona par rom   in oncuptd
Peodly slpacig - users (% of married sese)       .-tPenanags of earred                      iiih(V-ff5i            ra   ar-mn; dea1ings selode eno-parasfeanet
w Ors r Cnbi)d-bsa-ig age (Uhiyers) who oae birt-ib-ontro1 derioss                 str-uctures and onconopiad parts
to all narriad woa in sam     age group.                                           0oweV   d dealing   withou    ie    oe()-Rcuidocatea                   el
lg inurba  and rural- sswtotisd            rotieppdnt
facilities as perontgeofal        asuid deallinge.
fl5g4ejroI-J- - ptggpd) -F Maomilnally eotlva paerson, including                      mesa. to el1ctrio59     9  faldelns         -  onenioaldeling         sil
gros  anunse  opd but seluding ha,u  isesie  stdenta, si.;j               aectricity in liin   ,qarter as Percent of total dsellingd in urban
defiitions In vonicon    ountriow are sot conpnrabla,                                 -Je-al areas.
labor Corsi          ri utra(1  -Agricultural labor force (in farming,                F%   Lo~rliteq oc-nect.d to electrircity (    - Computed as ab-    for rural
forw   'U-ting -d       asperoentage of total labor fers.            ~           il   ogs  11.
Uhow     od    f labor foo)-        mriployed ore uanally defined as persons
a f    a sax           o tal  e job, out of a Job on a given day,               Cosii4i
Premained out of a Job, and sealing wnrk for a specified minormthou ..                                              -All typsoreivs for radio broad-
perlods.ot eaneading one wrk; nay not bs inomprable betwon countries                           geea      e     pe   hosndofopltn;scueu-
dee to diffarsel- defintiton  sf unasplopd sad cane-os of data, e.g.,licensed receiversit .unetrise and in years whens registration, of
aelynet offin    atatistios, sapl.   ures,coplsr unexployrvant                      radio seats wasin effect; data for recent years -iy net he rosperbla
insu......                                                                             lnos east coutries abollshd liouseing.-
PessxRrRrR(oftioi~~g~hen  -Pesanar ar  ecompliss antor cars seat-
loner   diiri1llo    - Perentge of prIvte income (both In cash and                      ljIivhii)ltesss                eldsoll         e,hearsea    and
kid) received by michest 5%1, ricabst 20%, pnrest 20%, and ponr.etmilitar                     vaIns..
1.%of bhne-holds.                                                                 rnar~tiijoz   swhv     ecar) -fannal conaumption of industrll, oolUese
ei.1 pubicfl -alpWslec1atrinitrin kilow,att hour par capital
Distrt vtino     ln    werhin      - Prcntages of land ewod by wealth-                  generl.ly based en pmnodatien data, wibu       lo   asn for losses In
fas  10  an  pores 10  oflad owes-                                            gride hut allowing for iporta and eapo.ta of laletrioity.
o   Fo Pr capita eannal consumption  kin lograti
-It  ontt         aisn - Population divided by number of preottoteng                  w1aG       rmf;          -o-is      lsntIprso             wpit
pW.a n     qualii       metot a medical scolol at university leve,



ANNEX I
page 3 of 4 pages
nkTA ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~   ~   ~~v
Actual                        ProJeted         1960-    1965 -    19 73 -   1976      Av976917/5         967
Av1967.69   19 72/73                        19765177/7  ~   1l90  /6  1965  19 70  19 76    1981
RATIONAL ACCOUNTIS
ICntant      172. 1973 Pies& Exchange Rates              Aver ag  Anal G2tRaeo                As Percent of GDY 
Gross Domestic Prodtuct            6,012     5,833     6,514       7,295     7,561     8,874       4.7                         4.1 7    98.5 10lu.8      102.0
Gains from Terms of Trd       +        9         -      -117 .      -145      -148      -150                                              1.5    -1.8     -2.0
Gross Domestic Incom~ae            r7~        7K        7Y         7T5       7fl                    .6      25        6.5       4.0    T7                 57
Import (incl. NF'8)                  879       747       703         722       724       810      20.6      6.8      0.2       2.7      14.4     11.0      9.8
Exports    "(import caPacity)        598       369       197         236       241       275      12.3    -14.6    -14.7        3.2       9.8     3.1      3.3
Resource Gap                         281      -,VA      -m           U1        *       -R                                                -4.6      7.9    6.5
Consumption Expenditures           5,668     5,817     6 , 43      7,062     7,324    .8,575       5.7      3.6       6.3       3.9      92.9   100.1     98.4
Investment        (jocl. stocks)     714       394       499         573       572       683      13.3      8.8      14.3      4.0      12.9       7.8     8.1
Domestic Savings                     433        16        -6          88        89       148       4.3     10.0      42.0      11.4       6.8    -0.1      1.6
National Savings                     416        32        10         110       107       160       8.7     20.5      24.1       8.6       7.1     0.2      1.9
l4E8lAMIIDIE TRADE                            Annual Data at Current Prices                                                             As Percent of Total
Tmports
Capital goods                        .       100       135         155       195       310         .        .      12.5      13.6        .      9.6     14.4
Intermediate goods (~s=3fuels)       .       176       386         383       405       645        ..       .       32.8     11.6         .     27.5     30.0
Fuels and related materials
of which:   Petroleum             .         23       155         145       164       256                        84.1      11.9        .      11.2     12.2
Cons    tion goods                          6Z .Zh                .,~        586       765        .        ..      16.7       6.0        ..    51.7     43.4
ToFlFrch . Mports (cif)          547       727     1,402       1,290     1,5       1,976                        23.9       9.5              07.      100.0
Exports
Primary producta (scl. fuels)       ..       145       119         165       177       254        .        ..       1.1       9.3        ..    42.5     41.6
Fuels and related materials
of which: Petroleim
Kamifactured Roods                195       239         223       235       356        .       ..       5.7      10.2        ..     57.5     58.4
Total March. Exports (o)           481       3-40      358         388B      412      -T                            31       9.1000                    10.
Tourism and Border, TraaLe
Merchandise Trade Indices                       Average 19.         100
Export Price Index                  61       100       132         118       124       170        ..       .       7.4       7.9
Import Price Index                  52       100       210         190       200       263        ..       .      25.0       6.8
Terms of Trade Index               118       100        63          62        62    .65            .       .     -14.0       1.0
Exports Volume Index               148       100        92         112       114       125        ..       .       1.7       2.3
VAtUE ADDED BY SECTOR               Annual Data at 1972- 73prices and Exchange Rates                Average Annual Growth Rates-        As Percent of Total
Agriculture                      3,542     3,403     3,712       4,224     4,342    4,983         .       ..       6.5       3.3        59      59       59
Indusitry and Mifning              420       412       466         491       513      612         .       .        5.3       4.5         7       7        7
Service                          2.050     1_848    2.146        2.367    2.486     3.021         .        .       8.8       5.0        34      34       34
Total                            6,012     5,663    6,324        7,082     7,341    8t,61                         -7.2       4-.0      100     100     T1700
RThIC FINANCE                                                                                                                             As Percent of GDP
(C~entral Go-vernment)
Current Receipts                   317       280      469          775       819        ..        .        .        40        ..       5.3     7.2     10.8
l en    S~trs365                           364       419          00       640        ..        .        .        18         ..      61      6.4      8.5
6~a~  avings               -48      -84        50         175       179        ..-0.8                                                ~
Other PUblic Sector                 .          .        .            .        .         .         .        .        .
Public Sector Investment           421      239       248          295      350        ..        .         .       7.3                 7.0     3.8     4.6
us $ milliant
CURREN   EXPENDITURE DETAITLS                 Actual                  Est,      Proj            DETAIL ON                             At Av.     1972/ 73 P and ER
As % Total Current Expend.)        1298970   1927      ~1974/5      1  6%    19   77         PUBLIC SECTOR                        First Plan      %of Total
Education                             ..       14.8      15.5        13.6      13.3          INVESTMENT PROGR73/7                              - 1977/78
other Social Services                 .         4.0       4.2         4.4       4.2          Social Sectors                             758         15.3
Agriculture and                                                                              Agriculture                              1,302         2.
Other Economic Services             .        11.2       7.2         6.8       6.7           Industry and Mining                     1,024          20.7
Administration and Defense            .        67.4      68.1        68.8      68.9           Power                                     529         10.7
Oither                                          2.7       5.0         6.4       6.9          Transport and communications               802         16.3
TtlCurrent Expenditures                   100.0     To-         1---      -oO0            Other                                   _.U_.Z!       _UiL.
________________ _______________ _______________ _______________ _____________T o taTotal pEx p e n di eres44,9    4 0        1 0 0.
SELECTEID INDICATORS                                 1960-      1965-    1973-    1977-         FINAN~CING
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)               1965       1970     1976    1981              Domestic Borrowing                     784         15.9
Average ICON                                           ..        .74     0. 89    1.95             Public S"ctor Savings               2,022          40.9
Dlport Elasticity                                      .        1.29     1.11    0.68              Program aid counterpart             1,009         20.4
?brginal D=kestic Savings Rate                         .        0.22     0.05    0.06              Foreign Project Aid                 1.125          U
Marginal National Savings Ratse.                                0.35     0.05    0.06              Total Financing                     4,940         100.0
IA3OR FORCE AND                                   Total Labor Force                                  Value Added Per Worker(1     72 - 73   Prices & 25c. Rates)
OUTPUT PER WORKER                  In Millions          % of Total           1961 - 73          In U.S.Dollars       Percent of A-ertge         19 70 - 73
1960/61     19 72/73 IL60/61    1972/73   Growth Rate          1969/70    19 72/ 73   1969/ 70   7L2/73     Growth Rate
Agr.iculture                        16.1        20.5       85        78         2.0               ..         166          ..76
Industry                            1.0          1.8        5         7        5.0                ..          29         ..        105
Service                              1.8         3.9      10        15         6.7                ..         474         ..        222
Total                      1~~~   ~   ~~~~~8-.9  26.2  1700  1700      28248                        2715        100       100-4.
* not applicable- nil or negligible
not available               -  less than half the smallest unit shown
Note: Figures are on fiscal year basis (July 1-June 30). Data prior to 1972/73 pertain to erstwhile East Pakistan
/1  These are original plan targets.



ANNIX I
Page 4 of 4 pAgep
Winso    XA rM    _      ef.a. b3]N             e Ut9e710
Ang. Ahmil
lytis4ted                             _      ooR &etthb JhSe
199170     y19v73       is a        197516      1976177                    1977/78    1978/79     1679/80     1990/81                 1974-11
a    rt 3g1UNMI OF PM2WTS
Roparts (tnel. NF)                      515        369          449           49          81 145t31                           588         652         724                      10.3
emael-K)                .63~~~~-19  *7        4479137                   144                         ,9       1.5 2      -_1935      -2,133                       9.8
Retouree Is3                                                     e r- M ) - ...-124  _378  -1 , 061 -92 5  -1,0            -1.164      -1,283      -1,409                      10.8
DeIreist (net)
Oirect Investment Income i
orker,' Remittanece                                                                                                   7 45  24  26  19  25  26         26
Corat TrenOfer  (et) I.                           4             4            4          1
___e_   _n_C                                       -333rrent -0 9Wt __6                                                     -T            3                                     ':7
Pr rste Direct Onctaeobnt                ..          -            _            _           -                         15        23          34          51                      39.9
Official Capital Granta                  ,,        482          393          228         266                        294       328         365         407                      11.9
Public M7LT Laea
Disbur,amenta                          ..         76          527          586         674                        747       841         869         928                       9.3
-Rac,rent.                             ,,           _-         -25          -78         -40                        -63       -99         -62         -62                      L6
Not Oisbur.ement.                       ,,         7ir          502          508         634                       684        742         807         866                      10.2
Othe,r rMT Loan1
Di.burweneft.                          .           76                                    ..          ..          ..                 ..
Net Diab,eaeto. 2 06 0to;0
Capital Tranoactio - n...1.               .        -280         272           16          33                                                    AC n  +1, 19 72.73  197I/75  957  16t
Charge in Not Reserves (- .    .cr....)  ..        -20         -192           43         -37        IERT 4ND L135T SMV
Gro.. R.-ee.a (Und p-ni.d)               ..        107          256          213         250        Pblic, Debt Out. & VLebor.ed      36       187       998        1.869      2,274
aRANT 41(0 LOAN4 DiMIfl48iPT
OTficial Dranto &: rant-like                        514         365          396         300          fLttrett 0e Public Debt          -         -        10           20         26
RetPaye,nto on Public Debt                          2 _  z5      75         40
Total Pabit Debt Serrice         -         -        35           95         66
P.blfo MlLr Loan.                                                                                    Otber Debt Service (not)        ..         ..        .            .
10RD                                  *            -            -            -           -         Total Dlbt Serric. (net)        ..         ..        ..           ..         .
IDA                                    ..         68          150          184         135
OAler Hultil.terul                     ,,          11          87           22         100        bbrde. on 26port Urapine  (%)
Oo-er-ments                            ..         204         678          311        460
Supplirrs                              ..          55           17           -           _          Publie Dabt Service             ..        ..       8.4         21.2       13.7
FUancal. In-titutiofl.                              -            -                                  Total Debt 35eriee              ..        ..21.2                            .7
3enda  ..  _   _          _          -          TL'SETorect hret. Inc.          ..        ..
P111-ic Lcane o.e.i.                   ..--                                         
Total Pubic 5112.7 2.0.d                            338         932          517         635       A6aroge Torre of Publi  Dabt
c total Debt Ousttarding on Dec 311975                         7nt. a9 S Prior Toer 113D       ..        ..       2.3          2.0        1.4
2    L   DblL  f                              Disbursed 0rn)             PerCent                        Snort. as S Prior Teer 1LD      ..        ..       5
World  aknk                                       5D 
IDA                                              295                     1S.2                      I711 Dabt Out. & Disbursed
Otbvr ulitilateral                                23                      1.4                            At S Pub71c Dtbt DhD          -         _       5.5          2.9        2.4
Govornoecto                                    1.141                     70.3                        t      % Pu3e Debi S     ce       -         _                    4.8        2.6
Ractnliec                                         97                     6.0 
Financia7 Institutiors                            11                      0.v                       DA Debt Out. & Disborsed
boods  D                                                                    .                           at  9 neblic Debt OhD          -       8.6      25.5         15.8       21.1
PTbSlt Lhbts n.e.i                                 - D                                               " a. S Public Debt Service                          3.1          2.6        5.2
Total Poblie 1(43. Debt                        T7       O       O       10.0
Other MtLT Debt.
Short-term Debt (dieb. only)
not tppttcable                         e   ataff estimate
.not ivatlble                          -    l or neligibhO
not available separately bat          --  1... then half the  -11st
included ID -Dt,1                         unit ohbos
/I  NeSotiations .r. underway b.t-n the CoGereet of Bngladeuh and varIou- donors concerning the *--utption of debt. contracted by Palktao before bangladesh became independent.
UJntil such neoonleinets ore ncsplsted it is not possible to estimate an-orotely bangladesh tota1 public debt or debt o.r.t..
October 1976



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
BANGLADESH
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
As of October 31, 1976
A. IDA Credits to Bangladesh
US$ Million net of
Credit                                                       Exchange Adjustment
Number   Year              Purpose                           Amount   Undisbursed
Four Credits Fully Disbursed                                 131.4          -
339      1972    Cyclone Area Reconstruction
(replaces Credit No. 228-PAK of 1971)     25.0         10.3
340      1972    Chandpur Irrigation II (replaces
Credit No. 184 of 1970)                   13.0          7.7
341      1972    Tubewells (replaces Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970)                                  14.0          3.9
343      1972    Telecommunications (replaces part
of Credit No. 145-PAK of 1969)             7.3          1.8
353      1973    Small-Scale Industry (replaces
Credit No. 192-PAK of 1970)                3.0          0.4
367      1973    Chittagong Water Supply (replaces
Credit No. 42-PAK of 1963)                 7.0          1.7
368      1973    Dacca Water Supply and Sewage (replaces
Credit No. 41-PAK of 1963)                13.2          1.4
381      1973    Foodgrain Storage (replaces Credit
No. 83-PAK of 1966)                       19.7          0.4
407      1973    Education (replaces Credit Nos. 49-PAK
and 87-PAK of 1964 and 1966)              21.0          9.0
408      1973    Highways (replaces Credit No. 53-PAK
of 1964)                                  25.0         15.6
409      1973    Technical Assistance                          4.0         2.7
410      1973    Cereal Seeds                                  7.5         6.7
424      1973    Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation         8.7         6.5
487      1974    Second Telecommunications                    20.0        19.2
515      1974    Imports Program III                          75.0         2.1
527      1975    Ashunganj Fertilizer                         33.0        28.4
533      1975    Population                                   15.0        14.7
542      1975    Barisal Irrigation                           27.0        26.9
591      1975    Imports Program IV                          100.0        26.3
605      1976    Karnafuli Irrigation                         22.0        19.2



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
BANGLADESH
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
As of October 31, 1976
A.   IDA Credits to Bangladesh (CONT'D)
US$ Million Net of
Credit                                                       Exchange Adjustment
Number   Year              Purpose                           Amount   Undisbursed
621      1976   Agricultural and Rural Training               12.0        11.9
622      1976   Technical Assistance II                        7.5         7.5
631      1976   Rural Development                             16.0        16.0
632      1976   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank                        25.0        25.0
SUBTOTAL                           652.3       265.3
Principal Repayment                                 0.4
Effective Credits held by Association             651.9
B.   IBRD Loans to Bangladesh
1087     1975    Consolidation Loan                          54.9          0
TOTAL                              707.15      265.3



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
1/
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION-
Cr. No. 339    Cyclone Area Reconstruction Project:   US$25.0 Million Credit
of October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Project performance for most subprojects has improved over the year.
While the project is still 2-1/2 years behind the original schedule, it is no
longer falling further behind. After a pause while the shelter design was
reevaluated, construction of cyclone shelters is now moving ahead. Although
Government intends to increase the number of shelters scheduled for construc-
tion this working season, supervision arrangements still require strengthening.
Four of the five primary roads are now completed with the fifth road, including
the installation of five bridges and ferries, scheduled for completion in 1978.
The IDA financed portion of the feeder road program is nearing completion; the
remainder of the feeder road works will be undertaken by the World Food
Program (WFP) when agreement is reached between WFP and Government. Most UHF
and VHF equipment for the telecommunications subproject have arrived. Erection
of the VHF towers has started. Construction of the UHF and microwave towers,
however, is seriously behind schedule. The fisheries subproject, after
serious initial delays, is showing encouraging progress. By the end of July
1976, 200 boats had been distributed to groups of local fishermen and another
200 boats were expected to be distributed by the end of August. All work on
the repair on new construction of inland water transport terminals is expected
to be completed by the end of 1976.
Cr. No. 340    Chandpur Irrigation II Project:   US$13.0 Million Credit of
October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The Project is about 30 months behind schedule due to major flooding,
work stoppages caused by 100% increase in construction labor costs, shortages
of cement, fuel, and inoperable construction equipment, ineffective management,
delays in provision of local funds and general inflation. While problems re-
main, substantial progress has been made recently both in physical construction
and agricultural extension. Manufacture of electrical and mechanical equipment
for the regulators and pumping plant has been completed and delivery is being
made to the sites. Construction of the regulator and pumping station is now
progressing well and the regulators are expected to be operational by February
1977. Construction of the flood protection embankment is now 96% complete.
The contract for low lift pumps was finally signed in July 1976 and first
delivery of pumps is expected in April 1977. Outstanding contractor claims
have recently been resolved.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of November 6, 1972;
Effective Date: January 13, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1976
Owing to a slow start, project implementation is about 18 months
behind schedule. However, well construction is now about 75% completed and
the remaining 700 wells are expected to be drilled during the forthcoming
1976/77 dry season. Pumphouse construction and engine/pump installation is
proceeding very slowly and is expected to continue through 1977. The agri-
cultural development component of the project, also behind schedule, is
expected to be incorporated into the proposed Minimum Package Project now
being appraised.
Cr. No. 343    Telecommunications Project;   US$7.3 Million Credit of November
15, 1972: Effective Date: January 17, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978
The Project was originally financed as part of Credit No. 145-PAK
of 1976, and goods and services valued at about US$2.2 million were received
in Dacca prior to suspension of disbursements. Three out of the four micro-
wave systems in the Project are under installation and are scheduled to be
commissioned by March 1976 and about one year behind schedule. The fourth
system is a replacement of a coaxial cable system in the original project.
This change was agreed to by IDA and was caused by price increases demanded
by the original contractor which made the choice of a microwave system more
economical. The bid invitation for this system was included with the
bids for microwave systems under Credit 487-BD. Even so, the system is
scheduled to be commissioned in late 1977 or early 1978. The Closing Date for
this Credit has been extended from December 31, 1975 to June 30, 1978.
Cr. No. 353    Small-Scale Industry Project; US$3.0 Million Credit of
January 19, 1973; Effective Date: May 14, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1977
Disbursements up to October 31, 1976 amount to approximately US$2.6
million. While the credit was fully committed by the end of 1974, agreements
by suppliers to provide equipment were cancelled in a few cases and new
suppliers had to be found. IDA therefore agreed to extend the closing date by
nine months to allow for disbursements under outstanding letters of credit. A
UNDP/UNIDO technical assistance project has made some limited progress toward
the reorganization of BSIC.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
Cr. No. 367    Chittagong Water Supply Project; US$7.0 Million Credit of
April 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 7, 1973
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
The Project was originally financed under IDA Credit No. 42-PAK of
1963. By December 1971, when disbursements were suspended, US$3.3 million
had been disbursed. The current Credit became effective June 7, 1973. After
very little movement during the first two years of the project because of
organizational and procurement difficulties, the progress of work in the past
year has been satisfactory and disbursements on the project are expected to
be completed by December 1977, some 2 1/2 years after the schedule established
in 1973. Tariffs were increased 50% effective July 1975 and with improvements
in billings and collections, the revenue in the first 9 months of FY76 was up
by about 60%. However, WASA's financial problems were still acute because of
high operating costs and the large quantity of non-revenue water. In July
1976 the Government agreed to an action program to improve the Water Authority's
efficiency of operations and instituted a further increase in tariffs, which
combined with further improvements in billings and collections should enable
the Water Authority to be financially viable until June 30, 1977. At that
time, however, when operating costs are expected to go up on completion of the
project and when the Authority must begin to repay the Government loans, in
respect to the IDA credits, a further increase in tariffs is expected to be
required. The Association has therefore agreed to a second extension of the
Closing Date to June 30, 1977 and informed the Government that consideration
of a further extension beyond June 30, 1977 would be dependent upon further
actions taken to keep the Authority financially viable.
Cr. No. 368    Dacca Water and Sewerage Project; US$13.2 Million Credit of
April 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 7, 1973, Closing Date:
June 30, 1977
The Project was originally financed by IDA Credit No. 41-PAK of
1963. By December 1971, when disbursements were suspended, US$6.0 million
had been disbursed. The work has progressed at a slow rate but will improve
now that several civil works contracts are under way and tubewell materials
and equipment have been delivered. Right-of-way acquisition and contractor
performance continue as major problems. Management and labor problems con-
tinue, and financial operations and the financial condition of the WASA
remains weak. The Government has increased the water rates by 50%, effective
July 1, 1975, and with improvements in billings and collections the revenue
in the first 9 months of FY76 was up by about 120%. However, WASA's financial
problems were still acute due to high operating costs and the large quantity
of non-revenue water. In July 1976 the Government agreed to an action program
to improve the Water Authority's efficiency of operations and instituted a
further increase in tariffs, which combined with further improvements in
billings and collections should enable the Water Authority to be financially
viable until June 30, 1977. At that time, however, when operating costs are



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
expected to go up on completion of the project and when the Authority must
begin to repay the Government loans, in respect to the IDA credits, a further
increase in tariffs is expected to be required. The Association has therefore
agreed to a second extension of the Closing Date to June 30, 1977 and informed
the Government that consideration of a further extension beyond June 30, 1977
would be dependent upon further actions taken to keep the Authority financially
viable.
Cr. No. 381     Foodgrain Storage Project; US$19.7 Million Credit of May 18,
1973; Effective Date:   July 17, 1973; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977
The Project is also financed by credits from the Kingdom of Sweden
totalling 30.0 million Kroner.   The project was originally financed by US$19.2
million IDA Credit No. 83 of 1966 and a 25 million Kroner credit from the
Kingdom of Sweden. The project was almost completed at the time of Bangladesh's
independence and 95% of the reactivated IDA and Swedish credits was to be used
for repaying the previous credits. The remaining funds (US$1.25 million from
IDA and about US$0.25 equivalent from Sweden) were to be used to pay outstand-
ing bills for work completed prior to the war, completion of some supporting
facilities for the grain storage silos, replacement of spares and equipment
damaged during the war, and a feasibility study for a second grain storage
project. Contracts have been signed for construction and supervision of
the jetty modifications. In order to finance cost increases and design
improvements in the jetty modification Sweden has recently agreed to increase
its financing for the project from 25.0 million Kroner to 30.0 million Kroner.
The feasibility study for a second grain storage project was completed in
October 1975. Supervision missions had reported serious deterioration in the
silos mechanical equipment due to inadequate maintenance, inadequacies in the
management and staffing of the Directorate of the Silos is inadequate and
delays in ordering spare parts increasing the risk of breakdown. In response
to these findings, the Government agreed inter alia (i) to employ consultants
to improve foodgrain storage management, (ii) to release local funds required
for funds ancillary civil works for the project, (iii) to fill all managerial,
technical, and administrative vacancies by June 30, 1976, and (iv) to finalize
the contract award for jetty construction by June 30, 1976. Based upon these
assurances the Association agreed that the Closing Date for this Credit which
had originally been December 31, 1974 be extended for a second time from
December 31, 1975 to June 30, 1976. The Government was informed that any
further extensions of the Closing Date required to complete the project would
be considered only if the Government has met its commitments concerning steps
to be taken to improve silo maintenance and operations. Since January 1976
significant prog_ess has been made in constructing ancillary civil works,
staffing the project agency, putting one silo back into operation, obtaining
consulting services for a silo maintenance improvement program,. and awarding a
contract for improvements in the Chittagong silo jetty. On the basis of this
progress, the Association agreed to a third extension of the Closing Date to
September 30, 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
Cr. No. 407    Education Prolect; US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date: June 30,
1978
This project was originally financed by Credits 49-PAK and 98-PAK
and by December 1971, when disbursements were suspended, US$7.7 million had
been disbursed out of the US$17.5 million total of the two credits. Credit
407-BD included US$3.5 million additional financing to help the Government
meet part of the increase in total project cost. Progress on the Agricul-
tural University portion of the project was delayed initially due to difficul-
ties in reaching agreement with the consultant architects on a revised contract.
Construction has also been delayed due to shortage of building material, de-
lays in preparation of equipment lists and furniture designs. Implementation
of this component is 58% complete and continues to be about two years behind
schedule due to past delays.   However, significant progress has been made
in the last six months, and essential agreements have also been reached to
maintain this progress. The academic buildings now under construction are
expected to be completed by June 1977 and the remaining works by March 1979,
nine months after the Closing Date of June 30, 1978. The University has
recently taken some steps to improve the relevance of its agricultural train-
ing and research programs to Bangladesh's practical problems in agricul-
tural and rural development. However, further steps in this direction are
needed. The technical education portion of the project is about 90% com-
plete and 18 months behind schedule due to past delays, but this component of
the project is still expected to be completed about a year before the Closing
Date. The graduates are facing severe problems of unemployment and the cur-
riculum needs revision to make it more relevant to job requirements. Attempts
to improve the relevance of the technical education program are being made by
a special curriculum committee.
Cr. No. 408    Highways Project; US$25.0 Million of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date:  September 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977
The project was originally financed by IDA Credit No. 53-PAK. By
December 1971, when disbursements were suspended, US$3.62 million had been
disbursed, out of the original credit of US$22.5 million. Credit 408-BD
adds US$2.5 million to the original credit amount, in order to help the
Government meet part of the increase in total project cost as a result of
currency realignments. Four construction contracts were signed in September
1973 for the Sitalakhya Bridge and the Feni Section of the Dacca/Chittagong
road worth about US$9.2 million. A fifth contract with consultants for
construction supervision was signed in February 1974 but they were in the
field earlier. Shortage of spare parts, administrative delays and deficien-
cies in some contractors performance have delayed certain elements of the
project. Progress on construction of the Sitalakhya Bridge is improving
and it is expected to be completed in early 1978. The paving of the Ferry
bypass road is not likely to start before January 1978 due to delays in com-
pletion of the two out of three contractors. However, the total overall
project cost increase is considerably less, being about 25%. Disbursements,
which in the past have been slow, show signs of improvements.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
Cr. No. 409    Technical Assistance Project; US$4.0 Million Credit of
June 29, 1973; Effective Date: August 20, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977
After a slow start, the Government has over the last two years
taken fuller advantage of the funds available under this credit for pre-
investment planning, feasibility studies and technical assistance for agencies
involved in project planning and implementation. Contracts have been signed
with consultants for thirteen subprojects with an allocation from this Credit
of about $3.6 million. Selection of consultants for one additional subproject
is currently in progress. Completed studies financed by this project have
played a key role in the preparation of the Ashuganj Fertilizer Project,
the Rural Development Project and two other projects which are under consider-
ation for FY77. While credit funds are fully committed, some of the studies
financed will take up to two years to complete. The Closing Date for this
Credit was extended by two years to December 31, 1977.
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project; US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: January 30, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1977
Although the project is about 20 months behind schedule,implemen-
tation has improved considerably in recent months. Because of severe price
escalation, the schedule of disbursement of the credit has been modified
to concentrate IDA financing on imported goods and services, leaving to the
Government the major share of the local costs. The contract for procurement
of processing plants is expected to be signed shortly and tenders for agricul-
tural machinery have recently been evaluated. After substantial initial
delays, the Project Evaluation Proformas have been approved and staffing for
both the Agricultural Development Corporation and the Seed Certification
Agency is proceeding. Problems over the site of the Seed Certification Agency
have been resolved and a suitable site has been finalized. Project implementa-
tion is going forward on the seed production farms with land levelling,
tubewell boring and irrigation channel improvements underway.
Cr. No. 424    Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation Project; US$8.7 Million
Credit of August 10, 1973, as amended by Amending Agreement
of October 17, 1975; Original Credit Effective Date:
September 27, 1973; Supplementary Credit Effective Date:
March 19, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The Amending Agreement of October 17, 1975 increased the amount
of the credit from US$4.1 million to US$8.7 million to finance the new oil
transfer system at Chittagong. The implementation of the portion of the
original project allocated for procurement of spare parts and equipment has
been slow due to: (i) the initial lack of familiarity of the agencies with
IDA procedures; (ii) slowness in reaching decisions as to which spare parts
had the highest priority; and (iii) slow preparation of required documenta-
tion for procurement by various operating agencies. Progress has now improved



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
and 90% of the funds allocated for procurement of spare parts and equipment
have now been committed. Regarding the repair of the Chittagong off-shore
oil terminal, detailed investigations indicated that the damage was more
severe than previously believed. Consultants were appointed late in 1973 to
study alternative technical solutions. An Amending Agreement modifying the
project description in line with the consultants' recommendations, and pro-
viding a supplementary credit of US$4.6 million, was approved by the Executive
Directors on September 16, 1975 and signed on October 17, 1975. Contracts for
procurement of used tankers are being negotiated on the basis of quotations
obtained from international brokers.
Cr. No. 487    Second Telecommunications Project; US$20.0 Million Credit of
June 26, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
The project is about a year behind schedule on some items, particu-
larly relating to long distance service due to delays in procurement. How-
ever the project is still expected to be completed before the Closing Date.
Local telephone expansion had lagged about a year behind schedule due to
slower than expected deliveries from the local factory (hampered by labor
unrest). However, the factory production has now picked up and the shortfall
in project targets is expected to be made up by the end of 1976. According
to present cost estimates, foreign costs are likely to be within the original
estimates. The local costs will increase from Tk 470 million to Tk 1185
million due to higher labor and construction costs and the imposition of a
20% tax on all imported goods. Under the Credit Agreement, BTT is to estab-
lish a modern accounting system and is to be transformed into a Board with
adequate autonomy. Accounting consultants have been appointed and have
commenced work on valuation of assets and establishing a modern accounting
system. The Board was legally established in August 1975, but the ordinance
was revoked almost immediately thereafter. A new ordinance establishing a
Telecommunications Board has now been promulgated and the Board came into
operation on July 1, 1976.
Cr. No. 515    Third Imports Program; US$75 Million Credit of October 9,
1974; Effective Date: October 10, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976
As of October 31, 1976 all credit funds have been disbursed except
for $2.1 million, most of which is committed under outstanding letters of
credit. The credit is expected to be fully disbursed by the Closing Date.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
Cr. No. 527    Ashuganj Fertilizer Project; US$33 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975; Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Project is being cofinanced by Asian Development Bank, KfW, and the
Governments of Iran, Switzerland, UK and US, providing a total of $109 million
equivalent in addition' to the IDA credit. Site preparation work including the
necessary dredging and filling was completed on schedule. However, it appears
that the sand filling could be susceptible to liquefaction in the event of earth
tremors.  Further preparation of or a change in the site may prove necessary.
Investigations to determine the nature of requisite additional site and design
foundation work are underway. Currently the project is about eighteen months
behind schedule due primarily to initial slow progress in a) placing orders
for time - critical items and b) planning for construction. Revised cost
estimates reflecting project costs somewhat higher than the estimates made at
the time of appraisal. became available at the end of October 1976. However,
the estimates do not take account of additional costs and delays which could
result from the investigations of measures required to protect the plant
against earth tremors. There have been difficulties in the relationships be-
tween the project executing agency and the service firms which are assisting
it in project implementation.
Cr. No. 533    Population Project:   US$15 Million Credit of February 11,
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Project is being cofinanced by six co-lenders providing a total of
about $25 million equivalent in addition to the IDA credit. Notwithstanding
the delay in declaring the Credit effective, the Government has made substan-
tial progress in project implementation. The organizational structure of the
Population Control and Family Planning Division (body responsible for the pop-
ulation program) has been defined and its headquarters staff has been placed
in position; and the field staff is being appointed. The Population Program
Officers, who are responsible for the population programs of five non-health
ministries, have been trained abroad and have initiated schemes of their
respective ministries. The Building, Planning and Design Unit of the Ministry
of Health, with the assistance of consultants, has completed a master plan for
the project's construction program. The Government is proceeding with the
selection of required consultants and advisors for other parts of the project.
However, because of institutional problems, the implementation-of a few proj-
ect components is some months behind schedule.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project; US$27 Million of April 29, 1975;
Effective Date: February 24, 1976; Closing Date: Decem-
ber 31, 1980
The project is behind schedule due to delays in hiring project
consultants and in assignment of Water Development staff members to the
project. The staffing position improved in March 1976 and field survey
and design activities are now progressing. However, the staffing position



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
has deteriorated recently due to loss of experienced design staff. Principal
field activities have been survey work, procurement of materials and housing
and office construction. Two pilot areas have been developed which have been
useful in testing the project concept and in identifying potential problems.
Cr. No. 591    Fourth Imports Program; US$100 Million of November 25, 1975;
Effective Date: December 29, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977
Provision was made to reimburse the Government for up to US$10.0
million for eligible imports paid for after July 1, 1975, but prior to the
date of the Credit. Disbursements amounted to US$74.0 million as of November 6,
1976 and in addition letters of credit guaranteed by IDA amount to US$14.3 mil-
lion. The remaining US$11.0 million represents letters of credit below $20,000
for which IDA guarantee have not been requested. All orders are expected to
be received by the Closing Date.
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project; US$22 Million of January 28, 1976;
Effective Date: February 24, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
The project is behind schedule due to delays in hiring project
consultants. The consultants for the irrigation portion of the project have
now been hired and began work in September. Construction material procurement,
land acquisition, office construction and field survey work has progressed
satisfactorily, but the delay in hiring consultants has postponed commencing
final design work and preparation of construction tender documents. The
fisheries component of the project has made virtually no progress due to
delays in hiring consultants and in the appointment of fisheries research
officers. Due to delays in preparation of items of reference the invitation
to consultants to submit proposals was not issued until July 1976. Consul-
tants proposals were received on August 31 and are currently under considera-
tion.
Cr. No. 621    Agricultural and Rural Training Project; US$12.0 Million
of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Overall, project implementation is on schedule. The Government, with
the assistance of recently appointed architectural consultants, is attempting
to expedite construction so as to complete a sufficient number of training
facilities to meet immediate requirements of extension staff. Most sites,
with the exception of those for the Thana substations, have been selected and
the Government is now proceeding with acquisitions. Progress has also been
achieved in the preparation of sketch plans for project buildings. The Govern-
ment is currently reviewing ways to redesign the original plans of the Bogra
Rural Development Academy to more economic standards. An IDA project review
mission visited Bangladesh in August 1976 to discuss with concerned Government
agencies the project's construction and educational programs, in particular,
on ways to fit the project within the new approaches to extension now being
adopted by the Government.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
Cr. No. 622     Second Technical Assistance Project; US$7.5 Million of
April 8, 1976; Effective Date: April 14, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Negotiations have been invited for consultants to undertake the
first subproject authorized under this credit, a water development study of
the Southwest region.
Cr. No. 631    Rural Development Project; US$16.0 million of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
Some progress has been achieved in compiling necessary data on the
agricultural credit situation in the project area and overdue agricultural
debts are being processed according to the guidelines agreed upon between
the Government and IDA. Pump groups have started being reorganized into
cooperatives under the responsibility of the Government's Integrated Rural
Development Program. As part of a nationwide effort to revitalize the exten-
sion system, modifications are being introduced to the project's agricultural
extension system; the Association expects to monitor with the Government
progress in the introduction of new extension approaches in the project area
and in other parts of Bangladesh and to work out further modifications
accordingly.
Cr. No. 632    Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project; US$25.0 million of May 20,
1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
The Credit was signed on June 3, 1976 and deadline for effec-
tiveness was originally established at September 6, 1976. However, more time
than estimated was required for meeting the conditions of effectiveness, in-
cluding in particular the negotiation and signature of rescheduling agreements
with jute manufacturing enterprises owing funds to BSB. Acceptable evidence
of the completion of this condition was received on November 8, 1976.



ANNEX III
BANGLADESH
FIFTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                   People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount:                      US$50 million equivalent
Terms:                       Standard
Project Description:        To make available foreign exchange for the import
of industrial components, chemicals, raw materials,
spare parts and industrial materials to enable
selected high priority industries to maintain or
expand their production.
Procurement
Arrangements:                Procurement will be by the Trading Corporation of
Bangladesh, the public Sector Corporations on be-
half of industrial enterprises and the Chief Con-
troller of Imports and Exports. For procurement
of all goods exceeding US$100,000 (except for pro-
prietary items) offers from a minimum of three
suppliers will be invited. For imports under
US$100,000 normal commercial channels will be used.
Eligible industries are shown in Annex IV.
Estimated
Disbursements:                                 FY77           FY78        FY79
First Quarter       0              15           5
Second Quarter      0              10
Third Quarter       20              5
Fourth Quarter      15              5
35             35            5



ANNEX IV
BANGLADESH
FIFTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
RECOMMENDED CATEGORIES AND CEILINGS
(in US$ million)
Maximum Amount
Average Estimated        of the Credit
Annual Imports         that can be
CATEGORY                     FY1977 and FY1978         Withdrawn
Industry: Raw materials, spare
parts, chemicals, components and
packaging materials for:
1.   Jute Industry                       12.5                   10.0
2.   Textile Industry                    80.0                  35.0
3.   Paper and Board Industry            12.0                    7.0
4.   Fertilizer Industry                 21.0                   12.0
5.   Steel and Foundry Industry          30.0                   18.0
6.   Export-oriented Industries
(frozen shrimp, tea processing
and leather tanning)                7.0                   5.0
7.   Chemicals and Pharmaceutical
Industry (excluding proprietary
items)                             40.9                   5.0
Construction Activities:
8.   Cement and raw materials for-
cement manufacture including
packaging materials and spare
parts and other intermediate
building materials.                 30.0                   18.0
TOTAL            233.4
Note: It has been agreed (Schedule 1 paragraph 2(d) of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement) that at least half of the Credit be disbursed
against Categories 1, 2, and 3 combined.
December 7, 1976



ANNEX V
Page 1
BANGLADESH
FIFTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
INDUSTRY IN BANGLADESH
Main Trends in the Sector
i.        The manufacturing sector, although accounting at present for only
7-8% of Gross Domestic Product, is an important element in the Bangladesh
economy. It produces basic consumer goods, provides agriculture with fer-
tilizer and other key inputs, accounts for almost two-thirds of export earn-
ings and has an important bearing on the Government budget. The basic struc-
ture of manufacturing industry has changed little since independence. Large
and medium scale enterprises, mainly in the public sector and in branches such
as jute, cotton textile, tobacco, tea, sugar and pharmaceuticals, represent
about 65% of the total value added in industry.   Handloom weaving and food
processing units constitute a major portion of the small-scale and cottage
sector.
ii.       After independence, the ownership and management of "abandoned"
units were transferred to the Government. In addition, all jute, cotton tex-
tile and sugar mills were nationalized. At present the public sector, in-
cluding those units under the former East Pakistan Industrial Development
Corporation, comprises about 400 units with about 330,000 workers organized
under several public sector corporations.
iii.      Industrial performance during the four years since independence
has been adversely affected by inexperienced management, disrupted marketing
channels, inadequate infrastructure and labor unrest. The effect on indus-
trial performance of these basic difficulties has been aggravated greatly by
shortages of foreign exchange. Recently, low consumer demand, a consequence
of the Government's stabilization program, has affected a number of industries.
The overall index of industrial output has yet to reach the pre-independence
level, and productive efficiency remains at a low level in most branches.
After achieving about 90% of the pre-independence level during 1973/74, total
industrial output has shown little improvement. Output declined by 1-2%
during 1974/75, but is provisionally estimated to have increased by 5% in
1975/76. However, performance differs greatly between industries. See para-
graphs vi - xvi below and Annex X.
iv.       During 1975/76, the performance of the export-oriented industries,
primarily agriculture-based, was generally favorably affected by the devalua-
tion in May 1975 and by improvement in world market conditions. Further ex-
pansion of output and exports of these branches will be dependent upon develop-
ment of more aggressive marketing efforts, particularly in the case of jute,
and a carefully selected blend of investments for balancing, modernization
and rehabilitation of existing capacity as well as for some expansion.



ANNEX V
Page 2
v.        On the other hand, the recent performance of those branches essen-
tially oriented toward domestic markets has been mixed.     In part, this has
been due to the fall in consumer demand reflecting the decline in recent years
in disposable income as well as the anti-inflationary measures taken within
the economic reform package which accompanied devaluation. Declines in world
market prices for many key commodity imports accompanied by some liberaliza-
tion of import procedures have reduced the raw material supply constraints to
output expansion. However, controls on prices and on distribution, inflexible
foreign exchange allocation procedures 1/ and other administrative arrangements
in part adopted as a means of coping with the severe scarcities that prevailed
earlier, have continued adversely to affect activities. Some liberalization
and improvements in procedures have been adopted recently but efforts to re-
move these bottlenecks to efficient utilization of existing resources must be
intensified.
The Present Situation and Prospects for Major Branches
vi.       The jute industry, contributing about one-third of the value added
in the organized manufacturing sector and employing about 200,000 workers,
experienced several difficulties during 1974/75. Due to uncompetitive export
prices and a recession in world demand, exports of jute manufactures in
1974/75 at 380,000 tons were 13% lower than in 1973/74. Low volumes of pro-
duction and an over-valued exchange rate had adversely affected the profit-
ability of the jute industry and resulted in substantial deficits for most
jute mills.
vii.      The devaluation of the Taka in May 1975 was intended inter alia
to improve the competitive position of Bangladesh jute in international mar-
kets and to help the jute industry solve the serious financial difficulties
encountered since independence. Devaluation enabled the Government to reduce
export prices to a level which, in prevailing market conditions, maintained
sales and enhanced the competitiveness of jute products with synthetics.
During the 10-month period from April 1975 to February 1976 export prices of
jute goods (in US dollars) declined by 26% for hessian, 33% for sacking and
17% for carpet backing. For the first time in many years jute goods were
priced competitively vis-a-vis synthetic substitutes. Improved price competi-
tiveness, as well as recovery in world markets, enabled the jute industry to
improve its output significantly. Export sales of jute goods during 1975/76
amounted to 542,500 tons, an increase of 39% over the previous year. Total
exports reached about 441,000 tons, the highest volume since independence al-
though still 57,000 tons below the peak reached in 1969/70. Production rose
only 8%, however, since there were large accumulated stocks to be cleared.
Despite the improved market position and increased output the jute industry
continued to incur large deficits and steps to improve the industry's financial
performance continue to require urgent attention.
1/   A study of the Import Control Systems is currently underway assisted by
consultants financed under Credit 409-BD.



ANNEX V
Page 3
viii.     The short-term prospects for the jute industry are reasonably good.
Export demand for the major categories of jute products has been recovering.
Export sales of carpet backing are benefiting particularly from the recovery
in the automobile industry and to a lesser extent in new housing construction
in the United States. Orders for hessian are picking up, reflecting the favor-
able effects of economic recovery in developed countries and improved price
competitiveness. Demand for sacking, after experiencing a particularly severe
decline, also shows signs of recovery; by volume this is the country's largest
jute product. The overall price relationship between jute and rice which
developed last year should lead to a high level of raw jute production and
ensure adequate raw material supplies for the industry at reasonable prices
in 1976/77. Yet there remain a number of areas for further improvement, to
attain pofitability and strengthen the long-term viability of the Bangladesh
jute industry. The specific measures to achieve these objectives, agreed to
under the previous and the present import credit are discussed in Part III of
this report.
ix.       Other export industries, with the exception of the paper industry,
have shown improvement during 1975/76. Exports of "wet blue" leather have
benefited from a significant increase in export price that occured when other
major producing countries banned exports of this type of semi-finished leather.
The tea industry, whose profitability has been affected favorably by the
devaluation of the Taka, showed a slight improvement in 1975/76 over the
previous year. Export earnings from frozen seafood increased considerably
during 1975/76 as the catch as well as the export price rose. However,
paper and newsprint are still suffering from a lack of export demand as ex-
plained in Annex VIII. For the first time 20,000 tons of molasses were ex-
ported during 1975/76.
x.        Tea produced in Bangladesh is used mainly for blending in the
export market. While there has been a slight decline in export prices, ex-
ternal demand has not been severely affected by the current recession in
world markets. Thus, the short-term prospect for exports will depend on the
level of tea production, which is expected to remain approximately the same
as in the past few years.   However, productivity in the tea industry remains
at a low level. Improvements in efficiency may require replanting of tea
bushes and balancing and modernization of factories. Only a small portion of
the total catch of shrimps and prawns is exported, mainly to Japan, the United
States and Western Europe. Most of the catch is accounted for by small oper-
ations, scattered over the country, and is marketed locally, not reaching the
freezing plants located at Khulna and Chittagong. With continued buoyant
demand in world markets, export prospects depend mainly on the efforts to
increase supply to the processing centers. There is need for using larger
boats, particularly those which carry out offshore fishing, as well as for
replacement and balancing of the freezing plants to improve their efficiency.
xii.      Leather tanning is of particular interest as an export because
Bangladesh has an excellent local raw material base of goat skins and cow
hides. The potential of the industry for earning foreign exchange could be
enlarged substantially by developing capacity for processing finished leather.



ANNEX V
Page  4
The study by the Association of this sub-sector 1/ noted that the recent ex-
pansion in exports of semi-finished ("wet-blue") leather (mainly from private
sector tanneries) had been made possible by the export incentive system and
that it was necessary to adopt a set of differential incentive rates favoring
increased processing. In the light of this recommendation, the Government
recently revised the system, increasing the amount of the export performance
licenses for more processed leather products. In addition, the study noted
that the poor performance of the public sector tanneries, representing
"abandoned" properties, resulted in large measure from lack of experience and
technical skills; in these circumstances, it would be advantageous to dis-
invest most of these enterprises and to obtain for the remaining plants bila-
teral and/or private foreign technical assistance in leather processing and
marketing of finished leather. Steps have been taken to implement this strategy.
xii.      The cotton textile industry, which is the second largest industry
branch in Bangladesh and has a protected domestic market, had shown a steady
increase in output since independence. The 1974/75 output of 101 million lbs.
for yarn and 86 million yds. for cloth was the highest since independence and
actually exceeded the 1969/70 level in the case of cloth. However, largely
due to a rigid distribution system and an inadequate pricing policy, the
sales of both cotton yarn and cloth had lagged behind production and the
stocks of finished products had increased. At the end of June 1975 the stock
of cotton yarn and cloth in the textile mills represented some 23% and 28%
respectively, of the total production during 1974/75.
xiii.     In the course of 1975/76, several steps were taken by the Government
to reduce stocks to more normal levels: virtually all counts of yarn and all
varieties of cloth have been allowed for sale directly by the mills to any
dealer, without restrictions on quantity or price. Previously, the distribu-
tion of both yarn and cloth was carried out by government agencies at prices
fixed by the Government. As a result, the prices of yarn and cloth have been
reduced slightly and sales are showing significant improvement particular-
ly in the case of cotton yarn. However, in view of the high stocks of finished
products, output has been reduced and, as a consequence, production during
1975/76 in the cotton textile industry is provisionally estimated to have been
10% less than in the previous year.
xiv.      In the case of cement, production in 1974/75, at 143,000 tons, was
sharply higher than that achieved in the previous year, because the Chittagong
Clinker Grinding Plant began operations in July 1974. A substantial increase
in activity in 1975/76 was expected. But output increased only to 160,000
tons. Allowing for normal break-in time, production at Chittagong was ex-
pected to rise to about two-thirds of its rated capacity of 300,000 tons/year
and the Chattak plant was to achieve full capacity utilization at some 90,000
tons; while Chattak was able more or less to reach its target, Chittagong
operated at only about 25% of its capacity. The main constraint on the latter
has been the lack of demand; the mechanisms established to monitor develop-
ments in this branch, as well as policies for pricing output, have not been
1/ See Report 1219-BD, of November 30, 1976.



ANNEX V
Page 5
sufficiently flexible to permit adjustments in the flow of imports which had
been planned on the assumption of a much higher level of demand than actually
developed. While the Chittagong plant was established to reduce imports of
the finished product, it was estimated that imports equivalent to almost 40%
of consumption would be required and provision was made for that supply.
Overall demand for cement failed to reach expected levels and excess supplies
appeared in the market; because the product of the Chittagong plant had not
yet achieved widespread consumer acceptance, it had no choice but to reduce
output in the face of growing unsold stocks, particularly since the existing
price policy established a fixed price at all locations in the country re-
gardless of origin and transportation costs.
xv.       A similar situation prevailed in the steel industry in 1975/76.
Ingot steel production at the Chittagong Steel Mill (CSM) through 1974/75 had
been essentially constrained by shortages of foreign exchange for the basic
inputs required (pig iron and scrap), practically all of which are imported;
output was about 75,000 tons in both 1973/74 and 1974/75, less than one-third
of rated capacity but probably about half of effective capacity. 1/ As a
result of the larger allocations of foreign exchange made available for indus-
trial use in early 1975 and the declines in raw material prices, the supply
of inputs improved substantially. In the first half of 1975/76, ingot output
increased but the increase in sales did not match that of output and unsold
stocks of finished products rose sharply. In the period January-June 1976
ingot production was cut back; for the year as a whole output is provisionally
estimated at 90,000 tons. CSM attempted to sell billets to private re-rolling
units. However, the efforts were unsuccessful, because, as a result of in-
creases in import allocations, these enterprises also accumulated stocks or
had on order large quantities of imported billets sufficient to meet their
requirements for the next year to 18 months. The study by the Association has
recommended more timely monitoring of the demand and supply situation by the
authorities allocating foreign exchange and a more flexible price policy, to
insure optimal use of local billet production facilities.
xvi.      Fertilizer production in 1975/76 rose substantially, largely because
the Ghorasal urea plant which was damaged in September 1974 resumed produc-
tion in June 1975. Production at the TSP complex which began in 1974/75 also
showed improvement but remained well below both the target and rated capacity.
However, because demand turned out to be considerably less than estimated at
the beginning of the year and imports of finished products continued, the
industry was confronted with huge unsold stocks; the resulting cash shortage
was intensified by the large operating deficit arising from the sales prices
for the products being fixed by Government at levels well below their produc-
tion costs. This situation was partially corrected in April 1976, when prices
for domestically produced urea and TSP were raised to levels sufficient to
cover costs of production.
1/   See the special study dealing with the steel industry in Report
1219-BD, dated November 30, 1976.



ANNEX V
Page 6
Principal Policy Issues
xvii.     The key policy issues in the industrial sector center around: (i)
increasing the operating efficiency of existing plants in the public sector;
(ii) raising private investment; and (iii) improving the choice of investments
in the light of economic priorities. As the public sector accounts for two-
thirds of the value added in industry, the first of these areas commands the
highest priority. One of the most urgent needs is to obtain better performance
in the management of these facilities.
xviii.     Following independence, the public corporations and the individual
enterprises operated under a presidential order which specified that they
would be treated essentially as any other agencies of the Government. The
high degree of dependence on Government which resulted from this order created
numerous barriers to efficient operation. Government tended to wield excessive
influence on all personnel, financial, and operational matters; in effect, the
public corporations were treated like ministerial departments. Corporation
directors and some enterprise managers were civil servants or were treated as
such; they were appointed by the Government's Establishment Division and sub-
ject to transfer according to the normal civil service rules. Sales prices,
foreign exchange allocations, credit ceilings, recruitment of different cate-
gories of staff, production targets, and purchasing and marketing procedures
were determined to a large extent in the various ministries concerned leaving
to corporation and enterprise managers little responsibility and even less
authority for decisions on operations. Moreover, Government policies espe-
cially as they related to pricing, employment and financial matters, were
frequently inconsistent with sound commercial operation and efficient
production of the public corporations.
xix.      The Government is aware of the problems of public corporation
organization and policies. On May 15, 1976, the present Government issued a
set of guidelines on the relationship between Government and Autonomous Bodies/
Corporations and between the Autonomous Bodies/ Corporations and enterprises
under them. Stated in general terms so as to be capable of adaptation to cor-
porations which vary substantially in their nature, composition and size, the
guidelines assign to the Ministries essentially policy making, audit and re-
view functions as well as the responsibility for appointing Corporation chair-
men, (functional) directors and Board members. Principles of budgetary,
financial, personnel and operational control are presented which provide a
greater degree of autonomy than heretofore to the Corporations and the enter-
prises controlled by them; in particular commercial undertakings are to be
operated with requisite autonomy. These reforms are expected to lead to
improvement in the operation of public sector enterprises. The Association
has discussed with the Government the problems created by excessive turnover
of senior corporation staff. While recognising the inevitable staffing
difficulties surrounding the advent of independence and resultant adminis-
trative responsibilities, a more determined effort is required to attract
and retain competent management staff with the corporations.



ANNEX V
Page 7
xx.       The Government has also announced various measures designed to
improve the climate for private investment. These have included: (a) raising
the ceiling on private investment from Tk. 30 million (US$2.0 million) to
Tk. 100 million (approximately US$7 million); (b) paying compensation to the
former Bangladesh owners of nationalized enterprises and (c) disinvesting a
number of enterprises now controlled by public sector corporations, particu-
larly in the leather tanning, food and pharmaceutical industries. However,
implementation of the last measure has been slow and there is need to move
more quickly on this matter.
xxi.      There is a need to bring Bangladesh's industrial    investments more
effectively into line with the country's economic priorities. Public sector
investment programs have concentrated on several large projects in import
substitution industries such as cotton textiles, engineering and fertilizer,
most of which were under preparation before independence. Private sector
investment has consisted largely of small projects in import substitution
industries such as food and textiles, even though existing capacity was far
from being used fully. This reflects in part the effects of the unrealistic
exchange rate in effect prior to May 1975. Tariff and import policies have
also tended to work in favor of import substitution as against production for
export. This direction of investment may continue for some time and is not
necessarily a bad one at the present early stage of industrialization in
Bangladesh provided (a) highest priority is given to investment for rehabil-
itation and balancing designed to improve the use of existing capacity; and
(b) intensified efforts are made at the same time to identify and promote
potential export industries. Among the policy areas which require attention
are the tariff structure, which has changed little since independence, and the
present import licensing system which is tied to capacity on a single shift
basis. Existing procedures for approving private investments require simpli-
fication. Work on components of these issues, such as a review of the import
control system, is under way, and others are under discussion.



ANNEX VI
Page 1
BANGLADESH
FIFTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
THE JUTE INDUSTRY
I/
Principal findings of the study-
i.        In 1975, the Association conducted a study of the Jute Industry in
Bangladesh with a view to developing an action program for the improvement of
its performance. The study began with a review of the trends in world market
conditions for jute products. The stagnation in world demand for these items
which characterized the last 15 years had been due to two main factors: (a)
the appearance of competitive synthetic fabrics and fibers whose prices had
been generally lower than those of jute products and (b) technological develop-
ments in bulk transport and material handling techniques which have reduced
the use of packaging materials. In this context, it appeared that there would
be only slight growth in the demand for jute goods in international markets
through the rest of this decade. There is some evidence, however, of price-
elasticity of demand for jute in competition with synthetics in certain uses,
suggesting that an appropriate price strategy, combined with more aggressive
marketing efforts, could modify that demand projection.
ii.       The exchange rate adjustment of the Taka undertaken in May 1975
represented a major first step in the formulation of an overall development
strategy for the industry. Jute products became competitive once again in
world markets. It was necessary to initiate other measures, however, to
improve the production performance of the jute industry and to ensure maxi-
mum foreign exchange earnings for the country.
iii.      The review of the status of the industry in Bangladesh in the period
after independence showed some recovery from the extremely low activity
levels recorded during the period of hostilities. Nevertheless both exports
and production had remained well below the volume recorded in the peak of
the 1960s. Difficulties in improving performance were analysed at the level
of the industry as a whole and at the level of individual mills.
iv.       The major change that had taken place in the structure of the in-
dustry was the centralization of control and ownership in a public sector
corporation, the Bangladesh Jute Mills Corporation (BJMC). This central-
ization of control raised serious problems. The official policy regarding
public sector corporations imposed operational procedures on BJMC and the
mills which were based on bureaucratic practices, with a high degree
1/   Annexes VI and VII include a summary of subsector studies of jute
and cotton textiles carried out in connection with the Fourth Imports
Program Credit, published as Report No. 883-BD of September 25, 1975.



ANNEX VI
Page 2
of centralization of authority at the Corporate level, dispersion of certain
powers among other agencies of government, and very little autonomy for oper-
ational matters at mill management level. These arrangements were completely
inappropriate for an industrial enterprise, and contributed to the general
poor performance. A few modifications were introduced on an ad hoc basis
(e.g. some autonomy to the mills for raw jute purchases, some decentralization
of functions through creation of a zonal structure); but the basic difficulties
arising from the inability of the corporation and the mills to operate under
sound commercial principles persisted.
v.        In the analysis of corporate activities, three functions were iden-
tified as critical for obtaining improved performance in the short-run and
for elaborating a longer-term strategy for growth and profitability. These
were marketing, production planning and financial management.
vi.       Prior to independence there was a trade association which played a
small role in the collection and dissemination of market information, but
marketing operations were managed by individual jute mills, with no overall
industry-wide marketing strategy. Few mills were large enough to undertake
major marketing efforts; and the industry depended largely upon buyers'
visits. With the creation of BJMC, marketing was centralized. However,
shortage of experienced personnel, both as regards knowledge of the marketing
function and of the characteristics of the market for jute products, placed
sharp limits on the efforts which could be made to reverse the deteriorating
position of the industry. Nevertheless, the staff did benefit from "learning-
by-doing" and some improvements were recorded over time.
vii.      Perhaps the most serious problems arising from the combination of
inexperienced personnel with increased responsibilities and centralization
of control were found in the area of production planning. The first major
problem the corporation faced was in the selection of suitable mill managers.
There were many qualified technical personnel available, but these had not
had exposure to the broader problems of general and commercial management.
Another problem, following the disorder of the immediate post-independence
period, was to get production going. Gradually output was raised; and in
the world market situation then prevailing, most of the goods produced
could be sold. In a short time, however, market difficulties began to emerge:
mill inventories of some products grew sharply as sales declined, while for
a few specialized items production could not keep pace with demand. Market
signals played little role in determining mill production schedules; in fact,
there was considerable uncertainty about appropriate production control signals
in the mills. In this particular instance, insufficient direction was provided
to mills to discourage production of items for which market conditions were
deteriorating. To a great extent, mill managers chose to produce items which
raised fewest problems in manufacture rather than those for which there was or
was likely to be the best market demand. The net result was inventory accumul-
ation of a number of goods with limited sales potential and shortages of items
in relatively good demand. BJMC management tended to measure mill management
performance in terms of tonnage of output; hence, while mills claimed to



ANNEX VI
Page 3
produce only on order from the Corporation, they tended in practice to reject
requests to produce certain non-standard items for which orders had been
received and continued instead to produce traditional items which could be
produced most easlly even if orders had fallen off. In this situation, the
principal constraint on the mills was the lack of credit to finance further
production. The major exception was in respect of carpet-backing, production
of which was curtailed on orders of the Corporation in late 1974.
viii.     Financial control and management suffered from lack of trained
personnel and inadequate enforcement of procedures and standards. Appro-
priate financial statements were prepared only after considerable lapses of
time, and it became difficult, if not impossible, for management to take
timely action to solve outstanding problems. For example, although most
mills normally prepared annual operating budgets, only a few mills monitored
variations on a regular basis; when actual financial results varied con-
siderably from their plans, they could not react in a timely manner as
they were not getting feed back quickly enough. They were also unable to
react to events which could have been foreseen if proper financial planning
were undertaken. The current system of costing of production of individual
items was based upon an obsolete system, and Corporation management was not
being provided with essential cost data required for price determination,
production planning and marketing strategy. In addition, there were serious
gaps in the data on asset evaluation. Not all of the mills were able to
prepare proper balance sheets, as many had not yet completed inventories of
assets on their books; asset values were likely to be overstated because they
did not properly take account of damage and other losses suffered during the
independence struggle.
ix.       At mill operations level the major finding was the substantial
under-utilization of the equipment. Most mills were running two shifts;
in about half the cases the spinning departments were running three shifts.
All equipment were operating at well below rated output levels; a high pro-
portion of equipment reported as operable was only being used intermittently.
The difficulties were most serious in the spinning departments where the high
rate of machine down-time led to the need to run three shifts, to assure an
adequate flow of yarn to the weaving departments.
x.        The principal factor underlying low capacity utilization was the
lack of appropriate repair and maintenance programs in mills. This also
resulted in large spare parts requirements; in a period of foreign exchange
scarcity and general difficulties in obtaining foreign-made parts, an even
larger proportion of machine down-time had been recorded. Another factor
had been the short supply of experienced operating labor, made more pres-
sing by the failure to use adequately the performance incentives permitted
under existing wage regulations.
xi.       While the study focused on short-term problems for which remedial
actions could be devised it also took into account the longer-term prospects
which were basic to the overall strategy for the industry.



ANNEX VI
Page 4
xii.      Installed productive capacity in the industry substantially ex-
ceeds the expected overall level of demand for jute products at least up to
1980. Decisions have to be made to obtain optimum use of existing equipment
to achieve desired production patterns at minimum cost. While it may well be
possible through appropriate price policy to stem the trend away from jute in
certain uses, a complete recovery in those markets appears doubtful. There
do appear, however, to be growing markets for specialized jute products, and
there is clearly scope for Research and Development programs to find new uses
for this commodity. It was clear that with the information base then existing
it would be impossible to make rational decisions on the future shape of the
industry in the face of developments in world markets nor would it be possible
to make an attempt to influence those developments.
The Study's Major Recommendations
xiii.     The elements of the strategy proposed were as follows:    (i) improv-
ing the capacity of the Corporation to undertake its marketing and production
planning functions; (ii) improvement in the competitive position of the
industry through cost reductions at the level of the producing units, largely
through better utilization of operating equipment and reduction of spare parts
needs and (iii) improving the capability of both the Corporation and the
individual mills to provide timely and acurate financial data to guide the
production and marketing decisions.
xiv.      The recommendations at the level of the Corporation included the
creation of a Production Planning Directorate, with responsibility for de-
veloping production programs, with specific targets by product lines for
individual mills, established on the basis of production capabilities of
the mills, financial resources available to the Corporation and demand
forecasts. The first step the new Directorate had to undertake was an
inventory of mill productive capacity; it was not surprising, given the
conditions under which BJMC was created, that its information on these
matters was incomplete.
xv.       To obtain appropriate demand forecasts, it would be necessary to
strengthen and equip the Marketing Directorate to undertake more detailed
studies of marketing developments for specific products; these forecasts
would be important inputs into the production planning process. In addition,
the Marketing Directorate over time would need to develop a capacity for more
direct sales promotion in overseas markets.
xvi.      Similarly, the Finance Directorate would need to improve its
staffing and to improve financial reporting at the level of the mills
so that the financial information necessary for adequate production pro-
gramming would be channelled to the Corporation in a timely fashion.
xvii.     At the individual mills level, it was considered that the most
critical problem area requiring attention dealt with maintenance, repair and
the supply of spare parts. In drawing up its recommendations for specific



ANNEX VI
Page 5
actions which would require a substantial input of technical assistance, the
study took into account projects which BJMC was in the process of negotiating
with bilateral and multilateral donors.
xviii.    For the bulk of the industry excluding Adamjee mills, which was
being assisted by a special UK program, a major program was being discussed
with UNDP/UNIDO (of the order of 15 man years over a three-year period), which
would deal with a wide spectrum of corporation and mill level problems. It
appeared likely that this project would take additional time for formulation
and approval. It was, therefore, felt that the maintenance problem had to be
more speedily dealt with and the Association suggested a program in this field
which could be financed, if the Government so desired, within the existing IDA
Technical Assistance Credit (409-BD). The Government agreed with this proposal
and a timetable and broad work program was agreed upon with the expectation
that expatriate technical experts would be in the field by the end of March
1976.
xix.      As regards spare parts, while the mission was not able during its
visit to make a full assessment of potential for meeting the industry's
requirement, it became clear that considerable capacity did in fact exist
which was not being used. This capacity existed at the level of individual
mills (particularly the larger installations) and of engineering enterprises
in both the public and private sector. A team from the Canadian International
Development Authority (CIDA) was specifically concerned with measures to
increase domestic production of spares for the local industry and was drawing
up a program in this area. The mission therefore made recommendations for
improving the central organization of a spare parts department within BJMC and
made suggestions as to criteria for selecting parts which could be made in a
single central installation or in regional centers. CIDA, in cooperation with
GOB and the Association, would develop an appropriate operational program.
Achievements to Date (see Table I in Part III)
xx.       Production Planning.   The first step in the process for proper
production planning, i.e. the inventory of installed and available capacity
by specific products, has been completed in accordance with the agreed
schedule. The elaboration of a production program for 1976/77, which
was expected to be completed by the end of June 1976, was completed with a
few weeks delay, largely due to delay in preparation of demand forecasts by
the Marketing Directorate.
xxi.      The creation of a regular Production Planning Directorate, with
sufficient qualified staff to undertake periodic production planning work,
and more importantly, to begin the longer-term task of evaluating the ade-
quacy of the existing mill structure to meet future demand, has not pro-
ceeded as expected. A Production Planning Directorate was established
after some delay and a Director was recently appointed.



ANNEX VI
Page 6
xxii.     Marketing.   In line with the recommendations, the Marketing Direct-
orate has begun to explore more systematically the major markets for jute
products, and in particular, to identify product modifications which would
make these items more acceptable (e.g. wider and/or lighter hessian fabrics).
It has also begun to investigate demand for specialized items (e.g. sewn
hessian bags) where convenience factors may contribute to increased jute
usage. This work, however, has been limited due to inadequate staff re-
sources; in this instance also, BJMC has approved the necessary budget, but
cannot undertake staff recruitment without approval of the Establishment
Division, which has not yet been forthcoming. It appears that inadequte
resources were the cause of the delay in preparing the demand forecast which
was needed as an input for the production plan for 1976/77. Technical assist-
ance for this work was to be provided under a UNDP/UNIDO project, but this
assistance was not forthcoming at the time when it was needed. BJMC requested
the UK to expand the terms of reference of a short-term marketing advisor
scheduled to work at the Adamjee complex so that he could undertake to review
the marketing structure of the corporation. This assistance, for approximately
two months, was completed in late October 1976.
xxiii.    It is evident, however, that a considerably larger assistance effort
is required; and BJMC has requested the Association to help it in developing
an appropriate program which would be financed under the second Technical
Assistance Credit (622-BD).
xxiv.     Financial Control and Management.   The lack of adequate and timely
financial data remains one of the major difficulties facing the corporation.
The shortage of experienced personnel has prevented the elaboration of proper
cash flow and other financial projections which the Corporation needs and
had agreed to prepare. Technical assistance and training activities which
were expected under the UNDP/UNIDO program have not materialized; and in
this area as well BJMC has requested the Association to help in develop-
ing the necessary programs.
xxv.      Mill Performance.   BJMC had agreed to organize four task forces
(one in each of the four zones excluding the Adamjee complex), each compris-
ing one zonal maintenance engineer, one production engineer from a mill in
the zone and one expatriate expert in equipment maintenance. The expatriate
team was to be in the field by March 31, 1976; the local counterparts were
to be appointed earlier and would undertake preliminary work in advance of
that date. Each team was scheduled to visit, over a period of one year,
at least four of the larger mills in its zone, to assess existing repair
and maintenance programs in the mills, to help develop the necessary remedial
programs (including training of local personnel) and to assist, as required,
in implementing them. The basic objective of this activity is to reduce
equipment down time and improve capacity utilization while minimizing spare
parts costs.



ANNEX VI
Page 7
xxvi.     While the local counterparts were appointed and began preparatory
work early in 1976, the political difficulties experienced from August through
November 1975 resulted in a substantial delay in initiating procedures
necessary to recruit the international team. A contract has been negotiated
for the supply of the required expert personnel, and the team began work on
August 26, 1976.
xxvii.    Spare Parts.   The report of the CIDA team presented in early 1976
recommended inter alia the transfer of an engineering firm capable of pro-
ducing jute machinery and parts from the Engineering and Shipbuilding Cor-
poration to the control of BJMC. The entire production facilities would be
made available for producing a wide range of necessary spare parts; this
recommendation was accepted and the firm was transferred to BJMC in May
1976. CIDA is now considering a longer term program of assistance, involving,
in particular, technical experts to help develop spare parts production pro-
grams. In anticipation of this assistance, BJMC has begun an extensive
inventory of existing mill facilities for spare parts production.
Further action for rehabilitation of the industry (details in Table 1 of
Part III)
xxviii.   As examined in detail in the text (see Part III) following the
revision of the progress achieved under the action program, it was agreed
with the Government to develop and implement a second phase. Emphasis was
put on financial and marketing aspects where external assistance from UNDP/
UNIDO had been expected. In view of the critical nature of these activities,
BJMC has requested the Association to provide the necessary assistance, and
it has been agreed that appropriate programs will be financed under the sec-
ond Technical Assistance Credit. In the financial field, BJMC will appoint
a team of consultants, the head of which will act as Financial Advisor to the
Finance Director, to assist in three major tasks: to review the financial
and cost accounting systems as well as systems for cash flow analysis and pro-
jections currently used by BJMC. During the negotiations, a timetable was
agreed upon as regards the initiation of field work of the consultants, the
preparation of audited balance sheets and the introduction of revised systems
for cost accounting and cash flow analysis at the level of individual mills.
In the marketing area, BJMC will appoint a group of consultants to assist in
restructuring the Marketing Directorate, in assessing its requirements, in
organizing aditional training for staff, in developing a detailed work program
and in organizing an external promotion effort. A timetable for this activity
was also agreed upon during negotiations. In addition agreement was reached
on other measures dealing with productivity improvement and export inspection
as well as further development of the activities already initiated (e.g. mill
maintenance, production planning and local spare parts production).
xxix.     Jute International.   In connection with the efforts required to
enable jute and jute manufacturing to provide increasing foreign exchange
resources for Bangladesh, the Bank Group continues to supply assistance to
the formation of Jute International. While various difficulties have so
far prevented the creation of this body, progress has recently been made in



ANNEX VI
Page 8
reaching solutions; and the major jute producing countries-Bangladesh India
and Nepal - expect to establish Jute International sometime in December 1976.
Two major areas of work have been planned for Jute International; (a) improve-
ment in cultivation techniques designed inter alia to increase yields, reduce
costs and improve quality of the fiber; and (b) industrial research and
development, primarily to find new uses for jute fibers and fabrics as well
as to improve current manufacturing techniques.
xxx.      Improvements in cultivation and processing techniques can be
expected to strengthen the competitive position of jute fibers and fabrics
vis-a-vis synthetics and can favorably affect the performance of the exis-
ting industry. On the other hand, it is likely that the development of
new uses for jute fibers would require different processes and thus would
not affect utilization of existing capacity. For example, one particularly
promising area of new use for jute, blending specially treated jute fibers
with cotton, which is currently being examined by Bangladesh research
institutions, has significance for the country's cotton textile industry
but will not directly affect the jute manufacturing branch.



ANNEX VII
Page 1
BANGLADESH
FIFTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
COTTON TEXTILE INDUSTRY
General situation facing the industry
i.        The analysis of the cotton textile industry which was undertaken
under the Fourth Imports Program Credit 1/ indicated a substantially different
set of problems for this branch. It was essentially geared to meet local
consumption needs. The extremely limited local production of raw cotton and
man-made fibers made it virtually completely dependent upon imports.
ii.       Physical damage and disorder following upon independence were
relatively minor in the spinning and weaving mills and there was little
loss of managerial and supervisory personnel. Under these circumstances,
mill production of yarn and cloth did not suffer much disruption. Mill
cloth production, in fact, quickly surpassed pre-independence peaks; on
the other hand, little was known of the conditions surrounding handloom
production which normally accounted for 70% of total cloth supply. It was
evident, however, that the foreign exchange constraints had sharply reduced
the total availability of fibers and yarn so that total cloth supply had
fallen below pre-independence levels.
iii.      The study of the Association focused on the spinning mills con-
trolled by the Bangladesh Textile Mills Corporation (BTMC) whose raw cotton
imports in the post-independence period represented the bulk of the country's
foreign exchange outlay for textiles and the third major import requirement,
after petroleum and food. Under existing conditions, it appeared advanta-
geous to retain handlooms as the principal source of cloth for the domestic
market, particularly in view of the considerable employment offered; it was
recognized, however, that there was inadequate information concerning the
handloom sub-sector and one of the recommendations was the need to develop
better data concerning its requirements and problems.
Short term measures
iv.       Although the emphasis was on the development of a longer-term
strategy, there was nevertheless considerable scope for improvement in mill
performance in the short-run. Spindle productivity was found to be below
that prevailing in pre-independence days. Measures to improve spindle oper-
ations through better maintenance and repair, labor training and production
control were required. Expatriate assistance to help in implementing pro-
1/   See Report No. 883-BD of September 25, 1975.



ANNEX VII
Page 2
grams to achieve these objectives was being negotiated with UNDP/UNIDO in the
context of a major assistance project and were considered adequate for the
purpose.
v.        In addition, excessive diversification of output in the spinning
mills was found to affect productivity adversely and it was considered
necessary to elaborate production programs sharply reducing the number of
yarn counts in the individual mills. To assist in this particular task,
as well as to carry out the studies required for the elaboration of the
longer-term development strategy, Government and BTMC agreed to the
creation of a Production Planning Directorate within the Corporation.
Longer-term measures
vi.       In the original Five-Year Development Program published by the
Government, BTMC had set as its target for 1980 a yarn production level
which would provide 9 yards of cloth per capita, more than 50% above the
average prevailing during the recent post-independence years. This target
had major implications as regards investment funds for expansion, modern-
ization and rehabilitation of spinning capacity (as well as of weaving
capacity) and, in particular, as regards annual requirements for imported
raw materials.
vii.      On the latter point, the Association's study noted the country's
limited export earnings potential, which made such a target a heavy foreign
exchange burden and recommended that BTMC undertake an assessment of the
possibility of local production of man-made fibers, particularly polynosics
and polyesters, using domestic resources and importing some of the interme-
diates; the Government agreed to initiate this work with appropriate tech-
nical assistance by September 30, 1976.
viii.     In connection with the proposed investment program, in order to
provide the basis for investment decisions, the Government also agreed to
undertake a series of studies: (a) on the relative efficiency, in terms
of foreign exchange savings, of domestic spinning of cotton yarn as compared
to imports and (b) to assess the potential of the handweaving and small power-
loom sectors, in particular the relative efficiency of these units as com-
pared to the larger integrated mills in the organized textile sector. For
the purposes of the latter study, sample surveys and censuses of handloom
and small power-weaving capacity would need to be undertaken. It was agreed
to initiate these activities during 1975/76.
Achievements to date
ix.       After considerable delay in negotiating the technical assistance
program with the UNDP, in part reflecting the financial difficulties en-
countered by the UNDP, the first phase of this project is to be initiated
by December 31, 1976. In addition to the specific problems mentioned earlier
which are to be covered by this activity (in particular, mill repair and
maintenance procedures and labor training in spinning mills), assistance will



ANNEX VII
Page 3
be given to improve performance in the weaving mills and in the general area
of financial reporting. As regards spare parts, with assistance from the
Japanese Government, a survey has been made of possibilities for local
production and further assistance is now being negotiated to develop a
production program in workshops under control of the Corporation.
x.        As regards the recommendation concerning the creation of a Pro-
duction Planning Directorate, the Corporation undertook a full review of
its structure and proposed to convert its Marketing Directorate into a com-
bined Marketing and Production Directorate. Since the actual marketing
functions had recently been made the responsibility of the individual
mills, 1/ the main task of this group within the Corporation had basically
been to review sales developments overall and to suggest modifications in
producton plans, an activity which clearly fell within the scope of the
recommended new Directorate. This proposal was accepted by the Association
as conforming to the spirit of the agreement made by the Government to insti-
tute necessary structural changes.
xi.      Other activities of the directorate have included a review of
available local resources for man-made fiber production. While some naphtha
which might be used for polyester production is available at the existing
petroleum refinery, the quantity is limited; nevertheless, a polyester plant
importing additional naphtha quantities and other required materials, could
be considered at some future date.   As regards polynosics, tests are being
undertaken of the pulping qualities of existing wood fiber supplies to de-
termine their appropriateness or measures required to meet the special re-
quirements of this product; detailed consideration of this aspect is expected
to be undertaken in the context of the assessment of the pulp and paper
industry planned for the coming year.
xii.     Given the probability that projects in these particular areas will
require considerable time for development, the Directorate has explored
additional fiber resource possibilities which might offer quicker returns.
Spinning and weaving tests have been undertaken in existing BTMC mills of
specially treated jute fibers prepared under laboratory conditions by the
Bangladesh Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (BCSIR), blend-
ing these fibers in varying proportions with cotton. Preliminary results
have been extremely promising. The Government proposes to set up a pilot
plant, to assess commercial and technical viability of the jute fiber pro-
cessing. A formal request has been received by the Association to provide
funds under the Second Technical Assistance Credit to initiate this activity
and discussions are now taking place as to the detailed assistance to be
provided.
1/   In May 1975, the Government lifted virtually all controls on the
sales and distribution of yarn and cloth which had previously been
centralized in two separate corporations; mills were henceforth
permitted direct sales of their output.



ANNEX VII
Page 4
ix.       Finally, the various studies relating to longer-term investment
needs have been initiated. BTMC has prepared analyses of the foreign ex-
change savings through producing yarn from imported fiber as compared to
importing yarn, and of the domestic resource costs of those savings. The
findings underline the need to achieve maximum spindle utilization. In
addition, work is proceeding in obtaining up-to-date information on the
handloom and small powerloom weaving subsectors to provide the basis for
investment decisions as regards weaving capacity.
The situation in 1976/77
x.        As noted in Annex V, demand constraints in 1975/76 led to a cur-
tailment of yarn and mill cloth output so that production fell below the
level of the previous year. In these circumstances, BTMC assigned priority
to measures to improve productivity and to achieve cost reductions. Thus,
the program to reduce the diversity of yarn counts and increase specializa-
tion within mills was initiated during that year. Mill managers undertook
to assess spindle performance and spare parts required to raise operating
results. It is hoped that as a consequence of these actions unit oper-
ation costs can be reduced; the effectiveness of the measures taken to achieve
this objective will be reviewed by the Association in the course of the next
supervision mission.
xi.       In the area of financial performance, BTMC is reported to have
experienced a serious cash flow shortage in the last months of 1975/76,
reflecting a series of events some of which are not completely under its
control.
xii.      In the first place, during the period July through December 1974,
the Corporation had placed orders for raw cotton requirements under contracts
with delayed payment terms; this was done in accordance with Government policy
at the time when the country faced a very severe shortage of foreign exchange.
Deliveries of much of this cotton were made in late 1974 and the early months
of 1975 and, in conformity with the contracts, payments to exporters were not
made until one year later. Production cost estimates used to determine
selling prices for the yarns produced from these shipments were based upon the
exchange rate prevailing at the time of receipt. But when the actual foreign
exchange payments were made by the Bangladesh Bank, the Corporation had to
provide taka cover at the new rate of exchange adopted in May 1975, resulting
in a substantial loss.
xiii.     An additional drain on the cash position of the Corporation occurred
during 1975/76 as a result of its rapid use of its foreign exchange allocation,
a substantial portion of which was provided under the Association's Fourth
Imports Program Credit. In order to achieve rapid disbursement of the latter,
BTMC accelerated its raw cotton purchases and at one point held in inventory
almost 10 months' requirements which were gradually drawn down to meet pro-
duction requirements.



ANNEX VII
Page 5
xiv.      The Corporation has attempted to adjust its selling prices in
the face of these difficulties, following a policy of increasing prices
selectively, to the extent compatible with the demand situation which was
weak. It is believed that the cash shortage has been essentially a short-
term occurrence; the overall relatively strong financial position of BTMC
reflecting operating surpluses in the two previous years and the measures
now being taken appear to provide the basis for eliminating this problem.



ANNEX VIII
Page 1
BANGLADESH
FIFTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
PULP AND PAPER INDUSTRY-/
i.        The Bangladesh pulp and paper industry consists primarily of
four major mills. The oldest installation, established in 1953, is at
Karnaphuli with a rated capacity of 30,000 tons/year of printing and writing
paper. A newsprint mill was constructed at Khulna in 1959 with a rated
capacity of 40,000 tons/year of newsprint to which was added in 1965 capacity
for 10,000 tons/year of mechanical printing paper. The North Bengal Paper
Mill was commissioned in 1970 but was not able to actually begin production
for sale until 1973; its rated capacity is 18,000 tons/year of printing and
writing paper. The most recent installation is a pulp mill at Sylhet con-
struction of which was initiated in 1970; trial production of this mill began
in 1975 but it has not yet begun production for sale. Its rated capacity is
24,000 tons/year of reed or bamboo pulp and 6,000 tons/year of jute pulp.
ii.       The industry was originally conceived to serve both the East and
West Pakistan markets. Consumption in Bangladesh accounts for less than
25% of installed capacity for newsprint and 30-50% of installed capacity
for printing and writing papers. With the loss of the West Pakistan
markets, 2/ the country has had difficulty in finding alternative export
markets, although during the period of tight world supply in 1973-74 it
was able to export relatively substantial quantities, particularly of news-
print. However, recent declines in international demand have resulted in
sharp reduction of export sales.
iii.      Even during the period of high demand, the industry's output was
unable to reach more than 50% of capacity due primarily to the poor oper-
ating conditions of the three mills concerned. In the case of the older
mills (Khulna and Karnaphuli), their physical conditions have deteriorated
to the point where substantial expenditure will probably be necessary (par-
ticularly at the latter) to rehabilitate them to achieve current rated
capacity. At the North Bengal mill, serious difficulties have already
been encountered in water, power and raw material supplies to the extent
that output has been able to reach only 25% of capacity.
1/   Based upon the findings of tie study of the Pulp and Paper Industry
which appears in Report No. 1219-BD, dated November 30, 1976.
2/   In the trade agreement with Pakistan completed in May 1976, there is
provision for some paper exports from Bangladesh. This is presumably a
short-term arrangement and prospects for longer-term development of this
trade require further analysis.



ANNEX VIII
Page 2
iv.       The study by the Association concluded that before any action
program can be formulated to ensure the future viability of this industry,
major efforts will have to be made to re-assess market conditions for the
various products and to appraise the actual operating conditions of the
three units which are in operation.
v.        In the case of Karnaphuli the necessary feasibility study to
determine rehabilitation needs is being undertaken by a consultant team
financed under the IDA First Technical Assistance Credit (409-BD). Its re-
port is expected by the end of 1976. For Khulna, the Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA) is providing assistance. A technical expert has
been sent to assess immediate spare parts requirements for maintaining a
reasonable level of output for the next six months. Later, a team will
analyze the overall situation of the mill to determine the extent of rehabil-
itation requirements in the light of its assessment of market developments and
raw material and other supply conditions. An extensive management assistance
program is being provided by Kreditanstadt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) to the
Sylhet pulp mill in the first two years of its operations including technical
production and marketing aspects.
vi.       The only major installation which is not currently receiving assist-
tance in solving operational and associated problems is the North Bengal
Paper Mill. The Government has agreed to employ qualified consultants to
re-assess the overall situation of the mill and to initiate this work by
June 30, 1977.
vii.      Given expected developments in world demand for paper and newsprint,
and especially the conditions prevailing in potential nearby markets, there
appear to be excellent prospects for developing exports of newsprint and, to
a lesser extent, paper products. Improvements in quality are essential and
will have to be accompanied by aggressive marketing efforts. CIDA is con-
sidering providing technical assistance in the marketing field at Khulna while
a marketing advisor is being provided by KfW to Sylhet.
viii.     Because of their poor physical and/or operating conditions and the
low capacity utilization, the three working paper and newsprint mills have
incurred high unit operating costs since independence. The situation was
aggravated by the policy adopted by the Government which fixed selling prices,
particularly for domestically marketed newsprint, at well below costs of pro-
duction. In April 1976 the Government announced an increase in the local
newsprint price to a level above current operating costs (from an average
of about 3,30 taka/ton to 5,600 taka/ton) and its intention to raise other
paper prices (from an average of about 7,100 taka/ton to an expected level
of 9,400 taka/ton). The Government also acted to ease somewhat the critical
cash shortage of the Corporation by converting some of the existing short-
term debt of the Karnaphuli mill to equity. The operating deficits resulting
from the previous price policy had created a serious cash flow problem such
that the mills had on occasion not been able to cover the local counterpart
currency requirements for imported spare parts made available through foreign
assistance programs.



ANNEX VIII
Page 3
ix.       The main fibrous raw materials of the industry are bamboo (used
at Sylhet and Karnaphuli, bagasse (at North Bengal)and indigenous hardwoods
(used at Karnaphuli and Khulna). The quality of the bamboo has deteriorated
somewhat and while the supply does not create major difficulties at this time,
should mill production rise, there could be fiber supply problems at Karnaphuli.
The supply of bagasse for North Bengal will require re-assessment. Some con-
cern is also being expressed over hardwood supplies. The CIDA team to assess
Khulna will include a review of this problem; the improvement in raw material
supplies for Karnaphuli is one of the objectives of a major regional develop-
ment program in that area being undertaken by the Swedish International
Development Agency. In connection with these aspects, consideration is being
given by these mills to using pulp produced at Sylhet which originally had
been expected to be exported to West Pakistan: Sylhet anticipates no difficulty
in exporting its production of high grade jute pulp for which external demand
is relatively strong.
x.        The organization of the industry has also presented various pro-
blems hindering efficient performance of the mills. Since independence the
three paper and newsprint mills have been controlled by the Bangladesh Paper
and Board Corporation which also controlled some small related enterprises. On
the other hand, the Sylhet pulp mill was controlled by the Bangladesh Forest
Industries Development Corporation. In January 1976, the Government announced
its intention to transfer Sylhet to the Paper and Board Corporation while at
the same time announcing the merger of that Corporation with two other Corpora-
tions (Bangladesh Fertilizer, Chemical and Pharmaceutical Corporation and
Bangladesh Tanning Corporation). The transfer of the Sylhet mill was delayed
causing considerable confusion over organizational responsibilities and
delaying the completion of arrangements for external assistance.
xi.       In accordance with the recently published guidelines defining the
relationships among the Government, the Public Sector Corporations and the
individual enterprises, it is expected that the nmills will be given consider-
able operational autonomy. As the newly merged Corporation controlling these
mills includes a very large number of units producing heterogenous items,
there is some concern that the coordination required to make the pulp and
paper industry a viable one will be made even more difficult. The Government
has agreed that, within the Planning Cell of the newly merged Corporation, a
special unit for the industry will be established to monitor long-term devel-
opments. This unit will be responsible for periodic reporting on the develop-
ments of the industry and for keeping the Association informed of the progress
achieved under the current assistance programs.
xii.      In the meantime, given the fact that studies are underway or planned
to appraise performance at the four major mills, it is essential that steps
be taken to ensure the coordination of these efforts. In particular, it is
necessary that the decisions made as a result of the recommendations of the
individual studies take into account the overall development strategy of the



ANNEX VIII
Page 4
industry. For this purpose, the Association has requested, and the Government
has agreed, to the appointment of a senior pulp and paper industry consultant
to assist in the evaluation of the individual studies, in the overall assess-
ment of fibrous material supplies (including possible transfers among mills)
and of market possibilities, and in the elaboration of a longer-term develop-
ment plan for the industry. The consultant advisor will be attached to the
Planning Cell monitoring unit and will begin his assignment by December 31,
1977.
xiii.     In adddition to reviewing   the existing product mix of the industry,
the advisor will assist in reviewing new product possibilities; particular
importance is attached to an assessment of potential for producing high grade
dissolving pulp to be used in manufacturing polynosic fibers for the local
textile industry which could reduce import requirements.



ANNEX IX
BANGLADESH
FIFTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
UTILIZATION BY SECTOR OF THE FOUR PREVIOUS IMPORTS CREDITS
(in US$ Million as at 11/12/76)
Credit      Credit      Credit     Credit
Category                                345-BD      458-BD     515-BD     591-BD     Total
Agricultural Equipment                  8.4         N.E.       Nil        N.E.         8.4
Fertilizers & Raw Materials
for Fertilizer Manufacture              5.5         2.2        8.9        2.5         19.1
Components, Chemicals, Raw Materials
Spare parts, Equipment and Packing
Materials for:
Jute Industry                        1.6         3.8        4.2        2.0         11.6
Textile Industry                     9.8        11.4       18.5       49.5         89.2
Paper &'Board Industry               0.9         2.9        6.2        0.1        10.1
Food & Allied Products Industry      3.1         2.8        N.E.       N.E.         5.9
Chemical & Pharmaceutical Industry   7.3         9.6        6.9        8.5        32.3
Sugar Industry                      0.3          1.0        0.7        0.1         2.1
Steel & Foundry Industry             0.5         7.3        9.6        3.8        21.2
Selected Export-Oriented Industries N.E.         N.E.       0.6        0.6         1.2
Commercial Vehicle Industry          6.3         3.4        2.6        2.5        14.8
Small-Scale Industry                 1.5         0.4        0.4        N.E.        2.3
Construction Industry                1.3         4.3       14.3        5.1        25.0
Shipbuilding Industry                3.3         0.9        N.E.       N.E.        4.2
Telecommunications Industry          0.2         N.E.       N.E.       N.E.         0.2
50.0        50.0       72.9        74.7       247.6
N.E. - Not Eligible
SOURCE: IBRD, Disbursements Division



ANNEX X
BANGLADESH
FIFTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
PRODUCTION TRENDS OF SELECTED INDUSTRIES/a
Production                                Production Change (7)
1975/76
Industries                                  Units                  1969/70     1972/73     i973174     1974/75     1975/76                  Over
------------------(Actual)----------------   (Preliminary)                1974/75
Jute Textile                                                         560         446          500         444         478.0                   10.7
Hessian                             (thousand long tons)          228         155          172         146         161.0                   10.3
Sacking                                                           279         210         227         228          221.0                   -3.1
Carpet Backing                      (                  )33                     54           66          40          71.0                   77.5
Others                              (                  )           20          27          35          30           24.0                  -20.0
Cotton Textile
Cloth                                   (million yds)              60          58           79          86          76.0                  -11.6
Yarn                                    (million lb.)             106          81           96         101          91.0                  -10.0
Paper & Board
Newsprint                               (thousand tons)            36          28           26          29          20.0                  -31.0
Paper                               (                 )            31          21           24          25          18.0                  -28.0
Rayon Yarn                              (       "      )            2.7          1.9         2.1         1.6         1.2                  -25.0
Hardboard                                 (million ft)             15           6           16          15          14.0                   -6.7
Particle Board                          (thousand tons)             5.5         1.5         2.0         2.1          1.4                  -33.3
Cement                                     (thousand tone)            53          32          53          143         160.0                   11.9
Steel Ingot                                (thousand tons)            54          68           74          76          90.0                   18.4
Petroleum  Products                                                  853         776         323          761         812.0                    6.7
Engineering Products
Diesel Engine                           (             )             1.3         1.4          1.7         5.2         0.9                  -82.7
Pumps                                   (             )             -           0.9          2.1         7.5          -
Commercial & Heavy Vehicles             (              )            0.5          1.2         2.1         1.3         0.6                  -53.8
G. I. & M. S. Pipes                     (              )            5.1          2.8         3.i         2.7         4.8                   77.8
Radio                                   (             )             6.0         5.0         11.0         8.7         4.0                  -54.0
Fertilizer
Urea                                    (       ,     )            96         211          279          69         282.0                  308.7
TSP                                                   )             -           -            -          26          49.0                   88.5
Ammonium Sulphate                        (             )            4.7          6.0        10.3         4.9         6.2                   26.5
Footwear                                   (tbousand dos.)           586         448          391         280         285.0                     1.8
Pharmaceuticals
Tablets                                 (million nos)               -         121          209         253          225.0                 -11.1
Liquid                                  (million bottlea)           -           2.8          4.5         5.1         7.9                   54.9
Soaps                                      (thouand tones)             8.7         8.0         10.4         5.9         8.3                   40.7
Glass Sheet                                (million ft)                 7.2         7.2         5.7         5.7         5.6                   -1.8
Matches                                (million gross boxes)           3.1         4.9          4.6         6.2         5.5                  -11.3
Sugar                                      (thousand tons)            93          19          88           98          87.0                  -11.2
Molasses                                   (              )            51          10          45          52           39.0                 -25.0
Tea                                        (million lbs)              67          53           61          66           68.0                   3.0
Food & Allied Products
Edible     6 Vegetable Ghee             (thousand tons)            19.1         14.1        18.4        15.4        19.1                   24.0
Fish Processing                         (million lb.)               3.8         2.3          3.0         2.7         5.1                   88.9
Soft Beverage                           (thousand cases)          264         330          258         271         235.0                  -13.3
Cigarettes                              (billion sticks)            1.9          1.1         1.1         l,7         2.0                   17.6
Biscuits & Bread                        (thousand tone)             3.9         6.4         4.4          4.6         4.0                  -13.0
L public sector only except tea
Source: Nationalized Industries Division, Public Secter Corporations, Planning Cosmmission, and Bureau of Statietics.



