COMFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 676 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Fifth Imports Program)
between
PEOPLE 'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 25, 1977


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 25, 1977, between PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower desires to improve the utilization
of its existing industrial productive capacity;
(B) the Borrower has requested the Association to assist in
the financing of imports required for the foregoing; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the ssociation being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the con-
text otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and "Taka"
means taka in the currency of the Borrower.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to fifty million dollars ($50,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in paragraph (b) of this Section
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Project forms part of the program of the Borrower,
to be carried out during the period between the date of this Agree-
ment and December 31, 1978, to make available foreign exchange to
the eligible importers for the import of goods into the territories
of the Borrower for the purpose of improving the utilization of
existing productive capacity in the industrial sectors (including
manufacturing and construction).
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or services to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.


﻿-4.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1978 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each June 15
and December 15 commencing June 15, 1987, and ending December 15,
2026, each installment to and including the installment payable
on December 15, 1996 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. Bangladesh Bank is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project,
or cause it to be carried out, with due diligence and efficiency.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) promptly upon receipt of appropriate applications
from the eligible importers issue, or cause to be
issued, such import licenses as shall be required
to carry out the Project;
(ii) make available, or cause to be made available to
the eligible importers promptly as needed, such
amounts of foreign exchange as shall be required
to import goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit; and
(iii) take all such action as shall appear necessary or
convenient to facilitate the timely importation of
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be insured,
or cause adequate provision to be made for the insurance thereof,
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such


﻿-6-
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by the Borrower or the importer, as the case may be, to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall ensure that the proceeds of the Credit
are used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a) maintain records adequate to record the progress of the
Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose
the use thereof in the Project;
(b) enable the Association's accredited representatives to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and
(c) furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the
program (referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement) of
which the Project is a part, the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall deposit amounts in Taka,
equivalent to the amounts disbursed by the Association to finance
the cost of goods and services out of the proceeds of the Credit,
in an account currently being maintained with the Bangladesh Bank,
which amounts are to be described in accordance with standard prac-
tice, as the proceeds from "IDA Credit No. 676-BD." The amounts so


﻿described shall be utilized entirely to finance the Borrower's de-
velopment programs.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations, re-
sources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the depart-
ments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof.
Section 3.06. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall implement each of the programs described in
paragraphs 2 (e) and 2 (f) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement after
its approval by the Association.
Section 3.07. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken, the actions described
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement for the improvement of the indus-
tries referred to therein.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Section 4.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Borrower has issued import licenses in respect
of goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit covering
foreign exchange allocations aggregating not less than $25,000,000.
Section 4.02. The date March 28, 1977 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
III of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twelve years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall
'be the earlier.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE V
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 5.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Sec-
retary and Deputy Secretary of the Ministry of Planning, External
Resources Division, of the Borrover, and each of them, is desig-
nated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division
Ministry of Planning
Government of the People's
Republic of Bangladesh
Dacca, Bangladesh
Cable address:
BAHIRSAMPAD
Dacca
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s/ M/R/ Siddigi
Authorized Representative
on behalf of the President
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ M.G. Blobel
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of imported goods
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit and the
maximum amount of the Credit which may be withdrawn in respect of
each such Category:
Maximum Amount of
the Credit which
may be Withdrawn
(Expressed in
Category                               Dollar Equivalent)
Industry: Raw materials,
spare parts, chemicals,
components and packaging
materials for:
(1) Jute industry                         10,000,000
(2) Textile industry                      35,000,000
(3) Paper and board industry               7,000,000
(4) Fertilizer industry                   12,000,000
(5) Steel and foundry industry            18,000,000
(6) The following export-oriented
industries: tea process-
ing, frozen shrimp and
fish, and leather tanning        5,000,000
(7) Chemicals and pharmaceuticals
(excluding proprietary items)    5,000,000
Construction Activities:
(8) Cement and materials for
cement manufacture
including spare
parts and other in-
termediate building
materials                       18,000,000


﻿- 12 -
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(b) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement and payments made in respect of goods shipped under bills
of lading issued before July 1, 1976; except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $10,000,000 may
be made in respect of Category (2) on account of payments made for
such expenditures before the date of this Agreement but after Decem-
ber 1, 1976;
(c) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manu-
facture, procurement or supply thereof;
(d) Categories (4) to (8) inclusive in the aggregate in ex-
cess of the equivalent of $25,000,000 (valued as of the respective
dates of withdrawal from the Credit Account);
(e) expenditures under Category (5) for steel billets until
the Association has received from the Borrower, in respect of steel
billets, a program satisfactory to the Association for the Borrower's
fiscal years ending 1977 and 1978 showing demand projections and
setting (i) planned levels of import and local production, (ii) de-
tailed pricing and distribution policies, and (iii) actions to be
taken to implement the foregoing; and


﻿- 13 -
(f) expenditures under Category (8) for cement until the
Association has received from the Borrower, in respect of cement,
a program satisfactory to the Association having the same scope as
the program described in the foregoing paragraph (e).
3.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth in this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
1.   With respect to any contract for the procurement of goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit the cost of which
is the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) offers shall be invited from not less than three of the
major suppliers from member countries of the Bank and Switzerland;
(b) the contract shall be awarded to the supplier whose offer
is the lowest evaluated offer; and
(c) the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies of
such contract, the details of the offers sought, the names of the
firms invited to submit offers, a sumary of the offers submitted
and such other information as the Association shall reasonably re-
quest. In the event the lowest offer is not accepted, the Borrower
shall also furnish to the Association the analysis and evaluation
of offers and reasons for the award to the successful supplier.
The Association shall, if it determines that the award of the con-
tract was not consistent with the provisions of this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such deter-
mination.


﻿- 15 -
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract
and such other information as the Association shall reasonably re-
quest.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions included in the foregoing para-
graphs of this Schedule, whenever the Borrower and the Association
are satisfied that goods of a specific type, design or manufacture
are required in the interest of equipment standardization or of
other valid considerations relating to the efficient utilization
of existing productive capacity, such goods may be procured on a
negotiated basis on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Actions to Improve Certain Industries
(Section 3.07)
A.   General
1.   As used in this Schedule:
(a) "Prior Agreement" means the Development Credit Agreement
(Fourth Imports Credit) between the Borrower and the Association
dated November 25, 1975;
(b) "Jute Action Program" means the program for the jute
industry described in the letter relating thereto of even date
with, and supplemental to, the Prior Agreement;
(c) "Textile Action Program" means the program for the tex-
tile industry described in the letter relating thereto of even date
with, and supplemental to, the Prior Agreement;
(d) "BJMC" means the Bangladesh Jute Mills Corporation and
any successor thereto (formerly Bangladesh Jute Industries Corpor-
ation);
(e) "BTMC" means the Bangladesh Textiles Mills Corporation
and any successor thereto (formerly the Bangladesh Textile Indus-
tries Corporation); and


﻿- 17 -
(f) "BCIC" means the Bangladesh Chemical Industries Corpora-
tion and any successor thereto.
2.   Dates by which actions are required to be taken may be extended
by notice from the Association to the Borrower.
3.   Without prejudice to any rights the Borrower and the Associa-
tion may have under any other agreement between them, all consul-
tants employed to fulfill the obligations of the Borrower pursuant
to this Schedule shall have adequate qualifications and experience,
and shall be employed pursuant to terms of reference satisfactory
to the Association.
B.   Jute Industry
1.   The 1976/1977 world market study for jute referred to in para-
graph 1 of the Jute Action Program shall be refined and updated for
the Borrower's fiscal year ending 1978 by April 30, 1977.
2.   BJMC shall employ marketing consultants (estimated three to
four man-years) by April 30, 1977 to study the organization and
needs of BJMC's Marketing Directorate, to design and arrange train-
ing programs for the Directorate's staff, to develop a detailed
work program for the Directorate, including the preparation of world
jute market studies, to assist in establishing appropriate procedures
for using the results of such world market studies in production
and investment planning and to design appropriate export promotion
activities.


﻿3.   BJMC shall employ by March 31, 1977 financial consultants for
a period of three-man years to: (a) review the financial and cost
accounting systems as well as systems for cash flow analysis and
projections currently used by BJMC and the jute mills; (b) make
recommendations to improve such systems to enable accurate cost
data to be prepared for individual jute processing mills and the
principal jute products; and (c) assist in the implementation of
such recommendations. BJMC shall implement such improved systems
in at least sixteen of its larger mills by June 30, 1978. The
leader of the consultants employed for the foregoing purposes
shall act as advisor to BJMC's Finance Director.
4.   BJMC shall furnish to the Association:
(a) "audited balance sheets for each of its jute processing
mills for the fiscal year ended 1974 by June 30, 1977, for the
fiscal year ended 1975 by September 30, 1977 and for the fiscal
year ended 1976 by December 31, 1977;
1b) detailed statements showing that the assets of each such
mill have been revalued in accordance with sound accounting prin-
ciples by June 30, 1977;
(c) balance sheets for each such mill for the fiscal year
ending 1976 restructured in accordance with such revaluation and
its recommendations as to actions to be taken to achieve appro-
priate debt:equity ratios for each such mill by December 31, 1977;
and


﻿- 19 -
(d) revised financial projections (estimated cash flow and
profit and loss statement) for its fiscal year ending 1978 by
May 31, 1977.
5.   BJMC shall assign responsibilities and provide staff and
facilities acceptable to the Association for its Audit Division by
July 1, 1977.
6.   BJMC's Production Planning Directorate shall review monthly
the production programs described in paragraph 2 of the Jute Action
Program taking into account world market developments and actual
production and shall recommend any appropriate revisions in such
program to BJMC's Board. BJMC shall submit to the Association (a)
an interim report of its performance under its current annual
production program by January 31, 1977 and (b) its annual produc-
tion program for the fiscal year ending 1978 by June 30, 1977,
indicating the extent to which the relative efficiency of indi-
vidual mills and the experience of the maintenance task forces
described in paragraph 3 of the Jute Action Program have been
taken into account.
7.   BJMC shall furnish by March 31, 1977 to the Association a
report of the findings of its Spare Parts Division as to the
capacity of each of its jute processing mills to produce spare
parts and shall employ consultants by June 30, 1977 to assist
it in establishing a spare parts production program.
8.   BJMC shall establish a productivity advisory team comprised
of one consultant (for an initial period of at least one year)
and two qualified BJMC employees for each of its four administra-
tive zones (not including Adamjee) for the purpose of reviewing


﻿- 20 -
production problems (other than maintenance) in its jute process-
ing mills. Each such team shall thoroughly review at least four
mills during the first year of its operation pursuant to general
programs acceptable to the Association. Consultants to assist such
teams shall be employed in sufficient time to enable the teams to
commence work by July 1, 1977.
9.   The Borrower shall establish by March 31, 1977 an adequately
staffed export inspection service within the Borrower's Ministry
of Jute and shall furnish by the same date to the Association a
report on the organization and staffing of such service.
10. BJMC shall prepare, with the assistance of the advisor to the
Finance Director referred to in paragraph B.3 above, quarterly
progress reports in respect of all the foregoing matters in this
Part B and shall submit them to the Association promptly on their
preparation.
C.   Cotton Textile Industry
1.   BTMC shall furnish by June 30, 1977 to the Association for
comment its production program for its fiscal year ending 1978 in-
dicating the extent to which it has taken into account (a) relative
efficiency of its various production units, (b) optimal utilization
of capacity and (c) optimal utilization of available foreign ex-
change.
2.   A pre-feasibility study of the potential for producing man-
made fibers in Bangladesh, referred to in paragraph 2 of the Tex-
tile Action Program, shall be initiated with appropriate technical


﻿- 21 -
assistance by March 31, 1977 and shall be completed within nine
months thereafter. The terms of reference of this study shall in-
clude a review of the capacity of the existing spinning mills and
mills under construction to utilize such fibers, so as to permit
long-term textile sector planning with a view to minimizing foreign
exchange expenditures.
3.   The sample survey of the handloom and census of the small
power loom weaving sectors referred to in paragraph 4 of the
Textile Action Program shall be completed by December 31, 1976.
The study of the relative efficiency of handlooms and small
power looms versus larger mills, also referred to in paragraph
4 of the Textile Action Program, shall be completed by
December 31, 1977.
4. BTMC shall initiate by December 31, 1976 programs to improve
its mill productivity and manufacture of spare parts, utilizing
external assistance as required.
D.   Pulp and Paper Industry
1.   BCIC shall undertake, with the assistance of consultants em-
ployed not later than June 30, 1977, a study of measures necessary
to rehabilitate its North Bengal Paper Mill including pricing poli-
cies, power availability, raw material availability with due regard
to pollution. Such study shall be completed by March 31, 1978.


﻿- 22 --
2.   BCIC shall employ, by December 31, 1977, a consultant for
a period of six months to advise BCIC on the long-term prospects
and measures necessary for the development of the pulp and paper
industry in Bangladesh and to assist in the evaluation of studies
of BCIC's paper mills which are being undertaken.
3.   BCIC shall, by September 30, 1977, establish a special unit
with staffing, facilities and terms of reference satisfactory to
the Association in its Planning Cell to monitor the pulp and paper
industry with the assistance of the consultant referred to in the
foregoing paragraph D.2.


