Document of
T.h. XXWorldA Pn1a
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24440
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-26150)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$30.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
MONGOLIA
FOR A
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
June 28, 2002
Transport Sector Unit
FEat Aqi§ and Paefir Roionn
lclld uUtwulirlut ha.Is co neslicted dismay -utio andU ma01 1y be used by reCipientS on,y in lthe plerl'nance uuulI
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(nxchange Rate rAiective June 28, 2UUL)
Crirrencv Tlnit =  Tuiig:k
1 = US$ 0.000905
US$ 1 =   i05 Tug
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB           Asian Development Bank
AASHTO        American Association of State Highway and
Transnnrtion Officials
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
r1% D         T%    -_--+ -,rD--A.
ERC           Economic Rehabilitation Credit
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
FAS           Financial Accounting System
MAS           Mangement Accounting System
MID           Ministry of Infrastructure Development
MR            Mongolia Railways
MTI           Ministry of Trade and Industry
OECD          Organization for Economic Cooperation
or.A Tl`r1- n.er.t
OIS           Operational Information System
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
Vice President:  Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Manager/Director:   Yukon Huang, EACCF
ee +-                     T.'+-A-. XT Cn,~A QZTD
Tas Sea.` LeaderTakDi Ma.-etr:  JRiteJn C.Carujpai, EASTR
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Robin C.Carruthers, EASTR



MONGOLIA
MN-TRANSPORT REHAB.
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
J. AssessbbInt of L Vl ....V.IUpIH..LIL'.J.Uj.LOLIVe civU LJV Deign, ailU Uo YUi.4iy aL tIIUY  1
4. Achievement of unjective and Outputs                                             4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              11
6. Sustainability                                                                  12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   13
Q. LTe-ssons LTea ----A
9. Partner Comments                                                                16
10. Additional Information                                                         16
Annex 1. Key Performnance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing-                                              18
A.nnex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower-Performance                                  24
Annex 7. List-of Supporting Documents                                              25






Project ID: P004342                                    |Project Name: MN-TRANSPORT REHAB.
Team Leader: Robin C. Carruthers                       ITL Unit: EASTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                      Report Date: June 28, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: MN-TRANSPORT REHAB.                          L/C/TFNumber: IDA-26150
Country/Department: MONGOLIA                                           Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: PY - Other Power & Energy Conversion; TIY - Other
Transportation
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   01/15/1993                            Effective: 09/09/1994        09/09/1994
Appraisal:  09/10/1993                              MTR:
Approval:  05/24/1994                             Closing: 06/30/1999         09/30/2001
Rnrrnwor/Imnlamanti,ing. Agency:  MONCA1 JA /MTN r1 OFM , AZTR TCTTT P
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     Jemal-ud-din Kassum                      Mr. Gautam S. Kaji
Country Manager:     Ian C. Porter                           Nicholas Hope
Sector Manager:      Jitendra N.Bajpai                        Richard Scurfield
Team Leader at ICR:  Robin C. Carruthers                      H. Levy & H. Debeck
ICR Primary Author:  Ephrem Asebe; Robin C.
Carruthers
2. Princinal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Out+come: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
.iUi'5ri/ I urJW fILUflLr. L)
Borrower Performance: S
OAG (if ,availablP       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                     S
Project at aiRisk at Ary Time: No
3. Assessment of De-velopmlent Oujective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Obiective:
Context. Following the political reforms in the early 1990's, the Government of Mongolia implemented a
policy to establish a market economy. In February 1991, Mongolia became a member of the World
Bank. With advice from the Bank, ADB and others, the government identified transport, energy and



agriculture as priority sectors. During the early 1 990's, the supply of freight transport services was failing
even faster than the rapid decline in demand. The shortage of transport capacity for coal, the sole
source of energy f'or power anrd heating, was severe. Urban passenger transport in the capita; city,
Ulaanbaatar, was facing severe capacity constraints, with passengers frequently waiting for long periods
in  ~ . -. .L  ~      .~  £~... L. .  *L-_S  t …f-..  Ir... *L-   _ .  _ 4. .f%^1  &L.-
in someIt imes subl zero temnpWerca0tu IUI UUbub thLdt UILWII IItZYn dniIVeU. rrU Lthe perlIUU up LU 19U9, LtI
restoration of transport services and their subsequent sustainable maintenance were identified as
III 1 IJU1 LC; IL O IIO I1L S LI LE   RVVVI I 1111101 IL 0  IULISL 11 IV0OLI 1101 It Jit _ul  IA ii.
Pr^ln.* ObkiSecive. Th eno-spefic o i,c of tha -ro,et S.:re: (3) to revbrse - I,o tAhl,no in n-ih, andA
*I  J %_ J-      W .. UUS   OQ -UE*S   %IIJ-ULU f-  - I E1   ~JISWJJU-  VVWI U.  LU/  IOVUM .QS   -_ EU"1UI5E   4UE  LIOELJ   -.E,-
quantity of transport services in railways, urban transport, trucking and roads; (b) to strengthen sectoral
inQfitutional capacity; and (c) to ontnribute to macroeconomic refmorn  fhrough actions at the sectoral
level.
These project objectives supported the Government's new market-oriented development strategy and
IDA's Countrv Assistance Strategy (CAS). The Government's strateav nave priority to reducina price
distortions and privatizing commercial activities where competition was possible, as in the trucking
industrv. The CAS, presented to the Bank's Board in October 1993. focussed on (a) creating the
institutions required for making transition to market economy; (b) designing appropriate policies in key
sectors; (c) meeting critical, medium-term sectoral import needs; and (d) supplementing bilateral and
multilateral donors' aid, initially through quick disbursing assistance to be followed by conventional
investment operations.
The Transport Rehabilitation Project, approved in 1994, was the first IDA operation for a specific sector
in Mongolia. Given that Mongolia was just starting on its transition to market economy, the project
included subcomponents to cover many of the needs of the transport sector. These included some
restructuring of sector agencies and substantial training of staff, few of whom were familiar with IDA's
project cycle. Recognizing this, the design of the project explicitly took into account mitigating
measures. Among the further mitigating measures to further reduce risks was the funding of an
Implementation Advisor and a Policy Advisor in the Ministry of Infrastructure Development (MID). The
advisors worked ciosely with staff and helped in the training of staff in market-oriented activities including
competitive bidding and IDA procurement procedures, with the intention that the staff in the Ministry of
Trade and industry would eventually made responsible for procurement.
3.2 Revised Objective:
A L.~~~~. ..41.L  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   4~~  ~~  .~~4 ~~~ ~      4,.4 4k I.
A.'ur.4h ok:ective, of increas,ng accessib.',ty '.o- outlaying regions and4 marIkets, was ade Ato -he orig,nal
gm IL,U LI UUJ0I.I, L E I  ILIOII%A C01j 0%AWQQ00IUIIILY LU UULIOYII £j OIUIV ta OEII 10 E.lO,va  auuou  LU LI 10  II I~IIIU
three objectives when the project was restructured. Accordingly, the Credit Agreement was amended to
flnanc --  up -rading of -e'el-Ar  -eci-ns of the unpaved road be-r.een Harhorm, n A T-n-onsenga l
llI ECU IVU  LIV  410  UU ..E.AE  V  I W UI UUL tJ  UJIW.II  W.LI  LI IV,U L JJII  VUU  IWJ U L  %UVVUUU  I U  CI  EISM III0  l'  I MIIQW.1QIES l ItIca.
2.3 I`r:.4_a_Co,poers
The orininal proni-t connsiteri nf fnoir ettnrqi sihn-projec-ts (railways, urban transport, road freight
transport and roads), each with physical and technical assistance components, with sector policy and
project imnpementation support. Snecificalliv the project was to focus on:
(a) rehabilitation of the vehicle fleet in railways, urban transport and trucking industry;
(b) rehabilitation of paved roads;
(c) preparation for restructuring of selected transport enterprises; and
(d) policy advice, technical assistance and training related to sectoral agencies and private
trucking operators.
Railway Subproject (SAR US$10.2 million). The physical component consisted of major overhaul of
selected locomotives; purchase of spare parts for other locomotives, freight wagons and passenger
coaches; conversion of wooden freight wagons to steel bodies; and purchase of workshop equipment.
The technical assistance focused on improving MR's coal transport system, and implementing modern
business processes, including financial accounting, through preparation of a Business Plan, a
Restructuring Plan and a Management Information System, as well as undertaking a Coal Transport
-2 -



Study to complernent ihe Coal Pricing Srudy undertaken under a paraiiei energy projeci (Credit
2321 -MOG).
Urban Transport Subproject. (SAR US$ 14.0 million). The physical component consisted of the
purchase of new bIuses, spare pa'*s, yMesIIIU LUad Ube, dIIU vCHILA tesUtng equpipmenti. I lic hunnical
assistance focused on establishing a policy framework for the planning, pricing, and financing of urban
+.r3 r.4 serices, training of s4aff ;- the -incile of commercial bus  mpany operation  .
LiU I a,IOF1jt iO I  L.O   LI ai  i  ~I  Cl~iI III LI ma F V1JJI i  1.jUQLA Ul.I li,Jll   '..lI LIUO  %AJI iijai  I)  ipuilIuI l, II iL.UUlII
maintenance of the fleet.
Road Freight Transport Subproject. (SAR US$2.9 million). This subproject aimed at assisting the
rGovernment in ractnmretimrinn tha tn rckinn inrdictryu a  art nf itsc rivartization nolircy Thn toorhni,-l
e ....                                    P._   -  -- -f^- its -Z~r 
assistance component focussed on aiding previously privatized large motor carriers to become
financiaIIv independent and e.ffectively competitive enterprise, and on imnrovinn manangrla! annd logistnis
skills of motor carriers' management.
Road Subproject. (SAR US$ 3.7 million). The physical component consisted of the purchase of
bitumen. for the renair of short. severely damaaed selections of the naved road- maintAnann-
equipment, computer and laboratory equipment. The technical assistance aimed at strengthening
maintenance planning, budgeting and implementation.
Sectoral Policy and Implementation Support (SAR US$0.8). This technical assistance component
included the hiring an implementation and a policy advisor, a training program for senior officials and the
professional staff of MID.
3.4 Revised Components:
The planned restructuring of the trucking industry faced some impediments during implementation. Few
I   -   .  *~~~~~  .--L---    --   - L   L.±-   I_1-   !
of the originai iarge carIners surviuved the p[vatilidULI pIocess dnU thUose thit UiU were not in the pusiuiur
to amortize a credit. Most of the trucks passed to individual owner-operators after privatization and these
were also unable to fund credUit. AtL Lith sauIme tm,em1 I'VIUwiIIY mlIberalIzation, nIew oJJeatU-I s wm ere entring
and competing in the trucking market with new vehicles despite high loan charges, as total demand was
faiZng. The pntenia' lns to camriers from the commercial banks, -o-nlnt4 +-,o 4e Cr,eAit, +aIe,le +.
.U ..... I I I. Ia   kJIlI ILIOI .%JU  IC  L  a   I A  a   ..V. i.  LI Ia  LA..I Ill I..  '.AI W OI m=ILO,  VPit*m  . W I%  15!II I  I it   a1.I ,  ml. acxi   t  LU
attract demand as the interest rate was considered excessive by existing operators who were more
aw:are of the fin:n,-ini rikle tfhn thr now nnpr2torQ  Fer thacg moo no, fh= (r,rtrnmint _ne4 In,A onmrl
mutually to drop this sub-project. The unutilized Credit balance was reallocated to finance spot
imnrovement of the unnpved road bh.tween Kharkhorin TsetserlAn and Tosntsonge! and to finance the
provision of road maintenance equipment and consultant services.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project was not assessed by the Bank's Quality Assurance Group. However, the ICR assesses the
project quality at entry as satisfactory. The rating reflects the consistency of the proiect obiectives with
the IDA's Country Assistance Strategy for Mongolia. To achieve the project objectives, the design took
into account the physical and institutional constraints and was mindful of the risks of weak institutional
capacity of the country. As in most IDA financed projects of the period, there were no specific agreed
performance indicators between the IDA and the Borrower. However, the SAR documented the project
background, underscoring the sector's vital role in supporting the restart of the economy and the need to
improve export volumes to redress the trade balance. It highlighted the specific situation of Mongolia, its
geographic isolation, its transition to market economy and its limited capacity to finance imports. At the
same time, the SAR underscored the precarious nature of Mongolian's transport system because of
years of inadequate maintenance and new investments, particularly, since the loss of support from the
former Soviet Union. The Project design recognized the necessity to complement investments by other
donors.
in line with its sectoral scope, the design of project was rather complex for the implementing agencies.
However, the project design made use of the experience of Economic Rehabilitation Credit (ERC)
-3 -



(Credit 23zu-MuGj wnicn rinanced tne purcnase of consumabies (such as iires and bitumen) for the
transport sector. Experience of ERC had confirmed the importance of technical assistance in
procurement and the advantage of a welt prepared procurement plan and rionit-UiFy bybtem, the need tLU
make available the local currency counterpart funds when project financed goods and services are
received. Al saNo  IIILU in U1to . c oi LInIt UdesII Ul thIe proJUcL Was LIIt IIndU tim Liei'Iy ImIpI'iIIn tIh
technical assistance.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overview
Considering the lack of significant prior project implementation experience in IDA financed projects in the
sector, the institutional weakness at the start of the project and the difficult macroeconomic environment
facing the country, the extent of achievement of the project objectives was satisfactorily. Through
provision of vehicles, locomotives and wagons, maintenance equipment, spare parts, rehabilitation of the
existing transport assets and liberalization of road transport, the project arrested the deterioration of the
quantity and quality of freight and passenger transport services. It gave Mongolia Railways (MR)
sufficient capacity to transport coal to maintain electricity supplies and export products, the Municipality
of Ulaanbaatar the capacity to transport passengers without the latter experiencing excessive delays, and
the road transport industry to maintain domestic trade supplies. The completion of the spot improvement
and road maintenance increased accessibility of social services and markets to the rural poor in
outlaying regions. These benefits were supported by other agencies - a iarge number of buses were
funded under a Japanese grant, as was improvement to MRs rail track and communications system,
while ADB contributed by rebuilding the principal road to the Russian border and by technicai assisiance
to the Department of Roads. Through arresting the deterioration of the transport service, the project
contributed to overal' macroeconomic stabilization and institutional strengthening.
A. Arrest the Deterioration of the Quality and Quantity of Transport Services
Railways. The objective of this subproject has been satisfactorily achieved. By improving utilization of
thle MVIR's assets anu redUcInI Its UperatiIIn cos.s, IL Vwas  IJI L IpVoIssib  LI'. rvset IIIIe III thIe qUaIILy an
quantity of railway transport services. MRs ability to plan better the utilization of existing locomotives
,educed, th*elr nee4 +.o invest in aAA;iton3I ne:: -n-e or -u-nderaL  --pnsie- reconstruction of thkea ou of
I  uUU .U  LilI*  I ~   U IV CLiiafJtU  0 I W   I I M IL  LI W LCI 1 .11W ul¶.JLI IthL-  WIlL*CVIIIIJ  O  JISS*O I -'..-  -IB  WII
service. The ultrasonic detectors procured under the Credit have increased capacity of detecting internal
cracks and damages in repair  .hicl. -mined with the whee! flannge we1ing ma.ine has made it
possible to repair wheel sets, thereby making a larger number of locomotives, wagons and coaches
available for serviee each day. With the rehabilitation of 22 lornmntivs uinder the Credit it was nnosih!e
to maintain reliable coal delivery services to power stations in Ulaanbaatar. At the peak of its operation,
the niimher of nrnomntivet in service increased by 300% coaches by 43%, wagons by more than 25%
Better utilization was evidenced by the increase in averaae locomotive-km per day from 396.6 to 496.1.
With a minimum of investment in new assets (two locomotives under a Japanese grant), the number of
passenger-km and ton-km showed one time increases of 24% and 28.5% respectively in 1998, much
higher than the annual long-term average growth of about 4%. Freight traffic growth in net-tons and
net-ton-km which averaged about 2.5% annually, also increased between 1998 and 2000 at annual
average rates of 12% and 22% respectively. These positive growth rates were reflected in net operating
income, which between 1995 and 2000, grew by 115 percent in terms of Tugrik. However, the net
income showed little growth in US dollars, a consequence of the high devaluation of the Tugrik.
A Restructuring Plan, a Business Plan and a Management Information System were developed for MR
together with an action plan to guide MR in their implementation. Management has selectively
implemented the recommendations of these studies thereby improving the prospect of profitability of
MR. Elements of the Management Information System developed under the project have enhanced the
-4 -



el'iffc',t ve use of' .h F=e roIllng s'.ock and other resources
RoaUd %7UUjOJlJJUI.4. I IIo UUJctLIVI LI LIIIs sUUbIpJIUJ l.cIti Uhas   ndLIlt;IiaUIly daieIIveU. I it!pUIrclased Ul
bitumen, maintenance equipment, computers and laboratory equipment, together with technical
assistance on m. nt-e-na-n -- nn .- -  h-k  give the Dom the technical and ------rial ----ity to
W.1     FICAIIIIIIIU   11;9   -JlVIU li  L. I UN  LI ~i IV I11%O CII~O IEU  111021 IavuI 10  .aiJaILY  LU
better maintain its road network. Training materials for testing laboratories were also developed and put
into onpraftion Pkrallel rehabilitation of existing npavd roadi was fu,nde4 hy ADB, together with nIanne,A
reformulation of the Road Fund and additional technical training. In addition, the ADB, with IDA support,
helped DoR prepnare a Road Action P!an, draw up revised cnarifications for sea!d ro ads, collect hbcif
data for prioritizing paved road maintenance, enhance maintenance budget preparation, and upgrade
accounting and management nractices. Now the DoR has the technical rcpacity to maintain its mrd
network, although it will benefit further from additional technical assistance and training in management
methods being funded by the Nordic Development Fund (as nart of the IDA follow-up proiect). the
Government of Sweden and the Asia Development Bank.
Freight Transport Subproject. The Road Freight Subproject was cancelled. However, its objective of
advancing privatization through enhancing an owner-driver-concept was realized, although without
injection of IDA funds.
Urban Transport Subproject. The objective of increasing bus service frequency and reducing
excessive passenger waiting times was achieved although not quite in the way foreseen. In the short
term it came through an increase of over 20% in the number of large buses in service, while in the
longer term it has come through the introduction of several thousand minibuses. However, by failing to
implement the recommendations of the consultants appointed under the Project, the large bus
companies have been unable to adapt to rapidly increasing competition from the minibus operations. As
a result, the number of passengers using the municipally operated buses is now only 44% of the 1994
level, although the total number of bus passengers (large and minibus) has increased significantly (the
extent cannot be quantified as there have been no surveys of minibus passenger numbers). The
introduction of minibuses and the consequent reduction in the number of passengers prevented the
financial position of the Bus and Troliey Companies stabilizing as expected. in addition, given tne weak
financial situation of the Municipality of UB, the IDA is now looking for grant financing to restructure the
management and regulation of public transport services. it is expected that inthe iong ierm, the
combination of large and minibuses could result in a better overall service to the user than would have
ueen possible just wlt ' large buses.
B. Strengthening Sectoral Institutional Capacity
Within the scope of the project, the objective has been satisfactorily achieved. The staff of the relevant
govenrnmen,t agenn-ies andA frananprt onnratnrs hnave recehived fonrnal and hanns=on training ,:kih hae
IL~ fl*--5,*%l  L'a t*C,   -F             %.  flJ, Ifl *O -    - --tfC*~J.J* t  4~  I   V**%*  I -IO
enhanced their operational efficiencies. While it has proven difficult to agency staff in the public service,
those that have left have Joined an increasing nu tmhor of si irresfi if private set- r nnor2ators Tho highest
level of success has been with the staff of the Department of Roads, who have benefited from the bulk of
tha training nrnvided r ndler the nrniojet The nresent investmpnt and onpartinnel nnlicies nf the
-   _. _-...   r~ r-;- - - r   -- -_  -  - -- - w 1.  .  -   _  r- .......  1--_   r- -_- 
Department of the Roads are largely compatible with those proposed by the policy advisor, (although
there is not necessarily any direct connection).
While MRs staff have been trained in modern management methods, they will not be able to fully
implement their new skills until the management style of the railway changes, and in this the project has
been less successful despite the substantial technical assistance provided. There are signs that the
design and implementation of the MIS will be more useful to MR than the previous technical assistance,
perhaps because it was more designed to meet a recognized need of MR, whereas the initial technical
assistance was seen by them more as an imposition from IDA.
Significant progress was made in training MIDs staff in management of the transport sector, despite a
change of government half-way through the project. The MID's Sectoral Policy Action Plan, prepared
- 5-



with the assistance of the IDA funded policy advisor is being successfully implemented. it nas
encouraged private operators to enter the inter-urban passenger, road trucking and urban transport
rmnarKets, but hlas not wo[rked so wel In dlomhIestLic aviation. l'ere tLhe few --small private opeatUorls 1have
been unable to sustain their activities by being unable to capture a large enough share of the greatly
U     Ii lIi i 1 iU  I nv11  .L.  '.JI I0UPJI GLUI HOlOYlo i i  Jlu   L ULl, V0 I   11L~ IV ~  LU  Oil Il CI  WIJU UU   %I 01JIg4.mns e.  a - O e  p rt sh vn   oes ces   a ig6   m l---  dlGlA..%.J LVUI iOILO
and mining companies. Ministry staff and private contractors were exposed to competitive bidding
-rnrA4 I- -rA.4 +n -Aya rinAr-A  - -f-rnI Af -nr+ron^ ^rnInplirIcn
F.' vUUI  wO  c IW L   .i IJI W * Wi P %~v l  W.J W. %I ILI --k c .i im-J-fl -O.
Least success has come from the traininn ond tcg-hnircal nzQiztznrc tn the uirhbn hbiu rYnmnqnieP This
could be attributed to a lack of follow through following completion of the technical assistance as well as
to their havinn tn face the unevpept.ed competition from previously banned mininuises With the dramatir
change in the competitive environment that the urban bus companies face, the previous technical advice
is largely irrelevant and needs to be undated. as requested by the municioalitv for grant funding.
C. Contribution to Macroeconomic Reforms
The Proiect has made a significant contribution to macroeconomic reform throuqh complementary
measures at the sectoral level. Through reduced regulation, transport and energy prices have become
more reflective of market determined prices. MR was freed from price controls in August-September
1996 with a parallel lifting of the ceiling on the retail price of electricity generated from coal. This allowed
an immediate average increase of 150% in the rail tariff for coal transport and smaller increases for other
products Previous subsidies to government owned transport road transport operators were eliminated
and the subsidy for domestic air services was significantly reduced. However, subsidies to the
municipality of UB for urban bus operations have remained and will remain until the further restructuring
is completed. The additional transport capacity and capacity utilization created by the Project supported
the Government's macroeconomic goal of restoring growth in the GDP through facilitating export-related
activities, while the reduction of transport subsidies contributed to better control of public finances.
D. increasing Accessibility to Outlaying Regions and Markets
The spot improvements to the road between Kharkhorin and Tosontsengai has increased accessibility of
the northern central part of Mongolia. As a result, vehicle speeds have increased (from about 25km/hr to
60 km/hr or more), travei time has decreased, road closures have reduced and transport service have
become more reliable and less expensive. Isolated populations of the rural poor in this region now have
berter access to markets: adFI socia; services. Since comlpletionl VI ithe subproJect, traffic onl the luaud has
increased by 17% on one section and by 22% on the other, compared with increases elsewhere on the
ne.&wor, ofles Ith ian 0 /0.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Overview
The original scope of the project was completed after two extensions of the Credit closing date to
September 30, 2001 (with the exception of Road Freight Transport Subproject which had previously been
dropped by mutual consent of IDA and the Government). The unutilized funds were reallocated to
rehabilitate 10 selected road sections totaling 88 km of gravel roads which were successfully completed.
A. Rehabilitation of transport fleet In railways (US$10.2 million, SAR; US$9.52 million, ICR)
Practically all planned procurement packages were executed. Goods and spare parts were satisfactory
purchased as planned. Several intemational companies spanning Ukraine, Russian, India, Italy
participated in the bids. Implementation was within budget though some delays were experienced. Major
overhaul of 22 of the 24 planned locomotives were completed. Spare part procurement included 327
- 6-



UiIff L re n ypes oi spare par.s for locomotives, 70 pieces of freight wagons, and 93 for passenger wagons.
Some 300 wooden freight wagons were converted into steel walled wagons, increasing their operational
lfe kby 40 12 years,reducing their maintenance cosb by an expected 30% an' increasng their
availability for service by about the same amount. The wheel flange welding machine purchased and
.nsta!!ed has a ca-paci-fty t-o repar 7I20 to 920 bogiles per year and is expecLed LU have sign llIl,cdi Itcost
savings in foreign exchange for replacement wheel sets. Ultrasonic detectors for determining cracks for
wheel sets niurchased, contributed to improve the quality of rpair uiok due to an i-e- a-paciy; to
detect internal cracks and damages and to a reduction of failures of wheels in service. With additional
workshon equipment provided by the Government of Japan, further savings in foreign exchange are
being achieved, as most of the locomotive overhaul activities (other than half-life reconstruction) can
now be done in Monoolia. In addition, the two General Electric oncnmotives finanncd hv .lJnn have
enhanced the capacity of MR. As a result of the support provided under the project and through bilateral
support, the declining railway performance has stabilized. MR now onprates successfuliv including
servicing the rapidly growing transit trade between Russia and China.
The Technical Assistance for the railways focused on three main activities: (i) MR's Coal Transport and
its related cost investigation; (ii) the Development of the Business Plan with a Restructuring Options; and
(iii) in design and implementation of the first stage of a Management Information System (MIS).
Coal Study. The Coal Study, that analyzed MR's coal transportation activities, the assets and the staff
involved and the costs attributed to each step of coal transportation, was successfully completed. The
findings of the study were used as inputs to the subsequent Business Plan for MR, although Government
has yet to approve the investment identified in the studies. Failure to change practices of the mining and
electricity generating industries limited the early implementation of the Study recommendations, but now
that these industries are themselves being reformed and made more cost effective, a start has been
made on implementation of some of them.
The Business Plan. The Business Pian provided a multi-year operating pian and cash flow projections
for MR as well as a business oriented investment plan, and indicated the potential profitability of each
service anrd marKet served by MR. Now that the Business Plan has been completed, MR is focussing its
interest on the markets identified as more profitable in the Plan (transit and international freight) as well
as reducing' he assets allocated to 'te less proiitauie services. However, other major findings have yet
to be implemented.
Management Information System. This system is designed to provide timely information on the
opeti an fIrnancslal. pe,f Ornnance ofJ the r_. ay and to monitor systern proi tability. iTh lull system
will comprise three parts: A Management Accounting System (MAS); A Financial Accounting System
'FAS); and an OijpeJtironal Infwmd*ation System (O15). Tkh RAAS as been implemente A -de 4kth
* '-,-   ,.''*~""               1'-,        I iu IVIrv%.J II EGU E  II IHdI 8El.U UI EUdI LI IV
Project while the FAS is being implemented under the follow-on project and the OIS awaits availability of
resourres. Through the prociirement of a network server, the technical organization and administration of
the railway database was improved.
B. Urban Transnort (US$14 0 million, SAR; US$9.82 millionn IGR)
The physical components which comrnrised of the purchase of new vehiciAs sanre nparts,tvres and
tubes, and vehicle testing equipment were aimed at reversing the deterioration of the fleet capacity over
the previous three years prior to 1994, was successfully implemented. A total of 50 new buses and 10
second-hand trolley buses were to be purchased and the average loading vehicle was to decrease from
2,500 to 1,800 passengers per vehicle per day. A total of 44 buses and 9 trollevs were Durchased and
the average loading on them and other large buses has fallen to less than 900 passengers per day, as
unforeseen competition from mini-buses has taken about half the total demand. The assumed economic
life for the buses purchased was expected to be 10 years. But already after 5 years, because of worse
than expected road conditions and two exceptionally harsh winters, 11 of the 44 buses and all of the 9
trolley buses are out of service. Any further capital investment in vehicles will depend on a further
restructuring of services to take account of the minibus phenomenon.
-7 -



The financial and technical assistance to Bus Company Number 2 to help with maintaining its vehicles
a n     d   .  .     …~~~~~~_.  .. . .33. .  -- -I_ _  _   - A  -   11-  IA  . ! fl .   I II  I -3 -1
anid planning 1it Uopperaitlons Was bULU(ssUy UUMPtied, as Wdb (tie IT .oU te IVIUiipali,y ui UiddaIUddLdr
on how better to administer and finance public transport operations. The latter included proposals to
Increase bLus fialres, compensate thel- bus C0m1panies .'or exemptionsM givenI abouUL 2J %0 VI passengersi by
public agencies, to introduce a common bus pass for use by all exempted passengers, and to introduce a
feasible scheme for dlgVth ofker -0L of pas_%senrad fare payment.
A!thno inh hi ic tariffe wern rece-ntfiy incrrmeasd the financ-iaI npeitinn o%f the Pita (Gnmpniae tidi nnt imnrnuo
as much as they expected. It is probable that the point of decreasing retums to fare increases has been
nassed. The MlD has drafted Igislation that w!nild reqniire prnmpensation to be paid to bus rompanies
by agencies giving free passes, and strengthening of the rights of bus companies to deal with fare
evasion. Despite strono oDDosition from the agencies eivina out nasses. it is nrobable that this
legislation will soon be passed and implemented.
C. Road Freight Transport (US$2.9 million, SAR; US$0.0, ICR)
This subproject aimed to help the Government in restructure the trucking sector and vehicle fleet through
privatization. To minimize the risk of corruption and misuse of the line of credit, while achieving the
multiple objectives of the subproject, the underlying design of on-lending agreements was relatively
complex and the resulting interest charges quite high. The objectives included: (a) reducing aging of the
trucking fleet; (b) promoting the individual operator concept; (c) stimulating tariff competition in the
trucking industry; (d) improving the liquidity of the motor carriers; (e) promoting financial intermediation
in Mongolia; (f) aiding earlier privatized large motor carriers to become financially independent and
effective competitive enterprises; (g) improving managerial and logistics skills of motor carriers to
become financially independent and effectively competitive enterprises; and (h) improve managerial and
logistic skill of motor carriers' management.
Three major factors blocked the implementation of this subproject:
*   First, the interest at between 4% and 5% per month, was too high;
*   Second, an increase in suppiy combined with a fail in demand reduced the lending capacity of
operators;
*   ThirEIl, tI-e nUULiII bLIU;LUIre WItlt more iUiviUUdl ownr uperatoUr thnildil expected furtiir ruuuueu
the lending capacity in the industry.
As a result, potential truck operators showed no interest to enter into agreements at the high prevailing
comrcuialn~aI in*ern r-te I-,iM, kea kanks ere, 311--A o ckhrge under -A-  credA.; agreement, so the
sub-project was cancelled.
D. Roads SubprZi%La (IUS3 7 millinn SAP I t.A Al mil!inn , cD%
Bitumen, road maintenance equipment, office equipment and laborator, equipment .. re purchased.
The procurement of the road maintenance equipment had significant impact on the capability of the
Road Department on undertaking proper maintenance, and the equipment was later transferred tofa pool
for use by contracted maintenance companies. The utilization of the equipment has been high because
of a substantial increase in the road maintenance budoet and quantitv of maintenance contracted and
undertaken. The quality of road repairs has also improved through the availability and utilization of
modern laboratorv equipment and trained technicians to use it.
Training and technical assistance under this subDroiect was also effective. Three staff members who
benefited from management and planning training abroad achieved senior positions soon after their
return. One became Senior Advisor in the Office of the President, another is now Director General of the
- 8-



Roads Agency, while the third became Minister of infrastructure and is now in private consulting practice
and heads an NGO supporting the formation of an association of transport operators. The technical
assistance was undertaken in coiaborauor with that given by ADB. Although at Tirst there was some
overlap, the working relationship is now more efficient and the programs are now well coordinated and
complemenItI  I IIIy to eUac oth er.U
E. Policy Advice, Technical Assistance and Training (US$0.85 million, SAR; US$0.93 million, ICR)
This comnonent was satisfactorily imolement and on time. The Proiect Imolementation Advisor helped
MID and its senior personnel to implement the Government's Transport Action Plan. This was designed
to support a market orientation of the transport sector. However, the training of Ministry staff started
badly, with few participants and those few soon left for positions outside government. The training plan
was then revised, and has since been successful in training a small core of staff who have remained in
the public service. The Policy Advisor provided significant professional advice at a time when this would
otherwise have been lacking in Mongolia. His contributions to the debate on paying for roads and planing
road investments have been particularly useful to MID and DoR and have been incorporated into
technical documents presented by ADB's consultants on the management of road infrastructure.
F. Road Civil Works (US$0.0, SAR; US$5.77 million, ICR)
As part of the restructuring of the project in January 1998, the resources from Road Freight Transport
subproject were reallocated to a new component that funded short section improvements of the spine
road leading to the North Central parts of Mongolia. Procurement proceeded in two phases for the 9
sections identified. Phase I consisted of sections 1 to 6 for a total of 36.3 km under 3 contracts; while
Phase II for sections 7 to 9 for a total of 53 km under 3 additional contracts. The latter experienced an
initial delay with contract signing, which was delayed by three months, attributed to lack of familiarity of
the new contractors with the Bank procurement procedures, despite significant help from the iDA-funded
procurement advisor. The delays were exacerbated by two unusually severe and long winters that
reduced the construction period by a total of about four montns.To aviow the contracts to be coumip,eted
the Credit was first extended until December 31, 2000 then to September 30, 2001.
There is evidence that a combination of the forced use material for the wearing course that is below
design 0speOwliCation (/throughl the 1--'ack o ant1 OllnUlbeXe wPQL~ l Vthfin Oil acetblirnso.d.tne)n
insufficient routine maintenance, is resulting in a rapid deterioration of the upgraded road. In the
f^!!o.w=ui,n proJc,i. the design nnpeifinftinn is hbainr revilAewAedf to rdetermine uwhther ether onsgifiGa2tnn .for
gravel surfaces or even light paved surfaces might be more cost effective in the extreme climatic and
geologiAl-a! nriifinna of Monnngoia
This -sabhnmrnit has rnntrihiitad to devIopnmant of a sustainable and exnerienced commercial roads
contracting industry in Mongolia. The civil works were the first set to be contracted out under NCB
condition in the sector in Monoolia and this has served a useful learning exercise for the Department of
Roads staff, field supervision staff as well as the contractors.
Difficulties experienced in the bidding process,such as underestimating of the contract price; failure to
identify locations of appropriate materials and to provide an adequate margin for unforeseen
circumstances (such as the 400% increase in fuel prices and occurrence of two exceptionally hard
winters) are seen as valuable lessons in subsequent bidding. The component also created significant
number of jobs at the time the economy was in a recession.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The benefit of the project was qualitatively assessed at appraisal in terms of (i) improved industrial
-9-



efriciency; 1(i) facilitation of export diversification, and (fil) maintenance of essential pubDic services such
as power and urban transport in the capital city, Ulaanbaatar, and a reduction, albeit small, in the
envIroI1ImenILdi Ue[dUdtlIUn oI urUdib dai qualiLy. Ihe mailn quaniedIU econUllil. UbIefiIL was ,'iom
improved utilization of transport assets and reduction in operating costs. Below is a summary of the ERR
estUmat.es. Detall1 - s ar in AMnnex 3J.
I A    *;,w^e-  I.,A..e,Il. -A ID-r- -4 ICAD EDD. -AQOO- A.-1 r.0l 1 I
_v  Uv iiOc- -'"'     fl' -M' 1w wi \     i.t -..   flu, O -.-> vv,
The higher l,hpnmothi, a ovoilnhiDhi anfd hinher utiIi,!ztln have imnroeudar nromd tifvih, uwlh morn traff;ir
I**~**~* 'T*             U.  -.~  ...a..*1   I*LV-**                       -.-t
being hauled with the same locomotive stock. The economic rate of retum, taking account of
combination of locomotive rehabilitation, and nipirchae f snpre nar.fs is 66%, ui ih_tntia1y greater than
the rate of return of 48% estimated at appraisal.
Converting wooden freight wagons to steel bodies also resulted in increased availability enhanced
through higher utilization through better planning of operations as well as lower maintenance costs. The
combined investment for spare parts and machinery for conversion of wagons provide savings in rental
and increased in wagons utilization. The economic rate of return on investment in wagon conversion and
spare parts, as well as a share of the investment in wheel flange welding machinery and ultrasonic
damage detectors, is 53% - again substantially higher than the 24% appraisal estimate.
Urban Transport (SAR= 16% spare parts only); Actual 12%)
The outcome for the Bus and Trolley Companies however is somewhat less certain. The economic
benefit of significantly reduced average waiting time for bus passengers (from about 22 minutes to less
than 10 minutes per passenger), while in part attributable to the purchase of new large buses, is more
due to the deregulation that permitted the operation of minibuses. It is estimated that the increase in
number of large buses has reduced the waiting time to about 17 minutes, while the buses purchased
under the Credit have benefited users of about 30% of the large bus network. The new large buses have
lower maintenance and operating costs than those they replaced, which taken together with passenger
time savings gives an economic rate of return of about 12%. No estimate of the ERR of the new bus
investment was made at the time of Appraisal.
The hoped for financiai outcome of a financiaily susiainabie iarge bus operation has not been achieved,
although with a further restructuring of urban public transport and implementation of the legislation to
compensate operatorsi ,or passengers using ,'ire passes, this migtlyh sti be possible.
Road. Spot& :mrvmnIAppra:sai =11%; A.ua: A-%D )
TL-           4  -6  -4- f4k  -A  ---4   ..    k4,,,         - ; .A -4-  - -- - - .
I I l0 VI.,1 lullI lit, I CZLV, Vi I IVLU II I V I L I I  I U OU  0 JVL t 1;1-1 pI0VeV1- I e - l I[.  e tLV-V~ I-e   FviX 101 ftl 11.1 It I dl IU  I VIIU I I0v louiOv l Uoil I
comparable approach to that used at the project reformulation is estimated at 12%, marginally better
IthIan the 11 I . 0/ E0% 'RRoriginal e stimIa t es. A f...4h1- evaluation that can be'.r tUakee account of subseNquent
maintenance practices would provide a more reliable long term assessment of the outcome of this
compo,nennt of the prroject.
4.4 F-nanc.;a,1.aa rt of return.:
The Mongolian Railways net income in financial terms (Tug) increased by 115% between 1995 and 2000
The working ratio, working expense to operating revenues, remained at about 150% during the project
implementation period. The operating ratio, that includes allowances for depreciation, varied between
148% and 172%. The Appraisal Report showed the working ratio expected to increase to 148% by 1997
and the operating ratio to increase to 157%.
On the other hand, the net income for the bus and trolley companies remained negative throughout the
project period, except for 1998, with net income ranging from loss of US$1.7 million to a gain of US$0.7
million. No projection of the cost recovery ratio of the bus companies was made at the time of Appraisal.
- 10 -



Prior to 1991, funds for road construction and maintenance were all from the state budget. A Road Fund
was introduced in 1994, with revenues supposedly to come from the 13% tax on imported fuel and road
vehicle licenses. In practice, less than 15% of the fuel tax revenue is allocated for the road sector, with
about half the funding still coming from the state budget. None of 'he vehicle iicense revenue collected
by the aimags goes to road maintenance. A disbursement condition of the on-going ADB Highway
Prroject is Uldt LIIV IS¶UdU rui U~ uv l:UULUWIVU, uut UvuILt: a W1I diyUCU wUI MUILC2IL I JUVI L UvII IV pi 'Up
no action has been taken.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project has been substantial. The whole transport sector has
heen uthipnt to competition and less intervention by the novernment and oublic subsidies have been
reduced significantly. The MID now acts much more as a facilitator of transport operations by the private
sector and much less as a provider of transport services. Inter-urban and road freight services are now
all privately operated with only residual control on tariffs. The MID has attempted to sell MIAT, the
national airline, but so far without success. Private minibuses now transport more than half the
passengers in UB. Only in the railways has little progress been attempted.
The project has helped trained staff through formal training and on-the-job training. Staff were exposed
to international management practices in road and railway maintenance and urban bus operations.
Investments made under the project continue enhancing the maintenance capacity of the railway and
urban bus workshops and providing testing equipment for public transport vehicles. The technical
assistance to MR, particularly the MIS, has helped to increase operational productivity of MR.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Declining transport demand. The reduced budgetary assistance from former socialist countries and the
need to find hardi mirranry to pay fnr imports, together with the weakeninn of exnort demand for wool,
hides and leather products has worsened the economic situation in Mongolia. In turn, this deterioration
had adverse!v imnacted on the relative demand for transport services of each transport mode and
thereby affected the financial operation results of the enterprises.
Unforeseen Cost increases. Although the average cost of road regravelling is consistent with that of
similar roads in other countries in the region, the first phase of Harhorin-Tsetserleg and Tonsonsengal
road was higher, about US$64,000 per km. The second phase, which are further away and in the
mountain terrain, was about US$68,000 per km. The substantial unforeseen cost increases of 56%
arose for several reasons (see section 5.4 below) including large distortions in input prices.
Weather Changes. In 1999 and 2000, severe weather conditions, exceptional heavy and early snow,
shortened the work season by two months in each year and stalled implementation. Extending the civil
works contracts into an extra year also added to the cost of the project.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Counterpart funding. Delivered equipment was detained for a long time at customs awaiting the
payments of import taxes and VAT, which amounted to about 18% of the cost of equipment
(US$90,000). All procurement of foreign bought equipment under the project was exempted from taxes
at the time the contracts were signed. A change in government policy in mid-year, to eliminate
re.   ..sulted in  and .   Muni_cipa.Lity. not _ 1 t..  -  .. .  L_
exemptions resulted In DOR and ulaanbaatar Flunicipal  nut rdvivly LIIU lUIlU LU Vdy LIIV UIIdIyv.
After a long dispute, the MoF authorized new exemptions in some cases and parallel domestic loans to
be made in others. T h e -s u'ubset-iq- uen-t Geay t n ',h in',lato of equimen ,'u, -9.he made It'J  nees# -to ----
be made i oLners I f1~ SLJ5~~Ucl UIdb III LIIC IIIZOLailidLiuii ut uquipIiicil, iuIuive ltlauv IL IMIG05cl 01
extend the project closing date. Lack of availability of local funds also adversely impacting the
- 11 -



preparaiion of iong-term road maintenance program needed for ihe susiainabie use of existing assets.
Canceiiation of the road freight transport subproject. Along with tie tavorauje price conuditons in the
procurement of equipment and parts, the cancellation of the Road Freight Transport component resulted
by  A ^I             .   _Z I I^&^f  flf  -1iI: … L...-_ A  Mlfnl.   _   II n.- I  ..-4!  . - .-A  A. AL … 
L) 1997 in substaflual savinigs of US$O.VO ITiiIUII 01 dUUUL U7 0% Loit LUth i to UIL ditIamUIIL. %L thIC ,-qutbL
of the Mongolian Government, IDA approved using the savings to finance a new component,
rehabilitation of unpaved roads strtcin   Wk-om Kharhori through *stee  to -- Tononena IThe
I ~I I UIIILCLILII I UlE Ul I1.JaV~u I LIUOU OLI WLL.I III IV II VIE I IaIX10 I IVJI 11 I LIII1 V.UVI I IQ%tQUI ~I U L'J I VII lIQWI 1I~,I IUJII. I I Ip
amendment to the Development Credit Agreement was approved on January 29, 1998 and the project
c!osing dat '.v ue * rlnr I.ed  to De ember 3 1, 2.nnn
Lank nf axnarinent. The NCB contracts were the first siuch rnntracts in the q-setnr in Mongolia. The
contractors have little or no exposure to international standards in design, organization and
mananement of rivil works I ark of rromnarison for unit rates comnounded hv the limited PxnAriAnnn. of
the local contractors, resulted in bid prices which exceeded the original engineering estimates by about
40%. Variations order originated by necessary engineering revisions further increased the final cost by
about 10%.
Delays in contracting out the consultancy services. The delay of six months in contracting out the
consultancy services for the design and implementation of a Management Information System of MR
extended the Project closing date to September 30, 2001. This delay was attributable to a mix of factors,
including or unintentional procedural mistake at bid offering that resulted in an objection from one of the
rejected bidders, and delays by IDA in approving the inclusion of equipment purchase in a consultant
contract. MIS was considered essential to assist the railway in meeting the needs of an increasing
dynamic market in the same way as any private sector company.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
T he total project cost was estimated at US$36.77 million. Actual cost is US$30.66 miliion (Annex 2).
Costs savings have resulted, except for the civil works which has increased. Cost increases of the civil
works contracts due to (i) low engineering estimates; (ii) delays with award of contracis; (iii) cnanges in
technical solutions; (iv) increase in fuel prices; and (v) increase in VAT. The delays were also attributable
to delays in signing contracts and advance payment; and due to shortage of supply of petrol and dlesel.
The costs for the TA, all components, are generally higher mainly due to the delays in implementation
andU initaL undUerestimiiatidon of theL need ,'or technical assistanLdC.
6. Sustainability
6.) Rationale for susta-i-nbility rating:
Sustainabilitv of the benefits of the proiect largely depends on the growth of demand for transport which
in turn depends on the performance of the macroeconomy and an adequate budget allocation for asset
maintenance. A parallel ADB funded proiect aims to Dromote reform of the Road Fund as a condition of
continued disbursement, and IDA relying on this ADB project to provide the institutional reform to sustain
road maintenance funding. The Government is proposing further restructuring of Mongolian Railways
and municipal bus operations in an effort to increase their financial viability. In the past decade, much
has been done to make a smooth transition to market economy and boost economic growth. However,
Mongolia, suffers from being a land locked country. Studies indicate that land locked countries grow on
the average about 2% below equivalent countries with their own ports.
The removal of macroeconomic constraints, while necessary for economic growth, is not by itself
sufficient to ensure sustainability of the project's benefits. In addition to adequate demand for the
transport services facilitated by the project, sustainability also depends on adequate funding for parallel
projects and for maintenance of the assets provided, therefore, on the additional investment and on the
growth of demand for its services.
- 12 -



In this respect, the finances of the Department of Roads, Mongolian Railways and the Municipality of
UIanbUaatI dar aputtin bubtdl labii.Jy at risk. The DepaIIrItm t of muodUs has succeeded in auracting
sufficient funding to prevent any further deterioration of the road network, but without a longer term
1-so itlon of fu nding for road Infras:uture. 4hroug - re'ru'to-f 4he 1Road Fund (as is- bein
W I~I  s1 I dm  'LI.lI  IV USd   I JU1110 U ULILUE 0UI   LIII IUYjII 0  14I 01111IUIO2LII.II VUI LI10 r%VCdU  -ui IU  kiZdb  lbI LJII IY
pursued under the current ADB Highway Sector Project), maintenance of the gravel roads funded under
the project remains u estfinab!h. The finances of Mongorlan Railw,ays also have an unCe.rain futr e,b
this is being addressed through examination of alternative restructuring possibilities. Provided that
ag.reement wlth the Russian joint-owners can be otained there is a rmasonable chance that a
restructured railway would be able to maintain the locomotives, wagons and coaches funded under the
proiect. The situation with the urban bus cmnpanies (incrliudinn cnmnnnv Wuimhbr 9 which nnaoratp the
buses funded by the project) is somewhat similar, if rather more critical. The buses and trolleys
companies are operating at a loss despite a recent substantial tariff increase. Comnetition from minibus
operators, which did not operate when the project was planned and implemented, has so reduced the
revenue potential of the bus companies, that another restructuring of bus operations in Ulaanbaatar is
now necessary to sustain the benefits of this project component.
Dust from the gravel roads funded under the project is causing concern to grazing and other farm
activities close to the roads and therefore to the long-term sustainability of this project component. The
long-term solution would be to provide a single surface treatment (SST) to these roads, which would also
reduce the high maintenance costs of regrading the present gravel surface, but was not justified with the
actual and projected traffic volumes at the time this project component was evaluated. With the
subsequent higher than projected growth in traffic, it is possible that a SST might now be justified.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The raiua.!ay locomotivehs, wAIfagons, hi ibue, and4 most of +he road,A  --p- puchseA and th e roads
.~~~17  ~~~  *~~~~*  ~~  ~ ~   ~~  s.La~~~~dLI, LII ELI EEEIJOL  LIE  C* ELI I UCLA  091.J11dE1 10111  FIJI LII 10001.J  CI ILl LI 10  I UO~~~~~~~~~~~~~W -   -   ..-s   _.L--   I  --  I i   FU   %, IU   U50L
constructed have now been in operation for three or more years. The competitiveness of the railways in
relation to tnink oneration rianendis on imnrovedrl itlli7ation of ife aset. In this ths MSAIQ %A1^.iId he hMinfiil
The urban public transport system would require public investment which may need to be seen in the
contaxt of urban transnort master nian for ULaanhaatar. The acress roads c-onstn-nterf  may have to be
paved if only to reduce the dust generated along the road by passing vehicles. The procurement of
vehicle testina transDort vehicle could have a nositive imnact on the environment safetv and reliabilitv
of road vehicles. MID would need to encourage wider use for vehicle testing as a matter policy. The
Road Department, responsible for the operation of road maintenance equipment purchased under the
credit, has made good use of the equipment. Since 1991, revenue from tax on vehicles had been
changed to revenue from fuel tax. Ten percent of the tax is earmarked. Resource is allocated for
construction, periodic and routine maintenance. The funds from the road fund are limited and may not be
adequate.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
IdUetifLatiLonI. 0Ban 1C IIeIrIIoanII III IUfIILIIIL,LIUIc I lb Is rLadL as adtlis'aUctY. IhI I'd PJIdut UUJec.IVes Wetr
consistent with the then Government strategy of making a transition to a market economy. They were
al'so in 1Ine with the BVLfanlk's coun:rLly, assistanc  ..A.:-L. -hc  was suppr.lv oftistanHonh
II110VIIILM LIII'  .UI ILl  O tOCIL 11%,V OLI  t W  VI 1111 VVCb  Z)PUjJ .I LIVC  Ul LFilb  LI dl IbiLIUI I.  [le
Identification phase of the project cycle explicitly took into account the fact that Mongolia was in the early
anA most 14.ff-                               i phseI of the +r3nnitio, had.4 lost its m-al srce of e -m.laI fu ind.ng and lacLked.
LIN-L  IUO  JEELLE I---A  IdE  LIlL 1- 0 I CELM / I, I -_L ELIOt 110 I  N111CILE0   d  LIALLIE CX 1 .10 1 IUElllE 1   Ia  U CIf
experience of working with western financial institutions and that this was the country's first lending
operaton ffor investment rather thanr adustment. The project focus was on sustaining transport services,
so far as possible through continued use of existing assets (with urban transport this was not possible as
the buses then in service were not maintainable). This was aimed at restoring industrial prodiition and
facilitating export diversification, as well as maintaining essential services, such as heating, power and
- 13 -



urban transport. The project was designed to complement the efforts of other donors active in Mongolia
and addressed only selected transport modes. For example, it excluded aviation, where ADB was active,
it included only railway investments not covered by OECD, and it excluded roads in the north-south
corridor that ADB was funding.
Preparation. Bank performance in assisting the borrower with project preparation was satisfactory
through its fielding of a transport economist, a railway specialist, a trucking specialist and an urban
transport specialist. Bank management also gave special attention to the project and allowed the project
to be co-managed by two staff. Technically, the project was well prepared with special attention to the
contribution of the subprojects to the overall goal of preserving the transport assets and their efficient
utilization. Procurement was well planned with a Procurement Advisor (funded under the Credit) to
provide extensive on-site training. However, the scope of the project was wide and complex for a first
project under difficult transition conditions.
Appralsai. T ne -ank staT recognize ia' i atne impiementaiion capacity of thle agencies at tne time was
marginal and would be tested to the limit. The staff correctly assessed that the success in
Irnplementation of the Wcmpiey prujecot WUUIU UdpJnIIU Uon Lith wnibil.utionsU Ul Ltih 1ImIMIemnd'lU ioaU
Policy Advisors. In addition, to ensure the commitment of the Government's and implementing agencies
staLf, several measures were taklelnVII.
1nnd.;ng Overa" Anlndn operation w,:s -t.sfac.or
.I.~ )4J  WVI3LJ.V.   VIII   F I   QY
Bank sunervision missions for the first four vears of the Droiect (1994/99) were reaular and undertaken
twice each year. Project progress were adequately reported. Bank staff was responsive to changes and
variations to the oriainal Droiect desiqn and procurement Drocedures, to the extent that Bank
procurement rules permits. Supervision has been less regular, averaging one mission per year, in the
last three years of the project, as resources were reduced in line with the need (almost 80% of the Credit
was disbursed by the end of 1999). However, the borrower considers that the ICB for bus procurement
was not useful, as the bid reportedly resulted in higher bid prices than the borrower believes he could
have negotiated directly. On the other hand, the NCB for the road construction package is considered by
the borrower as having contributed to laying the foundation for the construction industry in Mongolia.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Bank's overall performance was satisfactory. Resources provided for preparation were adequate and an
appropriate skill-mix was fielded. During supervision, resources were adequate and adjusted in line with
the project's needs. The Bank staff showed flexibility in adapting the project to better meet the evolving
needs of the client, dropping the freight subproject for road upgrading subproject.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower has contributed significantly in articulating a transport sector strategy which provided the
framewor ,'or market orientation of the -e.-r and te-eb af,meworlk within which the poetcould
IIh of VVI Nvvu   EUI Ju   ma WU  VI IV  ILOtIVI I  t LiIV ma G.LU.I, Gil EU  Li %VI aujy  a  it au I VhJ Ft VILI IEE  VVIMAIIEE LII  F  UJ W jLAL %AVUIU
be prepared. The Borrower also fully cooperated with Bank staff in identifying the transport constraints to
annmj. nv^r^%A4h -,mA k.-, #k-, r^.emi KAaG hA n,rwnma I hoe ehAin ite mnnin,ntna4 4km. .ni ;t
_vv v|W   y v -- .. | . s  tL.-Y  w.-   v- - v w v| _ --  . a  ...s ...  .v l- e | .........  -io
participation in developing alternative solutions in resolving the transport constraints.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Overall, the Government implementation performance is assessed as satisfactory. The Government
performance in the macroeconomic sector significantly affected the outcome and benefits of the proiect.
The high inflation rates at the time of effectiveness contributed to high interest rates that precluded the
implementation of the freight transport subproject. However, the Govemment was committed to the
- 14 -



:~~~1~~~:-9 AL .-      -rL-- _  .-:&&--    L.-E ---:-.   1..__  An   A QQ A   s   1..__   on   onf%f%.
1II I ICIIIULdLIUII Ul Llt; PIUyIdiII. II IC dUUlL btdLCIIIUIIL IUI LiIV jJIIUU JUII I J, IU- tU JUIIU ov, VU VVwan
unqualified and were up to date.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementing agencies have performed satisfactorily. The Mongolian Railways have made efficient
U_cPnf qvaitahIa rP niirrPQ Findinng nf thp Cnl .Stirlv nrl Riicinsc. Plan hnv h-epn imnlpmpntpe
selectively by management. The Roads Department has made good use of maintenance equipment
finanred under the nroJert. The Rus and Trolley comnanies have executed their respective
responsibilities judiciously, although the emergence of minibus operations has prevented the full
realization of the exnected benefits of this suboroiect.
7.7 Overall Borrower nerformance:
Overall Borrower performance was satisfactory. Throughout the design and implementation periods, the
borrower and its implementation agencies have shown strong commitment to the project. The main
constraints to better project execution was unfamiliarity of borrower staff with the Bank procurement
procedures, the severe weather conditions and the unfavorable macroeconomic environment.
8. Lessons Learned
Macroeconomic stability is critical for sustainability of the benefits of the project. During the
1 990s, Mongolia has taken sign iicant steps towards a transition ito a market economy. The project
supported this transition to market economy and stability of macroeconomic conditions through
measd~UI LU r UsJoUIL emergiyngy IIdiIt Uconditions III tIIh Li iIbultsectUor. rHUWeVer, thle 'abUiltLy Uo Lith
economy remained fragile throughout the 1990's and into the new century. The country faces severe
foreign exch-ange constraints edn 1 '.o:- 4hortage o' -ss-4,a p.-oduc.Ain' - fiuel. 'he high ',ransport
Iu ~ A.I  101   L   .A I o ai  I.S, *C0USII I  LV. 01 IV, LC I i Ut  V D ILIOI JIF JIVUL%,L Ii1ILsILILiII i   IUVI.  11I I iU  I  lII U 01 SPI0iJ 
cost reduces the value added to GDP from the export of its principal products. Revenue of the transport
anfornr r;>or e osan E en Kzt ;nflst;nn %^Ats%Leaninn thda f;nne-n o;s iots;nsh;l;hsi nf thgm %nrnfrse;nnc
wI Itv  MI ICBO  Is w,ISI - uB  uM  v}   I*Lis - *---  ,v\,VV ~  .y  ...   ...._'  _w -.  .*--   tS -. -_S~ iM- -.
Urban transport management needs to hb saen comprehens!vaeu. The rate of ttfritinn of buses and
trolleys procured under the project is alarming. At project closing, out of the 44 buses purchased under
IDA Credit in 1995, 7 buses were reported to be in poor technicai rAnditionn 11 hi bu   were not fi inntional
for lack of spare parts and only 26 were in average operating condition. Utilization rate of vehicles over
the nast 3 to 4 years is low, averaning about 4500O miles per vehicle over the period= Of the 9 trolleys
purchased in 1995, two are out of operation for lack of spare parts. Among the factors contributing to the
rapid depreciation of the buses are the difficult climatic and road conditions, excessive over loadings!
and declining revenue and rising operating costs. The bus and trolley companies are financially
unsustainable. In the mean time, the easy entry and exit of private operators in the provision of urban
transport services have augmented competition and resulting decline of bus and trolley companies.
However, as most private operators do not make full allowance for depreciation in their pricing of
services, the attractiveness of the sector for new investment is likely to decline. Given the difficult
circumstances facing urban transport, the Bank may consider assisting the country in developing a
sustainable urban transport policy.
Deepening the skill and knowledge transfer through joint participation and hands-on experience.
Within the scope of the project, foundation towards institutional strengthening and capacity building has
been laid. Staff of the implementing agencies have had significant exposure to Bank procurement
procedures, NCB in roads, ICB in buses. Staff were trained. Engineers and technicians have gained
knowledge and experience in material testing based on AASHTO standards. The private sector too has
been exposed to intemational standards in construction management. Implementation agency engineers
have been exposed to undertake independent supervision of civil works. Capacity tor undertaking quality
repair works through using ultrasonic detectors in overhaul of locomotives, wagons, etc., has been built.
Vehicle testing facilities have been installed and are now serving for annual vehicle inspection.
Experience is gained in the use of modem construction equipment purchased for road maintenance.
- 15-



There is a strong felt need that it is important to deepen the skill and knowledge transfer through joint
participation and hands-on experience, if future projects are to be sustainable.
9. -a...er C"omms,ents
(a) Borrower/implementine agencv:
Will be attached here.
(7) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
Additional data will be attached here.
- 16-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
I       |    sinditatnrIMatriv         T          ProJactad In last PSR        1         ActuallLatnst Estmarne
For rail:.
-locor otives kmVdav               1439.0                                   496.1
-freight wagon knVday               114.7                                   396.3
For urban transport
- level of service
tumber of buses operational for  399                                    178
|  -target passenger                 190%                                    190%
(Average fleet loading (passivehicle
in %)
Staff: Bus raio                         6.9I: to 7.7:1                         4.I:1
Output Indicators:
t     Hx                 ~ jndlcatorlMatrlx  Projected In last PSR|                 Actualatest EsUmale
Locomobve overhauled                                                           1                      s22
Conversion of wooden freight wagons to steel 300                               300
lbodies                                 I
Buses Purchase                          50                                     44
iTrolley Purchase                       10                                      9
Roads oenstructed                      188 km                                  188 Iun
End of project
- 17 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
a.sa:       Adua:-as:       r        o -
Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
Projeci Cos! By Componeni       -     US$ mi ioiu.  US$ milioiin  I -
IA. Railways: Physical Component                j     9.65           8.60           88.7
Technical Assistance                      0.55           0.92          170.4
B. Urban Transport:Physical Component               13.31           8.60           64.5
Technical Assistance                0.69           1.22          178.3
C. Road Freiglt TrIalsport Physical ComI1ponent      2.21           0.00              O
: Technical Assistance        0.69           0.00   |
D. Roads :Physical Component                         3.00           3.21          106.6
:Technical Assistance & Training             0.70           1.41          197.1
IE Transnort Sector Policy & Proi Tmnlemt. Supnort
Advisors & Training of MID) Staff          0.80           0.93           109.4
F. Civil works (Added during implementation)          0.00           5.77            156
Total Baseline Cost                                 31.60          30.66
IPhyslca! Contingencies                      I1 nn0        1 
IPrice Contingencies                                2.20
Total Project Costs        j    36.70   |      30.66   1
Total Financing Required         !   36.70    !     30.66   !    _!
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)  -_I
Procurement Metzhod
Expenditure Category  |   ICB                     I -- |otal Cost
NCB          Other.".           .    T
1. Works                     0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00
rnn nn(An fw              rn InN        (n A     n       rrl n
2. Goods                    .10.60         000     f    14.30         0.00        24.90
|                        |   (8.20)   {    (0.00)       (10.60)      (0.00)       (18.80)
13- Services                  0.00         0.00          5.50         0.00         5.50
Equipment Overhaul          (0.00)        (0.00)        (5.50)       (0.00)      (5.50)
AIA  ......uv RM- --         An                                       u nA  n       u _,
1vE 104uau~JU0    I                   VI     I            I             I   h.
Repairs of Trucks            (0.00)       (0.00)        (2.00)       (0.00)      (2.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00     |    0.00         3.70          0.00    j   3.70
|Studies and Advisors and    (0.00)   |    (000)    |   (370)    |   (000)        (3.70)
iTraining                                           I   (7           (0.      I   (
Total                 I   10.60    I    0.00     I   26.10    I    0.00        36.70
(8.20)   1    (0.00)  J   (21.80)   J   (0.00)   J   (30.00)
Prniact Cnots bv Procurement Arranoements lActualILatAst EstUmateUSlI  million eni iva!pntl
Procurement Method
- 18 -



| Expenditure Category     |      R. IcR             .. Ohr              NRF RF      Total Cost
~~~ -      ,   ~~~~~  mC          Other-      ~
1. Works                        0.00     1    5.77     1    0.00     1    0.00          5.77
_ ______________________      | (0.00)   |   (5.03)    J   (0.00)    |   (0.00)        (5.03)
a  I     A1   I        u.uu  I    u.uu     I   v.uv     I   I AJ 
I                         1    (15.45)        (0.00)   J    (0.00)     _     _(0.00)  _   _(15.45)_ _
3. Services                    0.00           0.00          4.95          0.00         4.95
Eauipment Overhaul             (0.00)        (0.00)        (4.95)        (0.00)        (4.95)
4. Miscellaneous                0.00     |    0.00          0.00     |    0.00         0.00     1
-A. *r /..i                  n          n n           nnx      I    i nnx        in ^Nn
repairs Ut I rucks.       I    k.uU)       Iy(.00)     I   (0.00)    I   (u.uu)    I   ku.UU)
I5. Miscellaneous               0.00 °        0.00          4.49          0.00          4.49 
Studles and Advisors and  I    (0.00)        (0.00)    |   (4.49)    |   (0.00)    |   (4.49)   |
jTraining                    _     _          _      _ II              _      _    
Total                       15.45          5.77          9.44          0.00         30.66
(15.45)        (5.03)        (9.44)        (0.00)       (29.92)
I Figouzres in parpntheqiq are the amnunts to he financed by the Rank Lnan. 'All costs include contingencies.
2tIncludes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs reiated to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending proiect funds to local govenment units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
z                              (in U;-  million e quivalent)                    Percentage of Appraisal 1
Component             Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate       ,   -
I  ; ,a;S. ....... ~ '  =   Ralnl - R   rnvo.  rnCF  i  Rank                I F Gvt.  I  nF.  Rink r (nvt. T CoF.
RallwaIys                9.20      0.00     1-00  |   952       0.00      0.00    103.5  0.0    0.0
uruan Iranspori         ;V.6U     3.40s     0.V0      9.02      V.0V      0.00   79.6    0.0 V  0.0
Road Freight Transport   2.40     0.50      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    0.0    0.0    0.0
Roads                    2.50     1.20      O.0U      4.62      0.00      0.00    i 8U '4. 8  0.0  U.U
Sector Policy and Project  0.80   0.00      0.00      0.93      0.00              116.3  0.0    0.0
Implementation Support
Civil works              0.00     0.00      0.00      5.03      0.73      0.00    0.0    0.0    0.0
Total Base costs        25.50      5.10     1.00      0.00 -    0.00      0.00     0.0   0.0    0.0
Physical Contingencies   2.30     0.60      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00  | 0.0    0.0    0.0
Price Contingencies      2.20     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    0.0    0.0    0.0
iTotal Proiect Costs     30.00     5.70      1.00     29.92      0.73     0.00  |_99.7    12.8   0.0
I  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I  _ _ _ _ _   L  _ _ _ _   I  _ _ _ _   1  _ _ _ _ _   4.  _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _   1  _ _ _   I_1
-19-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
The benefit of the project was qualitatively assessed at appraisal in terms of (i) improved industrial
efficiency; (ii) facilitation of export diversification; and (iii) maintenance of essential public services such
as power and urban transport in the capital city, Uiaanbaatar, and a reduction, albeit small, in the
environmental degradation of urban air quality. The main economic benefit was from improved
utiiization of transport assets and reduction in operating costs.
Locomotives: Overhauls and SDare Darts (SAR ERRs =48%: Actual 66%)
In the case of the railways, operating efficiency has significantly improved. For example average
locomotive km/day increased from 406.7 in 1995 to 496.1 in 2000, an increase of 22% over the period.
This would have not been possible without the rehabilitations of locomotives. Other operating efficiency
indicators have registered similar results. Also staff productivity measured in terms of traffic units per
employee (railways operation) increased from 0.44 in 1995 to 0.79 in 2000, an increase of 68% over the
period. Further, both freight (ton-km) and passenger (passenger-km) have steadily increased between
1995 to 2000 by 88% and 57% respectively. Net income has also increased by 115% in Tugrik.
However, as the Tugrik has depreciated from US$1 = Tug 500 to US$1 =TUG 1102, the net income in US
Dollars has remained about the same level.
As a result of improved productivity, savings due to incremental capacity and due to gains because of
repairs of the 22 locomotives have resuited. The economic rate of retum, taking the spare parts into
account is 66%, greater than the maximum rate of return of 48% estimated at appraisal.
The freight wagons conversion to steel body also resulted in increased productivity and cost savings due
to lilncwadvU dVdi,Iuliy of wagonIs. i [it oIIbIineU inVesMtmentL ,VI sIJda pa'. dllU machIUrly fur
conversion of wagons provide savings in rental and increased in wagons utilization. The economic rate
of retu rn Is 53%4 higher tha-th 24°,S ' pra esimte
'  ICLUI II I j /9 I   II~I I~I  Li IMI I ~L IC 4-t/   apprisJallal estimateL.
Urban Transport (SAR= 16% spare parts only; Actual 12%)
The situation for Bus and Trolley Companies is however somewhat less positive. Average fleet
availability has rio-lined from 61% in 1995 to 57f%7 in 2000. A!so, athfhigh fare has increased 4 ffold
between 1995 and 2000 from 50 Tugrik to 200 Tugrik, total revenue has declined. Net income in Tugrik
has shown sequential losses except oneA var= The ennnomic rate of return taking accnunt of operating
cost savings and on time savings for passengers is estimated at 12%.
Road Spot Improvement (Appraisal =11%; Actual 12% )
The road spot improvement between Harhorin-Tsetserleg and Tonsonsengal increased accessibility of
the northern central nart of Mongolia. Travel time has decreased. Isolated neonle of the rural poor now
have access to markets and social services. Vehicle operating cost has decreased as vehicle speed has
increased from 25-30 km to 60 km/hour. Since comDletion. traffic on Harhorin-Tsetserlea road increased
by 17% and on Tsetserleg-Tosontsengal road by 22%. The rehabilitated road during the first six months
was in good condition allowing travel speed of 80 km per hour. However, significant maintenance cost on
a regular basis would be required to keep the road in operating condition. The dust generated from the
gravel road had adverse impact on the peoples health and animal grazing along the road. A single
surface treatment may be a better alternative design for roads passing through grazing and agricultural
land so as to minimize the impact of dust along the road sides.
The economic rate of return of the spot improvement using comparable approach is estimated at 12%,
marginally better than the 11 % ERR appraisal estimates.
- 20 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(U,/_ viS l(ns;r
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
ke.g.cEconomists, i FMS, etc.)      Implementation Development
Month/Year     Count        I Specialty                       Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
October 30, 1992             3   Transport Economist, Financial
Analyst, (Highway Engineer?Li
F Daming)
March 21, 1993               5   Transport Economist, Railway
Snecialist,_conomist. Trucking
Specialist, Urban Transport
Specinlist
Appraisal/Negotiation
Pre-appraisal,               4   Transport Economist,
June 29. 1993                     Financial Analyst, Urban
Transport Specialist,
Railway Engineer
October 5, 1993                  Transport Economist, Financial
Specialist, Highway Engineer,
|Urban Transport Specialist,
Financial Officer
Supervision
july 29, 1994                4    rinalcial Specialist, Railway  I  HS         I   LS
Engineer, Procurement
Specialist, UrbanTransport   l
Specialist
November i, i994'            27   Financial Analyst                   S      l    HS
Railway Engineer
June 2, 1995                 I   Urban Transport Specialist          S             S
November 11, 1995            3    Financial Specialist, Railway      S             S
Engineer, Urban Transport
l                      l             §~~~~~~~~ Specialist 
July 18, 1996                3    Financial Specialist, Transport    S             S
Economist, Transport Specialist
November 12, 1996            4    Transport Specialist, Railway      S             S
I  l           | Engineer, Highway Engineer,
Urban Transport Specialist
December 1, 1997             2    Railway Engineer, Transport        S             S
Specialist
I   June 10, !Q97            3   Transnnrt Snecialist; Urban         S             S
Transport Specialist, Highway
n IIFnineer
June 16, 1998                3   Transport Specialist, Transport     S             S
l  l   lEconomist, Highway Special.ist lIl               l
December 9, 1998             4   Transport Specialist, Transport     S             S
U LI41 ...-          I yI speeitO ll
Environmental Specialist
June 26, i999                  I Tranisport Euunuoiiist (limited
supervision)
- 21 -



December 11, 1999           2   Transport Economist, Highway       S             S
I             | Engineer
September, 25,              2   Transport Economist, Highway
2001                             Engineer (limited supervision)
September 21,                1   Transport Economist (limited
2001                            supervision)
ICR        Novemher?2,                  I    Transport Economist               S            S
2001
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ _ _  __)
Identification/Preparation              69.4                       237.8
Appraisal/Negotiation                   37.2                       132.1
Supervision                             155.3                      346.7
ICR
Total                                  261.9                       916.6
Oct.8, 2001
- 22 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N$=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
LO Macro policies                        -OH      SUUOM    ON    O NA
O Sector Policies                         OH - O SU O M    O N   O NA
O Physical                                O H  * SU O M    O N   O NA
OI Financial                              O H   OSU*M      ON    O NA
O Institutional Development               0 H  0 SU-- M    0 N   0 NA
Oi En"'i.-o"'entsal                       0 H  O) SUi O) M' -N   O NA
O Poverty Reduction                O H   OSUOM       O N  O NA
71 X-_ s_                          n    L-r  C'T -Y   Ad l   At   Al4
LJ Jenuer                          %I\ Ut \-. 4I '. I      w , .,
D Other (Please specify)           O H   OSUOM       O N  O NA
P Private sector development              O i O S U CO M   0D IN CD IOYA
OI Public sector management               0 H  O SU O M    0 N   0 NA
OI Other (Please specify)                 O H     SU O M   O N   O NA
- 23 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperfornance                                Rating
El Lending                                         OHS*s        OU     OHU
[]SuDervision                                      OHSOS        OU     OHU
a Overall                                          OHS OS       O U    O HU
6.2 Borrower perfornance                           Rating
O Preparation                                      OHS OS       O U    O HU
O Government implementation performance            0 HS * S     0 U    0 HU
Ol Implementation agency performance               0 HS 0 S     0 U    0 HU
rn Overall                                         nH.S a S     n U    O)HU
- 24 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
The World Bank- Mongolia - Trantsport Rehabilitation Project, Staff Appraisal Report, April 12, 1994.
Dugerjav Gotov, Peak Period Liemand Modelling and Analysis for UlaanBaatar, Mongolia, Institute for
Transport Studies, The University-of Leeds, August i997.
GJovern[nent of' Mlyongolia, ProJecL's Finan,lai Staviflmt fLri Ii the I ','eari cdiy Jiune to, 1994 tU .JuneI 30,
2000, Ulaanbaatar, 2001
Halcrow in Association with Unitra, Mongolia Railways Specification for an Operational Informnation
Q~~LIII VIUIdLL HIl. ... M4  lVl)% J'IIVlIAlVIA..)IU.J(%%  A......L L JUU.
LSy-0t94m ("Contract no. C%e1-_ v.^/M''/09) A-ugust 2000v.
RA ongol,an 1Rtaallvway, -ev4lJJm,n and ,1, ofOSCAR U/V,; thv      U- R-.-, MaA 1007
Pacif_c Consultants          T-l , Tonichl Enineering Constaanfts, Inc.  noic Deos.;n Sudyi on The
Project for Rehabilitation of RailNvay'Facilities (Phase II), Mongolia, April 2001.
Transurb Consult in Association-with Hickling Transcom Ltd. Transport Rehabilitation Project: Final
Buhinnee Plan (AAAin Ponnrfl .A,Jne IQQ7
Transurb Consult in Associ.atioh with Hickling Transcom Ltd= Transnort Rehabilitation Proiect: Final
Business Plan (Table & Figures), June 1997.
Transurb Consult in Association with Hickling Transcom Ltd. Transport Rehabilitation Project:
Restructurina Plan. March 1998.
- 25 -









IMAGING
Report No.:         24440
I A' tC
,~ ~~    --   - ---. 



