cz~~~-4-. /  S~ - D 
Docment of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Rep" No. P-6237-MOG
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 21.6 MILLION
TO
MONGOLIA
FOR A
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
APRIL 22, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: P-    6237 MOG
Type: MOP
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MONGOLIA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrowers         Mongolia
Beneficiary:      Ministry of Infrastructure Development (MD), Mongolian
Railwvay (MR), Ulsanbaatar Municipality, Motor Carriers
Credit Amounts    SDR 21.6 million ($30.0 million equivalent)
Terms:            Standard IDA terms, with 40 years' maturity
Financing Plan:                                 Local        Foreian       Total
'-($-----  m$ million) ---------
IDA                             0.0         30.0          30.0
Mongolian Railways              1.1          0.0           1.1
Central Government              5.6          0.0           5.6
Total Financinf            6.7         30.0          36.7
Economic Rate
of Return:      23 percent
Poverty Catemorys Not applicable
Staff Appraisal
Reports         Report No. 12586-MOG
ps:               IBRD 25768
TWs document has a sesbicted dismbution and may be used by recipiet only in th pfome of tir
offical dudes Its mtens may not othevnise be disclosed witot Word Bank Mtodd1



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO MONGOLIA
FOR A TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recomaenda-
tion on a proposed credit to Mongolia for SDR 21.6 million ($30 million equiv-
alent), on standard IDA terms with 40 years' maturity. The proceeds of the
credit would be onlent to: (a) Mongolian Railways (MR) for the railways, on
terms satisfactory to the Association, and (b) through the Mongol Bank to
participating commercial banks, for the trucking component, at commercial
terms. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by MR (for the railways com-
ponent), the Mongol Bank (for the trucking component), and by Ministry of
Finance (MOF, for all other components).
2.        Country/Sector Backaround. Mongolia is a large (1.6 million kmi)
but sparsely populated (2.2 million people) country, landlocked between Russia
and China. Mongolia's transport infrastructure, which consists of railvays,
roads and airways, is seriously inadequate in relation to the vastness of the
territory and the demand for transport services   It chiefly serves the three
largest cities containing most of the industrial activity (Ulasnbaatart Darhan
and Erdenet) and two border cities (Suhbaatar at the border with Russia in the
north and Zameen-Uud, the transshipment point with China, in the south). The
rai'ways carry some 70 percent of Mongolia's freight; the remainder is carried
by road. Urban passenger transport is mainly by buses; short-distance inter-
city transport is by buses and rail; long-distance transport is by air.
3.        During 1993, after three years of economic recession following the
collapse of the Soviet Union whose support was essential to Mongolia's econ-
omy, Mongolia's export performance started to improve, and new markets began
to develop; internal markets, as well, are developing. Concurrently, Mongolia
is heavily dependent on transport of large quantities of coal produced in the
country for energy production. Transport, therefore, is crucial to Mongolia's
economy, both for internal and international movements. However, as a result
of the lack of foreign exchange, practically no renewal of transport equipment
has been made over the past years, and spare parts needed for maintenance are
lacking. Consequently, utilization of equipment and quality of service have
deteriorated dramatically. The down-time of essential equipment such as loco-
motives, buses, trolleybuses and trucks is 30 to 60 percent, compared to a
normal range of 15 to 25 percent with reasonable maintenance. Bus loadings in
Ulaanbaatar exceed 2,500 passengers per bus per day compared to a normal level
of 1,200 passengers. The relaunching and repositioning of the economy
urgently requires restoration of the transport system's capacity.
4.        Lessons Learned from Ptevious IDA Involvement. IDA lending to
Mongolia is relatively recent with an Economic Rehabilitation Credit (ERC,
Credit 2320-MOG) and a Technical Assistance Credit (Credit 2321-MOG) approved
in December 1991, and an Economic Transition Support Project (METS, Credit
2551-MOG) in N,vember 1993.  The proposed project draws and builds on the
experience gained through the ERC project, which also financed the purchase of



-2-
consumables (such as tires and bitumen) for the transport sector. Experience
under the ERC, now almost fully disbursed, confirmed the utility of technical
assistance in procurement, the advantages of a wvll-prepared procuremont plan
and monitoring system, and the need to ensure that local currency counterpart
funds are available when project-financed goods and services are received.
Another important lesson was that timely implementation of techanical assis-
tance is crucial to secure the expected positive impact of the project compo-
nents.
5.        Rationale for IDA Involvement.  The proposed project is consistent
with the Country Assistance Strategy presented to the Board in Octobor 1993
and takes into account the subsequent discussion of strategic options for
Mongolia's development. The strategy being followed by IDA centers on assist-
ing the country in: (a) creating the institutions required by its passage
from a planned to a market economyt (b) designing appropriate policies in key
sectors; (c) meeting its critical, medium-term sectoral import needs; and
(d) supplementing bilateral and multilateral donors' aid, initially through
quick-disbursing assistance to be followed by conventional investment opera-
tions such as the proposed project. The selection of the transport. sector as
a starting point for IDA investment assistance is most relevant because of:
(i) Mongolia's limited transport infrastructure, (ii) its geographical isola-
tion, (iii) the sector's vital role in supporting the restart of the economy
and notably the improving exporcs, (iv) the current precarious condition of
the transport system following years without adequate maintenance and new
investments after the loss of support from the former Soviet Union, (v) the
necessity to complement iavestments in the transport sector by other donors,
and (vi) the sector offering an opportunity for microsectoral development in
privatization of the trucking industry. In this context, and bearing in mind
other ongoing and planned donor activity in Mongolia, the project would be
supportive of Mongolia's institutional development and industrial restructur-
ing efforts through measures targeted toward four key subsectors (see project
description) of Mongolia's land transport industry.
6.        Proiect Objectives.  The proposed project would address some of the
key constraints in the transport sector, particularly by: (a) reversing the
decline of the quality and quantity of transport services in railways, urban
transport, trucking and roads; (b) strengthening sectoral institutional capa-
city; and (c) contributing to macroeconomic reforms through complementary
measures at the sectoral level, such as the implementation of a transport
sector policy and promotion of the owner-operator concept in the trucking
industry.
7.        Proiect DescriDtion.  The project consists of four sectoral subproj-
ects (railways, urban transport, road freight transport and roads), each with
a physical and technical assistance component, and a component to advise on
sector policy and assist in the implementation of the project. The project
would focus on: (a) rehabilitation of the transport fleet in ra.lvays, urban
transpott and trucking; (b) rehabilitation of paved roads; (c) preparation for
restructuring of selected transport enterprises; and (d) policy advice, tech-
nical assistance and training to related sectoral agencies and private truck-
ing operators. The project has been designed to complement the efforts of
other donors active in Mongolia. Hence, it excludes the aviation sector
(where the Asian Development Bank--ADB--is active in improving the airport



- 3 -
facilities in Ulaanbaatar), does not focus on construction in the higbway
sector (where ADB is preparing a Road Master Plan Study) and includes railway
investments not covered by OECF assistance. It also addresses bottlenecks in
urban transport and trucking, and sector policy issues not addressed by other
donors.
8.        The Railways Subproject's physical component consists of major over-
haul of locomotives; the purchase of spare parts for locomotives, freight
wagons and passenger coaches; conversion of wooden freight wagons to steel
bodies and the purchase of workshop equipment. The technical assistance aims
at improving MR's coal transport and its related costs, j.. financial perfor-
mance and formulating options for its restructuring. The coal transport study
complements the coal pricing study (as part of METS), which focuses on coal
production costs and prices.  The Urban Transport Subproject's physical compo-
nent consists of the purchase of new vehicles and spare parts. Technical
assistance focuses on establishing a policy framework for planning, pricing
and financing of urban transport services and on improving urban transport
operations. The Road Freight Transport Subproject's physical component con-
sists of the rehabilitation of trucks; the technical assistance component
focuses on aiding recently privatized large motor carriers to become finan-
cially independent and effectively competitive enterprises, and at improving
managerial and logistics skills of motor carriers' management. The Roads
Subproject's physical component consists of the purchase of bitumen for the
repair of short, severely damaged sections of paved roads, maintenance equip-
ment, computers, printers and software, and laboratory equipment. Technical
assistance aims at strengthening maintenance planning, budgeting and
implemontation. The Sector Policy and Project Implementation Support compo-
nent is for technical assistance that would include the hiring of a Project
Implementation and a Policy Advisor, a training program for senior officials
and professional stiff of the Ministry or Infrastructure Development (MID) not
covered in training programs in the subprojects.
9.        Proiect Cost and Fliancina. The project cost is estimated at $36.7
million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of $30.0 million equiva-
lont (82 percent) and identifiable taxes and duties estimated at about $4.7
million equivalent. Taoes and duties would be financed from local counterpart
funds. IDA would finance the entire foreign exchange component. In bid eval-
uation, a preferential margin of 15 percent, or the relevant prevailing level
of customs duties, whichever is lower, would be granted to Mongolian manufac-
turers. The project costs and financing plan are shown in Schedule A.
Amounts and methods of procurement and disbursements, and the disbursement
schedule, are shown in Schedule B. A timetable of key project processing
events and the status of IDA operations in Mongolia are given in Schedules C
and D, respectively. The Staff Appraisal Report No. 12586-HOG dated April 12,
1994 is being distributed separately.
10.       Proiect Imolementation.  MID would be responsible for overall man-
agement, administration and coordination of the project and would form a Proj-
ect Management Unit with full-time staff, assisted in these matters by a Proj-
ect Implementation Advisor, funded under the proposed project. To this pur-
pose, MID established a Steering Group for implementation, chaired by a s8eior
staff of MID, end comprising a representative of the Ministry of Trade and
Industry (MTI), MOP, MR, the Ulaanbaatar Municipality, the Mongol Bank end



- 4 -
Participating Comercial Banks. The Steering Group had its opening meeting in
February 1994 and will meet periodically to execute its functions*
11.      The Project Implementation Advisor would assist MID, MTI and benefi-
ciary agencies with the execution of the project. The Policy Advisor would
assist the Minister and senior personnel of MID to adopt market-oriented poli-
cies, laws and regulations, and beneficiary agencies in the implementation of
studies and technical assistance. The Advisors would coordinate with MOF, the
Privatization Commission and other central government agencies.
12.      Executing agencies for the various project components would bes MR
for the railway subproject; the Ulaanbaatar Municipality for the urban trans-
port subproject; and MID for the road subproject and the sector policy compo-
nent.
13.      The physical component of the road freight subproject would be
implemented through the Mongol Bank, commarcial banks, motor carriers and
individual operators. It would involve onlending from: (a) the Government to
the Mongol Bank; (b) the Mongol Bank to the commercial banks and (c) the com-
mercial banks to the motor carriers, which would repair out-of-services trucks.
In addition, the commercial banks would provide loans to individual operators
to purchase repaired trucks from the motor carriers. The onlending process
and terms, the criteria for selection of commercial banks, motor carriers and
vehicles to be repaired are satisfactory to IDA.
14.      In implementing technical assistance, priority would be giren to
hire the Policy Advisor, the Project Implementation Advisor and technical
assistance for the railways and roads subprojects. An early start of the
railways' studies is crucial to fit in with technical assistance under METS
for coal pricing and assistance by OECF. An early start of technical assis-
tance for roads is crucial because the severe winter normally starts end-
October, and road maintenance works need to be carried out before that time.
Technical assistance to the urban transport and road freight subprojects are
scheduled to start in the first quarter of 1995. An Interim Implementation
Advisor, hired under previous IDA projects and also available for this proj-
ect, is currently in Mongolia until the end of 1994.
15.      Procurement of goods, to be carried out under International Competi-
tive Bidding (ICB), International Shopping and Direct Contracting, would be
handled by MTl, which gained experience in Association procurement from han-
dling previous IDA-financed projects in Mongolia. MTT would also administer
the technical assistance component related to the Project Advisors. All other
technical assistance components would be handled by each beneficiary agency,
with assistance from the Project Implementation Advisor. General, commercial
and technical specifications are now being prepared with the ssistance of the
Interim Implementation Advisor aiming to complete the bidding for the first
year's procurement requirement and contract signing when the credit becomes
effective.
16.      Proiect Sustainabilitv.  Long-term sustainability of the railways,
urban transport, road freight and road subprojects is directly related to
available technical and managerial skills to operate assets efficiently and
maintain them properly. Technical assistance (including training) to be pro-



-5-
cured for each of the subprojects focuses on improving maintenance end man-
asement of assets, managerial, financial and operational skills in railways,
urban transport, road freight transport and roads, respectively. Technical
assistance in sector policy is expected to lead to measures with sustainable
long-term benefits to the sector.
17.      Agreed Actions.  During negotiations, agreement was reached with the
Borrower regardings (a) onlending arrangements for the proceeds of the Credit
to the railways and the Mongol Bank; (b) carrying out of action plans (i.e.,
railways action plan jointly with NR, urban transport action plan, roads
action plan, road freight action plan, sector policy action plan); (c) estab-
lishment of operating guidelines, including performance targets, satisfactory
to tha Association, by Ulaanbaatar Municipality and its bus and trolleybus
operating companies; (d) the preparation of a report on the adequacy of the
current annual tax on trucks, the submission of the report and its recommenda-
tions to IDA by June 30, 1995, and the taking of appropriate steps to imple-
ment the recommendations; (e) adjustment of urban transport fares for the
following year by December 31, every year, commencing in 1994, to keep pace
with inflation, in accordance with a formula agreed with the Association;
(f) the granting of the requisite approval to MR to increase tariffs, as
appropriate, to meet funding needs for the maintenance of locomotives, rolling
stock and tracks; and (g) provision to the Association of an estimate of fund-
ing needs for road maintenance and thereafter allocation of the necessary
budget to meet these needs, taking into account the comments, if any, thereon
by the Association, by October 30, every year, commencing in 1995.
18.      During negotiations, agreement was reached with MR that it will
submit by June 30, every year, commencing in 1995, a maintenance program for
traction and rolling stock, and the track network for review by IDA. Such a
program will provide the basis to assess maintenance requirements and tariff
increases needed to generate sufficient funding.
19.      During negotiations, agreement was also reached with Mongol Bank to
select in consultation with the Government and the Association participating
commercial banks and motor carriers for rehabilitation of the : out-of-service
trucks in accordance with criteria agreed with the Association.
20.       Environmental Aspects.  Improvements in maintenance of locomotives
and buses resulting from the project, and the procurement of new urban trans-
port equipment with modern emission control technology will contribute to
reducing vehicle-induced air pollution. Road works, consisting of repairs of
short and most-damaged sections of Mongolia's paved road network, aro not
likely to pose any significant risk of adverse impact on the environment, and
do not entail any resettlement; furthermore, such repairs will reduce the risk
of traffic accidents. Nevertheless, it was agreed during project appraisal
and confirmed at negotiations that, as a precautionary measure, the mainte-
nance companies of MID executing these works will be instructed to follow a
Code of Environmental Practice for Road Works.
21.       Prolect Benefits.  The expected improvements in transport services
would help Government's efforts to restore industrial efficiency and facili-
tate export diversification, as well as help maintain essential public ser-
vices, such as heating, power and urban transport in the capital city,



Ulaanbaatar, and also reduce, albeit slightly, environmental degradation of
air.  The proposed project's main economic benefits would be to improve utll-
zation of transport assets and reduce operating costs. More broadly, the
project would: (a) help to improve operations and maintenance of transport
infrastructure; (b) strengthen the sector's institutions in operations and
maintenance, including trainiug and technical assistance; and lc) assist the
Government in the transition from a centrally planned to a market economy.
The ERR for the individual project components ranges from 16 percent for spare
parts investments in urban transport to 57 percent for the maintenance and
rehabilitation of the paved network. The ERR for the project is 23 percent.
22.       Risks.  The proposed project would be the first IDA operation for a
specific sector in the couALtry. Mongolia's unfamiliarity with IDA's project
cycle poses an implementation risk, exacerbated by the project's complexity.
The risk would be mitigated partly by funding a Project Implementation Advisor
and a Policy Advisor and by having experienced staff in MTI being responsible
for procurement. In addition, several other actions would take places
(a) the creation of an interagency Steering Group for project implementation
under the chairmanship of MID; (b) the commitment by MID to assign a full-time
counterpart to the Project Implementation Advisor; (c) the agreement by MID to
give the Project Implementation and Policy Advisors access to higher-level
government officials; and (d) the preparation of a critical path program for
project planning and scheduling.
23.       Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed credit would com-
ply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the
Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 22, 1994



- 7 -                           Schedule
MMONGLIA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Financing Plan
($ million)
Local       Foreign      Total
Estimated Costs
Railways                                        1.0          9.2         10.2
Urban Transport                                3.4          10.6         14.0
Road Freight Transport                         0.5           2.4          2.9
Roads                                           1.2          2.5          3.7
Sector Policy and Project
Implementation Support                       -             0.8          0.8
Total Baseline Costs                   6.1         25.5          31.6
Physical contingencies                         0.6           2.3          2.9
Price contingencies                            -             2.2          2.2
Total Protect Costs La                 6.7         30.0          36.7
Financina Plan
IDA                                            0.0          30.0         30.0
Mongolian Railways                              1.1          0.0          1.1
Central Government                             5.6           0.0          5.6
Total Financing                        6.7         30.0          36.7
l.a  Identifiable taxes and duties are about $4.7 million.



-8Schedule a
Pasg 1
MONGOLIA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Procurement Methods and Disbursements
($million)
Procurement method          Total
Project element                           ICB     LCB    Otherls    project cost
1. Goods
1.1  Equipment and Machinery          9.9      -       13.4          23.3
(7.5)           (10.6)         (18.1)
1.2  Materials                        0.7      -       0.9            1.6
(0.7)            (0.0)          (0.7)
2. Service Contract
Equipment overhauls             -         -       5.5            5.5
(5.5)         (5.5)
Repair of trucks                -         -       2.6            2.6
(2.0)         (2.0)
3. Consultancies
Studies and Advisors            -         -       1.3            1.3
(1.3)         (1.3)
4. Training                               -        -        2.4            2.4
(2.4)         '2.4)
Total                       10.6       -      2A.1
(8.2)           (21.8)         (30.0)
La Includes International and Local Shopping, Direct Contracting snd consult-
ing services.
Notes Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the IDA
credit.



-9                              S chedule B
Page 2
Disbursements
Catenpor,                 Aount                      Percent
(m million)
Equipment                          25.5     802 of the amount of the Subsidiary
Financingt 1002 of foreign expen-
ditures
Training                            1.6      1002 of total and of foreign expen-
ditures
Consulting Services                 2.9      1002 of total and of foreign expen-
ditures
Total                         30.0
Estimated Disbursement.:
IDA FY                             1995    1996    1997    1998    1999
----------- ($ million) -----------
Aunual                                     5.2    10.7    10.0       3.9      0.2
Cumulative                                 5.2    15.9    25.9    29.8    30.0



- 10 -                          Schedule C
MONGOLIA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
imetable of 'yev Prolect Processing Events
(a)  Time taken to prepares            19 months
(b)  Prepared by:                      Government, privatized motor carriers,
and commercial banks, with the assis-
tance of IDA staff and consultants
(a)  First IDA missions                October 1992
(d)  Appraisal mission departures      September 14, 1993
(e)  Date of negotiations:             March 28, 1994
(f) Planned date of effectiveneoss    August 1994
(g)  List of relevant PCRs and PPARs:  None
The report was prepared by H. Levy (Task Manager), H. Deboeck (Co-Task Mana-
ger), D. Hutchinson (Highway Engineer, Consultant), R. Kopicki (Trucking Spe-
cial±st, Consultant), U. Marggraf (Railway Engineer), C. Murray (Urban Trans-
port Specialist, Consultant), S. Tata (Financial Officer). Others involved in
the preparation and preappraisal were V. Bhatnagar (Railway Engineer, Consul-
tant), D. Li (Highway Engineer, Consultant), P. Malone (Task Manager, Propara-
tion Mission, Consultant), G. Neilson (Urban Transport Specialist, Consul-
tant), T. Neuner (Transport Economist, Consultant). Poor reviewers comprised
J. C. Crochet (Transport Economist, EC3IV), S. Mitric (Transport Specialist,
TWUTD). The Division Chief is Richard ecurfield and the Dopartment Director
is Nicholas Hope.



status of Bank Grouo Omeratfone ln  Neotia
A. Statmaent of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
(As of March 31, 1994)
Credit
Number  FY      Borrower                          Purpose                  Dank    IDA      Undfab.(*)
2320    92      Mongolfa         Economic Rehabilltatton                      *     30.0       2.7
2321    92        "ongolta       Technical Assstance                                 5.0       2.7
2551    94      Mongolia         Econoic Transition Support                 _        .IQ      JLi
Total                                             55.0       24.7
of which has been repid
Total now held by IDA                             55.0
mount sold: Of which repaid
Total Undisbursed
B. Statement of IFC Inyestments
No IFC inmestments have been made.
(a) As credits are denominted in SoRe (since IDA Reptenishment VI), undisburswd SDt credit balances are
converted to dollars at the current exchane rate beteen the dollar and the SOR. In some cs, therefore,
the undisbursed balance indicates a dollar amount greater than the original credit mount exprssed in
dollars.
04/01/94
EA2DR



MAP SECTION



IORD 25768
RUSSIAN  FEDERATION                                           -
JI f  ;  -,    >                           /          RUSSIAN FEDERATION
MORON 
AN -AN
_~~~~~IY                                                              otDAvfJ(R4II /    gDsov   N-
BAYAN  "OLO                                                                                                EID >sD   <  ;^  3  1 EDN     e                                                                                   CHINA
)- d9^ . .  T       T       R       ,TO                          t  -                                        oR^°ULGN  A
HOVDO ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~I                                          ~Wa.CHYASNW
ULIASTAY -                                                                                      H-INTPY
s~~~,,  =   t            s            DUNDMBI                        \                                   /~~~~~~~~~~~~#B UNUR
606                  - ;;z                  al D                   9t              =o                              koYNSa    0/               *aRUNL
S 1YANHONGOo                                                 0o                   a,  ? (O                            L
CHA                                                                                    M        ATRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
m                                                                              SAYNSH. ws^tp  DALANDZADGD  = ,0       =  SELECTEDTOWNS/VILLAGES
flsANCVtflfli~RNSOR   EHBIIATONPOJC
S   AONAL CAPITAL
FAIRWEATHER ROADS. TRACKS OR TRAILS
.,US C       0     100  150        200                                                                                                                                                    - S= ALLWEATHERAHARD OR LOOSE SURFACE ROADS
-  RJLROADS
AIRFIELDS
+ INTERNATSONAL AIRPORT
55. boouodo,,,o.. o.k,.. d..,o,so,., .d                                                                             =nr 00$a, iok,,o.'o'                                                               AYMAK BOUNDARES
ohoo.o .on 5oas oop do, 0= o,pl. =n oh. pool of Oh. WSAoold BJnk
Oroup. oooy lodgoo.no on A,. kpoI .ao,w. of ony o.o,aoo    oo =-  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDAR/ES
':ArL 1995



