Page  1
                                                        CONFORMED COPY
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2615 MOG
                       Development Credit Agreement
                    (Transport Rehabilitation Project)
                                  between
                                 MONGOLIA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                            Dated June 13, 1994
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2615 MOG
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated June 13, 1994, between MONGOLIA (the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
    WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
    (B) Part A and Part C.1 of the Project will be carried out by Mongolian
Railways (MR as defined herein) and Eligible Beneficiaries (as defined
herein) respectively with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to MR directly and Eligible
Beneficiaries, through Mongol Bank (MB as defined herein) and Participating
Commercial Banks (PCBs as defined herein), a portion of the proceeds of the
Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
    WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
Page  2
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreements of even
date herewith between the Association and MR and the Association and MB
respectively;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last
sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
    (a)   "Action Plans" means the action plans under Parts A.4 (railways
          action plan jointly with MR), B.2 (urban transport action plan),
          C.2 (road freight action plan), D.2 (roads action plan), and E.1
          (sector policy action plan) to be prepared in accordance with the
          Paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
    (b)   "Eligible Beneficiaries" means collectively the transport entities
          selected pursuant to paragraph 2 of Part A of the Schedule to the
          MB Project Agreement (as said term is defined herein).
    (c)   "Implementing Agencies" means the Borrower's departments and
          agencies, and other legal entities, entrusted by the Borrower with
          the implementation of the Project or any part thereof, namely,
          MID, MTI, UM, MR, MB, PCBs and Eligible Beneficiaries (as said
          terms are defined herein).
    (d)   "MB" means the Mongol Bank, a legal entity established and
          operating pursuant to its Charter dated May 8, 1993 under the laws
          and regulations of the Borrower, or any successor thereto.
    (e)   "MID" means the Borrower's Ministry of Infrastructure Development
          or any successor thereto.
    (f)   "MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance or any successor
          thereto.
    (g)   "Motor Carrier No. 1" means the Motor Carrier No. 1, a business
          entity established and operating pursuant to its Charter dated
          August 1992 under the laws and regulations of Mongolia.
    (h)   "MTI" means the Borrower's Ministry of Trade and Industry or any
          successor thereto.
    (i)   "MR" means the Mongolian Railways, a legal entity established and
          operating pursuant to its Charter dated June 6, 1949 under the
          laws and regulations of the Borrower, or any successor thereto.
    (j)   "PCBs" means the participating commercial banks selected pursuant
          to paragraph 1 of Part A of the Schedule to the MB Project
          Agreement (as said term is defined herein).
    (k)   "Project Agreements" means collectively the agreements between the
          Association and MR and the Association and MB, of even date
          herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
          term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
          Project Agreements; and "MR Project Agreement", "MB Project
          Agreement", or "respective Project Agreement" means singularly the
          project agreement between the Association and MR or the
          Association and MB, as the case may be.
    (l)   "Subsidiary Credit Agreements" means collectively the subsidiary
          credit agreements entered or to be entered into between the
Page  3
          Borrower and MR and the Borrower and MB pursuant to Section 3.01
          (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
          time, and such term includes any schedules to the Subsidiary
          Credit Agreements; "respective Subsidiary Credit Agreement" means
          singularly the subsidiary credit agreement between the Association
          and MR or the Association and MB, as the case may be; and
          "Subsidiary Credit" means the credit made available under the
          respective Subsidiary Credit Agreement.
    (m)   "Technical Services" means the services provided under a service
          contract for the overhauling of locomotives under Part A.1 of the
          Project or the rehabilitation of trucks under Part C.1 of the
          Project, as the case may be, and activities associated therewith,
          including the provision of spare parts thereunder.
    (n)   "UM" means Ulaanbaatar Municipality, an administrative subdivision
          of the Borrower, or any successor thereto.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
    Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty one million
six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 21,600,000).
    Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such later date
as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify
the Borrower of such later date.
    Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from
time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each
year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum.
    (b) The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates
on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account
or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately
preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time
to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set as of June
30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
    (c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time
to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
    Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
    Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
    Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments
payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing October 15, 2004 and
ending April 15, 2034. Each installment to and including the installment
payable on April 15, 2014 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such
Page  4
principal amount.
    (b) Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985
dollars for five consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the
Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to
the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the
Association and after due considera-tion by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of
each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may
revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase
in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
    (c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph
(b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition
has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule
of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
    Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this
end:
          (i)   shall carry out Parts B, C.2, D, and E of the Project with
                due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
                appropriate engineering, administrative and financial
                practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
                facilities, services and other resources required for such
                Parts of the Project; and
          (ii)  without limitation or restriction upon any of its other
                obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
                Borrower shall cause MR and MB to perform all their
                obligations set forth in their respective Project
                Agreement, shall take or cause to be taken all action,
                including the provision of funds, facilities, services and
                other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable MR and
                MB to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
                permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
                interfere with such performance.
    (b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section, and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out Parts B, C.2, D, and E of the Project
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
    (c) The Borrower shall relend an amount equivalent to SDR 6,220,000 and
an amount equivalent to SDR 1,250,000 from the proceeds of the Credit to MR
and MB respectively under separate subsidiary credit agreements to be
entered into between the Borrower and MR and the Borrower and MB, under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association including the
following: (i) the term of the Subsidiary Credit shall, in case of MR, be
15 years including 5 years of grace, and, in case of MB, be not more than
two years; (ii) interest on the principal amount of the Subsidiary Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time shall be payable, in the case
of MR, at the rate of 3.5% per annum and, in the case of MB, at the rate
equal to the rate specified in Section 2.05 of this Agreement; (iii)
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Subsidiary Credit not
Page  5
withdrawn from time to time shall be payable at a rate equal to the rate set
by the Association in accordance with Section 2.04 of this Agreement; and
(iv) the foreign exchange risk on the Subsidiary Credit shall be borne by
MR and MB respectively.
    (d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Credit
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and
the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Credit Agreements or any provision thereof.
    Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
    Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, and 9.07 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, and maintenance respectively) in respect
of Part A and Part C.1 of the Project shall be carried out by MR and MB
pursuant to Section 2.03 and Section 2.04 of their respective Project
Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Parts B,
C.2, D, and E of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
    (b) The Borrower shall:
          (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
                of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
                with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
                by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
          (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in
                any case not later than six months after the end of each
                such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by
                said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                Association shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof as
                the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Association
    Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
    (a) MR or MB shall have failed to perform any of their obligations under
their respective Project Agreement.
    (b) As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that MR or MB will be able to perform their
obligations under their respective Project Agreement.
    (c) MR's Charter dated, June 6, 1949, or MB's Charter, dated May 8,
1993, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so
as to affect materially and adversely the ability of MR or MB to perform any
of their obligations under their respective Project Agreement.
Page  6
    (d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of MR or MB or for
the suspension of their operations.
    Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
    (a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of ninety days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower;
    (b) any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
    Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the
Subsidiary Credit Agreements have been executed on behalf of the Borrower
and MR and the Borrower and MB respectively.
    Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within
the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included
in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
    (a) that the Project Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified
by MR and MB, and are legally binding upon MR and MB respectively in
accordance with their respective terms; and
    (b) that the Subsidiary Credit Agreements have been duly authorized or
ratified by the Borrower and MR and the Borrower and MB and are legally
binding upon the Borrower and MR and the Borrower and MB respectively in
accordance with their respective terms.
    Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
    Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.01, 4.01,
and 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty (20)
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
    Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          Oktyabriin 7
          Ulaanbaatar
          Mongolia
                                         Telex: 719-79241
    For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
Page  7
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                INDEVAS                  248423 (RCA),
                Washington, D.C.          82987 (FTCC),
                                          64145 (WUI) or
                                         197688 (TRT)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                MONGOLIA
                By  /s/  Ts. Gombosuren
                                                Authorized Representative
                INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                By  /s/  Gautam S. Kaji
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                    East Asia and Pacific
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit
to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                                 Amount of the
                               Credit Allocated         % of
                                 (Expressed in      Expenditures
        Category                SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)     Goods and Technical          6,220,000     100% of foreign
        Services under Part A                      expenditures
        of the Project
        (Railways Component)
(2)     Goods under Part B           7,130,000     100% of foreign
        of the Project                             expenditures
        (Urban Transport
        Component)
(3)     Subsidiary Financing         1,250,000     80% of the amount
        under Part C.1 of the                      disbursed under
        Project (Road Freight                      the Subsidiary
        Transport Component)                       Financing
(4)     Goods under Part D of        1,530,000     100% of foreign
        the Project (Roads                         expenditures
        Component)
(5)     Consultants' services                      100%
        and training
        (a) Under Part A               390,000
            of the Project
        (b) Under Part B               500,000
Page  8
            of the Project
        (c) Under Part C               500,000
            of the Project
        (d) Under Part D               290,000
            of the Project
        (e) Under Part E               610,000
            of the Project
(6)     Unallocated                  3,180,000
        TOTAL                       21,600,000
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
and
    (b)  the term "Subsidiary Fianancing" shall have the same meaning
assigned thereto in the MB Project Agreement.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of:
    (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $140,000, may be made in respect of Category 5 (e) on account of payments
made for expenditures before that date but after June 30, 1994; and
    (b) a Subsidiary Financing unless the Subsidiary Financing has been made
in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth
or referred to in Part B of the Schedule to the MB Project Agreement.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to: (a) develop
its transport services in railways, urban transport, trucking, and roads;
(b) strengthen the institutional capacity of its transport sector; and (c)
undertake reforms in the transport sector.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
from time to time, to achieve such objectives:
Part A:  Railways Component
1.  Overhauling of about twenty-four MR locomotives and provision of spare
parts for MR locomotives, freight wagons, and passenger coaches.
2.  Conversion of about four hundred and twenty MR wooden freight wagon
bodies to steel bodies.
3.  Provision of equipment for MR workshops.
4.  Preparation of a MR action plan aimed at improving: (i) MR's coal
transport and its related costs, and (ii) MR's financial operations through
the carrying out of studies on: (a) coal transportation by rail focusing on
operations and costing; and (b) the business plan and restructuring options
for MR.
Part B:  Urban Transport Component
1.  Provision of about fifty buses and ten trolley-buses and spare parts to
Page  9
selected UM transport companies.
2.  Preparation of an urban transport action plan aimed at strengthening the
UM Department of Urban Transport and UM transport companies and focusing on:
(a) the establishment of a policy framework for the planning, pricing and
financing of urban transport services; (b) the improvement of urban
transport operations; (c) the improvement of maintenance of urban transport
equipment; and (d) procurement and training.
Part C:  Road Freight Transport Component
1.  Carrying out of subprojects comprising the rehabilitation and sale of
about 520 out-of-service trucks.
2.  Preparation of a road freight action plan aimed at: (a) the
strengthening of road freight motor carriers through the carrying out of a
business plan for selected motor carriers including the further
privatization of Motor Carrier No. 1; and (b) the improvement of technical
skills in road transport entities through the provision of training for
selected motor carriers.
Part D:  Roads Component
1.  Provision of: (a) about 1,000 tons of bitumen; (b) maintenance equipment
including spare parts for existing machinery, tractor-mounted excavators,
small compaction equipment, trailers for transporting hot bitumen for spot
repairs, and mechanical excavators; (c) computers, printers, and software
to facilitate the identification of road maintenance priorities based on
technical and economic criteria; and (d) laboratory equipment including
glass laboratory equipment, equipment to test granular materials for sealed
and unsealed roads, and equipment for testing asphalt quality for a network
of about ten materials testing laboratories.
2.  Preparation of a roads action plan aimed at: (a) the development of
maintenance standards and specifications for sealed and unsealed roads; (b)
the development of training manuals for materials testing laboratories; (c)
the collection of basic data for use in the identification of road
maintenance priorities; (d) the preparation of budget estimates for
maintenance requirements; and (e) the development of accounting and business
management procedures.
Part E:  Sectoral Assistance Component
1.  Preparation of a sector policy action plan aimed at: (a) adapting
government policy objectives and institutional responsibilities in the
transport sector to the needs of transition to a market economy; (b) the
adoption of transport regulations that promote equitable competition among
transport modes, help to develop small- and medium-size private transport
operators, and promote safe and environmentally acceptable transport
operations; (c) the reduction of pricing distortions in the transport
sector; (d) the modification of existing transportation procurement
procedures for strategic commodities and recommendations for appropriate
market-oriented methods to meet requirements; and (e) the development of the
transport component of the public sector investment program.
2.  Provision of: (a) advisory services to MID to assist in the
implementation of the Project; and (b) training for MID staff including
equipment required therefor.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A: International Competitive Bidding
Page  10
    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
    (a) For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Association, one to be applied to all
foreign currency components and the other to the local currency component
of the bid price.  Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the
bid evaluation.
    (b) In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the
Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed
to be necessary for the purposes of the Project.  Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms
agreed with the Association.
Part B: Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Mongolia may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part  C: Other Procurement Procedures
    1. Contracts for Technical Services under Parts A.1 and C.1 of the
Project, may be awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
    2. (a) Except as provided in sub-paragraph (b) hereof, spare parts under
Part B of the Project, estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $4,000,000, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
    (b)   Contracts for spare parts of a proprietary nature under Part B of
the Project, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $2,500,000, may be
awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
    (a) With respect to each contract for goods and Technical Services the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply.
    (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall employ or cause MR to employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association
Page  11
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981. For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall
employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract
for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as
shall have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
other standard forms agreed with the Association.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                          Implementation Program
1.  The Borrower shall implement the Project through the Implementing
    Agencies as follows:
    (a)   Part A of the Project shall be carried out by MR with the
          assistance of MTI.
    (b)   Part B of the Project shall be carried out by UM with the
          assistance of MTI.
    (c)   Part C.1 of the Project shall be carried out by Eligible
          Beneficiaries with the assistance of MB and PCBs.
    (d)   Parts C.2, D, and E of the Project shall be carried out by MID
          with the assistance of MTI.
2.  The Borrower shall: (a) maintain the Project Steering Group, established
    by MID, comprising representatives of MID (entrusted with the
    chairmanship of the said group), MTI, MOF, UM , MR, MB, and PCBs to
    coordinate and monitor the implementation of the Project; (b) by
    September 30, 1994, appoint a Sector Policy Adviser, under terms of
    reference satisfactory to the Association, to assist MID in the adoption
    of market-oriented policies, laws and regulations; and (c) by October
    31, 1994, appoint a Project Implementation Adviser, under terms of
    reference satisfactory to the Association, to assist MID and the said
    Project Steering Group in the management, administration, and
    coordination of the Project.
3.  The Borrower shall cause UM to, by November 30 every year commencing in
    1994, establish operational guidelines including performance targets for
    the following calendar year, satisfactory to the Association, for
    operating bus and trolleybus companies owned and/or managed by UM.
4.  The Borrower shall: (a) prepare a report on the adequacy of the current
    annual tax on trucks; (b) by June 30, 1995 furnish the said report to
    and discuss the results and recommendations thereof with the
    Association; and (c) thereafter, take appropriate steps to implement the
    said recommendations taking into account the comments, if any, thereon
    by the Association.
5.  The Borrower shall: (a) by, November 15, 1995, prepare a business plan
    for selected motor carriers in accordance with terms of reference agreed
    with the Association; (b) thereafter, implement the said plan in a
    manner satisfactory to the Association; (c) by November 15, 1996, take
    actions, agreed with the Association, to further privatize Motor Carrier
    No. 1; and (d) disseminate information about the said business plan to
    other motor carriers as reasonably required by the Association.
6.  The Borrower shall: (a) complete each of the Action Plans in accordance
    with a time-table, agreed with the Association; and (b) upon completion
    of each of the Action Plans, carry out the same in a manner satisfactory
    to the Association.
7.  The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1995, adopt and put into force a Code
    for Environmental Practice for road works as agreed with the Bank.
8.  The Borrower shall, jointly with MR: (a) undertake and, by April 30,
    1996, complete the studies under Part A.4 of the Project in accordance
    with terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and (b) take
Page  12
    appropriate steps to implement the recommendations of the said studies
    taking into account the views thereon of the Association.
9.  The Borrower shall grant the requisite approval to MR to adjust tariffs,
    as appropriate, to meet its maintenance funding need for traction and
    rolling stock, and tracks in accordance with the maintenance program for
    traction and rolling stock, and tracks prepared by MR.
10.       The Borrower shall, by December 31 every year commencing in 1994,
          adjust the urban transport fares for the following calendar year
          to keep pace with inflation in accordance with a formula agreed
          with the Association.
11.       The Borrower shall, by October 30 every year commencing in 1995,
          prepare and furnish to the Association an estimate of funding
          needs for road maintenance and, thereafter, allocate the necessary
          funds to meet these needs taking into account the comments, if
          any, thereon by the Association.
