CREDIT NUMBER 2615 MOG
Project Agreement
(Transport Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERTUATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
MONGOLIAN RAILWAYS
Dated       -kA~~I      1994


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2615 MOG
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  ' ' ''       , 1994, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and MONGOLIAN RILWAYS
(MR).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Mongolia (the Borrower) and the Association, the
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount
in various currencies equivalent to twenty-one million six hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 21,600,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that MR and MB agree to undertake such obligations
toward- the Association as are set forth in this Agreement and the MB
Project Agreement respectively;
(B) by a Subsidiary Credit Agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and MR, a portion of the proceeds of the credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be relent
to MR on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary
Credit Agreement; and
WHEREAS MR, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined therein) have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional term has the
following meaning: (a) "Subsidiary Credit Agreement" means the
subsidiary credit agreement entered or to be entered into between
the Borrower and MR pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of the Development
Credit Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes any schedules to the Subsidiary Credit Agreement.


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. MR declares its commitment to the objectives of
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part A of the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, and engineering practices, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for Part A of the
Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for Part
A of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. MR shall carry out the obligations set forth in
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, and 9.07 of the General Conditions
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and
schedules, records and reports, and maintenance respectively) in
respect of this Agreement and Part A of the Project.
Section 2.04. MR shall duly perform all its obligations under
the Subsidiary Credit Agreement. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, MR shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving
the Subsidiary Credit Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) MR shall, at the request of the Association,
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of
Part A of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Credit Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) MR shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part
A of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit,
or the performance by MR of its obligations under this Agreement and
under the Subsidiary Credit Agreement.
Section 2.06. MR shall: (a) by June 30 every year commencing
in 1995, furnish to the Association a maintenance program for


﻿-3-
traction and rolling stock, and tracks including: (i) actual
maintenance expenses for the preceding four years and estimated
maintenance needs for the current and following four years, and (ii)
funding sources for the implementation of maintenance in the
following two years; and (b) in consultation with the Borrower and
the Association, adjust tariffs, as appropriate, to meet its
maintenance funding need for traction and rolling stock, and tracks.
Section 2.07. MR shall, jointly with the Borrower: (a)
complete the railway action plan under Part A.4 of the Project in
accordance with a time-table, agreed with the Association; and (b)
upon completion of the said plan, carry out the same in a manner
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.08. MR shall, jointly with the Borrower: (a)
undertake and, by April, 1996, complete the studies under Part A.4
of the Project in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to
the Association, and (b) take appropriate steps to implement the
recommendations of the said studies taking into account the views
thereon of the Association.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of MR
Section 3.01. MR shall carry on its operations and conduct its
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and
engineering practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
Section 3.02. MR shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
administrative practices.
Section 3.03. MR shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) MR shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
(b) MR shall:
(i)   have   its  records,  accounts  and   financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal  year   audited,  in   accordance  with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association;
(ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and
(iii) furnish   to   the   Association   such   other
information concerning said records, accounts
and financial statements as well as the audit
thereof, as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.


﻿- 5
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of MR thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of
the following two dates:
(i)    the date   on  which  the Development   Credit
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms; or
(ii)   the date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify MR of
this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party' s address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-6-
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                 248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC),
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For MR:
Mongolian Railways
P.O. Box 376
Ulaanbaatar 210628
Mongolia
Cable address:           Telex:
MONGOL RAILWAY           20987
Ulaanbaatar
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of MR may be taken or executed by its Chairman
or such other person or persons as the Chairman shall designate in
writing, and MR shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
MONGOLIAN RAILWAYS
By                         R     Sentt
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the
International Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


