Document of                                      DuLt CO P XY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2476-JO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR A
THIRD POWER PROJECT
March 28, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                              Jordan Dinars (JD)
JD 1                         -             1,000 fils
JD 0.30                                    US$1.00
JD 1.00                                    US$3.30
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
IDECO                        -         Irbid District Electric Company
JEA                          -         Jordan Electricity Authority
JEPCO                        -         Jordanian Electric Power Company
JNEC                         -         Jordan National Energy Committee
JVA                          -         Jordan Valley Authority
NPC                          -         National Planning Council
Financial Year               -         Calendar Year



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
JORDAN
THIRD POWER PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.
Beneficiary:         Jordan Electricity Authority (JEA).
Amount:              US$15.0 million.
Terms:                17 years including 4 years of grace at an interest
rate of 7 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:    The Government would relend the entire loan proceeds to
JEA on the same terms as those of the Bank loan; JEA
would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:         The Third Power Project is an integral part of JEA's
1979-1982 Development Program for supplying the power
needs of Jordan. The project represents an important
stage in the progress of the power sector towards the
long range objective of progressively interconnecting
the Northern, Central and Southern regions of Jordan
into an economic and reliable national power system
serving the whole country. The primary objective of the
project would be to supply the power needs of the potash
complex at Ghor Safi, the phosphate rock mining works at
El Hasa, the cement plant at Rashadiya, and the rural
distribution loads in central Jordan from the national
power grid. In addition, the project provides for con-
tinued Bank assistance for institution building within
JEA, and for further improvements in the institutional
and financial arrangements in the power sector. The
project would comprise:
(a)  about 225 km of 132-kV double-circuit
transmission lines;
(b)  five substations, with a capacity of about 221 MVA
and extension of two existing substations;
(c)  a system operations control center, with power
line carrier and related communication
equipment;
(d)  electrification of 33 villages in the Central
Region of Jordan;
(e)  consulting services for project engineering
and construction; and
(f)  a training program for JEA's staff.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
The project will meet the power needs of three major in-
dustrial projects and the power demand of some 46,000
inhabitants in 33 villages in central Jordan, this
region's population has at present the lowest access
to electricity in the country. The project would also
foster the development of an integrated national power
system which implies substantial benefits resulting from
economic power supply and improved system reliability.
No particular project risks are envisaged.
Project Costs:                                  Local   Foreign   Total
-----US$ Thousand------
Transmission Lines        8,517    12,776   21,293
Substations               4,920      9,325   14,245
Control Center               111       334       445
Rural Electrification    2,274       2,907    5,181
Consulting Services          926       869    1,795
Training                      16        66        82
Total Base Cost           16,764    26,277   43,041
Contingencies:
Physical             1,899      2,027    3,926
Price                3,281      3,298    6,579
TOTAL             21,944    31,602   53,546
Financing Plan:                                 Local   Foreign   Total
----- US$ Million…
Bank                         -      15.0      15.0
Government and JEA         17.3      7.7      25.0
Customer Contributions    4.6        8.4      13.0
Arab Fund                    -       0.5       0.5
TOTAL              21.9      31.6     53.5
Estimated
Disbursements:           Bank FY          1980   1981   1982   1983
…--    US$ Million-------
Annual             3.5    6.5    4.0    1.0
Cumulative         3.5   10.0   14.0   15.0
Rate of Return:       13 percent.
Staff Appraisal
Report:              Report No. 2366-JO dated March 23, 1979.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR A THIRD POWER PROJECT
t   1.    I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Bank
loan of US$15.0 million equivalent to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, to
help finance the Third Power Project. The loan will have a term of 17 years,
including 4 years of grace, with interest at 7 percent per annum. The loan
would be relent to the Jordan Electricity Authority (JEA) on the same terms
as those of the Bank loan. JEA would bear the foreign exchange risk. About
$500,000 from a previous Arab Fund loan would be used for the project. The
proposed Bank loan would be the third Bank Group assistance to Jordan for
power development and would cover part of the financing needs of JEA's 1979-
1982 Development Program, representing a continuing effort by the Bank, other
aid agencies, as well as the Government to foster the efficient growth of the
rapidly expanding power sector in Jordan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report entitled "Country Economic Memorandum on Jordan" (No.
1738-JO, dated January 9, 1978) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
January 19, 1978. An updating economic mission visited Jordan in July 1978
and its findings are reflected in this report. Country data sheets are
attached as Annex 1.
3.        Jordan is a small country of only 2.2 million people (East Bank).
Due to limited physical and mineral resources, the structure of output and
employment is service and trade-dominated. The economy's service-oriented
character is reflected in Jordan's increasing role as a provider of manpower
to neighboring countries and a regional tourist center, particularly since the
disruptions in Lebanon. Jordan has benefited from its regional setting in
terms of foreign exchange inflows in the form of external grants, workers'
remittances, exports and tourism revenues.  However, costs of this role to the
economy have been the outflow of scarce skilled labor and a low domestic
savings rate which is partly also a result of high defense expenditures.
Recent Developments
4.        During the Three Year Plan (1973-75), GDP grew at about 5 percent
per year. Agriculture stagnated as a result of droughts while the industrial
sector increased its share of GDP, mainly due to increased production and
1/   This part is essentially identical, except for updating, to paragraphs
2-16 of the President's Report No, P-2262-JO on a Loan for the Arab
Potash Project, dated August 21, 1978.



- 2 -
prices of phosphates and rapid growth in manufacturing output, encouraged by
higher domestic and external demand. Although domestic savings were negative
in the recent past, national savings increased significantly from 22 percent
of GNP in 1972 to 30 percent in 1975. Following the exceptionally high
economic activity in 1976, due both to booming conditions in the Gulf, and
to a smaller extent to the influx of Lebanese refugees and business, economic
growth and development in 1977 returned to a more normal growth trend.
Despite agricultural stagnation (because of poor rainfall), GDP grew by 9
percent in real terms in 1977, due mainly to an 8 percent increase in mining
and manufacturing and a 17 percent rate of growth in transportation. Total
investment reached 42 percent of GDP in 1977, compared to 22 percent in
1972.
5.        Despite a significant increase in exports in recent years, increased
investment efforts and a liberal trade policy have led to rapidly rising
imports and a growing resource gap. Nevertheless, the overall balance of
payments position has remained strong. Export earnings increased by 25
percent (in current prices) in 1977, mainly due to an increase in phosphate
and manufactured good exports, aided by higher prices of fruit and vegetable
exports. Imports in 1977 meanwhile rose by 27 percent in total imports, owing
mainly to an increase in raw material and capital good imports. Workers'
remittances increased in 1977 to $418 million, tourist revenues to $288 mil-
lion and external transfers to $504 million, enabling the current account
balance to achieve a surplus of $18 million which was substantially smaller
than the 1976 surplus of $82 million. The level of gross reserves increased
substantially to $678 million at end-1977 because of a high capital inflow.
In early 1977, Jordan successfully borrowed about $200 million from commercial
markets against the guarantee of the Government.
6.        Domestic budgetary revenues in 1977 increased by an estimated 32
percent while the growth in domestic current expenditures was restrained
to 29 percent. The increase in domestic revenues was mainly due to a sharp
increase in customs duties. Various other measures were taken to raise
domestic revenues, namely: a higher tax rate on corporate profits; higher
charges for port services, buses and land sales; and increased domestic prices
for oil products, water, electricity and cigarettes. Partly because of the
slowdown in expenditure growth but mainly because of high foreign budgetary
support (JD 120 million in 1977 compared with JD 41 million in 1976), an
overall budget surplus of some JD 7 million was attained in 1977.
7.        Despite a 33 percent increase in foreign assets in 1977 (compared
to 17 percent in 1976), restraint on credit expansion (both to the private
sector and to the government) helped to constrain the growth in money supply
to 19 percent, a slight decline from the 21 percent increase in money supply
in 1976. The inflationary impact was somewhat mitigated both by the propen-
sity of Jordanians to hold cash balances as a precautionary measure and the
tendency of commercial banks to hold liquid reserves at higher-than-required
levels. Large amounts of credit were directed to the tertiary sector.
Industrial investment has in the past relied largely on retained earnings
or direct support from Government but is now relying more upon financial



-3-
resources mobilized by the banking sector. Also, the Amman Stock Exchange has
been instrumental in mobilizing financial resources for industrial enterprises
since its inception in January 1977. Lending to industry amounted to 13 per-
cent of all outstanding credit at the end of 1977.
8.        The cost of living index increased by nearly 15 percent per year
during 1973-76. The rate of increase since dropped to 11 percent in 1977 and
7 percent in 1978. Inflationary pressures resulted from both domestic and
external factors.  Although the growth in money supply has been a contributing
factor, some causes of inflation were external, such as the sharp rise in the
prices of imported goods, strong demand for Jordanian goods and services by
neighboring countries, growing inflows of workers' remittances, and the
speculation in real estate which accompanied the influx of refugees and
businesses from Lebanon.
9.        Partly as a result of the migration of Jordanian labor to neighbor-
ing countries and partly as a result of a rapid increase in employment in the
civil service and military, unemployment declined from 14 percent in 1970 to
2.1 percent in 1975. About 250,000 Jordanians were estimated to be working
abroad, compared to total domestic employment of 370,000. Labor force partici-
pation rates are low, particularly for women.  The Government has been trying
to increase female participation rates by opening up employment opportunities
for women and by expanding child care facilities. It has also given increased
emphasis to education, particularly to vocational training, and has provided
a broad range of social services to attract Jordanian labor. There is an
increasing propensity, in both private and public sectors, to increase the
capital intensity of projects in order to economize on labor.
Medium-term Prospects
10.       The primary objectives of the current Five-Year Plan (1976-80) are
to diversify the productive structure of the economy, increase overall growth,
and improve tax and export revenues in order to reduce dependence on external
assistance and achieve self-reliance in the long run. This involves exploit-
ing phosphates and potash resources for export; extending irrigation in the
Jordan Valley to increase agricultural production, particularly of high-value
fruits and vegetables for export where Jordan enjoys a comparative advantage
in the region; promoting production of export-oriented consumer goods indus-
tries; and strengthening infrastructure in the transport and services sector
to serve regional development needs and earn additional foreign exchange.
Since the beginning of Plan implementation in 1976, serious efforts have
been made to follow up and monitor progress.  Social issues are being given
increasing attention by the Government, which is currently formulating a
program of action to assist low income groups and rural areas.
11.       The medium-term prospects for growth are good, with a likely GDP
growth rate of 6-8 percent per year in real terms. Overall investment is
likely to stay at a high level but may decline as a proportion of GDP from
the exceptionally high 35 percent reached in 1976. Jordan's development and
export prospects depend on the implementation of major projects (phosphate
rock mining, potash, phosphatic fertilizer, oil refining and the Maqarin



- 4 -
dam) and on the continued vitality of the private sector. Phosphate produc-
tion may rise to 5 million tons per year by the early 1980s. If the proposed
projects are implemented on time and if the marketing is carefully arranged,
exports of potash and phosphatic fertilizer should yield substantial foreign
exchange earnings in the early eighties. In industry, priorities have been
well established and the Government encourages industrial development. In
view of Jordan's stock of entrepreneurial skills and the market for medium-
scale industrial products in neighboring countries, the private sector should
continue to show healthy growth. Further improvements in packaging and mar-
keting, however, are needed for export promotion. In agriculture, the focus
of the Government is correctly on developing irrigated agriculture. But
increased attention will need to be paid to rainfed agriculture in order to
correct the weak institutional and coordinating machinery, reduce fragmenta-
tion of landholdings and, improve research and extension services.
Development Issues
12.       To achieve gradually the Government's self-sufficiency objectives,
domestic resource mobilization will need to be increased. The Government can
restrain current expenditure growth to some extent. But given the impact of
high wages and salaries in neighboring countries, greater possibilities lie
in increased revenues rather than in controlling expenditures. Tax collection
efforts need to be further increased, and consideration should be given to
reducing the high tax holidays and exemptions of business and individuals.
There is also some scope for increasing taxes on real estate and on non-
essential imported consumer goods. Domestic demand management and financial
controls need to be improved, both to reduce inflationary pressures and to
improve domestic resource mobilization. Efforts should also be made to issue
a variety of debt instruments to cover financing gaps in the public sector
and to develop a secondary market for these issues. Financial resources
should be channelled increasingly to productive investments through increases
in the capitalization of domestic financial institutions such as the Indus-
trial Development Bank, or through long-term loans to these institutions.
13.       Labor migration to neighboring countries is expected to continue
and is likely to cause shortages of labor in Jordan, particularly skilled
labor. The Government has correctly decided to focus on the supply of labor
rather than attempt to restrict its outflow; a 30 percent outflow of skilled
labor is assumed in the education and training plans. The low participation
rates, particularly among women, and the underemployed labor in the rainfed
areas represent potential for increased labor supplies. In order to retain
scarce skilled labor in Jordan, the Government is also providing low cost
housing, and various subsidies to reduce the price of imported food staples.
However, most of the subsidies are provided with insufficient selectivity in
terms of recipients, and the Government intends to review this policy.
14.       Because of their size, Jordan's prospective investments in several
major projects (phosphate mining, phosphatic fertilizer, potash and Maqarin
Dam) require especially careful resource planning. These investments (exclud-
ing the Maqarin Dam, for which works will not start before 1980) are expected



-5-
to amount to about one-third of total investment during the remainder of the
current Plan period. Although these projects will tax Jordan's limited
physical, human, and financial resources, they are net foreign exchange
generating projects exploiting Jordan's rather meager natural resources.
Jordan should explore carefully the impact of these projects on its external
debt servicing capacity, as significant amounts of foreign exchange will have
to be borrowed from various external sources. So far, Jordan has been suc-
cessful both in phasing investment so as not to burden its foreign exchange
resources unduly, and in obtaining substantial amounts of external assistance
on relatively concessional terms.
External Assistance
15.       External public debt outstanding and disbursed as of December 1977
was $645 million ($1,236 million including undisbursed). Of this total, loans
from bilateral sources amounted to $430 million ($794 million including undis-
bursed) and accounted for 67 percent. Outstanding debt to IDA was $53.7 mil-
lion ($83.3 million including undisbursed). Loans contracted between 1970
and 1977 carried an average interest rate of 4.4 percent, and an average
20 years of maturity, including 5 years of grace. Debt service payments
amounted to $37.4 million in 1977, equivalent to 5.4 percent of total exports
of goods and non-factor services.
16.       Despite an expected improvement in domestic resource mobilization
(para. 12), Jordan still needs substantial external capital inflows to
finance its development efforts. Judging from past trends in commitments
by donor countries, Jordan is expected to mobilize annually (apart from the
continued availability of transfers) loan commitments from USA, Federal
Republic of Germany, and UK totalling $75-$90 million at relatively conces-
sionary terms (2-3 percent interest rate, 20-40 years maturity, with 4-10
years grace). It may also obtain substantial loans from Arab multilateral
and bilateral sources. Jordan can absorb more borrowings on commercial
terms, mostly in suppliers' credits. The debt service ratio is expected to
reach 9-10 percent in the early eighties, but should remain manageable if the
Government continues to exercise the restraint it has shown in the past.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
17.       Jordan has received one Bank loan for $35 million and fifteen IDA
credits totalling $83.8 million (net of cancellations) of which eight have
been fully disbursed. War and local disturbances adversely affected the pace
of economic activity after 1967, and Bank Group lending only resumed in mid-
1971. Project implementation is generally satisfactory. As of December 31,
1978 disbursements amounted to 60 percent of appraisal estimates and 78 per-
cent of revised estimates. The IDA credits have mainly financed physical and
social infrastructure projects, such as education, highways, water supply and
sewerage, power and irrigation. With Jordan having attained a stage in its



- 6 -
economic development where it can be considered creditworthy for Bank lending,
and having reached a GNP per capita level ($560 in 1976) that exceeded IDA
limits, the Third Amman Water Supply and Sewerage Project, approved in March
1978, was the last project financed through an IDA Credit. IFC has made three
investments in Jordan consisting of a $244,000 equity participation and a
$1.6 million loan to Jordan Ceramic Industries Limited (JCI) in 1974, a $3.1
million equity participation in the promotion of a phosphatic fertilizer
project in 1975 including a subsequent $20 million loan in June, 1978 (see
para 19) and a $667,000 equity participation and a $2.5 million loan to a
brick company in December 1978. Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA
credits and IFC investments as of March 16, 1979, and notes on the execution
of ongoing projects.
18.       Unlike past Bank Group assistance to Jordan which was largely
for infrastructure projects, recent and proposed lending is also directed
toward large export oriented projects with foreign exchange earning potential.
In addition, the Bank Group would assist the Government in implementing its
social objectives enunciated in the Five-Year Plan (1976-80) aimed at improv-
ing the income and living standards of the rural and urban poor.
19.       In line with these overall objectives, the Bank Group provided
technical assistance for developing and implementing a plan for expanding
phosphate rock production, and a comprehensive program for a second phase of
development of the irrigation and agricultural potential of the Jordan Val-
ley. An Engineering Credit was made in FY1975 to help prepare the project for
potash production from the Dead Sea via solar evaporation, for which a loan
was approved by the Executive Directors on September 5, 1978. In addition IFC
has assisted the Government in preparing a phosphatic fertilizer project to
produce diammonium phosphate (DAP) and triple superphosphate (TSP) for which
an IFC loan of $20 million was approved by the Executive Directors on June 27,
1978, in addition to IFC's equity participation of $3.1 million in 1975 (see
para 17). In support of the Government's social objectives, projects cur-
rently under preparation for lending in the next two to three fiscal years
include proposals for developing a Municipal and Rural Development Bank which
has primarily a rural clientele, a slum upgrading project and a Third Educa-
tion project to increase vocational training and to foster the participation
of women in the labor force. Also under preparation are a water supply
project to expand and improve water distribution in several intermediate
cities and small towns and a rainfed project to help small farmers increase
their yields through improved inputs of seeds and fertilizer as well as
through better cultivation practices.
20.       The Bank was Executing Agent for a two-year UNDP Planning Assistance
Project based in the National Planning Council which was completed in December
1975. It was also Executing Agent for a UNDP-financed study of the manufactur-
ing industry and industrial estates in Jordan. The first phase, consisting of
a study of the industrial sector, was completed in December 1975. The second
phase, consisting of studies of specific industries and proposals for the
establishment of industrial estates during the next Plan period was completed



-7-
in December 1976. The establishment of industrial zones and supporting
services for light manufacturing would aim at regulating the concentration of
economic activity in the Amman-Zarqa area which has strained the infrastruc-
ture facilities and caused severe pollution. The Bank is at present assisting
the Government in initiating a study for the promotion of export oriented
industries. The Bank may also help the Government to formulate a plan for the
rational use of scarce water resources.
21.       At the end of 1977, the Bank Group's share in Jordan's external
public debt was estimated at 7.0 percent, and its share in debt service was
1.2 percent. By 1980 the Bank Group's shares in debt outstanding and in debt
service are expected to be about 7.0 percent and 0.5 percent respectively.
PART III - THE POWER AND ENERGY SECTOR
Power and Energy Resources
22.       Jordan has no coal deposits nor any known reserves of oil or natural
gas and is totally dependent on oil imports for its energy needs. The oil is
imported via off-take from the Trans-Arabian Pipeline and refined at Zarqa.
The only indigenous energy resources consist of oil shales, a small hydropower
potential and geothermal and solar energy. There is no commercially proven
technology for the extraction of oil from the estimated 10,000 million tons of
shale rocks. The hydro potential is confined to 2 MW at the King Talal Dam
and 20 MW at the Maqarin Dam. A UNDP study of the potential development of
geothermal resources is underway. The development of solar and nuclear energy
is also being actively considered.  The Royal Scientific Society of Jordan has
a solar energy research program and has recently established an experimental
solar research station at Aqaba.  A search is underway for possible uranium
deposits with the assistance of the International Atomic Energy Agency and a
radiometric survey would be carried out as part of a geophysical survey with
USAID financing.
Energy Policy
23.       Following a review of energy problems in 1977, the Government estab-
lished the Jordan National Energy Committee (JNEC) to coordinate and direct
national energy plans and policies. In addition to reviewing development of
indigenous resources, one of its immediate tasks is to review the Government's
fuel pricing policy. Prior to 1975, the Government paid for its oil imports
at subsidized prices of about $2-3 per barrel. Since then, oil has been
imported at international prices. The total value of Jordan's oil imports
increased by 12 percent between 1975 and 1977, from $82 million to $92 mil-
lion. Nonetheless the Government has continued its policy to keep down the
cost of essential fuels to domestic, commercial and industrial consumers;
consequently, some petroleum products such as kerosene, gas oil and residual
fuel oil are sold well below international price levels while others such as
gasoline and jet fuel sell above the world market prices. The Government has



-8-
been able to sustain these subsidies with budget support received from ex-
ternal sources. However, the long term availablity of budget support cannot
be assured.  Furthermore, the Government's present policy could distort in-
vestments in the sector and lead to a misallocation of resources. It should
move towards a system of internal prices which reflect world market prices.
JNEC would complete proposals for energy sector strategy, including an energy
conservation program and fuel pricing policies by the end of 1979. As part of
the Bank's continuing dialogue with the Government on energy sector develop-
ment, the Government would inform the Bank when JNEC has completed its work
and would discuss JNEC's findings with the Bank.
Institutions in the Power Subsector
24.       Under the overall authority of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce,
responsibility for electricity generation, transmission and distribution in
Jordan is divided mainly between three entities: The Jordan Electricity
Authority (JEA), the Jordanian Electric Power Company (JEPCO), and the Irbid
District Electricity Company (IDECO). In addition, there are many small
diesel generating units serving the rest of the country.
25.       JEA was established in 1967 to coordinate the development of the
country's power subsector, and is entrusted with responsibility under the
General Electricity Law of 1976 for power generation, transmission and distri-
bution as well as the regulation of power consumption in the country. Under
this law, JEA, with Government approval, can acquire any power enterprise in
Jordan, a provision intended to help develop a national power system as JEA
moves progressively to serve isolated loads and to acquire small inefficient
power enterprises that cannot adequately fulfill their roles. JEA also serves
as a regulatory body of Government for electricity supply rates charged by
private electric utilities such as JEPCO and IDECO. The Bank has actively
supported the development of JEA as an autonomous and financially viable
utility which now plays a dominant role in the power subsector.
26.       JEPCO is a private utility company distributing power in the Amman
area. Prior to the creation of JEA, JEPCO was the largest power generating
and distributing enterprise in Jordan; however, JEPCO has since practically
ceased all its power generation. JEPCO accounted for 85 percent of JEA's
sales in 1978. Since JEPCO is responsible for power distribution in the
relatively highly developed area of the city of Amman and vicinity, JEA's
expansion plans must be carefully synchronized with those of JEPCO. In the
past, JEPCO has depended on the sale of equity shares and internal sources to
finance its investment program. However, there presently exists a financing
gap of $17 million out of the estimated $138 million required to implement
JEPCO's 1978-83 expansion program. In view of the importance of the comple-
tion of JEPCO's distribution network to the overall effort to extend and
satisfy power demand in Jordan, the Government has agreed to review the
investment requirements for the construction programs of entities engaged in
generation, transmission and distribution in the power sector within the
context of the next Five-Year Development Plan (1980-84) and would inform the
Bank by June 30, 1980 of measures required to facilitate the necessary finan-
cing from internal and external sources (Section 4.03 of the Loan Agreement).



- 9 -
27.        IDECO, the third major utility, operates a 9-MW diesel plant in
the northern region where it is the primary distributing power company.
It has increasing difficulty in carrying out its development program due to
severe financial and managerial problems. As a result, the Government intends
JEA to take over its operations. This would prevent a breakdown of service
in the Northern region and accelerate the development of rural electrification
systems. The possible acquisition of IDECO by JEA would change the institu-
tional arrangements in the sector and lead to further concentration of sector
activities under JEA's jurisdiction.  The Government wants both JEA and JEPCO
to coexist in the power sector with JEA being solely responsible for power
generation as well as for some power distribution especially in rural areas
and the Central and Southern regions of Jordan while JEPCO would be respon-
sible for power distribution in its concession area in the Northern part
of the country.
Power Generation and Demand
28.       Total electricity generation in Jordan increased from 230.4 GWh in
1971 to 594.9 GWh in 1977, while consumption increased at 17 percent per annum
from 204 GWh to 512.8 GWh during this period. The 1977 peak demand of the
interconnected system was 90 MW with an installed capacity of 130 MW. The
distribution of electricity consumption in 1977 was as follows: industrial
and domestic, 34 percent each; commercial, 12 percent; water pumping, 9
percent. The remaining 11 percent was distributed primarily among hospitals,
street-lighting, broadcasting and TV. In 1977, the per capita consumption
of electricity was 247 kWh (the level attained by Egypt in 1975 or Portugal
in 1950), compared to 162 kWh in 1974. Only about 50 percent of the total
population had access to electricity in 1977.
29.       The power system in Jordan operates two steam and four combustion
turbine units with a number of small diesel units located near Amman with a
total capacity of 137 MW. Jordan Phosphate Mines Company at El Hasa has a
captive plant with a capacity of 22 MW; about 20 MW is provided by small
privately owned diesel sets. The transmission network consists of 105 km of
132-kV double-circuit lines. The Syrian and Jordanian power systems were
connected in 1977 via a 66-kV transmission line between Damascus and Irbid.
Under the agreement between the two countries, Jordan can import up to 28 GWh
from Syria. A new 230-kV transmission line from Damascus to Irbid including a
*           100-MVA substation at Irbid to be completed at the end of 1979 will complete
the second phase of the interconnection between the Jordanian and Syrian power
systems.
30.        The national load forecast shows total system sales growing at 24.2
percent per annum in the period up to 1985 and maximum demand growing from 110
MW to 488 MW. It is projected that per capita consumption would rise to 932
kWh in 1985. To meet this expected growth, JEA has instituted a 5 year
(1978-82) Development Program costing about $610 million to expand power
supply facilities. About 90 MW of new generating capacity would be added in
this period. Furthernmore, commitments would be made for 3 x 120-MW steam
units for Aqaba to be commissioned between 1985 and 1987. JEA's transmission
network to be constructed in the period 1979-1982 would be financed under the
proposed project (see para 36).



- 10 -
Rural Electrification
31.       About 70 percent of the population in rural areas still has no
access to public electricity supply. To extend electricity to this segment of
the population, JEA has commenced rural electrification schemes in the vicinity
of Amman as well as in Aqaba, Karak and the Jordan Valley. The erection of
190 km of a 33-kV network and 52 substations to supply 27 villages and 5
pumping stations in the Jordan Valley began in 1977. JEA has also prepared a
national rural electrification plan costing about $40 million equivalent to
electrify by 1982, all the 256 villages with over 500 inhabitants, which would
give about 70 percent of the total population access to public power supply.
Various bilateral aid agencies are assisting in the implementation of JEA's
rural electrification program. USAID has provided funds for the electrifica-
tion of 37 villages in the Amman area, and the USSR would finance the electri-
fication of 137 villages in the Irbid and Amman areas. Nineteen villages, of
which 12 remote ones will be served with mobile diesel units, would be financed
by Denmark, and the eiectrification of 30 villages are being financed by the
UK. In addition, the electrification of 33 villages in Central Jordan would
be financed under the proposed project. These villages are included in the
national rural electrification plan and their proximity to the project trans-
mission lines and substation makes their inclusion in the project the most
economical and reliable method of providing them with electricity.
32.       In order to help finance the local currency requirements for the
rural electrification plan, a special surcharge of 1 fil per kWh is levied on
all electricity sold by JEA and credited to an account for financing rural
electrification. However, no guidelines have been established for the alloca-
tion of the proceeds of the surcharge among the institutions engaged in rural
electrification. In addition, the procedure for making proceeds of the fund
available to the rural communities has still to be determined. Presently, the
Municipal and Rural Development Bank (MRDB), for which Bank assistance is
under preparation, is the main venue through which the Government channels
financial assistance to small municipalities and villages, and the MRDB might
have a useful role to play in the financing of rural electrification and
utilization of the surcharge. Consequently, during negotiations the Govern-
ment agreed to cause JEA to establish guidelines for the utilization of the
proceeds of the surcharge levied by JEA for financing rural electrification
and to inform the Bank by December 31, 1979, of the details of these guide-
lines (Section 4.02 of the Loan Agreement).
Tariffs
33.       Under existing covenants with the Association, JEA is required to
maintain tariff at levels sufficient to earn a minimum 9 percent return on
revalued assets. JEPCO and IDECO the major distribution enterprises, are
allowed to set their tariffs so as to cover reasonable operating expenses plus
interest on debt and provide for at least a 7 percent return on shares. The
North Eastern Electricity Board of U.K., JEA's consultants, completed a tariff
study in 1976, taking into account the marginal costs of generating, transmit-
ting, and distributing electricity, and recommended tariffs, including a fuel



- 11 -
adjustment clause, to enable JEA to earn the required 9 percent return.
Tariffs based on the consultants' recommendations were approved by the Govern-
ment, effective March 1, 1977, which resulted in an average increase in JEA's
tariffs for bulk supply to JEPCO and IDECO of about 75 percent from an aver-
age of 7.4 fils per kWh to 13 fils per kWh. Retail electricity tariffs for
different categories of customers in Amman, Irbid and the Jordan Valley
served by JEPCO and IDECO were also raised by about 50 percent, effective
March 1 1977, commensurate with the increase in the bulk supply tariffs of
JEA. Subsequently, as required under Credit 570-JO, these tariffs were
reviewed by consultants (British Electricity International) who confirmed
that the tariffs of JEA and IDECO would meet the financial requirements for
1978 and 1979 while JEPCO's tariffs would do so only in 1978 and would have
to be revised in 1979. However, JEPCO has reported some customer resistance
to maximum demand charges, which has prompted an internal review of tariffs.
The Government has agreed to ask JEA to complete the tariff review by March
31, 1980 and inform the Bank by April 30, 1980 of any proposed changes in
tariffs as a result of the tariff review (Section 4.04 of the Loan Agreement).
Role of IDA/Bank
34.       The proposed loan would be the third Bank Group lending operation
for power in Jordan. The first IDA Credit (386-JO) for $10.2 million together
with another $10.2 million loan from the Arab Fund, was used to finance the
installation of the two 33-MW steam units and 13-MW combustion turbine at the
Hussein Thermal Power Plant. The second IDA Credit (570-JO) for $5 million
co-financed with the Kuwait Fund ($13.4 million) the third 33-MW unit at the
Hussein Thermal Power Plant, the reconditioning of the Marqa diesel units and
the Power Development Study on which the proposed Third Power project is
based. The two steam units financed under the First Power project were com-
missioned in October 1977. Implementation of the Second Power project is
progressing satisfactorily and its completion is expected by mid-1979. A
joint project completion report covering the First and Second Power projects
would be prepared by JEA by the end of 1979. Important achievements supported
by the two earlier operations, besides attracting other external financing,
were the establishment of an economical and reliable power supply service, the
development of JEA as an autonomous and financially viable entity responsible
for the whole power subsector and the establishment of a tariff structure
based on marginal costs. However, deficiencies in JEA's accounting system
persist due to lack of experience of JEA accountants in utility accounting.
JEA's staff also need further training to enable the enterprise to cope with
its increasing responsibilities in the rapidly expanding power sector. Steps
are being taken to remedy the situation as part of the continuing institution-
building effort under the proposed project (see para 41).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
35.       Under the Second Power project, JEA engaged Preece, Cardew and
Rider, UK, to prepare the feasibility study for the long term development



- 12 -
of the power sector, of which the proposed project is an integral part. The
project was appraised in September/October 1978. Negotiations were held in
Washington D.C. between March 19-21, 1979. The Government was represented
by Dr. Hanna Odeh, President of the National Planning Council and JEA by Mr.
Ali Ensour, its Director General. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Jordan
- Third Power Project," (No. 2366-JO) dated March 23, 1979 has been distri-
buted separately.
Project Objectives and Description
36.       The proposed project is an integral part of JEA's 1979-1982 Devel-
opment Program. The project marks an important stage in the progress of
the power sector towards the long range objective of progressively intercon-
necting the Northern, Central and Southern regions of Jordan into an economic
and reliable national power system. The primary objective of the project
would be to supply the power needs of the potash project at Ghor Safi (Bank
Loan No. 1617-JO), the phosphate rock mining works at El Hasa, the cement
plant at Rashadiya, and the rural distribution loads in Central Jordan from
the national power grid. After completion of the project, access to public
electricity supply in the Central Region would increase from 30 percent to
about 50 percent. The project also aims at continuing the Bank Group's
assistance for institution building within JEA and at effecting further
improvements in the institutional and financial arrangements in the power
subsector. The major components of the project are:
(a) about 225 km of 132-kV double-circuit transmisson lines;
(b) five substations, with a capacity of about 221 MVA and
extension of two existing substations;
(c) a system operations control center, with power line carrier
and related communication equipment;
(d) electrification of 33 villages in the Central Region of Jordan;
(e) consulting services for project engineering and construction;
and
(f) a training program for JEA's staff;
Project Execution
37.       PCR has prepared the draft bidding documents for the transmission
lines, substations and power transformers. JEA, which has substantial expe-
rience in carrying out transmission and rural electrification projects, would
be responsible for project implementation, with the help of consultants who
would assist in the supervision of construction, in procurement, erection and
inspection of major equipment. To ensure satisfactory implementation of the
project, the construction of which is phased over four years, JEA's engineer-
ing staff would however need further training (para 41). The consultants
would also assist JEA in establishing operating rules for the transmission
network and the system control center. The assistance of consultants in the



- 13 -
implementation of the proposed project is considered important and JEA would
employ experienced consultants throughout the project implementation period
(Section 2.02 (a) of the Project Agreement). Contractors to be selected under
ICB procedures would be responsible for project construction on a "supply-
and-erect" basis. Local participation in project construction is expected to
be limited in view of the lack of local construction capabilities and the
tight implementation schedule. The project is expected to be completed by
December 31, 1982.
Project Cost and Financing Plan
38.       The estimated cost of the project, excluding interest during con-
struction, is $53.5 million of which $31.6 million (or 59 percent) would
be in foreign exchange. The average cost per connected consumer under the
rural electrification component is estimated at about $960. Physical con-
tingencies have been assumed at 12 percent for equipment and 8 percent for
materials. Price contingencies have been estimated at 12 percent in 1979 and
10 percent per annum during 1980-82 for civil works, and at 8 percent in 1979,
7 percent in 1980, and 6 percent per annum in 1981 and 1982 for equipment and
materials. About 100 man-months of consulting services would be required at
an estimated average cost per man-month of about $8,500.
39.       The proposed Bank loan of $15 million to be made to the Government
would amount to about 28 percent of total project costs and about 47 percent
of the foreign exchange costs. The Bank loan would be made on standard Bank
terms applicable to Jordan--17 years, including 4 year of grace. The Govern-
ment would relend the entire proceeds of the Bank loan to JEA on the same
terms as those of the Bank loan, under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be
entered into between the Government and JEA. JEA would bear the foreign
exchange risk (Section 3.01(c) of the Loan Agreement). Ratification of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement is a condition of loan effectiveness (Section
6.02(b) of the Loan Agreement). The Bank loan would finance 25 percent each
of the total cost of the transmission lines, substation and control center,
50 percent of the total cost for rural electrification and 100 percent each of
the foreign exchange cost for consultant services and training. The Bank loan
would be to the Government which coordinates all foreign financing for public
sector projects through its National Planning Council. Part of the financing
would be contributed by three major industrial customers, the Arab Potash
Company, the Jordan Phosphates Mines Company and the Rashadiya Cement Plant,
aggregating $13 million, and including $8.4 million in foreign exchange. The
Bank has been provided with signed agreements between JEA and each of these
customers concerning their respective contributions. Most of the foreign
exchange would come from loans already contracted by these entities from
external sources partly for the provision of electric power. A balance of
$500,000 from a previous Arab Fund loan would be used to finance part of the
foreign exchange cost of completing the expansion of the Bayader substation.
About $25 million, including $7.7 million in foreign exchange, would be
provided by the Government and JEA to complete the project financing plan.
During negotiations the Government agreed to make available to JEA, the
necessary funds including foreign exchange, as required by JEA to carry
out the project (Section 3.01(a) and (b) of the Loan Agreement).



- 14 -
Organization and Management
40.       JEA has a Board of eight Directors appointed by the Government for
a period of three years and responsible for the formulation of JEA's policy.
The Minister of Industry and Commerce is the Chairman of the Board and the
President of the National Planning Council, the Vice Chairman. The Director
General of JEA, who is appointed by the Government and is an ex-officio
member of the Board, is responsible for the management of JEA in accordance
with the policy laid down by the Board. JEA's organization was established
along the lines suggested by Peat, Marwick and Mitchell, management consul-
tants appointed under Credit 386-JO. The Director General is assisted by a
Chief Engineer who overseees all the technical departments and the regional
offices in Karak and Aqaba. The directors of the Departments of Finance,
Supplies and Contracts, Internal Audit, and Administration report directly to
the Director General. In the past, JEA has depended largely on consultants
for its planning activities. However, to develop its own planning capabili-
ties, JEA has agreed to take appropriate actions by December 31, 1979 to
strengthen its Planning Department and would inform the Bank for its review
and comments of the actions proposed to be taken to develop adequate power
sector planning capabilities within JEA (Section 3.02 of the Project Agree-
ment). In addition JEA would need to improve its effectiveness in financial
administration and accounting (para 44).
Staffing
41.       In October 1978, JEA had 1,069 employees, including 96 engineers
and 551 technicians. JEA's staff is well qualified, and many of the senior
staff were trained overseas. JEA's salaries are competitive in Jordan and
staff morale is high. JEA has an active training program prepared by an
expert from the North Eastern Electricity Board, U.K. In 1977, 16,engineers
were sent abroad for training for periods of up to 6 months in power plant
operations and maintenance, and four technicians and five administrators were
also trained abroad for periods ranging from one month to a year. Yet to
meet the needs of future expansion of the system as well as the needs of the
project JEA's staff should be strengthened further. The proposed Bank loan
provides $30,000 for the foreign exchange costs of training additional JEA
staff abroad in power transmission and distribution and utility accounting.
JEA would prepare by December 31, 1979, a satisfactory training program for
its staff (Section 3.03 of the Project Agreement).
Financial Performance of JEA
42.       Under existing covenants, JEA is required to maintain tariffs at
levels sufficient to yield a 9 percent rate of return on its net fixed assets
as revalued from time to time, a requirement designed to ensure that JEA
generates internally a reasonable portion of its capital expansion require-
ments. This provision would be kept under the proposed loan (Section 4.04 of
the Project Agreement). With the benefit of the tariff increase of March 1977
(para. 33) JEA earned a return of about 7.6 percent in 1977 and a little over
10 percent in 1978 on unrevalued assets.  Its return for 1979 is estimated to



- 15 -
be about 14 percent on unrevalued assets. Presently JEA's fixed assets are
mostly new; the only old ones, the generation assets of JEPCO, are real-
istically valued. Therefore, the above rates of return for 1978 and 1979 are
acceptable. However, JEA's assets should be revalued by 1981 to reflect the
effects of inflation on the value of the assets in service. The principles
and procedures for asset revaluation were agreed during negotiations. The
Bank has estimated that JEA would need to increase tariffs by about 13.5
percent effective January 1980 to earn the required 9 percent rate of return
in 1980 on revalued assets. Further increases in tariffs of about 5 percent
in 1983, 7.5 percent in 1984 and 7.5 percent in 1985 would be required to
attain the required 9 percent return in these years.
43.       JEA's future financial situation would be satisfactory provided
tariff adjustments are carried out regularly as indicated above to meet the
rate of return covenant. The generation of electricity is estimated to in-
crease by an average 24.9 percent annually from 1978-85. During this period,
JEA would be meeting about 37 percent of the cost of its construction pro-
gram from internally generated funds, which is an acceptable level of self-
financing. The debt service coverage ratio would increase from an estimated
1.3 in 1978 to about 2.0 in 1985, indicating an increasingly healthy financial
condition. Under previous agreements with the Association, JEA agreed not to
incur additional debt without the Association's agreement unless its debt
service coverage ratio with reference to maximum debt service including the
debt service on the debt to be incurred was at least 1.5. This will remain
a covenant of the proposed Project Agreement (Section 4.05 of the Project
Agreement).
Accounting
44.       In 1977, JEA began implementing the accounting system recommended
by the consultant appointed for the purpose under Credit 386-JO but progress
has been slow due to lack of experience of JEA staff in utility accounting.
JEA engaged an expatriate accountant in August 1978, financed by the British
Ministry of Overseas Development, to assist in the implementing the new
accounting system and to train JEA's accounting personnel. JEA has agreed
to implement fully a suitable accounting system by December 31, 1979 (Section
4.03 of the Project Agreement).
Audit
45.       JEA's financial statements have been audited by Shair and Company,
a local auditing firm staffed by UK chartered accountants. The auditing
arrangements are satisfactory, and would be continued under the proposed
loan (Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement). The period for the submission
of audited accounts to the Bank would be extended to six months from the
normal four months for the years 1979 and 1980 to allow JEA sufficient time
to streamline procedures.



- 16 -
Procurement and Disbursements
46.        Procurement for goods and works to be financed by the proceeds of
the proposed Bank loan would be through international competitive bidding
under the Bank Group Guidelines. The bidding documents for the 132-kV trans-
mission lines, substations, and power transformers prepared by JEA and its
consultants, were reviewed by Bank staff and found to be in accordance with
those guidelines. Contracts for transmission lines, substations, power
transformers, operations control center and rural electrification respectively
would be executed on a "supply-and-erect" basis in order to facilitate proj-
ect implementation (para 37). It is expected that dividing the project into
separate bid packages would ensure effective international competition for the
supply of all goods and works required for the project. Although little local
participation is expected in contracts which might be financed from the Bank
loan, a preference of 15 percent or actual import duties, whichever is lesser,
would be granted to Jordanian manufacturers who participate.
47.        The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed against the
following:
(a) 25 percent of the total cost of the transmission lines.
(b) 25 percent of the total cost of the substation and control
center.
(c) 50 percent of the total cost for rural electrification.
(d) 100 percent of the foreign cost for consultants' services.
(e) 100 percent of the total cost for training.
About $3.5 million would be disbursed in FY 1980, $6.5 million in FY 1981,
$4.0 million in FY 1982 and $1.0 million in FY 1983.  Retroactive financing
aggregating to no more than $200,000 is proposed for foreign expenditures
required for consulting services incurred after January 1, 1979, but before
loan signing. The proposed Closing Date is June 30, 1983.
Project Justification
48.        The project is part of JEA's 1979-82 Development Program designed to
meet the expected loads to be generated by the major industrial projects in
the Five-Year Development Plan (1976-80) and the extension of electricity
services in the Northern and Central regions of Jordan. Specifically, it
would provide the power needs of three major industrial projects and the power
demand of 46,000 inhabitants in 33 villages in Central Jordan, an area whose
population has presently the least access to electricity. The project would
also foster the development of an integrated national power system.
49.        JEA's Development Program, of which this project is an integral
part, is the least cost alternative for meeting projected loads, as was
determined by comparing the present value of the capital and operating costs,
including fuel, over a range of discount rates, of the feasible alternative



- 17 -
generation and transmission investments necessary to meet forecast load
requirements in the Northern and Central regions.
50.       The estimated return on the project as a whole is 13 percent and the
return on its rural electrification component about 9 percent. The resulting
rate of return on the project underestimates the true rate of return since it
evaluates the transmission interconnection essentially as a means of bulk
transfer of electricity, ignoring the beneficial effects of capacity pooling
and improved security of supply; furthermore, it takes account only of the
benefits to the Central Region of the transmission link, whereas its full
benefit will be realized only when the 132-kV transmission is extended to
Aqaba in the South as envisaged in JEA's Development Program.
Project Risks and Environmental Aspects
51.       No particular project risks are envisaged.  The project is likely to
have little adverse impact on the environment as it consists of power trans-
mission and rural electrification. The transmission lines will cross desert
and mountainous areas with few inhabitants and little agricultural activity.
JEA is paying appropriate attention to the aesthetic appearance of project
facilities and their compatibility with the environment. Possible adverse
visual impact will be reduced to a minimum by use of selected types of trans-
mission line poles, including tubular pole design near Amman City, and by
suitable routing of overhead lines. Besides, the social environment will be
enhanced by bringing public lighting to areas which have not yet had power
supply.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
52.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and
the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Jordan Electri-
city Authority, and the draft Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distri-
buted to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the
project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
53.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
54.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
March 28, 1979
Washington, D. C.






- 18-                                       Annex I
Page 1 of 5
TAULZ 3A
JORDAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTZD AVERAGzS
LAND ARUA (TOUSAND SO. DI.)                JOlD                             - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOT-AL           97 7                                                   SANK        SANE     NT  HIGHRC
AGRICULTURAL      14.6                               hD)ST URCENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOKE       INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 tb ESTIXATZ lb      RUION L   GROUP  d   GROUP  ,
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 190.0       340.0     710.0          1438.5      867.2       1796.4
ENERGY CONSURPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     197.0       306.0    408.0            816.7      578.3      1525.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                         1.7         2.3       2.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 43.9          ..      43.0            45.8       46.2        52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                       17.0        24.0      30.0            23.2       50.8        27.6
PER SQ. IN. AGRICULTURAL LAND    133.0       165.0     199.0           112.4       93.3       116.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERC8NT)
0-14 YRS.                         45.0        47.0 /f   47.5 jg         46.0       42.9        34.6
15-64 YRS.                         51.0        49.5 7    49.5            50.6       53.5        56.0
65 YRS. AID ABOVE                   4.0         3.5 I     3.0             3.3        3.5         5.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PECEN)
TOTAL                              2.8         3.3       3.2             2.9        2.5          1.6
URBAN                              5.0 Lh                3.2 Ai          5.0        4.7          3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     46.1        47.5      47.6            45.0       37.8        27.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     21.1        17.8      14.7            13.7       10.8         9.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.4         3.5       3.5             3.4        2.5          1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..          ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED  O )    ..            ..        ..            14.7       20.0        19.3
FOOD AND NUTITION
INDEX OF PDOD PRODUCTIOq
PER CAPITA (1970-100)               *-       100.0 If  102.7 /f        107.1      107.3       103.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
BEQUIRDINTS)                    90.0        92.0      90.0            99.2      105.3        110.4
PROTEINS (GRANS PER DAY)          62.0        60.0      65.0            63.4       63.0        77.7
OF WICH ANDMAL AND PULSE        16.0        18.0 /      *             16.4       21.7        22.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       ..         5.0 /k    ..               ..        8.0          1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    48.2        50.7      53.2            53.7       57.2        63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER THOUSAND)  ..        36.3      23.0            77.7       53.9        38.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OP
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               *-        77.0        *-            59.1       56.8        67.7
URBAN                               ..        98.0        ..            85.9       79.0         83.5
RURAL                               ..        59.0        ..            38.0       31.8         41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..            64.3       30.9         70.3
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..            94.5       45.4         90.7
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..            27.7        16.1        38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          5900.0      2680.0   2480.0           4271.6     2706.8       1310.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     1650.0      1050.0   1030.0           2077.4    1462.0        849.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            500.0       960.0    950.0            580.2      493.9        275.4
URBA                                ..       740.0        ..           310.0       229.6       129.9
RURAL                               ..      5750.0        ..              ..    2947.9         965.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        36.5      39.6            22.0       22.1         18.9
BOUSING
AVERArg SIZE OP ROUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.3         6.1        ..             5.4        5.2          3.9
Una                                5.5          ..        ..              ..         5.0
RURAL                              5.1          ..        ..              ..         5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROMN
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..               ..        2.0         0.9
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..              1.8        1.5         0.8
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..              ..         2.7         1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             17.0          ..        ..             40.3       64.1        59.2
URBAN                             39.2          ..        ..              ..        67.8        78.0
RURAL                              1.0          ..        ..             12.2       34.1        12.5



- 19-                                             Annex I
TABLE 3A                                         Page  2  of  5
JORDAN - SOCIAL INDICATMRS DATA SHEET
INFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTZD A*UAOUS
- MOST 31CI0T ZSTXKT3 
SANE        S*I    *~K
MOST RECISE     GEOGUAPHIC   INwIS         IHO
1960 /b     1970 /b ESIKA /TE        R8ION I   CROUP /d        MWM L
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                78.0         73.0  f   83.O0J          80.8        99.8        97.6
FEMALE               59.0        66.0  f   77.0  f          61.8       93.3         87.4
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 25.0         33.0 /f   42.0 /f         23.6        33.8        47.6
FEMALE               13.0        24.0  f   34.0  f          18.2       29.8         42.6
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)  3.0          3.0 /f    4.0 /f          6.7        12.8        22.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           34.0         39.0 /f   36.0 If         31.5        34.9        25.4
SECONDARY                         21.0         23.0  f   21.0 /f         22.3       22.2         24.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       32.0           ..      62.0 /f         50.1        71.8        96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         4.0          7.0      10.0            14.5        12.4        32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        38.0        160.0     198.0           125.8      104.5        201.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ,.         20.0      32.0            34.5       28.1         97.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 18.0         24.0      22.0            17.4       45.2         70.9
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0          0.9        *-             1.6        4.6          4.4
EMPLOYMENT
MTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       390.0 L      350.0 /f  380.0 /f
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   5.3 L1      5.5 /f    6.1 /f           9.3       25.7         17.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             35.0         33.0      19.0            42.0       46.2         38.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                26.3        32.8        ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               25.5         24.8      24.2            26.9       33.8         33.7
MALE                                46.7         45.6      44.5            46.6       48.1         50.8
FEMALE                               2.7          2.9       3.0             5.3       17.3         12.6
ECONOMIC fEPENDENCY RATIO              2.3          2.4       2.6             1.9        1.4          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..         ..              ..       23.6        20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          ..        ..               ..       52.3        47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..        ..               ..        4.3         3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..        ..               ..       13.1        13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URB8N                               ..          ..        ..               ..      191.9
RURAL                               ..          ..      100.0           142.0      193.1       157.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      192.0           236.1      319.8       448.8
RUJRAL                           )  ..          ..      155.0           144.7      197.7       313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..       19.0            21.5       19.8        23.2
RURAL                               ..          ..       30.0            37.4       35.1        54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geomtric mans. excluding the extrem
values of the indicator and the  oot populated country In each group. Coverage of countries  _ms the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    North Africa & Middle East;  /d   Intermediate Middle Income (5551-1135 per capita, 1976);  /o Upper Middlo
Income ($1136-2500 per capita, 1976);  /f  East Bank only;   i& 1971; /h 1952-61;  L  1961-74; LI 1965;
/k 1966; /1 5 years and over.
September, 1978



- 20-                                                    ANNEXI
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                   Page   3   of   5
52  The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform. Due to Deck of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and excreta disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. kcm)                                                              Population per hospital bed - totai. urban, and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and Inland waters.                         urban, and rural) divided by their respective numer of hospital beds
Agricultural - Most cecent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                  available in public and private general aud specialized hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                     habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie, fallow,                                                                             at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and medi-
ONP PER CAPITA (US$5 - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                   cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical ar,
calculated by same conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                sistant, nurse, midwife, aet.) which offer in-patient accommodatlon and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                               provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total numbsr of admissions to or discharges
ENEROYf CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of coemercial energy                    from hospitals divided by the mumber Of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograma of coal equivalent per capita.                    NOUSING
Average size of household (persons per household) - total, urban. aNd rural -
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                             A household consists of a group of individuals who shere living quarters
To tal population. mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if nor available,                   and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be Included in
aeaeof two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                           the household f or statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                      hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                   Average number of persona per room - total, urban, and rural - Average num-
of data amon  coutries,                                                                 her of persona per room  in all, urbam, and rural occupied cqnventiomal
population density                                                                         dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per  so. km. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                    unoccupied parts.
of total ares.                                                                        Access to electricity (percent of dwellioas) - total, urban, and rural -
Per so. km. agriculture land - computed as above for agricultural land                    Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percemtage
only.                                                                                    of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population sag tucue(eret   Children (6-14 years), working-age
(15-64 yeasr), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-               EDUCATION
year population.                                                                     Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (psrcent) - total, and urban - Compound annux                     Primary school - total, and female - Total and femal  enrollment sof all ags.
growth rates of total sod urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                        st the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                   populations-, normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rats (per thousan.d) - Annual live births per thoussad of                      different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                     cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,                     above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous.and of mid-                    Secondary school - total, sand female - Computed as above; secondaryedc-
year population; tan-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 end 1970                    tion requires at least four yeasr  of approved primary instruction; pro--
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                          vides gemeral vocational, or teacher training Instructions f or Pupils
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                    usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence c-ourss are generally
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-                       excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                  Vocational enrollment (psrcmot of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970. and 1975.                                                                          Idud   technical, indusrrial. or ocher programs which operate indepsedently
Family planning - acceptors, annLual (thousands) - Annual. number of                       or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of uiational family                Pupil-teacher ratio - primary. and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                       primary and sec ondary levels divided by numbers of teac.hers in the  ore
Family planning - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                         eponding levels.
married woman of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control               Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read end. wits) as
devices to all married women in same age group.                                         a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
POOl) AND NUTRITION                                                                    CONSUMPTION
Index of food production Per capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                   Passenjser cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capita annual production of all food commsodities.                                    seating less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capits suppl  ocaoispecnofrqrmnt)- Computed from                                    vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita               Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports loes               broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in otock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,              receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                  effect; date for recent years may not be comparable since most countries
quirenents were estimated by PAO based on physiological needs for nor-                abolished licemaing.
mal activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                  TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers f or broadcast to gemert
weighto, age and sex diotributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                  public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coun-
cent for waste at household level.                                                      tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
For capita supply of prote'in (scams per day) - Protein content of per                 Newspaper circulation (1perithousad popula:ti1on) - Shows the avrage circule-
capita net supl  offoI       e  day.  Net supply of food is defined as                  tion of "algerlinrst newspape", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                  cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered'to
aminimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                   be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal proteic.             Cinema annual attendance per capitaL per year - Based on the number of tickets
These stendarde are lower than those of 75 gram  of total protein and                   sold during the peer, including admissions to drive-in cinomas and mobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the acrid, proposed by                     units..
PAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein suPply from animal and pulse - pcotein supply of food              EMPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                    Total labor force (thousands) - Econ-micslly active persons, including  -armd
Child (ages 1-4)motlyrae(r thoucand   Annl deaths per thous-                               forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, studenta, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years.  to children in  hi ange group.                             tione in various countries are sot cmparable.
Female (percent) - FemAle labor force as percentage of total labor force.
HEALTN                                                                                  Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishieg
Lifo  -ap-ctany at iLrth(eas  - Average number of years of life                           as percentage of itotl labor forc..
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                 Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manufacturing end
end 1975.                                                                               electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor forca.
Infant mortality cats (par thousand) - Annual dastha of infacts under                  Participation rare (percent) - total, male. and female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                               female labor force as percentages of their respective populations.
Access to safe water (percent of Population) - total, urban, and rural -                   These sre 1LO's adjusted participation rates reflecting ag-e-se
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable aciess to                    otroctore of the population, and long rime trend.
oafs water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                  Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to
uncontaminated water such as that from protected boreholes, sprinigs,                   the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban ores a public fountain or standpost located not more                    INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a house nay be considered as being within rea-                  Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest S
sonable acceon of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                   percent. richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that tie housewife or members of the household do not have to                     of households.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                        POVERTY TARGET GROUPS.
Access to eacreta disposal (percent of populatison  - total, urban, and                Estimated absolute poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
rural - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by eacreta                      Absolute poverty income level is that income level below which a minimal
disposal an percentages of their respective populations.  Excreta                       nutritionally adequate diet plum essential mon-food requirements is not
disposal may include the collection end disposal, with or without                       affordable.
treatment, of human excrete and waste-water by water-borne systems                   Estimated relative poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
or the use of pit privies and similsr installations.                                    Relative poverty income level is that income level less than one-third
Population per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                     per capita personal income of the country.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                      Estimated population below poverty income level (percent) - urban and rural -
Population per nursing person - Population divided by number of                           Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either "absolute poor' or
practicing mole and emale graduate nurses, pra.tica1 nurses, and                        "relative poor" whichever is greater.
assiotant nurses.
Economic and Social Data Division
Economic Analysis and proj ections Department



- 21 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
FCOINaC IDMCATOS
GROSS NATIONAL PiDDUCT IN 1977                                     ANNUAL RATE OF GROW1 (%N  constant prices)
US$ Kn.        £                      1961 -66          1972 _75          1976-77
GNP at Market Prices          1865.0    100.0                        7.7                9.0              3.5
Gross Domestic Irrvesteent     607.0      32.5                       5.9                9.1             20.4
Gross National Saving          623.0      33.4                       1.3               -0.7             -6.7
Current Account Balance         18.0       0.9
Exports of Goods, NIS          692.0      37.1                      14.6               18.0             15.6
Imports of Goods, NIS         1629.0      87.3                       6.5               12.6             23.7
OUTPUT, LABOR ECRa ANID
PR0DUCTIVIT! IN 1975
Valu_ Added        ~bor Foroe-1/                          V.   For ~Worker
U3* iQLn. SJ-                  iQn.  % -                      MU-
Agriculture                   81.4       9.6                115.0    30.0                   707.0     32.1
Industry                     212.9      25.2                 38.2    10.0                  557310     252.9
Services                     549.4      65.2                221.6    58.0                  2479.0     112.5
Unallocated                    -         -                    8.0      2.8                   -          -
Total/Average   1 1 77                                                              220 43. 8  0 
GOVVER T FDIICS
_entral Government
A9CL7   ~~j1_77     I974-76
Current Receipts                  265.9        56.5         80.1
Current Expenditure               186.0        39.5         56.0
Current Surplus                    19          I7T        75.1
Capital Expenditures              129.8        27.6         39.1
External Assistance (net)          48.4        10.3         14.6
IrY. CREDIT and PRICZS                  1972         13          1974        1975          76       1977
Mlion  JD outstanding end periodT
Money and (Oi Money                     146.4        176.0       216.7       277.7       358.8       439.0
Bank credit to Public Sector             23.5         38.7        41.7        37.0        59.5        71.1
Bank Credit to Private Sector            47.9         59.3        80.3       115.6       177.2       197.2
(Percentages or Index Nrmbers)
Money and  uasi money as % of 01P         70.6        80.5        78.7        90.6        91.0        93.2
General Price Index (1975 a 100)         67.3         74.8        89.3       100.0       115.3       127.8
Amnnal percentage chanpe  in 
General Price Index                        7.7        11.1        19.4        12.0        15.3        10.8
Bank credit to Public Sector              0.8         64.1         7.8       -11.2        60.8        19.5
Bank credit to Private Sector             6.9         23.8        35.4        43.9        53.3        11.3
VOTEt All conversdons to dollars in this table are at the average eichange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
/ Total labor force; unemloyed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed wrlar  seeking their first job.
not available
not applicable



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
TaRA   PAuNDIS AND CAPITAL FWWB
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                   MEICRUNDISE EZPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-76)
1975     1976      1977                                                US $ Mln    %
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS           380       551       692               Phosphates                         57.2    37.4
tmports of Goods, NFS          -942    -1272    -1629                Fruits and Nuts                     26.4    17.3
Resource Gap (deficit - -)                                           Vegetables                           15.6    10.2
-356     -720      -937               Cement                               1.7     1.1
Interest Payments (net)          26        25       -30
Workers' Re ittances             167      397       418
Other Factor Payments (net)       -        -         -
Net Transfers                   438       381       504               All other commodities               52.0   34.0
Balance on Current Account        6        12    -I                        Total                        152.9  100.0
Direct Foreign Investment                                           EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1977
Net NLT Borrowing
Disbursements                 83        76      289                                                         US $ Mln
Amortization                 -24       -16     -148
Subtotal                      S         60                        Public Debt, Lncl. guaranteed               645.0
Capital Grants                    -        -         -               Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                    -
Other Capital (net)               58     -159       -49              Total outstanding & Disbursed               645.0
Other items n.e.i               -46         5         3                                         1/
Increase in Reserves (+)        159        -1       -66             DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1977-
Gross Reserves (end year)       492       491       678
Net Foreign Assets (end year)  489        514       747               Public Debt.  incl. guaranteed            5.4
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                -
Fuel and Related Materials                                            Total outstanding & Disbursed             5.4
Imports
of which: Petroleum           71      104       112
RATE OF EXCHANGE
JD 1.00= US$                   3.13      3.01      3.04
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
not available
not applicable
March 14,1979
EMENA CPII-C



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JORDAN
(as of March 16, 1979)
A.   STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS
-------$ Million ----
Credit                                                             Amount
(less cancellations)
Number   Year       Borrower           Purpose             Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
Eight credits fully disbursed                                     31.1
Hashemite
Kingdom
of Jordan
386      1973         "          Power                           10.2        1.2
498       1974         "          Irrigation                      7.5        2.4
534       1975        "          Education II                     6.0        5.1
570      1975         "          Power II                         5.0        0.9
639      1975                    Tourism                          6.0        5.3
646      1976                    DFC I                            4.0        1.1
780      1978                    Water Supply III                14.0       13.6
1617/a   1978      The Arab
Potash Co.   Potash Extraction    35.0                  35.0
TOTAL                                                  83.8       64.6
of which has been repaid                              0.5
Total now held by IDA /b                               83.3
Total undisbursed                             35.0    64.6        64.6
/a   Not yet effective.
7-  Prior to exchange adjustments.
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
$ Million ----
Year         Obligor                 Type of Business         Loan  Equity  Total
1974  Jordan Ceramic Ind. Ltd.       Ceramic Tiles             1.6    0.2    1.8
1975  Jordan Fertilizer Ind. Co.   Phosphatic Fertilizer    -          3.1    3.1
1978  Jordan Fertilizer Ind. Co.   Phosphatic Fertilizer  20.0          -    20.0
1978  Jordan Lime and Silicate
Brick Ind. Co.               Building Materials        2.5    0.7    3.2
Total Commitments                                       24.1    4.0   28.1
Less Commitments Repaid, Sold or Cancelled               0.3     -      0.3
Total Commitments now held by IFC                       23.8    4.0   27.8
Total Undisbursed                                      22.5    3.0   25.5



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
B.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 386: Power Project; US$10.2 Million Credit of May 24, 1973; Date of
Effectiveness: August 21, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project is to help the conversion from diesel to steam powered
generation by adding two 33 MW steam generating units and one 13 MW combustion
turbine, all to be installed at a new power station at Zerka, near Amman and
by providing management consultancy services to assist the Jordan Electricity
Authority in organizing and expanding its power generation and transmission
operations. The Project has been satisfactorily completed despite initial
delays; the combustion turbine unit was commissioned in May 1975 and the two
steam units in August 1977. A claim by the electro-mechanical contractor is
still under arbitration.
Cr. No. 498: Northeast Ghor Irrigation and Rural Development Project; US$7.5
Million Credit of July 25, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: August
1, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project is part of an overall development scheme for the East
Bank of the Jordan Valley, other parts of which will be financed by the KfW,
USAID, and the Kuwait Fund.. The project consists of the agricultural devel-
opment of 7,700 ha net, of which 6,660 ha are already under irrigation, and
the provision of rural facilities for domestic water supply, health, educa-
tion, roads, and community development for a population of about 25,000. Even
though overall project implementation is one year behind schedule, construc-
tion of the irrigation system by a Korean contractor is proceeding satisfac-
torily. All structures have been completed, most equipment and materials are
on site and pipe laying is slightly ahead of schedule. However, construction
of schools and community centers is slightly behind schedule. Several grants
from USAID for training, applied research and assistance in management of the
farmer's association should improve the Jordan Valley Authority's efforts to
accomplish the agricultural development objectives of the project which have
so far been neglected. Cost overruns of about 72 percent in total project
costs are expected and would be met by the Government.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
Cr. No. 534:  Second Education Project; US$6.0 Million Credit of March 12,
1975; Date of Effectiveness:  June 2, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project is designed to expand vocational and technical education,
to promote quality improvements in secondary education by replacing uneconomic-
ally small, rented school buildings and providing schools with adequate work-
shops, and to support integrated rural development projects in the Jordan
Valley through a pilot scheme of non-formal basic education. The project
includes construction, furniture and equipment for the following institutions:
a Polytechnic at Irbid; a training complex at Aqaba; a Hotel Training School
at Amman; three comprehensive secondary schools; extension of preparatory and
secondary schools (seven pre-vocational workshops; five science laboratories,
four women's craft centers); and a rural development center. Overall project
implementation is about 18 months behind schedule due to initial delays in
selecting project consultants. However implementation of major project com-
ponents is now proceeding satisfactorily. Bidding documents for construction
of seven new institutions were submitted in July 1978 and construction began
in October 1978. Technical assistance being provided by UNDP and ODM is
satisfactory.
Cr. No. 570: Second Power Project; US$5.0 Million Credit of July 7, 1975;
aate of Effectiveness: November 18, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The project adds 33 megawatts of steam power plant to total generat-
ing capacity. It also includes reconditioning of the diesel-electric power
station at Marqa and a Power Development Study for Southern Jordan. A cost
overrun in total project cost of about 14 percent is expected. Implementa-
tion of all project components is proceeding satisfactorily. Civil works for
the unit are nearly complete and the unit is scheduled to come on stream by
mid-1979.
Cr. No. 639:   Tourism Project; US$6.0 Million Credit of August 12, 1976; Date
of Effectiveness: July 15, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project includes the construction of tourist accommodation and
related facilities near the Petra Entrance, and the construction of visitor
facilities and archaeological preservation works in the Petra Basin as well
as the resettlement of about 96 Bedouin families currently living in the
Basin.  The Project also provides for visitor facilities, infrastructure,
archaeological preservation works at Jerash, and technical assistance.
Schematic plans and cost estimates for the Petra Entance Facilities, includ-
ing staff housing are under preparation. Procurement of the first lot of
equipment is proceeding on schedule and bids for the Bedouin resettlement
housing have been reviewed by the Association.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Cr. No. 646:   First DFC Project; US$4.0 Million Credit of July 19, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: November 5, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
The project is aimed at meeting part of the foreign exchange require-
ments of the Industrial Development Bank of Jordan (IDB) for financing the
import component of medium scale enterprises. The project would also aims at
meeting part of the cost of IDB's recently instituted program to assist small-
scale enterprises and handicrafts, primarily artisan shops employing no more
than five people and provides for a study of the small-scale industrial and
handicraft subsector. IDB's operations have been expanding under favorable
economic conditions. The progress made by IDB in implementing the Small-
Scale Industry and Handicraft Program is impressive. The study of the small-
scale industry sector has been completed, and further surveys are under
consideration.
Cr. No. 780:   Third Amman Water Supply and Sewerage Project: US$14.0 Million
Credit of May 19, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: October 17,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is part of the on-going 1978-81 program of the Amman
Water and Sewerage Authority, to expand water supply and sewerage services in
Amman, including those areas where the urban poor reside. The project con-
sists of the construction of approximately 207 km of water and 225 km of
sewerage mains, laterals and house connections, a 4,000 m3 reservoir, 15,000
meters and related equipment, and training. The improved sewerage services
resulting from the project would help protect groundwater resources in the
Amman area from pollution.
Loan 1617:      The Arab Potash Project; US$35 Million Loan of October 21,
1978; Limit Date of Effectiveness: May 31, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The project is the largest industrial project ($428 million total
cost) ever undertaken in Jordan and is aimed at producing 1.2 million tons of
potash from Dead Sea brine via solar evaporation. The project consist of a
solar evaporation and brine transfer system, a harvesting system, a refinery,
infrastructure facilities and an associated township. The contract for the
solar evaporation and brine transfer system and the contract for the township
have been awarded. The bidding documents for the other project components
have been prepared and are currently being reviewed. The effectiveness date
for the Loan Agreement has been postponed once to May 31, 1979, to allow
sufficient time to complete the project financing plan and employ the opera-
tions management consultants. Overall project implementation is proceeding
satisfactorily.



- 27 -
ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to
prepare the project:                      One year (Sept. 1977-August 1978)
(b) The Agency which has prepared
the project:                              Consultants for Jordan Electricity
Authority (Preece, Cardew,
Rider-UK)
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank:  April 1977
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
and date of the first Bank mission
to consider the project:                  September 1978
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:         March 21, 1979
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:              August, 1979
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
The Bank financed and assisted JEA in reviewing the project feasi-
bility study under Credit 570-JO. The Bank also assisted JEA in instituting
marginal cost based tariffs, including a fuel price adjustment clause leading
to a substantial strengthening of the financial positions of institutions in
the power sector and enabling them to carry out properly their roles.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) Government to review the investment requirements for the construc-
tion programs of entities in the power sector and to inform the
Bank by June 30, 1980 of measures to facilitate their securing
the necessary financing from internal and external sources (para.
26);
(b) Government to cause JEA to establish guidelines for utilization of
the surcharge levied by JEA for financing rural electrification
and to inform the Bank by December 31, 1979 of the details of
the guidelines (para. 32);
(c)  Government to relend proceeds of the loan to JEA under terms of a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the ratification of which would be a con-
dition of Loan effectiveness (para. 39); and
(d) JEA to take appropriate actions by December 31, 1979 to strengthen
its Planning Department and to inform the Bank of proposed actions
to be taken to develop adequate power sector planning capabilities
within JEA (para. 40).



IBRD 13999R
316-                                                                                            MARCH 1979
NesShSh,~~~ e  ~~   I                    S  Y  R  I A
T".~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~.
T.                                     D-mala   /\ |l  Allr    >SAKrr
' El B ra ~~~~% «SMOUATNH r a~~hab                              _5)El A-rq
T      G                                                              E _ -, Ai     Maqqar                               7
j- ~ ~   ~         ~         ~         ~        ~        ~        -
0  SOUTH  Soheb                                      El AsNOKh.1
Jff~~~~~~~~Nar                                 l- Mt. NRer                 ,O      s  __-, f
Sethhlehem                          M /oao\                           Qasr el Kharana
To G.r    /         J           /       )          0      s  
< X t41 1A)E   \                                                               SAUDI
t   t / g    t i    -t-i.                                                            \            ~~ARABIA
To Beersheb  CbU                                           - 
JOR DAN
'Y     KARAK             
JORDAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
THIRD POWER PROJECT
Tafileh Oe )          \nd. .
PROJECT AREAS (RURAL ELECTRIFICATION)
EL (0    <   )_,, HASA                             PROJECT TRANSMISSION LINES
OW ~~~~l j-  ~*                     PROJECT TRANSFORMER SUBSTATIONS
i   Rashad.sa  ;   H           _     Qa' nl Jlnz                          n       EXISTING OR UNDER CONSTRUCTION:
TRANSMISSION LINES
/ /   ,^*  TRANSFORMER SUBSTATIONS
*   !   Shaubak 1g_  |/                                                               URBAN AREAS
7 /\... o  CITIES, TOWNS~ AND VILLAGES
NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
\  /   /7  5-.    5  SECOND CLASS ROADS
…!  t  a .   - OTHER ROADS
Pt'~~~~              Eml J.f, 0,-     ~       ~        .---.,-RAILWAYS
---_--  -- WADIS
MUDFLATS AND WADI BEDS
RIVERS
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
-30°          !         Ras en Naqb 5g        /           f                                                                                                            300
g ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                 Y R I A
M~~I~ITESYRIAEA
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SVnUPAA                                                                      -'< ~  _/>dma   -
SEA                           lO RADQ
oL   ,{   o    lo   20   30   40   50   60   70     /                                       hI         \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'J   RD 
2  t   |  KILOMETERS                                                                             \    J  URSA_./
O~_                               _     _          _                              /~               I                              a      \5AU       
MILES5° .            /                             g                                D   F   C a    st-Z7  SxT4 h
AR ~         505         AAI
SFEP       EGUBL R



