Document of                    F L L E  CCO P Y
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2941-EC
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
May 23, 1980
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Sucre (S/)
Calendar 1979    March 31, 1980
US$1   =       S/25             S/25
S/1    =      US$0.04          US$0.04
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
LIST OF ACRONYMS
BNF        Banco Nacional de Fomento
(National Development Bank)
CBE        Banco Central del Ecuador
(Central Bank of Ecuador)
CENAPIA    Centro Nacional de Promoci6n de la Pequefia Industria y
Artesania
(National Center for Small Industry and Artisan Promotion)
CENDES     Centro de Desarrollo Industrial del Ecuador
(Center for Industrial Development)
CFN        Corporaci6n Financiera Nacional
(National Finance Corporation)
FCPI       Federaci6n de Camaras de la Pequenia Industria
(Federation of Small Industry Association)
JM         Junta Monetaria del Ecuador
(Monetary Council of Ecuador)
MICEI      Ministerio de Industrias, Comercio e Integraci6n
(Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Integration)
MFF        Mecanismo de Fondos Financieros
(Financial Funds Mechanism)
SSE        Small Scale Enterprise
TCC        Technical Cooperation Committee



FOR OFFICIAL USi ONJY
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR . ......................... ....... .             I
A.   The Economic Setting .. .....  .......            ........ .      1
B.   Manufacturing and the Small Scale Enterprise Sector               1
Growth and Structure of Manufacturing ........ ..      ....      1
Industrial Policy * * ...........................**. . . .  * * .  2
Small Scale Enterprises .......................*..               3
Government Support of Small Scale Enterprises .....              6
Technical Assistance to Small Scale Enterprises ...              7 
C.   Outlook and Prospects for SSE ........            .............   8
II.   THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM .... .o..-.o.. . .         . .. ..- -  .....*.*. . . . . .  9
A.    Banking System .  ...................................            9
Central Bank of Ecuador ......  * ... ....... . . . . .  *. . . .  9
National Development Bank (BNF) ................o.    10
Commercial Banks (CBs) . ..................*.                   11
Corporacion Financiera National (CFN) * ............            13
Private Financieras (DFCs)           ................. to    15
Interest Rates and Commissions              ....................    16
B.   Mobilization of Resources ......................                 18
Deposits ..........o................... oo...... oo ..o ....... o.    18
Credit ...........................................              18
Other Resources ... ..o.*.o ...................... .            19
C.   The Financing of Industry .....           ....................   19
Financing of SSE ..... ...................... * .    20
This report is based on the findings of a mission composed of Messrs. M. Stoller,
T. Hutcheson and J. Calderon-Rossell of the Industrial Development and Finance
Division, LAC Regional Office which visited Ecuador during October/November
1979 and January/February 1980.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
III.   THE PROPOSED PROJECT . ............................... ...    22
A.   Project Objectives and Institutional Structure ....             22
Background    .................*......................    22
Project Objectives ............. ...................    24
Institutional Structure ................. . ..........    24
B.   The Fund for Development of Small Scale Industry
and Artisans (FUND) ...          ..........................    25
Establishment, Policies and Operating Regulations..            25
Subproject Appraisal and Supervision   ..............    31
Training .*         ........................................    32
Financial Structure ...............................    32
Projected Financial Results ....          ...................    33
C.   Potential Intermediary Institutions .           ..............    34
D.   Technical Assistance ..............................    34
IV.   THE PROPOSED LOAN ......          ................................    36
A.   General Description .....           ..........................    36
Amounts and Terms . ...............           . .36
Maximum Size of Subloan and Free Limit ....          ........    37
Procurement .......................................    37
Commitment and Disbursement              .......................    37
Accounting and Auditing ...........................    38
B.   Project Benefits and Risks ........................    38
V.   AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  .........................    39



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
ANNEXES (Continued)
1.   Agreement between Central Bank of Ecuador and the
Corporacion Financiera Nacional, March 18, 1980
2.   Table  1 -  Industrial Output, Employment and Productivity
Table  2  -  Industrial Structure
Table  3  - Minimum Wages
Table  4  -  Financing of Small Scale Industry
Table  5  -  Sources of Total Credit (1970-78)
Table  6  -  Distribution of Credit by Institution and
Sector (1978)
Table  7  -  Sources of Credit to SSE (1973-78)
Table  8  -  Distribution of Loans by Subloan Size
Table  9  -  SSE FUND:  Estimated Balance Sheet
Table 10  -  SSE FUND:  Statement of Estimated Sources
and Uses of Funds
Table 11  -  SSE FUND:  Estimated Results of Operations
Table 12  -  SSE FUND:  Total Commitments and Distribution
Table 13  -  SSE FUND:  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Table 14  -  SSE FUND:  Expected Distribution by Sector,
Jobs Created and Cost per Job
Table 15  -  SSE FUND:  Proposed Schedule of Interest Rates
and Financial Spreads
3.   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP



I. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
A. The Economic Setting 1/
1.01      The Ecuadorian economy has since 1960 changed from a predominantly
agricultural society in which about 70% of the population lived in rural areas
to a more urban society in which 45% of the estimated 8.0 million current
population are living in cities. The transformation of the economy was fueled
by a high GDP growth averaging 5.5% p.a. in 1960-70. The main growth factors
were the petroleum sector and industry, where a rapid import substitution process
occurred. Although data are weak, it appears that agriculture was practically
stagnant during that period.
1.02      The picture changed dramatically in the 70s.  During 1970-79,
economic growth accelerated to almost 8% p.a., boosted by the rapid exploita-
tion of oil resources from 1972 onwards and per capita income reached US$960
in 1979. All economic sectors expanded substantially, including agriculture,
which grew by 3.9% p.a. during that period. While Ecuador's oil-induced boom
has been coming to a close, economic growth in 1979 was still 5.0%, and the
growth perspectives in the medium- and long-term are good. For this potential
to be realized, constraints should be removed and incentives to use resources
more efficiently should be implemented. The most obvious measure is that of
raising domestic prices of petroleum and its products, which are currently far
below international prices. This would provide the Government with sufficient
revenues to resume a high rate of oil exploration activities. Agriculture
should be able to meet the growing domestic demand for food products and
agroindustrial inputs, and to provide a substantial surplus for export.
Meanwhile, industry needs to shift its resource use more toward labor and
domestic raw materials.
B. Manufacturing and the Small Scale Enterprise Sector
Growth and Structure of Manufacturing
1.03      In line with overall economic expansion, industrial growth was high
during the 1970s and accelerated in recent years. Manufacturing value added
growth averaged almost 10% p.a. (measured in 1970 prices) and was substan-
tially above GDP growth after 1975. Virtually all subsectors participated in
this expansion, stimulated by fast growth of incomes, a favorable investment
climate and, to a certain extent, the emergence of the Andean Common Market.
Industry's share in GDP rose from 17.3% to 20.3% during 1970-79 but when oil
is excluded from GDP, the share of industry shows an increase from 17.5% to
21.6%. The sector's contribution to employment is substantial, with about
340,000 industrial jobs accounting for about 13-15% of the total labor force.
l A detailed discussion of the Ecuadorian economy and of its manufacturing
sector is available in the report "Ecuador: Development Problems arnd
Prospects" (Report No. 2373-EC) of June 18, 1979, on which this section
is based.



- 2 -
1.04      Despite its rapid growth, the structure of manufacturing remains at
a relatively early stage of development. Traditional activities such as food
processing, textiles and wood processing accounted for about 51% of value
added in 1977. The share of consumer goods in manufacturing value added
increased slightly during 1970-77 whereas that of intermediate goods declined
and the small share of capital goods remained unchanged. Industrial exports
experienced a remarkable increase from less than US$20.0 million in 1970, to
about US$290.0 million in 1977, when they accounted for about 10% of the gross
manufacturing output and nearly 21% of total exports. While two-thirds of the
increase in industrial exports was due to substitution of processed cocoa for
raw cocoa exports, fish products, wood products and electrical appliances also
achieved important increases.
Industrial Policy
1.05       The Government has stimulated industrial development through fiscal
investment incentives, tariff protection and, to a lesser extent, export
promotion. Fiscal incentives include import duty exemptions or rebates for
capital goods and intermediate products and partial income tax exemptions
for reinvested profits. Fiscal incentives are higher for firms located
outside the two main urban areas (Quito and Guayaquil) and for firms classi-
fied under a List for Special Investments (LID). Industrial protection is
mainly granted through the tariff system; the use of quantitative controls on
imports has been restricted but Government entities and firms receiving fiscal
incentives are expected to 'buy local' insofar as the goods required are
domestically produced. Nominal tariff rates are moderate (from zero to 20-30%)
for machinery and equipment and raw materials, but higher on consumer goods
(mostly in the 50-70% range but much higher for some products, e.g. auto-
mobiles). Also, a 30% surcharge is levied on imports of non-essential
consumer goods and of some industrial inputs produced locally.
1.06       Export promotion policies emerged in the early 1970s.  Exports other
than agricultural raw materials and crude petroleum receive a tax credit
ranging from 7-15% of the FOB value of exports, and firms in the LID receive
an additional 3% export tax credit. The Government established also special
export financing facilities for pre- and post-shipment financing and a
temporary admission system for exporters.
1.07       Industrial investment  partly induced through fiscal incentives and
protection has made a significant contribution to industrial growth, modern-
ization and diversification, but the incentives have also stimulated capital-
and import-intensive forms of production, and the emergence of oligopolistic
structures, mainly in import-substituting industries. On the other hand,
export incentiv%s, with the exception of cocoa processing, have not been
excessive and do not appear to go beyond mitigating the cost disadvantages
sustained by Ecuadorian producers.   However, the criteria used for allocating
the export incentives has resulted in the bulk of export tax credits going to
semi-processed goods and goods exported to the Andean Common Market (where
they are duty-exempt) whereas newly exported products to third markets have
received little or no incentive.



1.08      The Government is currently in the process of modifying industriaL
incentives, tying them to criteria such as generation of value added, linkages
with the rest of the economy, foreign exchange earnings or savings, and the
composition of ownership of industrial firms, among others. The intended
modifications will remove some of the shortcomings of the existing system but
others will remain to be tackled. The Government might consider in this
context restricting import duty reductions for capital goods and intermediate
products, granting special incentives for employment expansion and for in-
creased use of domestic raw materials, and providing relatively larger incen-
tives to small scale firms.
Small Scale Enterprises
1.09      Definition.  Under the proposed Bank loan, Small Scale Enterprise
(SSE) will be defined as firms engaged in industrial, services, touristic and
commercial activities, as well as fishing and forestry operations, with assets
of less than S/8.75 million excluding land and buildings. However, statistical
data in Ecuador are not available for firms classified by asset size as above.
Therefore, most of the information used in this report refers to 'small scale
industries and artisan workshops' as defined in the annual survey of manufac-
turing (firms employing less than 7 persons) or to 'registered small scale
industry' as defined under the industrial incentive laws. 1/
1.10      The information above has also been complemented with data from a
recent survey of 555 firms located in and around Quito (Pichincha Survey).
The Pichincha Survey offers an insight into the average size and structure of
SSE as defined under the proposed Bank loan. Average employment per firm was
eleven persons and average gross output was S/4.2 million in 1977. The firms
had average assets of S/1.4 million (at estimated 1977 replacement cost) with
an investment cost per job of US$5,200 (in 1977 prices).
1.11      Size and number of firms.  There are an estimated 35,000-40,000
small scale industries and artisan workshops in Ecuador and only about 1,700
factory firms. 2/ The average size of factory firms is also small as in 1978
only 175 firms employed more than 100 persons and a mere 15 firms had more
than 500 employees. Average employment in factory firms increased from 49 in
1970 to 56 employees in 1977. The size structure of Ecuadorian firms reflects
the early stage of development of the manufacturing sector, with a small
segment of modern import-substituting firms superimposed on a traditional
sector where small firms prevail.
1/   Small scale industry is legally defined in Ecuador as firms with up to
S/5.0 million in fixed assets excluding land and buildings. In practice
a criterion of S/5.0 million in capital is sometimes used by the authori-
ties who are currently considering changing the asset size limit to about
S/9.0 million.
2/   Firms employing 7 or more persons.



- 4 -
1.12      During the 1970-1978 period, the number of both factory and small
scale firms increased substantially as about 600 firms graduated into the
factory category and an estimated 9,000 new small firms were established. The
growth in the number of firms reflects: (i) the increasing urbanization and
the growth in the size of the market; (ii) the vitality of the small enter-
preneurial class in responding to available opportunities; and (iii) growing
income levels resulting in growing and more diversified demand.
1.13      Output and employment.  Small scale industries and artisan work-
shops provided about 250,000 jobs in 1978, 75% of total industrial employ-
ment and about one-third of industrial value added (Annex 2, Table 1). They
are particularly important in wood processing, chemicals, printing, clothing
and small metal products, whereas larger firms are more concentrated in the
food and beverages, textiles and electro-mechanical subsectors where larger
than average investments and technologically advanced processes may be neces-
sary (Annex 2, Table 2). Small scale firms produce mainly consumer goods in
the lower price and quality ranges. Thus, the Pichincha Survey found that
only 18% of the respondents sold to other industries and practically none sold
abroad. In order to grow in an increasingly sophisticated internal market,
and to be able to participate more actively in the export markets (including
the Andean Group countries) both directly and through subcontracting, small
scale firms would need to improve product design and quality and to acquire
other technical and marketing skills through increased technical assistance
(para. 3.31) and financial resources.
1.14      Investment and productivity.  In 1978, average annual output per
employee was about S/227,500 in the factory firms and S/87,500 in small scale
industries (as legally defined) applying for SSE benefits. 1/ Higher labor
productivity in larger firms was associated with higher investment costs per
job of about S/575,000 (US$23,000) compared to S/217,500 (TS$8,700) in small
scale industries. Therefore, the ratio between capital cost per job and
output per job (capital/output ratio) was similar (about 2.5) in the two groups
of firms. During the 1970-1978 period, annual output per employee grew at a
very high 5.4% p.a. in firms with less than 7 employees and at a satisfactory
but lower 3% p.a. in factory firms. These high rates of productivity growth
reflect the effect of: (i) growing demand; (ii) increasing use of installed
capacity; (iii) improved technology; and (iv) increases in education, health
and skill levels of the labor force.
1.15      Labor costs.  Labor costs in factory firms in Ecuador increased at
about 1% p.a. in constant S/ terms during 1970-74, below the 3% p.a. growth in
productivity. However, since 1975, labor cost increases were 7.5% p.a. thus
exceeding productivity growth, While no similar data exist on labor costs in
small industries and artisan workshops, their higher productivity growth
during the 1970-78 period probably kept pace with rising labor costs.
1/   The corresponding figure for small industries and artisan workshops of
less than 7 employees was only about S/35,000.



-5-
1.16      In January 1980, minimum wages were raised by 100% for employees of
larger firms, 50% for small scale industry and 58% for artisan workshops
(Annex 2, Table 3). The impact of increased minimum wages is likely to be
felt differently depending upon the firms' annual output per worker, produc-
tivity growth and percentage of workers earning minimum wages. While the
increase is higher in larger firms, the small proportion of workers earning
minimum wages and the high output per employee (the new minimum wage would be
equal to 23% of average output per employee) will cushion the impact of wage
increases. On the other hand, after the wage increases, minimum wages would
increase from 47% of average output per worker (in 1979) to 60% in the case of
small firms, and from about 75% to 100% of the output per worker in artisan
workshops. While enforcement of the new wage scale is expected to take place
gradually, the increased wages will partly be translated into price increases
(inflation is now expected to be about 15% in 1980 1/), whereas some firms
will suffer a profit squeeze.
1.17      Location.  Industrial activity is heavily concentrated in and
around the cities of Quito and Guayaquil which together account for 78%
of the total number of industrial firms, 79% of employment and 81% of output.
Small scale industry and artisan workshops follow this pattern but they are
less concentrated, with only 60% of the firms, accounting for 65% of employ-
ment and 68% of output, in the two provinces. In recent years small firms
have tended to decentralize even further as indicated by the fact that almost
half of the new firms applying for small scale industry incentives are located
outside the Quito and Guayaquil areas.
1.18      Financing.  One of the most serious problems faced by small scale
industry and artisans has traditionally been the lack of adequate credit,
especially long-term financing. Given the overall structure of interest rates
in Ecuador (para. 2.18) with ceilings on lending rates and unattractive
deposit rates, small scale firms continue to be at a disadvantage compared
with larger firms that provide commercial banks with profitable collateral
business (e.g. letters of credit, guarantees and other commissionable opera-
tions). Of all firms included in the Pichincha Survey, only 59% received
short-term credit during 1979 whereas 70% resorted to some form of self-finan-
cing to meet credit needs. This relatively low access to credit is documented
by the Survey which reports that the debt to equity ratio of the reporting SSE
was a low 0.5 to 1 compared with 1.7 to I for medium and large firms (para.
2.27). Only 12% of the total credit received by the firms in the survey
was long-term credit, and most of it went to the relatively larger firms 2/
(paras. 2.25 and 2.26). Nearly one half of the term credit was provided by
private banks and financieras, about 45% came from Banco Nacional de Fomento
(BNF) and the remaining 5% from family and friends. The average long-term
1/   Initially estimated as 20% for 1980; the monetary authorities recently
reported that the inflationary impacts of wage increases had been less
than anticipated.
2/   This credit was highly concentrated in textiles, garments and metal
products, and only 14 of the 22 sectors received any term credit.



-6-
loan was for about US$85,000, substantially above the expected average sub-
loan in the proposed project (Annex 2, Table 8).  The firms reported the usual
difficulties in furnishing adequate guarantees and providing the required
financial information to the banks.
Government Support of Small Scale Enterprises
1.19      Promotion of small scale enterprises ranks high in the Government's
stated industrial strategy. The current five-year plan (1980-84) projects
an average sector growth of 9.7% p.a., above the actual growth of 8.5% p.a.
during the 1970-78 period. Also, the plan calls for the generation of 72,500
new jobs during the next five years, compared to the actual creation of
between 35,000 - 45,000 jobs during 1970-78. The above projections appear to
be overly optimistic, particularly with respect to employment generation,
given the limitation of financial resources 1/ and of skilled and semi-skilled
labor.
1.20      Major fiscal incentives offered to small scale enterprises include:
(i) duty-free imports of capital goods and intermediate inputs not produced
domestically; (ii) exemption from numerous small 'nuisance' taxes; (iii)
exemption from property transfer taxes; and (iv) income tax exemptions for
reinvested profits. In addition, the Government 2/ has been developing
and leasing industrial parks for small scale enterprises, to facilitate
their access to guaranteed energy sources and water, transport facilities
and technical assistance services.
1.21      Nominal tariff protection for most small scale industry products
is relatively high (in the 50-70% range) and, in addition, import duty re-
ductions or exemptions on inputs tend to make available effective protection
even higher. However, it appears that only a portion of the available pro-
tection is actually used, as only 2,500 firms have registered with the Ministry
of Industry, Commerce and Integration (MICEI) to benefit from the incentives
granted by the small scale industry law. 3/ Also, many small scale enter-
prises produce non-traded goods for a narrow segment of the local market,
whereas the large number of firms and competition between them contributes
to avoiding or reducing the potential inefficiencies allowed by the tariff
structure.
1.22      Additional benefits offered to firms located outside the Quito
and Guayaquil areas are only marginally higher than those offered in the two
industrial provinces. Therefore, the lower concentration of small scale firms
in Quito and Guayaquil should be attributed to other reasons, particularly
higher orientation to small local markets. Overall, it appears that small
scale firms take relatively little advantage of the existing set of incentives,
as they have very small direct imports and small tax liabilities.
1/   The investment required to generate such employment would be about
US$145.0 to US$155.0 million p.a.
2/   Through the Industrial Development Corporation (CENDES).
3/   Compared to more than 6,000 firms belonging to the regional small indus-
try associations and to an estimated 35,000 to 40,000 small scale firms
and artisan workshops in operation.



- 7 -
Technical Assistance to Small Scale Enterprises
1.23      While the Government and private sector industrial associations
have provided in the past a wide variety of technical assistance services
to help improve SSE opportunities, efforts are thin, scattered and generally
uncoordinated. 1/ The main organizations reaching SSE are the small scale
industrialist associations (Asociacion de Pequenos Industriales) located in
every province and coordinated by a Federation headquartered in Quito, and
the National Center for Promotion of Small Industry and Artisans (CENAPIA)
established in 1975 as a dependency of MICEI to support firms registered
under the SSE and artisan incentive laws.
1.24      The associations are private institutions supported by membership
dues but with official status. Membership in an association is obligatory
for SSE wishing to register for incentive law benefits or to obtain SSE
credits through BNF. The provincial associations have mainly focused on
providing assistance to SSE in the preparation of applications for registra-
tion and in dealing with Government ministries. Provincial offices, though
lightly staffed are anxious to expand the services to their membership and
appear to be logical centers around which SSE training and self-help initia-
tives could be organized. While the Federation provided limited assistance in
the past, it has recently changed its leadership and staff and has been taking
a more aggressive role in development of SSE programs, including providing for
some research on the needs of the sector.
1.25      CENAPIA's function is to promote the development and expansion
of the SSE, encouraging geographic diversification and fostering the creation
of new industrial centers in less developed regions of the country. To
achieve its objective, CENAPIA provides seminars and courses to improve the
managerial capabilities of SSE, extension services to improve in-plant
production, marketing, accounting and management capability, preparation
of industrial feasibility studies and assistance to SSE in preparation of
credit and incentive program applications. In addition to its general
program of assistance to SSE, CENAPIA currently provides support to the
artisan program funded by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), appraises
agroindustrial projects under the Bank Agricultural Credit Loan 1459-EC and is
expected to play an important role in the credit component of the Bank's
Guayaquil Urban Project. CENAPIA is clearly over-committed since all of these
activities are currently being attempted with a total staff of about 50, of
which only about 26 are professionals, mainly engaged in technical assistance
activities. CENAPIA's small staff is spread over its headquarters in Quito
and in seven regional offices.
1/   Reports by J.P. Allchin (Consultant), December 4, 1978; H.A. Molina
(UNIDO), March 8, 1979 which are available in the project file, examine
in detail the characteristics of Ecuador's SSE sector and the nature
and quality of technical assistance services available to SSE. The
UNDP is currently implementing a US$1.6 million program designed to
upgrade technical assistance, especially to SSE metal mechanic trades
which would be involved in subcontracting operations with Andean Pact
industries.



- 8 -
1.26      Private consulting organizations have to date played only a small
role in providing technical or managerial consulting services to SSE despite
the fact that a pool of skilled, experienced professional capability exists
and would be willing to assist small firms to solve detailed project planning
or operating problems. While CENAPIA has indicated its willingness to help
develop mechanisms for using available private consulting resources, the small
scale enterprise fund to be created under the proposed project (see para.
4.01) could provide grants both to CENAPIA and to provincial associations and
loans (para. 3.31) to small firms in order to finance the use of private
consultants for project preparation and implementation.
C. Outlook and Prospects for Small Scale Enterprises
1.27      One of the Government's major objectives in the 1980-84 period
is accelerated industrial development to enhance the sector's contribution
to output and employment and to strengthen the balance of payments. The
strategy also calls for industry to replace petroleum as the leading sector in
the economy. Attaining these goals would require development efforts based on
intensified utilization of Ecuador's available natural resources in agricul-
ture, fisheries, forestry and non-metallic minerals. Industrial policy should
aim at improving the productive structure of the sector, removing price
distortions in factor and product markets and improving the skill level of the
labor force through appropriate training. While small scale enterprises have
been assigned the task of providing employment on a unrealistically large
scale in the 1980-84 development plan (para. 1.19), and some of the plan's
targets may not be achievable, small enterprises can nevertheless make an
important contribution within the limitations of available financial and
human resources.
1.28      Development of the small enterprise sector will be subject to con-
tradictory forces over the next several years. With higher minimum wages, a
higher portion of investment would be allocated to capital goods and, in the
short run, less would be devoted to working capital, inventory and other
inputs which lead more directly to expanded output. Rising minimum wages
could also cut deeper into profit margins of the relatively labor intensive
small firms. Both small and large firms are likely to adjust to changes in
factor-price ratios through: (i) increased mechanization; (ii) more sparing use
of non-critical employees; and (iii) increased subcontracting and/or use of
part-time and non-regular employees. On the other hand, with high overall
growth in domestic demand (at least 7% p.a.) as a result of near full employment
and growing incomes, total industrial output should be able to grow at about
10% p.a. If sustained over a five year period, such industrial growth rates
would result in industry's share of GDP rising from 20% to 23%, fulfilling
some of the Government's sectoral objectives.
1.29      The above sectoral growth would imply a growth rate of 8% to 9% p.a.
for small scale firms, reflecting their ability to meet the growing domestic
demand and their possible participation in exports arising from sectoral
development programs in the Andean Market. Finally, SSE growth could further
accelerate if: (i) the new Government's socially oriented programs achieve
some income redistribution effects in favor of the urban and rural lower
middle class; (ii) the differential minimum wage rates in favor of SSE
improve their competitive position vis-a-vis the larger firms; and (iii)
the Government continues its efforts to solve the infrastructure problems
faced by smaller enterprises.



- 9 -
IT. THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM
A. Banking System
2.01      The financial system in Ecuador is comprised of the Central Bank of
Ecuador (CBE), 29 commercial banks and the National Development Bank (BNF)
and two specialized public sector banking institutions, namely the National
Housing Bank and the Ecuadorian Development Bank, which serves to channel
resources to selected public sector projects and to municipalities. In
addition, the system has 11 savings and loan associations (asociaciones
mutualistas), a cooperative bank, ten development finance companies, of which
the publicly owned Corporacion Financiera Nacional - Comision de Valores
(CFN), is the largest and 53 specialized financial institutions, mostly
insurance companies and foreign exchange houses. The CBE, BNF, CFN, commercial
banks (CBs) and financieras (DFCs) are presently involved in channelling funds
to small scale industry and artisans. While financial institutions have
concentrated almost half their offices, branches and agencies in the Guayas
and Pichincha provinces, a substantial network of commercial banks and BNF
branches and agencies have in recent years been opened in towns and larger
villages around the country. Moreover, regional commercial banks are becoming
more aggressive and are expanding on a national scale.
2.02      Banking, until recently a restricted, traditional and non-
competitive activity, is currently undergoing change (para. 2.08) and several
modern and aggressive commercial banks have emerged to compete for shares of
the market. Price competition is inhibited by the structure of fixed interest
rates, commissions and fees established by the monetary authorities and by the
substantial illiquidity in the financial system. However, non-price
competition does exist for available deposits and several major banks (e.g.,
Banco del Pacifico 1/, Banco Popular, Filanbanco and the Banco de Pichincha)
have been aggressively seeking to expand short-term lending operations to SSE
in keeping with the Monetary Council (MC) requirements that commercial banks
maintain a fixed percentage of their portfolios in loans to the productive
sectors and to support their expanding branch banking activities.
Central Bank of Ecuador (CBE)
2.03      The CBE was established in 1927 as the Government's fiscal and
financial agent with responsibility for implementing monetary and financial
policies formulated by the MC. 2/ The main policy instruments regularly used
1/   Banco del Pacifico has developed a lending program to small artisans and
commercial and services enterprise in Guayaquil which will serve to chan-
nel US$3.0 million in Bank resources under the Guayaquil Urban Project.
2/   Charged with formulating the monetary policies of the country, deter-
mining levels of interest rate, CBE credit, minimum reserve requirements,
import deposits and a variety of other factors affecting the balance
sheets of financial intermediaries. The Monetary Board is composed of
11 members, consisting of a Chairman appointed by the President of
the Republic, Ministers of Finance, Agriculture, Industry, Commerce and
Integration and Natural Resources and Energy, a representative of the
National Development Council, and representatives of Sierra and Coast
Chambers of Industry and Commerce, commercial banks, the General Manager
of CBE and the Superintendent of Banks.



- 10 -
by the CBE are: (i) bank reserve requirements (currently 31% on demand deposits
and 12% on savings accounts); (ii) periodic setting of ceilings on bank credit
operations (recently lifted); (iii) operation of rediscount credit lines
(Annex 2, Table 6); (iv) open market operations (CBE securities including
foreign-currency denominated bonds now account for about 50% of total stock
exchange transactions); (v) prior import deposits; and (v) official interven-
tion in the foreign exchange market. To ensure that a proportion of the
available supply of resources moves to priority areas such as agriculture and
SSE and to encourage financial intermediaries to participate in these more
difficult lending operations, the CBE provides rediscount facilities for both
short-term and longer term development credit to these sectors through the
Financial Fund Mechanism (MFF) (para. 2.23) a discount window which was
established in the CBE and is administered by its Operations Department.
National Development Bank (BNF)
2.04      With assets of about S/20,400 million as of December 31, 1978, BNF
is the largest bank in Ecuador accounting for about 9% of total credit (about
S/50,000 million in 1978), and is the major source of credit for agriculture
and for SSE. Founded in 1964 and wholly Government-owned, BNF's total loan
portfolio was S/9,680 million at the end of 1978 while investments (largely in
organizations producing farm inputs) were about S/1,270 million. 1/ In 1978
through its network of 72 offices, branches and agencies, BNF extended S/3,275
million in credit to agriculture and S/750 million in mainly short-term credit
to SSE which accounted for about 75% and 18% respectively of BNF lending.
Reflecting its mainly agricultural lending orientation, poor administration
and collection procedures, the quality of BNF's loan portfolio is very low and
arrears amount to a reported 19% of total portfolio. 2/ Actual arrears,
however, are reported to be closer to 30% of portfolio as a substantial volume
of development accounts are annually refinanced.
2.05      In August 1979, the new Government appointed a General Manager for
BNF who has recently been attacking problems of administration and financial
management 3/ and aims over the course of the next several years to improve
the quality and efficiency of its lending and loan recovery operations.
BNF's main financial problem remains its limited capacity to expand its
resource base which in the recent past had depended firstly, on CBE's
rediscount operations which has provided BNF with 35% of its total resources
1/   Currently, BNF is in the process of divesting itself of some of these
investments.
2/   1978 Annual Report of Superintendency of Banks.
3/   BNF has at the request of the Bank recently produced its first ever
five-year cash flow plan. Provided for are a substantial program of
portfolio recovery, portfolio write-offs and a realistic level of
lending which might result in less dependence on continued Government
contribution.



- 11 -
and most of its profitable operations (CBE rediscounts BNF's loans at 3%) and
secondly, on the Government's capital contributions (e.g., US$65.0 million in
1977-78). With the negative spreads between BNF's lending rates of 8%, 9%
and 11% and recent LIBOR borrowing rates (16.5%) widened, the new Government
has refused to assume additional LIBOR obligations on behalf of BNF. 1/ Thus,
BNF's new administration has been actively seeking long-term development
resources and for the first time in recent history, with approval of the MC,
has taken steps to adjust interest rates upward. The KfW has recently granted
BNF DM25.0 million loan to finance SSE projects, under which BNF would onlend
at not less than 11% p.a.
2.06      Given its substantial network of branches and contact with small
industry and artisans, it is expected that BNF would be a major channel
for Bank resources under the proposed loan. During 1976-79 BNF had granted on
average about 4,600 new loans p.a. to SSE averaging a low S/107,500 (US$4,300
equivalent) per loan of which only about 15% were long term. While substan-
tial delays in BNF's loan approval procedures occurred in the past, BNF's
management has reported that loan processing and review operations have been
simplified and would be further improved. Its staff of about 2,300 has been
mainly concerned with agricultural lending operations. Nevertheless, BNF also
provides limited technical assistance to SSE, supplementing in some degree the
efforts of the national SSE technical assistance agency, CENAPIA (para.
1.25).
Commercial Banks (CBs)
2.07      The 29 commercial banks (five of which are foreign-owned) form
the core of Ecuador's financial system. 2/ As of December 31, 1978, with
assets of about S/59,000 million, they held almost 82% of the private finan-
cial system's total resources and accounted for 66% of both total private bank
credit and total loans to SSE. In 1978 commercial banks loaned S/9,364
million to industry with the average loan size a low S/305,000 (US$12,183
equivalent) reflecting the relatively small size of most Ecuadorian enter-
prises (para. 1.11). Commercial bank industrial loans which accounted for
almost 30% of total commercial bank lending were mainly short-term with less
than 1% of loan operations and 6.4% of total amounts of credit for periods of
more than five years (Table 2.1). Short-term lending is encouraged by the
fixed structure of interest rates and by the relatively short-term (up to 24
months) for which MFF rediscounts are granted.
1/   During 1977-78 the Government assumed US$65 million in LIBOR obligations
on behalf of BNF.
2/   The structure of the credit system is changing as financieras have
reduced commercial banks' share of the credit market by about 10 per-
centage points since 1970.



- 12 -
Table 2.1: Commercial Banking System - Terms of Credit
Granted in 1978
Amount in
Loan Terms                  No. of Loans      %       S/ millions         %
Less than 90 days              73,180       31.0         6,796          23
90 to 180                    140,046        59.3        16,233          55
180 to 365                    16,129         6.8         3,269          11.1
1 to 5 yrs.                    5,045         2.1         1,324           4.5
5 yrs. and over                1,921          .8         1,893           6.4
Total                   236,321       100.0       29,513         100.0
Source:  Superintendency of Banks
2.08      Several large traditional banks, the largest and most important of
which the Banco del Pichincha, Banco de Guayaquil and Banco de Descuento, had
for years dominated Ecuador's banking activities. In the past five years,
reflecting the monetary authorities' efforts to expand the financial sector
and the emergence of several competitive banks, the commercial banking system
has been altered from its traditional mold giving it a broader base, an
enlarged clientele and improved geographic spread. 1/ As a result, in recent
years the traditional banks have been overtaken by the Banco del Pacifico
(since 1979 the largest in terms of assets in Ecuador) while Filanbanco and
Banco Popular have also gained substantial shares of the market. Perhaps more
important has been the substantial growth of smaller banks, whose shares of
domestic lending activity has increased. 2/
2.09      The results of changes in the banking system have been significant.
The more aggressive banks are reaching for newer types of lending oppor-
tunities (e.g., consumer credit and SSE lending) that have in the past not
been well served. Particularly relevant is the Banco del Pacifico's (BP) loan
program that is oriented toward assisting artisan and small service enter-
prise. Under this program BP lends SSE up to S/50,000 for working capital
and/or fixed assets mainly based on personal signatures and a co-signer's
affirmation. It is anticipated that Banco Popular, Banco del Pichincha, and
Filanbanco will expand their activities in the consumer and SSE fields and
that the aggressive regional banks (e.g., Banco del Azuay, Banco del Amazonas,
and Banco del Austro) will respond to the competitive pressures of the major
banks and expand short-term lending services to SSE. This group of banks
would move toward longer term lending if resources were made available.
1/   About 150 new bank branches and agencies were opened during 1973-78.
2/   The five major banks had about two-thirds of assets and about 45% of
total lending operations in 1978.



- 13 -
Corporacion Financiera National (CFN)
2.10      CFN is  the oldest and  the largest financiera in the country.
Wholly owned by the Government, its nine-member Board of Directors contains
seven ministers of State and two private sector representatives ensuring that,
though autonomous, its overall policies and operations are in accord with the
Government's development strategy. As of December 31, 1979 CFN's total
resources amounted to S/6,651 million, with equity equal to S/1,164 million.
CFN's loan portfolio amounted to S/4,978 million and its investments in
major industrial and agroindustrial projects were S/1,053.9 million. In
addition to its substantial short-term operations, CFN remains the major
source of medium- and long-term credit for the industrial sector (53.9% of
1978 credit). In 1978 almost 57% of CFN's total credit operations (S/2,339.5
million) went to industry. Its second major lending area was the financing of
exports. Since 1972, CFN has been increasing its operations in export sector
lending to both producers and distributors.
2.11      CFN's SSE Lending.  In 1964 CFN established a rediscount facility
(FUND) to finance working capital and fixed assets of SSE loans made by other
financial institutions. Total volume of activity by the FUND has been rela-
tively low and total assets as of December 31, 1978 equalled about S/105
million. 1/ In 1978 the FUND rediscounted a total of S/40.4 million in SSE
loans (66% were for financing fixed assets). CFN's discount rate for partici-
pating intermediaries other than BNF was 5% and BNF, which used 80% of the redis-
count facility's resources, paid 3%. Maximum term of SSE loans made under the
FUND regulations was ten years, including three years of grace with an interest
rate of 9% to final borrowers. The average loan made was for five years and
amounted to S/163,278 (US$6,530 equivalent). CFN's maximum rediscount opera-
tion per client is currently S/1.0 million (US$40,000 equivalent) which is
by regulation equal to 1% of the total resources available to the FUND.
Operation of the FUND is currently carried out by CFN's Development Department
staff on an ad hoc basis. In keeping with its present low volume of resources
and lending and the simple objectives of its operations, the FUND has neither
separate procedures, staff nor accounts. As a result, the FUND's portfolio
collections (payments of interest and principal due from BNF and commercial
bank participants) are frequently 30 to 60 days in arrears.
2.12      Financial Condition.  For the past several years, CFN's net income
has been low in relation to both its assets and capital 2/ and has added
relatively few incremental resources in support of its growing responsibilities
as the country's major industrial term lending institution. During 1979 CFN
suffered a net operating loss of S/43.1 million, stemming from four main
causes. Firstly, almost one half of CFN's resources were in the form of
non-interest or very low interest earning assets of which about 35% are equity
1/   The FUND's portfolio of SSE operations was S/68.5 million in 1978 and
expanded to S/78.3 million by December 31, 1979.
2/   In 1978 CFN's rate of return was only 4.4% on equity and less than 1.0%
on assets.



- 14 -
investments earning less than 2% p.a. 1/ Secondly, costs of CFN loan resources,
23% of which are in Eurodollars, 2/ have been rising sharply and by the end of
1979 the average cost of Eurodollar loans to CFN had increased to 16% p.a.
Thirdly, despite sharply rising costs of financial resources, CFN had pursued
lending policies which sharply reduced its earnings. Until early 1979 CFN has
been charging 1 percentage point less than the legal maximum interest rates
(14%, 15% and 16% depending upon terms) (para. 3.01) permitted under DFC III
(Loan 1359-EC) and CFN's Board of Directors until recently had placed a 1%
p.a. ceiling on fees for letter of credit and guarantee operations which is
well below the allowable 4% p.a. rate. Also, CFN has conducted a substantial
volume of such operations on behalf of AZTRA and other public sector companies
in which CFN is the majority stockholder.   Finally, CFN's management has
taken few, if any, steps to expand aggressively what could be profitable
letter of credit, guarantee, and repeater loan components of its banking
business. Indeed, CFN has likely lost a share of this profitable market to
more aggressive financieras.
2.13      To deal with the range of problems and opportunities, CFN's new
General Manager (in office since September 1979) has already taken a number of
short-term steps, including: (i) confirming the new policy of charging not
less than maximum interest rates; (ii) limiting further investments in equity
shares to the minimum consistent with prior commitments; (iii) applying
the Government's capital contribution of US$20.0 million made in late October
1979 toward reducing CFN's short-term Eurodollar loans and sharply limiting
additional Eurodollar borrowings; and (iv) seeking to expand the use of
guarantees for long-term foreign loans to industry in place of direct loans
from CFN which would have been financed using LIBOR resources. The measures
taken by CFN's new management are welcome and necessary but by themselves not
sufficient to restore CFN's profitability in face of the relatively high
proportion of CFN's resource base which earns little revenue and the low
earnings that its current long-term portfolio will yield for several years
to come, given CFN's past low interest rate policy.
2.14      To restructure its financial base and in accordance with its cove-
nants under Loan 1731-EC (Fourth Development Banking Project) 3/, CFN will
1/   Among these is a deficit ridden Government-owned sugar mill complex
(AZTRA) whose shares were thrust upon CFN by previous administrations.
This operation represents CFN's largest single long-term financial
problem to be dealt with by a program of divestiture (para. 2.15).
CFN is protected against similar overexposure by the Government's
obligations under Loan 1759-EC.
2/   Including the risk on concessionary loans from institutions such as IDB,
CAF, KfW, and USEXIM Bank, CFN's total foreign exchange exposure as of
December 1979 equalled US$139.0 million. Under the Fourth DFC Loan the
Government has agreed to hold CFN harmless for any foreign exchange
losses.
3/   Under Loan 1731-EC, CFN agreed to prepare by June 30, 1980 two programs:
(i) for limiting its exposure to foreign exchange risk (which will
require that it reduce its Eurodollar liabilities); and (ii) for reducing
its holdings in large risky public sector enterprises.



- 15 -
have to:  (i) pursue energetically with the Government the sale and/or
divestiture of its large holdings in major Government-owned industrial
institutions; and (ii) aggressively reduce high cost Eurodollar liabilities as
they fall due. In addition to maximizing its current income, CFN would need
to take steps to: (i) charge maximum commissions, as the market will bear, on
letter of credit and guarantee operations; (ii) aggressively pursue expansion
of profitable letter of credit, guarantee and repeater loan operations; (iii)
improve the efficiency of export financing (FOPEX) operations leading to full
and rapid rediscounting of such loans with the CBE; (iv) improve at the margin
the average term structure of its loan portfolio thereby increasing average
interest earned; and finally, (v) develop an improved financial information
system continuously monitoring the effects of its policies and operations
while improving the quality of future financial planning.
2.15      CFN's new General Manager and other members of its management team
generally agree with the Bank on the conclusions reached and the tasks to be
accomplished, a 1 CFN has taken the initial organizational and procedural
steps to expand the more profitable aspects of its banking operations, while
improving its financial management. It was recognized that the sale of
equity holdings or the establishments of special funds for the retention of
such holdings on behalf of the Government cannot be accomplished in the
short-term and a continuous process of divestitute and/or recapitalization
would be required to begin to repair the effects of earlier investments.
Under urging from CFN's Manager, the Board of Directors has already taken
initial action to increase CFN's fees for letter of credit and guarantee
operations, by permitting such fees to be increased from the current 1% p.a.
maximum to 2% p.a. for all CFN's clients including its public sector clients.
CFN should continue to strive to lift all ceilings on fees and commissions to
provide for flexible financial management and during loan negotiations the
Bank would seek agreement on a schedule for CFN's Board of Directors lifting
restraints on fees and commission charges by June 30, 1981.
Private Financieras (DFCs)
2.16      Among financial institutions, the growth in number and size of
private financieras' operations has been most dramatic. Until recently
there were but four financieras. 1/ By the beginning of 1979 there
were nine in operation and seven applicants awaited approval. Growth of
private financieras was encouraged by: (i) less than stringent entry require-
ments; (ii) ceilings imposed on commercial bank portfolio growth; 2/ and
(iii) availability of international credit which was rapidly and profitably
applied toward guarantee operations. As of December 31, 1978 financieras'
total assets were about S/8,000 million equal to 11% of the private banking
system's total assets. With 60% (S/8.0 billion) of financieras' credit going
to industry in 1978, they accounted for almost 30% of total credit to the
sector. Financieras made a modest 8% (S/227.0 million) contribution toward
providing credit to SSE in 1978, though these credits, like most others
granted by financieras, were mainly short- and medium-term loans (i.e., about
1/   Corporacion Financiera Ecuatoriana (COFIEC), Financiera Nacional S.A.,
Financiera de Guayaquil, and Ecuatoriana de Financiamiento.
2/   Imposed in 1978 and recently lifted.



- 16 -
87% of financieras' loans carried maturities of less than one year). Concentra-
tion on short-term lending is fostered by the rigid interest rate structure,
the scarcity and relatively high cost of term resources, all of which have
continued to sharply reduce the flow of term resources to private financial
intermediaries. Financieras have also focused upon expansion of letter of
credit and guarantee operations where commission and fee charges are ample for
profitable operations. Only COFIEC, the oldest and largest of private finan-
cieras and a long time user of Bank loan resources continues to make medium-
and long-term loans. Under the Fourth Development Banking Project, new
financieras are expected to extend longer-term loans to the industrial sector,
but their ability to do so will be greatly restricted as long as the present
interest rate structure makes it virtually impossible for them to mobilize
domestic medium- and long-term resources. 1/
Interest Rates and Commissions
2.17      Ecuador's monetary authorities have historically preferred to
maintain a structure of fixed and relatively low interest rates. This resulted
in: (i) providing substantial subsidies to selected groups of farmers, SSE and
others able to obtain rationed but inexpensive credit; (ii) dampening resource
mobilization by commercial banks and financieras and accelerating growth of
housing banks (Annex 2, Table 5); (iii) heightening the role of the CBE in
mobilizing and allocating resources (para. 2.23); and (iv) by late 1979 and
early 1980, leading to substantial capital outflow in response to higher
interest rates abroad.
2.18      The maximum nominal interest rate for lending in Ecuador is 12% p.a.
(Table 2-2). Adding allowable commissions of 2%, 3% and 4% p.a. for loans
with more than 3 years, 5 years and 8 years maturity respectively, yields
rates of 14-16% p.a. on medium- and long-term loans compared to inflation
averaging about 12% p.a. 2/ from 1977 through 1979. In addition, the effec-
tive rate on mortgages is currently about 16% p.a. and interest rates on
foreign loans guaranteed by local financial institutions (including letters of
credit) are set at LIBOR (or US prime rate) plus 4% p.a. (1% per quarter). In
contrast, loans from the Financial Fund Mechanism (IIFF) are offered at 9% p.a.
and export promotion loans at 8% p.a. The new government has reviewed the
general interest rate structure to determine what further changes would be
necessary to broaden domestic resource mobilization and has under discussion a
recommendation to increase savings rates by up to 4 points and loan rates by
two to three points maximum.
1/   Under the DFC loans, the Bank played a substantial role in moving mone-
tary authorities toward a more rational interest rate policy with respect
to term lending. Under the Fourth Development Banking Project, the Bank
focused upon the broad issues associated with capital market development
as a result of which BCE has established a capital market study unit and
adopted an initial program of study satisfactory to the Bank.
2/   Interest rates under Bank lending programs vary significantly; DFC loans
bear rates of 14%, 15% and 16%. The agricultural loans are at 11% and
interest rates for the credit component of the Guayaquil UJrban Project
will be 12%.



- 17 -
Table 2.2:   Maximum Annual Interest Rates
and Commissions
Private            Private      Sav. and
Operations                                BNF      Banks     CFN  Financieras   Loan Assoc.
I.  Lending:                             -        12%      12%       12%
Small Industry and Artisans          9%       -         -         -
Financial Funds Mechanism a/         9%        9%       9%        9%
FOPEX                                -        -         8%        -
II. Central Bank:
Advances and rediscounts bI          -        -         -         8%
Industry                          4% c/    7%        7%       -
FOPEX                             -        -         4%       -
Financial Funds Mechanism
Rediscounts                         3%        3%       3%        3%
III. Borrowing:
Savings                              -        6%        -         -             7%
Deposits with a maturity of:
31-180 days                        -        7%        -        -             8%
181-360 days                        -        8%        -         -            9%
more than 360 days                  -         9%       -         -           10%
IV. Commissions on selected operations:
a. Loans for agriculture, mining,
fishery, industry and tourism
with maturity of:
3 - 5 years                   2%        2%        2%       2%
5 - 8 years                   3%        3%        3%       3%
8 years                   4%        4%       4%        4%
b.  Guarantees                        -         4%       -         4%
a/   Includes specific programs in agriculture, livestock, agrobusiness,
small industry and tourism.
b/   In case of operations outside Quito and Guayaquil, the interest rates are
2% less for private banks and 1% less for BNF.
c/   Small Industry.
Source:  CBE



- 18 -
2.19      Interest rates offered to savers vary considerably.  Savings ac-
counts and certificates of deposit paid by commercial banks yield 6%-9% p.a.,
while Savings and Loan Associations pay 7%-10% p.a. for the same type of
accounts. CFNT bonds with 10 years nominal maturity (but with a legal guarantee
to be repurchased at par on sight) bear an interest rate of 8%. Government
and monetary stabilization bonds of 30 to 180-day maturities earn about 11%
(taxfree), yield the highest effective rate and dominate the bond market.
Ten-year mortgage bonds without repurchase guarantee bear a nominal rate of
12% but currently yield around 14% or more. These and other wide variations
in lending and in mobilization rates result in wide variations in the flow of
resources and in the financial margins earned by financial institutions.
Participating financial intermediaries have margins of 3% p.a. and 6% p.a.
depending on the size of the borrower under the Bank's Agricultural Credit
Loan, and earn gross margins of 3.5%, 4.5% and 5.5% on loans depending on loan
maturity under the Fourth Development Banking Loan. To engage the full
participation of the banking system under the SSE credit a structure of
interest rates and financial margins would be required that harmonizes with
existing rates and provides financial intermediaries with incentives appro-
priate to the risks involved (Annex 2, Table 15).
B. Mobilization of Resources
Deposits
2.20      Total deposits in Ecuador's private banking system available for
lending grew at 15% p.a. during 1970-78, supported mainly by a 20% p.a.
growth in demand deposits (from about S/3.0 to S/18.5 billion) as savings
accounts grew by only 8% p.a. and declined in real terms during 1976-78. In
keeping with: (i) the differential interest rates paid by commercial banks and
savings and loan associations (S&L) to depositors for the same type of pass-
book and term accounts (Table 2.2); (ii) the S&Ls' more aggressive promotion
for savings accounts; and more importantly, (iii) the prospects of depositors
obtaining mortgages, deposits in S&Ls increased sixteen-fold (from S/270
million to S/4,362 million) in 1970-78 compared with commercial banks' slower
deposit growth (from about S/1.2 billion to S/5.7 billion) 1/. Thus, the
percentage of savings deposits to total commercial bank deposits available for
lending declined from 40% to about 25% of total during 1970-78 while demand
deposits increased from 60% to 75% of the total. More recently (1978-79) as
liquidity tightened, commercial banks increased their efforts to expand time
and savings deposits which grew 12% p.a., slightly better than the 11.6% rate
of inflation.
Credit
2.21      Overall credit growth during 1970-78 was 29%, slightly higher than
the 24% average growth of GDP. Newer financial institutions played more
important roles as sources of credit. By 1978 private financieras provided
16% of the total credit (Annex 2, Table 6) compared with 3.7% in 1970, while
1/   BNF and financieras each also increased deposit accounts by S/400.0
million in 1970-78 diverting an approximate S/800.0 million from
possible deposits in commercial banks.



- 19 -
the share of credit provided by S&Ls, the BNF and the NHB also grew
substantially. By 1978 commercial banks' share of the credit market had
declined to 66% from about 83% in 1970.
Other Resources
2.22        Bond sales and other debt instruments issued by private financial
institutions provide only small amounts of resources and account for about 10%
of total liabilities of both financieras and commercial banks. While the
growth of these instruments had been substantial in 1970-75, more recently
limitations on interest rates and competition from CBE's open market operations
has reduced the annual growth of bond sales. A major area of credit growth
has been in guarantee operations which have caused the contingent liabilities
of private banks to increase from S/1,675 million to S/14,750 million in
1970-78. Total guarantee balances of private banks and financieras now equal
to about 30% of these institutions' total credit balances and provide income
from commissions equal to net portfolio earnings. The sharp growth in mainly
foreign financing (on LIBOR terms) involved in guarantee operations reflects
the substantial liquidity constraints imposed on domestic financial markets
and the low levels of savings intermediation due to the system's low and
inflexible interest rate structure.
2.23      Financial Fund Mechanism (MFF).  The larger role of the CBE as a
source of total national credit (from 31% to 45% during 1970-78) is evidenced
by the rapid expansion of CBE's rediscount and credit operations, from S/3,181
million to almost S/23,900 million during 1970-78. The major components of
the CBE's rediscount operations in 1978 were export financing, (S/6,755
million) 1/ and its expanding commercial sector rediscount operations (up from
28% to 48% of the total during 1970-78). Industries' share of total CBE
discount operations declined from 33% to 23% in 1970-78 as commerce expanded
in importance. Even so, CBE's discount operations for industry have grown by
S/1,000 million p.a. since 1974. They currently amount to about S/5,200
million p.a. and account for an estimated 30% of industrial credit. In
1978 the CBE's MFF rediscount operation handled S/2,950 million in loans
(equivalent to US$118.0 million) for periods of up to two years.  During 1978
the average MFF rediscounted loan was for less than 180 days and was used to
finance working capital. Except for small annual reflows of the US$4.5
million balance on the United States Agency for International Development
(AID) SSE credit granted in 1972, the TIFF has no term resources for industry.
MFF's SSE rediscount facility has not been able to meet fully the requests for
rediscounts under the quotas allocated to financial intermediaries.
C. The Financing of Industry
2.24       The growth of credit to industry from 18% to 25% of total credit
during 1970-78 has been in line with the pace of industrial sector expansion
(para. 1.03), and in 1978 total credit to industry reached S/16,631 million, 2/
1/   Equal to 35% of total discount financing.
2/   Loans to commerce and agriculture and livestock represented 40% and 19%
of total credit respectively.



- 20 -
of which 20% went to SSE. The increase in the number and type of financial
institutions lending to industry and CBE's program for financing industry
were the major contributing factors to this growth and in 1978, the CBE
provided about S/5,000 million or one-third of the resources committed by
financial intermediaries to finance the industrial sector.
Financing of SSE
2.25       During 1978 total credit received by small scale industry and
artisans amounted to S/2,855 million (US$114.0 million equivalent) of which
commercial banks provided 67%, BNF 25% and private financieras 8%. Almost 85%
of these SSE credits were short-term. About one-half of the SSE credits
granted were made under monetary regulations providing that 20% of bank loans
be made to the productive sectors. About 30% was provided by commercial banks
over and above their quotas confirming that in the Ecuadorian environment
commercial banks have been seeking SSE clients and could be expected under
appropriate conditions to participate in a credit program seeking to channel
additional long term resources to SSE enterprise.
2.26      The results of a survey of 555 small scale industrial firms in
the Quito area provides an interesting insight into the sources and types
of credit available to SSE (Table 2.3). About 74% of the sample of small
industrial enterprise reported having had access to credit mainly through
commercial banks (49%), with the BNF (16%) and financieras (7%) distant second
and third sources. Suppliers' credits proved to be important to SSE, account-
ing for 20% of loans and almost 28% of the total amount of credit. Family
lending amounted to 4%, while credit involving money lenders accounted for
only 3.0% of total credit at interest rates reported to have averaged 38.5%.
Interest rates charged by commercial banks and other formal sources of credit
ranged between 9% under the CBE's MFF program, and 12%, the,maximum interest
rate for short-term loans by commercial banks and financieras under the
non-MFF component of portfolio. Long-term credit was available to only 12%
of the total.
Table 2.3: Sources and Terms of Credit to Small Scale
Industry in Pichincha, 1978
(Thousands of S/)
Sources of                                       Terms of Credit-a/               % of
Financing              No. of                                        Total        Total
SSI                  Loans      %    Short    Medium      Long    Credit        Credit
Commercial banks         214   49.2  165,538  1,035,585  25,072   295,195          48.5
BNF                       69   15.9    5,630       20,088  34,042    59,765         9.8
Financieras               32    7.4   17,892       38,155  10,070    66,117        10.9
Fam. & branches           19    4.4    6,239          445   4,000    10,684         1.8
Informal lenders          13    3.0    6,059        2,350      -       8,407        1.4
Suppl. Credit             88   20.2  157,834       10,100      -     167,934       27.6
Total               435  100.0  360,190    174,723  73,184   608,097         100.0
a/  Short-term loans average 6 months, medium-term 25 months and long-term 60 months.
Source: A.N.D.E., Study of Small Scale Industry in Pichincha 1979.



- 21 -
2.27       Both large and medium size manufacturing companies in Ecuador are
substantially equity financed. Medium size firms' resources include 46.3%
short-term and 17% long-term debt compared with 40% short-term and 20% long-
term debt for larger firms (Table 2.4). Both large and medium size firms
showed greater ability to command term resources than SSE.
Table 2.4: Financial Structure of Manufacturing
Companies, 1976
(S/ million)
Medium-Size
Large Companies a/        Companies   b/
S/          %          S/
ASSETS
Current                          17,684       55.2       2,373       62.3
Fixed                             12,048      37.6       1,437        37.7
Other                              2,308       7.2         -            -
Total                          32,040      100.0       3,810      100.0
LIABILITIES
Short-term debt                  12,956       40.4       1,765       46.3
Long-term debt                     6,525      20.4         656        17.2
Total                          19.481       60.8       2,421        63.5
Quasi Equity c/                      411       1.3         228         6.0
Capital and retained
earnings                       12,148       37.9       1,161       30.5
Total Equity                   12,559       39.2       1,389        36.5
Total Liabilities & Equity        32,040     100.0       3,810       100.0
Debt/equity ratio                    1.6:1                  1.7:1
a/   589 larger incorporated manufacturing companies with average total asset
size S/54,397 million.
b/   611 small manufacturing companies with average total assets of S/6,235
million.
c/   Enterprises' long-term debt to owners.
Source: Superintendencia de Companias, Annual Statistical Report 1979.



- 22 -
Reflecting the low amounts and percentage of term credit (17%) medium size
manufacturers had more resources invested in accounts receivable and working
inventories. Notable was the fact that both the largest and medium size firms
had about 38% of their assets in machinery and equipment (after depreciation),
though the smaller firms had somewhat greater labor force per fixed assets
investment.
2.28      Senior operating officers and credit managers of a sample of Ecuador's
most important banks 1/ estimated that a term lending program to SSE in the
total amount of US$30.0 million would be appropriate to satisfy incremental
term credit requirements of SSE during the projected commitment period
(para. 4.06). Banco del Pacifico and Banco Popular each estimated that their
banks could commit about US$3.0 million in SSE credits during 1981-83 and
the estimates of Banco del Pichincha and Filanbanco range from US$1.0 to
US$4.0 million. On the basis of estimates obtained from private financial
institutions (including financieras who estimated an aggregate need for
about US$3.0 million) and an assessment of BNF's capability to successfully
manage an incremental US$10.0 to US$12.0 million in SSE operations 2/ a loan
program of US$30.0 million (including a Bank loan of US$20.0 million and
US$10.0 million equivalent in counterpart financing) was deemed appropriate,
especially since the mechanisms for channelling funds under this pilot
project are untested.
III. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Institutional Structure
Background
3.01      The proposed project would represent the Bank's first direct support
for the development of the small scale industry and artisan (SSE) subsectors
in Ecuador. 3/  Starting as early as 1972 the Bank explored the prospects of
1/   Banco de Descuento, Filanbanco, Banco de Guayaquil, Banco del Pacifico,
and Banco Popular, domestic banks which are likely to participate in the
project and Bank of America and Citibank which are foreign banks not
likely to participate.
2/   Requiring expanded loan promotion, supervision, review and collection
procedures.
3/   Other Bank operations affecting the industrial and SSE sectors include:
(i) three previous Bank loans to the industrial sector totalling US$47.6
million and committed through the Corporacion Financiera Nacional and
Corporacion Financiera Ecuatoriana de Desarrollo S.A. which helped to
finance 84 mainly medium size and large projects, the average subproject
and subloan equalling US$4.7 and US$1.1 million respectively. A fourth
Bank loan (Loan 1731-EC) of US$40.0 million to finance industrial develop-
ment recently signed will be channelled through an expanded group of
financieras (who also have access to US$3.0 million equivalent under the
Third DFC Loan 1359-EC); (ii) Bank Loan 1459-EC (Agricultural Credit
Project) includes a US$3.0 million small scale agroindustry component;
while (iii) the Employment Generation Component (about US$3.0 million)
of the Guayaquil Urban Development Project (Loan 1776-EC) will support
short- and medium-term lending in support of commercial, service and
artisan enterprise, mainly in the Guayaquil Urbanization Area.



- 23 -
an SSE project in Ecuador which was precluded by Government interest rate
policy on SSE credit and the excessively slow progress in the disbursement of
an existing small (US$5.1 million) Agency for International Development (AID)
credit. By 1977: (i) the SSE sector had experienced substantial growth of
new firms and considerable investment demand; (ii) term resources for SSE had
begun to dry up as BNF's credits to SSE declined by 12% and AID's credit had
become a narrow stream of loan reflows; (iii) the Government had begun to show
substantial interest in supporting further SSE sector growth by encouraging
and funding programs to strengthen several institutions supporting SSE
development; and, finally, (iv) monetary authorities had indicated a willing-
ness to reconsider the 9% interest rate ceiling imposed on SSE lending since
1973, allowing financial intermediaries to charge SSE the same positive
interest rates on term loans as were applicable to term lending to industry in
general. Consistent with these developments, the Government indicated to the
Bank its interest in exploring a project oriented to SSE.
3.02      In early 1978, at the request of the Government, the Bank began
preparing an SSE project comprising a credit component and an associated
technical assistance services program. Consistent with project objectives
(para. 3.04) broad based participation by commercial banks, financieras and the
Banco Nacional de Fomento (BNF) were to be encouraged. To service the
projected SSE operation, which could include up to 20 financial inter-
mediaries, a fully integrated second tier rediscount facility would be
required to perform a range of program promotion, project evaluation,
rediscount and loan supervision tasks. Such a facility would depart from
traditional CBE arrangements under which responsibility for sector loan
administration is split between the CBE and the project units established
within sectoral ministries. To ensure efficient project execution and avoid
the divisions of project responsibilities that had plagued past loan
operations 1/, the Bank explored with the General Manager of CBE prospects for
establishing a new facility within the CBE to handle the total SSE operation.
The CBE's response, though preliminary, was positive. Following resignation
of the General Manager in the wake of the national elections in 1979, CBE's
senior management rejected the proposal.
3.03      To avoid the difficulties encountered in past unintegrated lending
programs and in keeping with the Government's suggestion that the Bank loan be
channelled through CFN, the Bank explored with MICEI and CFN staff an SSE pro-
gram, based upon establishment of a second tier facility within CFN, which was
examined and approved by the Minister of Industry, Commerce and Integration and
the General Manager of CFN. Subsequently, following loan appraisal in December
1/   A number of Ecuador's financial intermediaries had expressed doubts that
an SSE operation could function effectively as a split operation of the
type used by the AID SSE project which was launched in 1972 and admin-
istred by the CBE's MFF and MICEI.  The AID credit was not finally dis-
bused until 1977 and only then with massive involvement of AID in the
execution of the project.



- 24 -
1979 1/, the Minister of Industry, Commerce and Integration resigned and the
question of institutional arrangements was reopened, with the CBE maintaining
the position it had the sole right to perform project rediscount functions as
part of its mandate to maintain monetary controls. Following intensive discus-
sions involving the highest Government levels, CFII and CBE finally negotiated
and signed an agreement on March 18, 1980 (Annex 1), under which CBE would
serve as disbursement and collection agent for the project (paras 3.12-3.13).
Project Objectives
3.04      The project is designed to support the Government's industrial
strategy and to assist it in its developing a dynamic SSE sector in support of
its employment, income and geographic redistribution objectives. The project
would assist the Government to achieve these objectives by:
(i) Helping to ease the scarcity of term financing on reasonable
conditions for small scale enterprises and artisans (on a
broad geographic basis), thereby encouraging both expanded
output and improved income distribution while creating
additional job opportunities in urban centers and smaller
rural towns;
(ii) Helping to develop within the banking system an improved
capability to promote, appraise and supervise small scale
lending operations on a profitable basis;
(iii) Providing a structure of interest rates for SSE lending, which is
more consistent with market rates and risks and costs involved
with SSE lending, thereby expanding prospects for increased
resource availability to SSE;
(iv) Expanding the institutional and financial capacity to deliver
technical assistance services and, by encouraging broader parti-
cipation of SSE in the process of program design, helping to
improve the quality and relevance of technical assistance available
for SSE;
(v) Assisting SSE to improve the quality and thoroughness of their
investment planning.
Institutional Structure
3.05      An expanded and restructured Fund for Small Scale Industry and
Artisan Development (FUNID) and a unit to administer the FUND would be estab-
lished by CFN to execute this project. CFN has in accordance with its Organic
Law, been operating since 1964 a facility which rediscounts loans made by
1/   The Bank began an extended process of project identification and prepara-
tion in 1978 with five missions assisting in preparation during a period
when a number of changes in key staff in ministries and financial institu-
tions took place. Following appraisal and further Cabinet changes, post
appraisal missions in February and Mlarch helped to complete institutional
arrangements.



- 25 -
commercial banks and financieras to small scale enterprise (para. 2.11). With
only about US$4.0 million in total resources available, CFN's annual SSE
financing level had since 1974 averaged a modest US$1.1 million. Mloreover,
the rediscount facility had been operating on an ad hoc basis functioning
without clear policy or procedures or full-time staff. Because of its limited
resource base and the restricted number of financial intermediaries using its
facility, CFN's SSE operation had little overall impact on the level or
quality of credit available to SSEs. 1/ In response to the new Government's
policy of assistance to SSE, CFN is seeking to expand its resource base and
to create an aggressive small scale enterprise rediscount operation without
undertaking alteration of its basic Organic Laws.
3.06      To accomplish the above, a second tier financial mechanism would
be operated by CEN in conjunction with the CBE (para. 3.10) to provide part of
the financing for term loans made by financial intermediaries helping finance
investment projects of small scale enterprise. Although all commercial banks
and financieras including BNF would be eligible to participate in the project
as the FUND's financial intermediaries, about half of the approximately 20
potential eligible commercial banks and financieras are interested in expanded
SSE operations based upon term lending and would be expected to participate in
the project. All participating intermediaries would be required to enter into
participation agreements with CFN (para 3.30). The intermediaries would
assume the full credit risks on subloans and would service their debt to CFN's
FUND in accordance with fixed amortization schedules, irrespective of the
status of their collections from SSE. Technical assistance to participating
SSE would be provided by CENAPIA, regional SSE associations, non-profit
institutions, consultants or others who would help SSE with project preparation
and implementation (para 3.31).
B. The Fund for Development of Small Scale Industry and Artisans (FUND)
Establishment, Policies and Operating Regulations
3.07      The FUND's expanded and revised lending and technical assistance
program would be approved and adopted by resolution of CFN's Board of Directors
which would also adopt as condition of loan effectiveness: (i) Statement of
Policy (para 3.08); (ii) Operating Regulations and Procedures (para 3.09); and
(iii) an Organizational Structure and Staffing Plan (para 3.10), all these to
be satisfactory to the Bank.
3.08      Policies.  The FUND's overall objectives and its rules for their
implementation are set forth in the form of a Statement of Policies prepared
by CFN and agreed by its General Manager in draft form (Annex 3). It speci-
fies, among other things: (i) the types of enterprise to be financed; (ii) the
1/   The Banco Nacional de Fomento (BNF) accounted for about 80% of total
rediscounts, which were onlent to SSE at 9%.



- 26 -
FUND's financial structure and criteria for its financial operations; (iii) the
types of projects that the FIUND would be prepared to finance; (iv) the types
of services that the FUND would perform; (v) criteria for participation
by financial intermediaries; (vi) personnel and staff development; and
(vii) provisions to ensure adequate technical assistance for project partici-
pants. The draft policy statement which provides a satisfactory basis for the
FIJND's channelling of Bank funds to SSE under the proposed project was
reviewed during negotiations and approval bv CFN's Board of Directors would be
a condition of loan effectiveness.
3.09      Operating Regulations.  The draft Statement of Operating Regulations
and Procedures agreed to in principle bf CFN's management establishes guidelines
and detailed procedures to be followed in all important aspects of the FUND's
operations (Annex 3). Included are: (i) procedures for processing of loan
applications, rediscounts, disbursements, and other operations designed to
speed up disbursements; (ii) criteria for establishing branch and agency
operations and their regulations; (iii) project appraisal procedures and free
limits within the system; (iv) standards and methods for project supervision;
(v) project and post-project evaluation; (vi) procedures governing participation
by financial intermediaries; and (vii) operation of the technical assistance
coordination component. At negotiations, the Bank and CFN agreed on modifica-
tions in the Operating Regulations which reflect the CBE's role as financial
agent for the FUND (para. 3.12). Approval of the Operating Regulations
by CFN's Board of Directors would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
3.10      Organizational Structure and Staffing.  CFN staff has prepared a draft
organization chart and staffing plan for the FUND's operating unit (Annex 3)
on which agreement was reached between CFN and the Bank during negotiations.
Under the proposed organization the FUND's operations would be headed by a
Unit Chief who would report to CFN's Manager of Loan Operations. 1/ CFN's
General Manager has appointed a well qualified Unit Chief of the FUND. In
keeping with its policy to open new job opportunities in the managerial and
technical ranks to its most competent younger professional staff, CFN will
provide the Unit with trained technical staff mainly from its Development,
Financial and Legal Departments. In addition to directing the project evalua-
tion, supervision and technical assistance coordination and administration
functions of the FUND's operations, the Unit Chief would help branch managers 2/
establish SSE rediscount units, train personnel in implementating program
policies and procedures and be responsible for promotion and evaluation of
overall FUITD operations (para. 3.24) and preparation of its financial plans.
Prior to loan effectiveness, CFN would adopt a satisfactory organization and
staffing plan.
1/   Currently having overall responsibility for project evaluation and
recommendations for approval or disapproval of all CFN industrial lending
and export promotion rediscount operations.
2/   To encourage geographic dispersion of loans, CFN's major branch offices
which have proven capability to evaluate industrial projects would be
authorized to approve rediscounts of SSE loans to be made by participating
financial intermediaries located in their geographic region up to the
branch's free limit.



- 27 -
3.11      Portfolio administration, record keeping and financial accounting
would be handled for the FUND by CFN's Departments of Portfolio Control and
Accounting which handle such work for CFNT's other funds. These organizations
and staffing arrangements would be adequate to enable CFN to carry out the
project during the first two to three years. As the volume of SSE operations
grows and additional operating experience is gained, CFN would augment the
Unit's staff, if required, to expand the FUID's activities.
3.12      Disbursement and Collection.  The Central Bank of Ecuador (CBE) which
will serve as fiscal agent for the Government, will, for a fee of 1/8% of FUND
disbursements, serve as disbursement and collection (financial) agent for the
FUND. To fulfill that function the CBE has agreed to establish a facility
outside of the MFF operations which would execute rediscount and collection
operations upon approval by CFN (Annex 1, Agreement of Mlarch 18, 1980 between
CBE and CFN). On the basis of the FUND's documented request, CBE would debit 1/
or credit the appropriate financial intermediary's account without further
intervention in the approval process.
3.13      To facilitate the financial agency operations of the CBE and to
manage its ordinary financial affairs, the FUND would establish and maintain
in the CBE a Project Account consisting of two sub-accounts, a Project Loan
Sub-Account (PLS) and a Project Management Sub-Account (PMS). The PLS would
be used to: (i) channel to the FUND withdrawals from the Bank's loan account
made by the CBE; and (ii) channel to the Government the FUND's scheduled repay-
ments of principal and interest. The PMS will be used for all other transac-
tions of the FUND including, inter alia, the disbursement and collection of
the FUND's loans to financial intermediaries, the purchase and sales of
negotiable instruments, the payments of staff salaries and other operating
expenses. As the Project Account will be fully managed by CFN, transfers
between the two sub-accounts will be made at the FUND's discretion. Assur-
ances were obtained during negotiations that the above arrangements would
be reflected in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between CFN and BCE, and that
six months after effectiveness and from time to time as the Government, CFN,
CBE or the Bank shall request the operating mechanisms established for the
financial agent would be reviewed.
3.14      Terms and Limits of Financing.  The FUND would focus upon financing
small scale enterprise, placing special emphasis on making resources avail-
able to the very smallest artisan craft types of operations. Existing firms
having fixed assets excluding land and buildings, of less than US$350,000
equivalent at the time of subloan approval, or new firms to be established
with fixed assets not exceeding that amount would be eligible for financing by
the FUND. This criterion corresponds approximately to firms of up to 25-30
employees and includes most firms which have had little or no access to term
credit from the banking system. The FUND's maximum financing for any one
investment subproject and enterprise would be limited to US$300,000. 2/ Both
1/   Having been authorized to do so in advance by the participating financial
intermediary.
2/   Article 39 of CFN's Organic Law as interpreted by its General Counsel
restricts the small scale industry and artisan fund from lending in
amounts greater than 1% of its resources available from time to time
which, following the Bank loan, would equal US$30.0 million equivalent.



- 28 -
limits could be reviewed from time to time and revised by the Bank in
agreement with CFN. The FUND would not approve financing for companies which
it judged to have reasonable access to alternative local or foreign sources
of financing on adequate terms.
3.15      Only loans to private sector enterprises would be eligible for
discount from the FUND, which would finance the purchase of fixed assets and
working capital, the installation of industrial equipment and services, the
construction of industrial buildings and of commercial facilities associated
with productive capacity, and finally,the preparation of pre-investment
studies and technical assistance services associated with investment projects.
Projects eligible for financing would have to involve the creation, expansion
or modernization of the productive capacity of enterprises involved in small
scale manufacture, artisan workshops, agroindustry, fishery, forestry, tourism
or investment for mechanical services, or specialized transport closely
related to industry. In its allocation of scarce resources, the FUND would
primarily finance projects which generate employment, increase the use
of local natural resources, generate export receipts or efficiently substitute
imports.
3.16      To ensure that a significant part of project resources benefit the
very smallest enterprises, given the limited experience of financial interme-
diaries with term lending to this group and the higher risks and costs asso-
ciated with such lending, the FUND would: (i) provide financial intermediaries
with a higher spread to cover such costs and risks and as a financial incentive
to lend to the smallest SSE (para. 3.20); (ii) coordinate with the regional
associations of small enterprises and CENAPIA, the Government technical
assistance agency, providing them with incremental resources to finance
assistance to small scale enterprise in the preparation of projects to parti-
cipating financial intermediaries (para. 3.32); (iii) approve the rediscount
loans to the smallest enterprises within 48 hours after presentation of
simplified documentation by financial intermediaries at an authorized CFN
office; 1/ (iv) carry out extensive promotion to encourage participating
institutions to undertake SSE lending programs modelled along the lines of the
Banco del Pacifico and BNF programs. It is anticipated that as a result of
the combination of monetary and program incentives plus technical assistance in
project preparation, a substantial number of the loans made and a reasonable
proportion of the resources committed under the project would be for loans
amounting to less than S/l.O million (equivalent to US$40,000) (para. 3.28).
3.17      Appropriate maturities and grace periods would be established for
each subloan. Maturities would average about 6 to 7 years and the maximum
grace period would be three years. Normally, the FUND would not approve
subloans to firms able to repay their debt in less than 25 months, since banks
would be expected to finance such loans from their ordinary resources or from
the Central Bank's short-term loan rediscount facility, the Fondos Financieros.
1-       I
1/   Using the FUND's available cash flow as a revolving fund.  The subloarn
review process by CFN could be ex post.



- 29 -
3.18      The FUND would participate jointly with the financial intermediary
and the final borrower in the financing of specific subprojects. The FUTD
would rediscount 90% of subloans for approved subprojects and the financial
intermediary would finance the balance. The subloans would not exceed 80% of
project costs for new firms nor 90% of total project costs for expansion. In
view of the expected high volume of SSE lending and the large number, varied
nature, and small size of subloans (Annex 2, Table 8), the Bank would reim--
burse the FUND for a standard percentage (about 67%) of the FLTND's disburse-
ments for individual sub-loans, which would be equal to estimated foreign
exchange costs--about 53% of total subproject cost, 1/ given that an expected
75% of subprojects financed are likely to be expansions. With respect to
technical assistance subloans, or for technical assistance services associated
with subproject preparation and implementation, up to 90% of such service
costs would be financed by the FUND with the financial intermediary and
borrower contributing equally to cover the balance.
3.19      Interest Rates.  Subloans financed by the FUND would be denominated
in Sucres. Interest rates and fees charged by participating financial inter-
mediaries are subject to: (i) the limits established by the Monetary
Board; 2/ (ii) the need to harmonize lending under the SSE project with Bank
loans in Ecuador and other available lines of term credit; 3/ (iii) the need
to provide financial intermediaries and CFN with appropriate financial spreads;
and (iv) the provision for an interest rate structure which could be
reasonably expected to be positive in real terms over the life of the project.
In line with those principles, CFN is proposing to establish an interest rate
of 12% which is the maximum allowed by law. In addition, it would charge
the maximum commission of 2% p.a. for loans bearing terms of over 2 and up
to 5 years, 3% p.a. for loans of between 5 to 8 years and 4% p.a. for loans
bearing terms of 8 years and longer. Interest rate on loans to the very
smallest firms (fixed assets of less than S/625,000, excluding land and
buildings) would be a flat 12% p.a. regardless of terms which would be
consistent with the conditions established for micro enterprise under the
Bank's Guayaquil Urban Project.
1/   Based upon studies of import components of small scale industry investment
among a sample of 2,500 firms registering under the industrial incentive
laws during 1962-68 and a sample survey of about 550 members of the
Pichincha Federation of Small Scale Industry during 1978.
2/   Regulation 927-76 promulgated on November 9, 1976.
3/   Guayaquil Urban Project, small scale industry loan component (Loan
1776-EC), IDF Fourth Industrial Credit (Loan 1731-EC), agroindustry loan
component of Loans 1459-EC and 1644-EC.



- 30 -
3.20      The cost of SSE FUND rediscounts to financial intermediaries would
vary depending on asset size of the borrowing enterprise (see Annex 2,
Table 14). For loans to SSE with fixed assets (excluding land and building)
greater than S/625,000, financial intermediaries would pay 10% for the FUND's
resources which would allow spreads of 4.0, 5.0 and 6.0 points to the interme-
diary depending upon subloan terms. Loans to SSE with assets of less than
S/625,000 would yield financial intermediaries a 6 percentage point financial
spread regardless of loan term to compensate financial intermediaries for the
higher risks and costs associated with loans to the very smallest enterprises
and to offer financial incentives to intermediaries to expand their volume of
small project financing at longer terms. The FUND expects to receive an
average interest rate of about 9.4%-on its rediscounts allowing an adequate
margin over its estimated 5.7% blended cost of resources 1/ to cover adminis-
trative and other costs, as well as contributions for technical assistance to
SSE (para 3.31).
3.21      The above interest rates and spreads would be reviewed not later
than 18 months after the date of effectiveness and from time to time there-
after, and modified by agreement between the Bank, CFN and monetary author-
ities as necessary to ensure that project objectives are met and to reflect
changing market conditions (para. 2.18) and inflationary trends. Inflation
between 1977-1979 averaged just above 11 percent. For 1980-1982, projections
are somewhat more difficult, given insufficient knowledge about the impact of
increased minimum wages, and prospective increases in gasoline prices and
interest rates, all of which could take effect beginning in 1980. Central
Bank's initial estimates are for inflation of 14-15 percent. This would make
the 15 percent average interest in the proposed program slightly positive or
zero as a minimum in real terms.
Subproject Appraisal and Supervision
3.22      Subprojects financed by the FUND would vary in complexity and size,
ranging from very small artisan subprojects requiring total investments of
several hundred dollars, to small size industrial subprojects typically
involving investments of several hundred thousand dollars. 2/ Thus, in
line with the general appraisal guidelines, the depth and sophistication
of subproject appraisal and review would be varied to fit the size and nature
of subprojects. 3/ Financial intermediaries, in cooperation with subborrowers,
would be responsible for preparing subproject appraisals. The FUND would
review these appraisals and approve financing for those subprojects it judged
to be technically sound, financially viable and economically efficient. To
ensure uniform quality and content in subproject appraisal, the FUND plans to
1/   Assumes a US$20.0 million Bank loan at 8.5% and US$10.0 million in FUND
capital (Annex 2, Table 15).
2/   The average subloan would equal about US$50,000 (Annex 2, Table 7).
3/   Different methodologies would be applied to appraisal of subprojects
in the up to US$40,000, US$40,000 to US$150,000, and US$150,000 to
US$350,000 ranges. But data for the Subproject Data System would be
collected on all subprojects.



- 31 -
adopt and issue general appraisal guidelines offering standard definitions and
where appropriate methodologies for financial calculations for each of the
three main project size clusters in accordance with the FUND's Operating
Regulations (Annex 3). Adoption of satisfactory guidelines would be a
condition of loan effectiveness. While more standardized appraisal reports
would tend to evolve in the longer term, initially each intermediary, working
within the general guidelines could develop an appropriate system taking into
consideration its loan analysis procedures and internal operating requirements.
Summary project forms and applications for rediscounts would be prepared by CFN.
3.23      Financial intermediaries would be responsible for making periodic
supervision visits to firms receiving Bank funds and for maintaining records
adequate to indicate the progress of subprojects. The intermediaries' super-
vision responsibilities as defined in the Operating Regulations would be
clearly specified in the participation agreements which intermediaries would
sign with CFN. The performance of intermediaries in subproject supervi-
sion would be systematically monitored by the FUND's supervision unit, in
accordance with its operating procedures, which requires that a relatively
large sample of subprojects be visited. It is anticipated that financial
intermediaries, which would bear the full credit risk under the project,
would revise their current supervision procedures to conform with those
specified in the participation agreements. The supervision procedures provided
for in the FUND's procedures envisage a satisfactory schedule of supervision
visits often linked with technical assistance. It is anticipated that as
financial intermediaries become more experienced with appraisal and supervision
methods a reduction would be made in CFN's supervision sample size. Final
approval of supervision guidelines as part of the Operating Procedures would
be a condition of loan effectiveness.
Training
3.24      To further prepare FUND staff and those of participating interme-
diaries to better understand SSE project preparation and appraisal requirements
and techniques and supervision requirements and standards, CFN will prepare a
brief orientation program focused on industrial project preparation, evaluation
and supervision for the FUND's staff and that of interested financial institu-
tions. During loan negotiations an understanding was reached on a schedule
for preparation of a training program, the outline of which would be reviewed
with the Bank during July/August 1980.
Financial Structure
3.25      The FUND would function in accordance with CFN's regulations as a
separate financial operation with its own financial resources and would estab-
lish separate financial accounts for the FUND, the operating results of which
would be periodically consolidated into CFN's accounts. The FUND's initial
resources would be composed of: (i) use of the proceeds of the proposed Bank
loan to the Government of US$20.0 million equivalent; (ii) a counterpart con-
tribution of US$6.0 million equivalent to be made available by the Government;
and (iii) CFN's existing small scale industry operating assets consisting of
its portfolio of rediscounted SSE loans and cash and other liquid assets equal



- 32 -
to an estimated US$4.0 million 1/, raising the FUND's total initial resource
base to US$30.0 million equivalent. It is contemplated that net revenues
would be positive in each of the project years and that about US$2.7 million
in accumulated earnings would be added to the FUND's resources during 1981-85.
3.26      Table 3.1 shows the proposed financing plan for the project.
Table 3.1:   SSE Project Financing Plan a/
(in US$ million)
Total          Percentage
Foreign   Local  Contribution         of Total
SSE Fund
GOE Capital Contribution            -       6.0        6.0               16
CFN Capital Contribution            -       4.0        4.0               11
TBRD Loan                          20        -        20.0               53
Financial Intermediary                -       3.3        3.3                9
Project Sponsor (minimum)             -       4.2        4.2               11
Total Project (minimum)            20      17.5       37.5              100
a/   CFN would also provide an estimated US$325,000 in technical assistance
grants during 1981-84 from the FUND's estimated net income.
3.27      The FUND is expected to commit its total resources in about three
years starting with US$6.0 million equivalent in year one and averaging US$12.0
million equivalent per year thereafter (Annex 2, Table 12). A best estimate
of the type of subprojects that the FUND would be likely to finance and based
on an analysis of a sample of some 8,000 SSE projects that had been financed
by the banking community during 1972-78 is shown in Annex 2, Table 14. 2/
On the basis of the experience of the recent past, the focus of project
investment is projected to be in consumer goods. The projected continued
growth of small metal products and wood industries would result in this
sector accounting respectively for 18% and 16% of total investment, while
food and related products would account for 18% and textiles and wearing
apparel for 10% of total investment.
1/ Total assets of the existing SSE fund equal approximately US$4.0 million,
of which about US$3.1 million are rediscount portfolio and the balance
cash and other liquid assets. Some of the rediscounts would be repaid
during the course of loan processing and some new rediscounts made, thus,
the final balance between cash and portfolio is approximate and the final
value of total resources would be approximately US$4.0 million.
2/   Which is not unreasonable given the essential stability in structure
and growth trends of SSE (paras. 1.11-1.13).



- 33 -
3.28       With respect to number and size distribution of loans 1/ it is
anticipated that approximately 625 small scale enterprise loans would be made
over the project's three year commitment period. Based upon: (i) BNF's recent
SSE lending experience (about 5,000 loans averaging S/125,000 were made to SSE
in 1978); and (ii) the incentives granted under the program for lending to the
very smallest SSEs (Annex 2, Table 8), it is contemplated that about 40% of
loans averaging S/200,000 in size would be made to the micro SSE. It is
contemplated that almost 70% of the number and 27% of the amount of the loans
would be disbursed for loans of less than S/l.0 million with an estimated
average loan size for the entire project of S/1.3 million (US$52,000
equivalent).
Projected Financial Results
3.29       The FUND's projected financial results for 1981-85 are shown inI
Annex 2, Tables 7-9. The FUND's financial program was designed so that it
could earn a net income starting in 1981, its first full year of operations, 2
based upon: (i) use of the available components of its US$6.0 million, Govern-
ment counterpart funds to generate short-term investment earnings; and (ii)
income earned by CFN's existing US$3.1 million (equivalent) SSE loan rediscount
portfolio which constitutes CFN's contribution to the FUND's capital. Earnings
from short-term investments and the original SSE rediscount portfolio could
equal an estimated US$400,000 equivalent in 1981, which when combined with
an estimated US$226,000 in interest income from the proceeds of the Bank loan
would be sufficient to cover the estimated financial cost of US$136,000,
operating costs of US$164,000 equivalent, and contribute to technical assistance
and net revenues of the FUND. As the SSE loan rediscount portfolio under the
Bank loan grows along with disbursements, the FUND's financial performance
is likely to improve, resulting in a projected 3.4 percentage point average
financial spread and a low projected 1.5 percentage point average operating
cost during 1981-85 (Annex 2, Tables 10, 11). The FUND is projected to earn
a satisfactory net income of 2.5% on total assets, as almost all assets (except
the revolving cash fund), yield financial returns. Given the FUND's very low
leverage (i.e. its initial debt to equity ratio is .1.6:1), its estimated
average 5.5% earnings on capital for 1981-85 are adequate for the start-up
years. 3/ With the proceeds of its net revenues, the FUND would make an annual
contribution to finance technical assistance to SSE participating in the
project and to advance a broader objective of raising the quality of overall
technical assistance. It is anticipated that during 1981-85, the FUND would
have to contribute about US$450,000 towards these objectives (paras. 3.31-3.35).
1/   Based upon an analysis of data on loan size distribution in commercial
banks, Banco Nacional de Fomento (BNF) and CFN.
2/   In the context of CFN's projected operating loss for 1980-81, its manage-
ment placed high priority upon the avoidance of losses by the FUND.
3/   During 1985 earnings on capital and retained earnings are projected to
rise to 7.6%.



- 34 -
C. Potential Intermediary Institutions
3.30      The Banco Nacional de Fomento, and all commercial banks and
financieras legally established and operating in Ecuador, would be eligible to
use the FUND's SSE loan rediscount facility. To participate in the project,
an eligible institution would have to meet the requirements established
under the participation agreements. These would provide, among other things,
that the participants would: (i) maintain or contract staff capable of perform-
ing satisfactory project appraisals; (ii) supervise projects to ensure that
resources were being used for the purposes intended and that projects were
progressing on schedule; (iii) ensure that procurement and disbursement
provisions were met; (iv) adhere to terms of lending and repayment of loans;
(v) maintain adequate records on Bank-financed projects; and (vi) provide the
FUND and the Bank with such information as they would reasonably request.
Receipt by the Bank of a satisfactory agreement between CFN and a participating
intermediary would be a condition of loan disbursement to such intermediary.
Included in BNF's participation agreement would be a requirement that BNF
harmonize its term lending rates under the recent D14 25.0 million KfW loan
to finance term SSE credit with Bank lending rates. BNF's management has
agreed in principle to take such action which would involve their: (i) using
KfW resources only for smallest short or medium term credits of under US$3,500
(capacitation credit) at 11%; or (ii) making KfW resources available for
regular term loans at rates equal to those charged under the Bank loan.
D. Technical Assistance
3.31      The FUND, in conjunction with MICEI and the Federation of Chambers
of Small Industry (FCPI) would channel amounts on a grant basis to meet
technical assistance needs. Such amounts would depend on the FUND's annual
operating results. The purposes of such assistance would be to:
(i) facilitate access to credit funds by smallest SSE; (ii) assist in the
development of subprojects in priority subsectors; and (iii) bring small scale
entrepreneurs directly into the planning for and implementation of technical
assistance programs through participation by their Federation.
3.32      A technical assistance coordinating committee to be called the
Technical Cooperation Committee (TCC) would be established with a representa-
tive of MICEI, the President of FCPI and the manager of the FUND. The TCC
would set policies for financing and coordinating technical assistance
programs, and would consider and approve funding of proposals for such programs
presented by CENAPIA, or by the regional small industry and artisan chambers.
Administration of the resources, in accordance with TCC decisions, would be
the responsibility of the FUND, which would assign a professional to manage
such programs. The FUND would develop initial procedures for preparation and
review of proposals and for control of technical assistance subprojects in
consultation with TCC. In evaluating requests for funding of technical
assistance programs, expected impact, conformance to policies established by
TCC, and coordination with other sources of technical assistance would be
important criteria. Proposals approved and funded by TCC would be executed by



- 35 -
the entity concerned under a simple contractual arrangement with CFN on behalf
of the FUND.  This competitive basis for access to project resources for
technical assistance is intended to provide: (i) incentives for performing
well in the delivery of technical assistance services; (ii) access to resources
for the variety of private, non-profit entities offering such services, as
well as the public sector's main agency (CENAPIA); (iii) opportunity for
feedback from project beneficiaries through their associations or through
their participation in the approved technical assistance subprojects. A
preliminary estimate of potential technical assistance programs during 1981-85
indicates the need for about US$0.5 million equivalent which would provide for
about 45 manyears of assistance under the project.
3.33      In addition, individual SSEs could obtain subloans under the project
for direct contracting of private consultant services. Although this is
expected to account for only a small portion of credit demand, the mechanism
would permit particularly the larger of the SSE to finance technological and/or
management improvements affecting their productivity through use of consultant
services.
3.34      Initial priority beneficiaries of the technical assistance programs
would be potential subborrowers outside of the Guayas and Pichincha provinces
with total assets (excluding land and buildings) of under S/1,000,000. To
participate in the programs CENAPIA would submit to TCC a proposal for
assistance to these SSEs in the preparation of subprojects and for diagnostic
and referral services to ongoing programs in general training, marketing and
basic technology of priority sectors.
3.35      The technical assistance component of the proposed project would be
implemented through an agreement between CFN and MICEI, and between CFN and
FCPI. The first of these two agreements would include the nomination of
MICEI's representative to the TCC (provisionally MICEI's Director of Small
Scale Enterprise Division), and the contribution of MICEI for sharing the
costs of CENAPIA's initial program(s) under the project. The FCPI agreement
would include the formalization of participation of the Federation and its
chambers in implementing the project and the nomination of the FCPI represen-
tative to the TCC.  CFN and MICEI plan to prepare draft agreements for review
by FCPI during late July/early August and to sign final TCC agreements after
loan signing.
IV. THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. General Description
4.01      Amounts and Terms.  The proposed loan of US$20.0 million would be
made to the Government of Ecuador at the Bank's prevailing interest rate
(presently 8.25%) and standard commitment fee of 3/4 of 1% p.a. The Govern-
ment, through BCE, with whom it would sign a satisfactory fiscal agency
contract, would on lend to CFN on equal terms and conditions. CFN in turn
would make the proceeds of the loan available to its Small Scale Enterprise
Fund (FUND), to be channelled to small scale industry and artisans through



- 36 -
financial intermediaries that meet the FUND's conditions for participation
(para 3.30). The foreign exchange risk on the proposed Bank loan would be
borne by the Government without charge. Subject to review not later than
18 months after loan signing, no single financial intermediary could commit
more than US$12.0 million in FUND resources. To ensure that the FUND had
adequate net revenues to perform its operating and technical assistance
functions and to expand future SSE lending operations, the Government
agreed during negotiations to assume the commitment fee.
4.02      As the expected large number of subloans would make a composite
amortization schedule for the Bank's DFC operation impractical, and in order
to provide more resources to SSE lending, the loan would be repaid in equal
installments over a fixed 17 year term, including 4 years of grace. With the
average term of subloans expected to be lower than the proposed loan maturity,
this would entail a roll-over of Bank funds which would be used by the FUND
for further SSE subproject financing in accordance with its Policy Statement,
which would be approved by the Bank. To capitalize the FUND: (i) the Govern-
ment would make available to the FUND US$6.0 million equivalent in counterpart
resources in three installments, the first of US$3.0 million to be a condition
of effectiveness, the second installment of US$1.5 million by June 30, 1981,
and the final installment of US$1.5 million by October 31, 1981. To assure
that the Government's contribution would be made in accordance with the agreed
upon schedule, the Bank would not authorize withdrawal from the loan account
beyond US$10.0 million if the June 30, 1981 installment of Government capital
contribution had not been made and beyond US$15.0 million if the final Octo-
ber 31, 1981 installment had not been deposited in the FUND's account;
(ii) CFN agreed at negotiations to maintain within the FUND its portfolio of
discounted SSE loans (currently equal to US$3.1 million equivalent) plus cash
and liquid assets which are a part of its existing SSE Fund's asset structure
(currently about US$900,000 equivalent), the total amount of which is expected
to equal an estimated US$4.0 million; and (iii) the net revenues accruing to
the FUND would remain part of its resources.
4.03      Subloans would carry minimum interest rates of 12%.  Subloans to SSE
with assets of less than US$25,000 equivalent (excluding land and buildings)
would be made at the 12% interest rate irrespective of the subloan's terms and
consistent with loans to artisans and shopkeepers under the Guayaquil Urban
Project. Subloans to SSE with assets larger than US$25,000 (equivalent) would
include a commission of 2%, 3% and 4% for terms of greater than 2 to 5 years,
5 to 8 years, and 8 years and over respectively, resulting in 14%, 15% and 16%
lending rates which is consistent with the rate structure under IDF Loan
1731-EC. Participating financial intermediaries would be given a financial
spread of 6% to encourage industrial credits to the smallest enterprise
and spreads of 4%, 5% and 6% respectively for the balance of SSE, depending
upon loan terms to encourage further term lending (paras. 3.19-3.20). While
these spreads are lower than the current 6% available to financial interme-
diaries under the MFF rediscounting facility, it is anticipated that they
would be adequately attractive to financial intermediaries whose access to the
MFF facilities are at best limited and uncertain. Interest rates and spreads
could be modified by agreement between the Bank and CFN after a review not
later than 18 months from loan signing (para.2.18).



- 37 -
4.04      Maximum Size of Subloan and Free Limit.  The FUND's maximum subloan
for any one investment project would be US$300,000 and the maximum size for
any one investment enterprise would be US$350,000 in fixed assets (excluding
land and buildings). These limits could be modified by agreement between
the Bank and CFN to conform to anticipated changes in SSE law. All subproject
appraisals submitted by financial intermediaries would be reviewed by the
FUND. The first loan over US$50,000 from each FI would be submitted to the
Bank for review and comment. 1/ All subloans above US$250,000 (the free
limit) would require Bank approval. CFN would impose an initial free limit of
US$150,000 upon its participating financial intermediaries which would be
subject to review by the Bank and CFN not later than six months after effec-
tiveness and adjustment from time to time and an ERR calculation would be
prepared, generally by FUND staff, for all projects above this free limit
using standard Bank guidelines for DFCs. This procedure is expected to
result in review by the Bank of a sample of subloans covering about 12% of the
loan amount, which would be adequate, given that CFN's skilled appraisal
department would review between 50 and 60 free limit projects accounting for
about 40% of the loan resources. To help further improve CFN's operations the
Bank would supervise the proposed loan closely and review ex-post, in the
field, a significant sample of the smaller subprojects.
4.05      Procurement.  The loan funds would finance the foreign exchange
costs of mainly locally procured and limited quantities of directly imported
equipment, materials and services. The financial intermediaries and CFN would
satisfy themselves that procurement items were suitable for the respective
investment projects and reasonable priced and that the beneficiaries had
convased the main available sources of supply and were purchasing from advan-
tageous sources. Whenever justified, items would be procured on the basis
of several quotations, in accordance with standard practice for IDF-type
projects. Since it may be difficult or relatively costly to obtain quota-
tions from several suppliers in the case of the small orders that are expected
to comprise the majority of procurement operations, the solicitations of
offers would be expected mostly for the few relatively larger procurement
contracts. Consulting services for project preparation or technical
assistance services used in conjunction with SSE subprojects would be open to
local professional consulting firms prequalified by the FUND and terms of
reference subject to their review.
4.06      Commitment and Disbursement.  The final date for the submission of
subloan proposals would be December 31, 1983 and the closing date for disburse-
ments would be December 31, 1984 (Annex 2, Table 13). The Bank would reimburse
the FUND for 67% of the FUND's total financing of subprojects on the basis of
a certificate of expenditure submitted by the FUND. The supporting documents
would be retained in Ecuador for inspection during Bank supervision missions.
1/   Enabling the Bank to check initially that appraisals of SSE subprojects
are appropriate in focus and depth without delaying the approval process.



- 38 -
4.07      While the Bank normally does not reimburse for subproject expendi-
tures made more than 90 days prior to receipt of the subloan request, in line
with prior Bank experience under small scale industrial credit programs, using
the two tier system, this limit would be raised to 180 days to compensate for
the longer time periods involved in the approval process.
4.08      The CBE has agreed to serve as financial agent for the project
(in addition to its fiscal agent function on behalf of the Government) for a
fee of 1/8% (Annex 1). As financial agent, its main operational respon-
sibility would be to serve as the rediscount and collection facility for the
FUND crediting and debiting the financial accounts of participating financial
intermediaries (para. 3.12).
4.09      Accounting and Auditing.  CFN would establish and maintain separate
accounts for the FUND.  Currently, the accounts of CFN and its special funds
and accounts (including FOPEX) are prepared by CFN's accounting department and
reviewed and audited by its internal auditor, the Superintendent of Banks and
its external auditors.  The audit of the FUND's separate accounts by indepen-
dent external auditors, satisfactory to the Bank, would be part of the audit
of CFN's accounts and audit reports of a content and in a format satisfactory
to the Bank would be submitted to the Bank not later than 5 months after the
close of each fiscal year. 1/
B. Project Benefits and Risks
4.10     This initial pilot project is designed to help create an institutional
setting within CFN and financial intermediaries for the efficient channeling
of financial resources to the SSE sector. At the same time the program would
be used to help restructure the quality and orientation of technical
assistance services to SSE. Thus, it is expected that the Bank loan
would start to make a significant contribution to the growth and rational
development of the geographically dispersed SSE sector.
4.11     The proposed loan would contribute to filling a major gap in term
financing of SSE projects in Ecuador and is expected to help finance through
CFN about 625 subprojects with an estimated total cost of US$37.5 million
equivalent (Annex 2, Table 14). Total financing under the SSE credit project
including the Bank loan, contributions of the government, and CFN would
provide about 15% to 20% p.a. in incremental term credit to the rapidly
growing SSE sector over the expected loan commitment period (1981-83) and
would thus contribute significantly to the anticipated 8% p.a. sector growth.
4.12      Given the high labor component of both the traditional (wood,
textiles and food) subsectors and modern metal mechanics operations which
would receive about 60% of total resources applied to subloans under the
project, it is expected that about 4,300 new jobs would be created at a
relatively low cost of US$8,700 per job (in 1978 prices) 2/. The modern
subsectors into which increasing numbers of the newly skilled Ecuadorian
entrepreneurs have been moving, are expected to provide about 25% of new job
opportunities.
1/   Consistent with audit provisions under Bank Loan 1731-EC.
2/   Compared with US$23,000 per job created for industry in general.



- 39 -
4.13      Risks.  This being a pilot project it poses some special implemen-
tation risks and is likely to involve, at least initially, relatively high
supervision costs because of the untested administrative arrangements, espe-
cially with regards to CBE's serving as the subloan rediscount and collection
agent for the project. Should CBE be unable to function in an agile and
flexible fashion private financial intermediaries might withdraw from the
project which could lead to a slowing down in rate of loan disbursement and a
shortfall in the FUND's projected net revenues and its ability to finance
technical assistance. The danger of delays in subloan financing should be
reduced by the agreed upon procedures which would be incorporated in the
subsidiary loan agreement between CFN and CBE, and the agreement reached
during loan negotiations on a mechanism for periodic review of the operations
and procedures of the FUND and CBE's financial agent activity. Agreements
between CFN and participating financial intermediaries will specify the role
of each of the signatories and the links between them and CBE. The project
represents an initial effort towards making term credit and improved technical
assistance available to SSE. The importance of these objectives and the steps
being taken to ensure successful project implementation justify accepting
these risks.
V.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During loan negotiations, agreements were obtained and understandings
reached on the following:
(a)  With the Government of Ecuador, on:
(i) the terms and conditions of the proposed loan including the
review thereon (Chapter IV-A), the procedures for making
available the proceeds of the loan to CFN, interest rates on
subloans (para. 3.19), free limits (para. 4.04), and commitment
and disbursement (para. 4.06-4.07);
(ii) the provision of US$6.0 million equivalent in counterpart
funds to complement resources of the Bank loan and CFN's
existing FUND resources (para. 4.02);
(iii) assuming the foreign exchange risk between the currencies
of disbursements and the Sucre and payment of the commit-
ment fee (para. 4.01);
(iv) the fee to be charged by CBE and the administrative
mechanism to be established for disbursement and collection
on behalf of the FUND (paras. 3.12, 3.13 and 4.08).



- 40 -
(b)  With the Government and CFN, on:
(i)  making available to the FUND the proceeds of the Bank loan
(paras. 4.01-4.02); and
(ii)  the Government making available to the FUND US$6.0 million
equivalent as paid-in capital according to an agreed upon
schedule and the Bank authorizing withdrawal from the loan
in accordance with this schedule (para. 4.02);
(iii)  the date by which agreements satisfactory to the Bank would
be signed between the Government and CFN, and CFN and FCPI
with respect to TCC operations (para. 3.35);
(iv)  reviewing the efficiency of the CBE's financial agent
mechanism six months after effectiveness and from time
to time thereafter (para. 3.13).
(c)  With CFN, on:
(i)  the content and status of the draft CFN resolution
authorizing the restructuring of the FUND with its own
organization, staffing (para. 3.07), expanded financial
resources (para. 3.25) and separate accounting;
(ii)  the FUND's-policy statement (para. 3.08), operating regula-
tions and procedures (para. 3.09), appraisal and supervision
guidelines for the FUND and participating intermediaries
(paras. 3.22 and 3.23);
(iii)  the FUND's initial organizational structure and staffing and
the status of hiring the FUND's unit Chief (para. 3.10);
(iv)  a suitable schedule for a training program for staff of the
FUND and of selected financial intermediaries (para. 3.24);
(v)  the Board's lifting restraints on CFN's commission and fee
structure on financial services (including guarantee and
letters of credit) by June 30, 1981, allowing CFN to charge
maximum allowable limits (para. 2.15); and
(vi) drafts of participation agreements to be signed by BNF
and other financial intermediaries (para. 3.30).
5.02      Conditions of loan effectiveness are that:
(i)  CFN establishes the FUND in its new form (para. 3.07) and
adopts satisfactory: (a) Policy Statement (para. 3.08);
(b) Operating Procedures (para. 3.09); Organizational Plan
(para. 3.10); and Project Appraisal and Supervision
Guidelines (paras. 3.22 and 3.23) for the FUND;



- 41 -
(ii)  CFN's FUND receives US$3.0 million equivalent as a permanent
resource (para. 3.25);
(iii)  the Government and BCE enter into a fiscal agency contract
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.01); and
(iv)  CFN and CBE enter into a subsidiary agreement satisfactory
to the Bank (para. 3.13).
5.03      Condition of disbursement by the Bank of the loan beyond US$10.0
million and beyond US$15.0 million would be the Government's scheduled
payments of its capital contribution to the FUND by June 30 and October 31,
1981 (para. 4.02).
5.04      Condition of disbursement by CFN to a participating financial
intermediary would be signature of a satisfactory participation agreement
between CFN on behalf of the FUND and such intermediary (para. 3.30).
5.05      Recommendation.  With the assurances and conditions indicated above,
the project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$20.0 million equivalent.



-  42  -                             ANNEX 1
ECUADOR
SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
Banco Central del Ecuador
Office of the General Manager
Agreement on Basic Aspects of the Loan Program
for Small Scale Industries to be Financed by the World Bank
1.        Under a World Bank loan for US$20 million to the Government of
Ecuador, the latter will be responsible for the exchange risk and all other
obligations arising from the loan agreement.
2.        The proceeds of the World Bank loan will be deposited into a project
account to be maintained at the Banco Central del Ecuador, the financial agent
of the Government of Ecuador.
3.        As all credit transactions related to this international loan are to
be administered by the Corporaci6n Financiera Nacional, that agency will accept
the counterpart funds for the projects, for which purpose it will maintain said
funds in an account in its name with the Banco Central del Ecuador.
4.        The Corporaci6n Financiera Nacional will be the project's executing
agency and will onlend the loan proceeds. It will also approve the investment
plans and credit applications. Once these requirements and all others estab-
lished by the World Bank in this matter have been met, the Corporaci6n
Financiera Nacional will request the Banco Central del Ecuador to make the rele-
vant disbursements, into the accounts of the financial intermediaries partici-
pating in the operations in question. The financial intermediaries will in
turn authorize the Banco Central del Ecuador to debit their accounts auto-
matically for all loan commissions, interest and principal repayments, when due.
The Banco Central del Ecuador will debit the credit funds without any further
procedures, after the request is received, and all external formalities
fulfilled, in the proportion of two-thirds from the special account representing
the proceeds of the World Bank loan, and one-third from the counterpart funds in
the Corporaci6n Financiera Nacional's account. On each due date, the Banco
Central del Ecuador will, as mentioned above, debit the pertinent amounts to the
participating financial intermediaries and credit them in the same proportions
from whence they came to the project and counterpart accounts. The Banco Central
del Ecuador will at no time be responsible for credit risks, which are to be
borne by the participating financial institutions and the Corporaci6n Financiera
Nacional, in that order.



-43 -                               ANNEX 1
5.        The Banco Central del Ecuador will receive a commission of one-
eighth of one percent for acting as financial agent.
Quito, March 18, 1980
/s/ Mauricio Davalos G.                     /I/  Modesto Correa San Andres
General Manager                              General Manager
Banco Central del Ecuador                    Corporaci6n Financiera Nacional



ECUADOR: SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
Industrial Output, Employment and Productivity
(Value Added in millions of 1970 Sucres)
1970/78
Growth
1970                 1974                  1977                1978
No.           %      No.           %      No. -                 No.           %         %
Factory Firms a/
eurm ana Large)
Value added              3,734.0       65.8   5.,549.0       71.3   7,685.0       70.1   8,689.0        70.0       11.1
Employment ('000)           48.1       19.3       66.4      24.0       87.4       26.0       89.2       26.0        8.0
VA/Emp.                 77,630.0             83,584.0              87,929.0             97,410.0                    3.0
No. of firms               982.0              1,253.0                 156.0              1,667.0                    6.8
Small and Artisan
Value added              1,937.0       34.2   2,229.0        28.7   3,295.0       30.0   3,724.0        30.0        8.5
Employment ('000)          201.5       80.9     210.0       76.0      249.0       74.0     253.8        74.0        3.0
VA/Emp.                  9,613.0             10,614.0              13,232.0             14,672.0                    5.4
Total Manufacturing
Value added              5,671.0      100.0   7,778.0      100.0  10,980.0       100.0  12,413.0       100.0      10.3
Employment ('000)          249.4      100.0     276.4      100.0      336.0      100.0     343.0      100.0        4.1
VA/Emp.                 22,739.0             28,140.0              32,640.0             36,189.0 b/                 6.7
Factory VA/EMP
Artisan VA/EMP                   8.1                  7.9                  6.7                   6.6
a/ Factory firms are those which employ eight or more workers, thus they also include some firms that would
be classified as small scale industry and artisan firms under small scale industry incentive laws.
b/ In current US$ value added, US$10,513 per employee (SSE = US$1,380, factory = US$9,130).
Source:  CBE
M"



- 45 -
ANNEX 2
Table 2
ECUADOR: SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
Industrial Structure: Output of Total and Small Scale
Industry and Artisan Workshops (SSE) (% of Output)
Total       Total Registered    SSE Pichincha
Industry           SSE a/             Survey b/
1970   1977         1978                   1978
Consumer Goods
Food, beverages, tobacco           34.2   35.2           17.0                  17.8
Clothing, footwear                  0.6    0.9           11.1                   8.7
Wood furniture                      1.1    1.7            3.2                   5.5
Paper and printing                  9.3    9.0            3.8                  10.3
Final chemical, plastic &
rubber products                  10.0   11.4            8.9                  14.6
Other                               3.3    2.9            2.5                   1.9
Subtotal                           58.9   61.1           46.5                  58.8
Intermediate Goods
Textiles, leather                  13.4   13.3            7.1                  1.2.8
Wood                                3.5    2.5            4.7                   3.0
Chemical products                   8.0    6.8            5.3                   6.5
Non-metallic mineral products       4.4    4.5            6.4                   2.2
Basic metals                        1.4    1.3            0.1                     -
Subtotal                         30.7   28.4          23.6                   18.5
Capital Goods
Machinery and equipment)                                 15.6                  11.0
Metal products          )          10.5   10.5           14.3                  11.7
Subtotal                         10.5   10.5          29.9                  :22.7
Total Industry                      100.0  100.0          100.0                 100.0
a/ 2,500 firms registered for benefits under the Ley de Fomento de la Artesania y
Pequena Industria (SSE).
b/ Survey of 555 members of the Federation of Small Industries, Pichincha province
(Quito).
Sources: CBE, MICEI and FCPI.



- 46 -
ANNEX 2
Table 3
ECUADOR:  SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
MINIMUM WAGES
(S/ per month)
Nominal                      .Real           Real mini-    Real
Minimum Wage,                 Minimum Wage, mum Wage,       Minimum
Medium and      Price         Medium and    Registered    Wage,
Large Firms    Index          Large Firms   SSI Firms       Artisan Firms
1970                   832.0           100.0          832.0             832.0       832.0
1971                  1040.1           109.9          946.4             946.h       757.1
1972                  1043.9           118.3          882.4             882.4       705.9
1973                  1043.9           132.3          789.0             789.0       631.2
1974                  1662.3           162.6         1022.4            1022.4       766.8
1975                  2120.0           186.3         1137.9            1137.9       864.8
1976                  2501.3           205.4         1217.8            1217.8       925.5
1977                  2301.3           231.2         1081.9            1081.9       822.2
1978                  2601.3           261.8          993.6              993.6      753.1
1979                  3351.7           287.3         1166.6            1166.6       886.6
1980                  6603.4           339.0 1/      1947.9             1483.1     1363.5
1/ Assuming 18.0% p.a. inflation in 1979-80.



- 47 -
ANNEX 2
Table 4
ECUADOR: SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
Financing of Small Scale Industry
(Thousands of Sucres and Percent)
Short Term              Medium Term               Long Term
Average                 Average                   Average
Size of, Percent of    Size of   Percent of    Size of  Percent of   Total    Percent of
Loan,    Subsector      Loan,      Subsector      Loan,    Subsector    Credit   Sector
Subsectors                                  Total                     Total                    Total                  Total
Total                            1,364.4         59       1,294.2        29         2,032.9       12       6006097       100.0
Food                             1,048.3         37          745.9       28         3,003.3       35        51.063          8.4
Beverages                          833.3         43       3,000.0        24         4,000.0       33       12300           2.0
Textiles                           887.2         49         910.7        38         1.243.6       13        66,233        10.1
Garments                         14512.4         76       14321.3        22         1,600.0        2        66,044        10.8
Leather                            125.0          9       2,583.5        91            -           -         54667         0.9
Footwear                         1,301.5         91         302.5         9            -           -         7J113          1.2
Wood Products                      449.1         39          744.2       29         1,320.0       32        12.621          2.1
Furniture                        1,132.8         61       1;887.5        26         14825.0       13        29.324        4.8
Paper                            2,630.0         88          375.0       12            -           -         6,050          1.0
Printing                         1l132.4         59          638.9        11        2,611.5       30        55,994          8.6
Industrial Chem.                 3,500.0         56       2,500.0        20         3,000.0       24        12,500         2.1
Chem. Products                   2,409.3         51       2,339.2        40         2,166.7        9        75,460        12.4
Rubber Products                  2,362.5         93            -          -           730.0        7        10,180          1.7
Plastic Products                 l;OOO.0         43       1,301.7        47             -          -         6,905         1.1
Glass                            2.,094.8        55       14869.5        45             -          -        15,118          2,5
Non-Mettalic
Mineral Products                 743.3         33       2-,500.0       36         lj050.0       31         6,830          1.1
Prod. Metal                      14659.0         83       1,015.4        17             -          -        77;902         12.8
Machinery                        1,820.0         47       8,190.0        53             -          -        15%473          7.5
Electrical Mach.                 1.645.5         43       2.,573.3       57             -          -        4LJ260          6.8
Tsp. Equip.                      1,212.5         72          683.3       15           875.0       13       l1B500           2.2
Scientific Equip.                3160.0          46          200.0        3         3,500.0       51         6,860          1.1
Other                           14515.5          92          306.0        8             -          -        lB,200          3.0
Source:  Survey of Pichincha Small Scale Industry - Federation of Small Scale Industry.



ECUADOR: SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
Sources of Total Credit
(S/million)
Institution                       1970          1971           1972        1973           1974           1975          1976           1977           1978
National Develop. Bank           677.5         762.8          807.8       1,507.6       3,640.6        4,000.1       4,578.7        4,734.2        4,331.9
Ecuadorian Housing Bank           11.0           19.4          99.4           70.0         144.6         387.3          368.1          904.8       1,147.9
Total Official Banks             688.5         782.2          907.2       1.577.6        3,785.2       4.387.4        4,946.8        5,639.0       5.479.8
(excluding Central Bank)
Total Private Banks            8,076.8       9,120.4       10,590.6      12,948.2       15,723.4      19,159.3       24,067.4      29,662.5       33,053.5
Total Banks                    8X765.3       9,902.6       11.497.8      14,525.8      19.508.6       23.546.7      29,014.2       35,301.5       38,533.3
CFN                             63l.0          403.0          498.0         515.0        1,405.0       1,198.0        2,320.0        2,202.0       2,399.5 b/
Private Financieras              359.9         444.4          633.4         830.5        1,305.5       1,438.4        2,435.1        5,073.6       7,947.2
Total Financieras                975.9         847.4        1,131.4       1,345.5        2,710.5       2.636.4        4,755.1        7,275.6      10,346.7
Mutual/Savings Inst.              42.0           93.0         179.0         209.0          323.0         462.8          585.4          743.8         901.8
Total Credit  Volume a/        9,782.2      10,843.0      12.808 2       16,080.3      22,542.1       26,645.9      34,354.7       43,320.9       49,781.8
Central Bank W                 3,181.1       2,762.1        3,091.9       3,095.8        6,189.8      10,029.0       13,015.8      17,745.3       21,994.7
a/ Excludes guarantee operations
b/ Central Bank Credit volume which is channeled through above institutions
Sources: SB, CBE and CFN
D x4



ECUAWR: SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
DISTRIBUTION OF CREDIT BY INSTITUTION AND SECTOR a!/
1978
(anounts in millions of S/)
Percent-   Percent-              Percent- Percent-   Agri-      Percent-  Percent-               Percent- Percent-                Percent- Percent-
institution                    Commerce      age of     age Ins. Industry    age of   age Ins.   culture   age of    age Ins.    Other    age of   age Ins.   Total             age of   age Ins.
Sec.per    in See-               Sec.per  in Sec-      & live-  Sec.per   in Sec-       b/       Sec.per  in Sec-                  Sec.per  in Sec-
Inst.      tor                   Inst.    tor         stock     Inst.      tor                   Inst.    tor                      Inst.    tor
National Develop. Bank             316.9       1.9       7.3        746.3        4.6     17.2     3,268.7       42.9     75.5          -          -       -         4,331.9       8.7      100.0
Ecuadorian Housing Bank              -         -         -            -          -        -            -         -        -        1,147.9c/    12.5   100.0        1,147.9       2.3      100.0
Total Official Banks               316.9       1.9       5.8        746.3        4.6     13.6     3,268.7       42.9     59.7      1,147.9      12.5    20.9       5,479.8       11.0      100.0
(excluding Central Bank)
Total Private Banks d/          15,002.2      89.7     45.4       9,365.5      57.7      28.3     3,497.2       45.8     10.6      5,188.6      56.4    15.7      33,053.5       66.4      100.0
Total Banks                     15,319.1      91.6      39.8     10,111.8       62.3     26.2     6,765.9       88.7     17.6      6,336.5      68.9    16.4      38,533.3       77.4      100.0
CFN e/                           1,024.6 f/    6.1      42.7      1,355.7        8.4     56.5         14.4       0.2      0.6          4.8        0.1     0.2       2,399.5       4.8      100.0
Private Financieras                382.9       2.3       4.8      4,764.2       29.3     60.0       849.9       11.1     10.7      1,950.2      21.2    24.5        7,947.2      16.0      100.0
Total Financieras                1,407.5       8.4      13.6      6,119.9       37.7     59.1        864.3      11.3      8.4      1,955.0       21.3    18.9      10,346.7      20.8      100.0
Matual Savings Inst.                 -          -        -             -         -        -            -         -         -         901.8 a/    9.8   100.0          901.8        1.8     100.0
Total Credit Vollume            16,726.6     100.0      33.6     16,231.7      100.0     32.6     7,630.2      100.0     15.3      9,193.3     100.0    18.5      49,781.8      100.0      100.0
Central Bank h/                  9,040.4      54.0     41.1       6,463.2       39.8     29.4     4,089.1       53.6     18.6      2,402.0      26.1    10.9      21,994.7       44.2      100.0
Sources:  e'l SE; Figures do not include guarantee operations.
e/ CFN; Distribution estimates based on approvals 1978 as opposed to actual disbursements.
Notes-    b/  Includes fishery, construction, and other loans not classified elsewhere.
c/ Mostly for housing.
d/  Includes Bank of Cooperatives, whose distribution was assumed the same of 1977.
f/  Includes 40.6 of credits to exporters: producers and distributors (Fopex); restaurants and hotels.
Z/ Mostly housing, buildings for professionals and purchases of land.
h/ Central Bank credit is channeled through other financial institutions.



ECUADOR: SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
Sources of Credit to SSE
(S/million)
INSTITUTION                         1973              1974             1975              1976             1977              1978
National Development Bank                  219.3            493.5             835.3            823.3             834.2             721.2
a.  Own resources, MFF
type                               190.0             368.9            640.1            543.1             651.7             514.3
b.  MFF resources                        16.0            100.3             174.4            261.3             168.5            180.5
c.  CFN resources                        13.3             24.3              20.8             18.9              14.0             26.4
Private Banks                              198.3            458.7             671.0            991.2            1434.4           1907.5
a.  Own resources, MFF
type                                 8.2             177.7            278.1            479.7             700.2             903.2
b.  MFF resources                        15.2             75.8            147.3             203.5            166.2             275.2
c.  CFN resources                        10.8              5.9               2.7              2.9               3.3              7.2
d.  Own resources, excluding
NFF type operations                164.1             199.3            242.9             305.1            564.7             721.9
Private Financieras                         10.7             16.8              18.6             91.9             140.6            226.5
a.  Own resources; MFF type-              -                -
b.  MFF resources                         -                -                                 14.7              34.6             62.9
c.  CFN resources                         -                -                                  -                 0.2              6.8
d.  Own resources, excluding
MFF type operations                 10.7              16.8             18.6              77.2            105.8             156.8
Total SI&A Credit                          428.3            969.0           1524.9            1906.4            2409.2           2855.2
a.  Own resources, MFF type             198.2            546.6            918.2            1022.8           1351.9            1417.5
b.  MFF resources                        31.2            176.1             321.7            479.5            369.3             518.6
c.  CFN resources                        24.1             30.2              23.5             21.8              17.4             40.4
d.  Own resources, excluding
MFF type                           174.8             216.1            261.5             382.3            670.5             878.7
a/ Private banks should provide MFF type of credit for 20%-25% (Domestic-Foreign, banks) of their total portfolio with its own resources
Aboc'e this, banks can rediscount operations in BCE. BNF, however, is subject to special regulations (para. 30).
BNF
b/ Private financieras are not subject to same regulations than banks for lending MFF type operations (footnote 2).
Source:  BCE, SB, direct survey, and mission estimates.



- 51 -
ANNEX 2
Table 8
ECUADOR: SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
Distribution of Loans by Subloan Size
1981-85
Subloan Size             No. of sub-      %     Amount          %     Average
loans              (US$ million)            Size
Up to US$40,000                430          69        9.0         27   US$21,000
Up to US$150,000               141          23       12.0         36       85,000
US$150,000 to US$250,000        40           6        8.0         24      200,000
US$250,000 to US$300,000        14           2        4.0         12      290,000
Total                        625         100      33.0         100       52,800
Source: Mission estimates



- 52 -
ANNEX 2
Table 9
ECUADOR: SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
SSE FUND: Estimated Balance Sheet
(US$'000)
1981      1982       1983       1984       1985
A.  Assets
1. Cash                             200        100       149        258        182
2. Revolving Fund                   400        600       800      1,200        200
3. Short-term Investments         5,000      2,700       200        200        200
4. Portfolio (new)                4,800    15,600    27,400    30,200    30,600
5. Portfolio (original)           3,000      2,000     1,000        -          _
6. Fixed Assets                      44         64         64        64         64
7. Less: Depreciation                 8         20         33        45         58
8. Net  Fixed Assets                 36         44         31        19          6
Total Assets                  13,436    21,044    29,580    31,877    31,188
B. Liabilities
1. Foreign Long-term Debt         3,200    10,400    18,400    20,000    18,462
2. Other liabilities                -          -         -          -          -
3. Paid-in Capital               10,000    10,000    10,000    10,000    10,000
4. Retained Earnings (loss)         236        644     1,18Q      1,877      2,726
5. Total Capital                 10,236    10,644    11,180    11,877    12,726
Total Liabilities and         13,436    21,044    29,580    31,877    31,188
Capital  estimates
Source: Mission estimates



- 53 -
ANNEX 2
Table 10
ECUADOR: SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
SSE FUND: Statement of Estimated Sources and Uses of Funds
(US$'000)
1981      1982       1983       1984      1985
A.  Sources
1. Net Revenues                        236        408        536       697        849
2. Foreign Loan (WB)                 3,200      7,200      8,000     1,600        -
3. Counterpart Contribution          6,000        -          -         -          -
4. CFN Original Portfolio Re-        1,000      1,000      1,000     1,000        -
covery
5. Portfolio Recovery (new)            -          -        1,200     3,900      6,900
6. Reduction Short-term Investm.       -        2,300      2,500       -          -
7. Reduction Revolving Fund            -          -          -         -        1,000
8. Depreciation                          8         12         13         12        13
10,444    10,920    13,249       7,209      8,762
B.  Uses
1. Disbursements (initial)           4,800    10,800    12,000       2,400        -
2. Reflows                             -          -        1,000     3,300      6,300
3. Disbursement (LT) Portfolio         _                             1,000      1,000
(Internal Sources)
4. Short-term Investments            5,000        -          -         -          -
5. Repayments Foreign Loans            -          -          -         -        1,538
6. Revolving Fund (increases)          400        200        200       400        -
7. Fixed Assets (purchase)              44         20        -         -          -
8. Increase (Decrease) Cash            -         (100)        49       109        (76)
9. Net Cash Level                      200        100        149       258        182
Source: Mission estimates



- 54 -
ANNEX 2
Tabl.e i
ECUADOR: SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
Estimated Results of Operations
(US$'000)
1981      1982       1983      1984       1985
A.  Income
1. Interest (new portfolio)            226        959     2,021      2,707     2,873
2. Interest (original portfolio)       140        100        20         20         20
3. Other (short-term portfolio)        220        250       100         20       -
4. Total Financial Income              586     1,309      2,141      2,747     2,893
B.  Expenses
Financial-:
5. Interest on WB Loan                 136        578     1,224      1,632     1,600
6. Commitment Fee                       -          -         -          -        -
7. Total Financial Expenses            136       578      1,224      1,632     1,600
8. Financial Spread                    450        731       917      1,115     1,293
Operatine Costs:
.9. Personnel                           108       184        216        240        255
10. Other Costs                          48         52        52         56         56
11. Total Operating Expenses            156        236       268        296        311
12. Depreciation                          8         12        13         12         13
13. Total Operating Costs               164        248       281        308        324
14. Net Operating Revenue               286        483       636        807        969
15. Social Capital Contribution
Technical Assistance               50        75        100        110       120
16. Net Revenue (Loss)                  236        408       536        697        849
17. Accumulative Revenue                236        644     1,180      1,877     2,726
Average portfolio (new)           2,400    10,200    21,500    28,800    30,400
Average portfolio (original)    3,500       2,500      1,500        500       -
Source: Mission estimates



- 55 -
ANNEX 2
Table 12
ECUADOR: SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
SSE FUND: Total Commitments and Disbursements
(US$'000)
1980      1981       1982      1983       1984
Approvals                     -        6,000    12,000    12,000         -
Commitments                   -        6,000    12,000    12,000         -
Disbursements                 -        4,800    10,800    12,000       2,400
Of which IBRD                 -        3,200     7,200      8,000      1,600
Cumulative IBRD               -        3,200    10,400    18,400    20,000
Source: CFN and mission estimates



- 56 -
ANNEX 2
Table 13
ECUADOR: SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
SSE FUND: Estimated Schedule of Disbursements for the
Proposed Loan
IBRD FY and                                           Disbursements
Quarter                                           By Quarter    Cumulative
(US$'000)
FY81
To December 31
March 31                                         200
June 30                                          500             700
FY82
To September 30                                   1,000
December 31                                    1,500
March 31                                       1,500
June 30                                        1,700           6,400
FY83
To September 30                                   2,000
December 31                                    2,000
March 31                                       2,500
June 30                                        3,000          15,900
FY84
To September 30                                   1,500
December 31                                    1,000
March 31                                         600
June 30                                          500          19,500
FY85
To September 30                                     300
December 31                                      200          20,000
Source: Mission estimates



- 57 -
ANNEX 2
Table 14
ECUADOR: SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
SSE FUND: Expected Distribution of Total Investment, Incremental
Employment and Cost per Job created in Projects Financed
Class                                    Investment   Percen-  Cost per   Employment
(US$)     tage        Job      Generated
Food and beverages                          6,750         18       10,900       619
Textiles, wearing apparel and shoes         3,750         10        6,700       560
Leather, leather products and similars    3,000            8       12,700        236
Wood and wood products                       6,003        16        6,400        938
Paper products                              1,125          3        7,400        152
Printing shops                              1,125          3       10,700        105
Chemical products                           2,675          7       13,400       200
Non-metallic mineral products               2,675          7       10,000        268
Metal products, including machinery         6,750         18        9,400        718
Electric and electronic products            1,500          4        6,800        220
Transportation equipment                    1,500          4        6,500        230
Miscellaneous                                  750         2        8,900         84
Total                                    37,500        100                  4,330
Average cost per job (1978 cost basis)                            8,660
Source: MICEI, Directorate of Small Industries and Artisanry, Banco Nacional
de Fomento (BNF) and mission estimates.



- 58 -
ANNEX 2
Table 15
ECUADOR: SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
Proposed Schedule of Interest Rates
and Financial Spreads under the Bank Project
(%)
Loans to             Loans to SSEs with fixed assets bf
SSEs with fixed           US$25,000 to US$300,000
assets less than         (excluding land and buildings)
US$25,000                    Y  e  a  r  s
All loans            Over 2-5      5-8       Over 8
Financial intermediary             12.0                 14.0        15.0        16.0
lending rates
Financial intermediary              6.0                  4.0         5.0         6.0
financial spread
SSE project FUND                    6.0                 10.0        10.0        10.0
discount rate 1/
SSE project gross                     3                  4.3         4.3         4.3
financial spread
SSE project blended                 5.7                   5.7        5.7         5.7
cost of funds 2/
World bank lending rate 3/           8.5                  8.5        8.5         8.5
1/ Yielding FUND an estimated 9.4% average gross financial income.
2/ Represents average cost of resources including a Bank loan of US$20.0 million
equivalent, a Government US$6.0 million (equivalent) and a CFN US$4.0 million
(equivalent) capital contribution to the fund.
3/ The World Bank's lending rate of 8.25% plus CBE's financial agency charges.



-  59                             ANNEX 3
ECUADOR
SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
I.   Supporting Documents
A.   General Reports
Al   Anuario de Estadisticas, Superintendencia de Compahifas,
1976-1977, Vol. 1-2.
A2   Boletin Estadfstico No. 6, CFN - Corporaci6n Financiera
Nacional, 1978.
A3   Boletin No. 574 - Banco Central del Ecuador, August 1979.
A4   Cuentas Nacionales del Ecuador 1970-1977, BCE - Departamento
de Cuentas Nacionales, 1978.
A5   Cartera Bancaria, No. 119 - September-October 1979.
A6   Encuesta de Manufactura y Minerfa, INEC (Instituto Nacional
de Estadfstica y Censos), 1974.
A7   Estadisticas 1977, January-December 1978, Superintendencia de
Bancos, 1978.
A8   Gufa Institucional del Sector P1iblico, Junta Nacional de
Planificaci6n y Coordinaci6n Econ6mica, 1976.
A9   Informe de 1977, Ministerio de Industrias, Comercio e Inte-
graci6n, 1979.
A10 Informaci6n de la Construcci6n, Junapla, BCE and Superintendence
of Companies, September 1978, No. 13.
All  Informaci6n Estadfstica, Banco Central del Ecuador, January 2,
1980, No. 1449.
A12 Inversi6n Industrial, Junapla, BCE and Superintendence of
Companies, September 1978, Vol. 1.
A13 Ley de Compafifas Financieras, Corporaci6n de Estudios y
Publicaciones, Revised Edition, January 1978.
A14 Ley General de Bancos, La Comisi6n de Legislaci6n, November 1972.



-  60  -                            ANNEX 3
A15 Ley de R6gimen Monetario, February 8, 1977.
A16 Manual de Credito del Ecuador, Asociaci6n Nacional de
Empresarios, 1979-1980.
A17 Memoria, 1978, Corporaci6n Financiera Nacional, 1978.
A18 Memoria, 1976, Banco Nacional de Fomento, 1977.
&    Selected Bank Reports
Bi   Current Economic Position and Prospects of Ecuador, Latin
America, and Caribbean Region, April 1, 1977, Report No.
1382-EC.
B2   Development Problems and Prospects of Ecuador Special Report,
Programs Department, June 18, 1979, Report No. 2373-EC.
B3   Industrial Development Problems and Prospect, Industrial Pro-
jects Department, October 1976, Report No. 1186-EC.
C.   Consultants Reports
Cl   Background Report on Small Industry in Ecuador, Richard O'Farrell,
June 1978.
C2   Technical Assistance and Related Aspects (Ecuador),
John P. Allchin, December 1978.
C3   Small Scale Industry Credit (Supply Study), Guillermo Castafieda,
July 1978.
D.   CFN Project Documents (in draft form)
Dl   Fondo de Fomento para la Pequena Industria y Artesania;
Actividades, Organizacion y Personal.
D2   Fondo de Fomento para la Pequena Industria y Artesania;
Declaracion de Politicas.
D3   Fondo de Fomento para la Pequena Industria y Artesania;
Normas Operativas y Procedimientos.



I B R D 14305
CUADOR                                                     &5ir~~~~~~z?LOMBAW
Grovel roads                                                                      -~~~~El   r e
one~~
Rtvers                                                              C~~~uoTr//ab~~~,  OtavoI4 I~~Uearra
QUITO~~~~~~~~t
i               4~~~~~~~~~~~~c
EN                               in~~~~~~~lcares     SaPtoblovga ej,
Eahia~~~~~~~ieC~~~~r4q~~~~tie  "~~hi
Wqd Bank Maff ax uanta Elena
Sucre  Baizar                                        Pelileo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:X
~~~~~i~~~~areached ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    TO7



