Document of                FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Rqot N. P-2834-EC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FOR A
SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
May 30, 1980
ThIS iseOnut kms £ eltd dIbrIenbuto  nd may be used by recipients ony in the pggorunace of
tho$r 6cIk   411i_  Its contents may not oterwine be discled witot Wod Bak aiwlbozn.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      -       Sucre (S/.)
Calendar 1978     May 1, 1980
US$1     -      S/. 25            S/. 25
S/. I    -      US$0.04           US$0.04
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BNF           -   Banco Nacional de Fomento
(National Development Bank)
CENAPIA       -   Centro Nacional de Pequena Industria y Artesania
(National Small Scale Enterprise and Artisan Center)
CFN           -   Corporacion Financiera Nacional
(National Finance Corporation)
COFIEC        -   Ecuatoriana de Desarrollo S.A., Compania Financiera
(Ecuadorian Development Finance Company)
FUND          -   CFN's Fund for Small Industry and Artisan Development
MICEI         -   Ministerio de Industria, Comercio e Integracion
(Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Integration)
SSE           -   Small Scale Enterprise



ECUADOR                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Ecuador
Beneficiaries:      Corporacion Financiera Nacional (CFN) and eligible
banks and development finance companies
Amount:             US$20.0 million equivalent
Terms:              Repayable over 17 years on a fixed amortization schedule,
including 4 years of grace, at 8.25 percent interest per
annum.
Relending Terms:   The Central Bank, as fiscal agent, would onlend the proposed
loan in sucres to CFN, the executing agency, on the same
terms and conditions as the Bank loan would bear. The
loan's proceeds, blended with Government and CFN contribu-
tions, would be onlent to participating financial interme-
diaries at 10 percent interest per annum except that the
relending rate to financial intermediaries for subloans
to very small enterprises (with assets below US$25,000)
would be 6 percent per annum. Participating intermediaries
would onlend to small scale enterprises at interest rates
of 12 to 16 percent, depending on the terms of subloans and
firm size. The maturities on funds onlent by CFN to
financial intermediaries and by the latter to ultimate
beneficiaries would vary according to the subprojects but
would not exceed 10 years, including 3 years of grace. The
Government would assume the foreign exchange risk for the
loan.
Project             The proposed loan would assist the Government of Ecuador
Description:       to develop a more dynamic small scale enterprise (SSE)
sector which would help generate employment, improve income
and promote regional development. In order to help achieve
these objectives, the project would make available a line of
credit to the SSE sector of US$33.3 million. CFN would also
manage a program of technical assistance to SSEs, and would
train staff of interested financial institutions in evalua-
tion and supervision of SSE projects. About 625 subloans
averaging US$53,000 are expected to be made to SSEs whose
fixed assets are no greater than US$350,000. There is a
risk that delays in subloan financing would occur because
the administrative mechanism for channelling resources is
as yet untested. Agreements satisfactory to the Bank
spelling out procedures and responsibilities which are to
be signed between Central Bank and CFN and between CFN and
each participating intermediary should reduce this risk.
Moreover, to minimize further the risk, Bank staff would
closely supervise the project, particularly during its
start-up, as well as review the CFN-Central Bank adminis-
trative mechanism no later than six months after loan
effectiveness and revise it if necessary.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Lo cal    Foreign      Total
------(US$ million)------
Estimated Costs:
Investment projects             17.5       2C.0        37.5
Technical assistance             0.3          -         0.3
17.8       20.0        37.8
Financing Plan:
Bank                               -       20.0        20.0
Central Government               6.0           -        6.0
CFN                              4.3           -        4.3
Financial Intermediaries         3.3           -        3.3
SSE Beneficiaries                4.2          -         4.2
Total               17.8        20.0        37.8
Estimated
Disbursements:                       -----US$ thousands by Bank FY-------
1981    1982      1983     1984      1985
Annual              700    5,700    9,500    3,600         500
Cumulative          700    6,400   15,900   19,500   20,000
Staff Appraisal
Report:           Report No. 2941-EC, dated May 23, 1980.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR FOR A
SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Ecuador for the equivalent of US$20.0 million to
help finance a Small Scale Enterprise Credit Project. The loan would be
repayable over 17 years on a fixed amortization basis, including four years
of grace, with interest at 8.25 percent per annum. The proceeds of the loan
would be blended by Corporacion Financiera Nacional with its existing re-
sources for small industry and with the Government's capital contribution
and relent to eligible banks and development finance companies at 10 percent
except for subloans to the smallest enterprises, for which the relending rate
to be paid by the financial intermediaries would be 6 percent. Onlending terms
to be charged by participating intermediaries would be for up to 10 years with
up to 3 years of grace, depending on the terms of subloans and the type of
project to be financed, at interest rates of 12 to 16 percent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report on Ecuador, Report No. 2373-EC
entitled "Development Problems and Prospects of Ecuador: Special Report" was
distributed to the Executive Directors on June 18, 1979. This President's
Report incorporates the main conclusions of the economic report. Annex I
summarizes the main social and economic indicators.
Growth
3.        During the past six years, the Ecuadorian economy has experienced
rapid economic growth spurred mainly by exports. GDP annual growth which had
been on average 10.2 percent during the 1972-76 period fell to an average 5.5
percent during the subsequent years. Several factors interacted to generate
this phenomenon. Firstly, production of petroleum has virtually stagnated
and its export volume has declined. This decline in volume not withstanding,
petroleum (crude and derivatives) still accounted for 59 percent of the value
of goods exports in 1979. Secondly, the agricultural sector, which has been
contributing more than 20 percent of GDP, has suffered from three successive
years of drought.
4.        Furthermore, economic activity in 1978 and 1979 was affected by a
tight credit policy, and by uncertainties related to the outcome of elections
and the economic policies to be carried out by the Government which took
office August 10, 1979. These factors contributed to a slowdown of private
investment which increased at an average annual rate of 0.8 percent during
the past two years. The decline in economic activity would have been worse
had it not been for a substantial improvement in the terms of trade, as both
the price of oil and of agricultural products increased in 1978 and 1979.



-2-
Social Development and Change
5.        Despite the rapid economic growth which led to the present relatively
high average per capita income level, much of the Ecuadorian population
continues to live in poverty. In 1975, the average annual per capita income
of the poorest 25 percent of urban dwellers represented less than one-fifth
of the country average per capita income. The corresponding figure in the
countryside was much lower. While open unemployment is only about three per-
cent of the country's labor force, marginal i.e., low productivity, low-income
employment is estimated to be as much as 30 percent. Highly concentrated
ownership of land and other productive resources, low rates of retention in
primary schools and poor health conditions have limited the possibility of
the poor to improve their living conditions. The high rate of population
growth -- 3 percent per annum in the last three years -- remains another
impediment to the alleviation of underemployment and poverty. The role of
Ecuador's population program is still too limited to produce a notable
decrease in the birth rate.
6.        During the past decade -- and in particular during the years follow-
ing the beginnings of oil exploitation (1972) and the increase of petroleum
export prices (1973) -- an important urban middle class has emerged. It is
composed mainly of entrepreneurs, civil servants and employees of the modern
sectors. This urban middle class has been growing both in size and in
relative income and has been the major beneficiary of recent economic growth.
7.        Despite the considerable movement of the rural population to the
cities -- the share ol city dwellers in total population changed from 28.5
percent in 1950 to 43.5 percent in 1978 -- the economy and society of Ecuador
still suffer from a pronounced dualistic structure. The indigenous population
of Ecuador accounts for over one-third of total population, and it is in this
group, settled predominantly in rural areas, as well as within the marginal
urban population, that the poverty roots are deeply anchored. This population
benefits relatively much less from basic infrastructure -- education, public
utilities, roads -- than other segments of the population.
8.        The Ecuadorian administration is increasingly aware of the need to
integrate social policy with general development policy. In the rural areas,
the strategy of rapid agricultural growth is now pursued in a context of
regional development. In the urban areas, increasing attention is given to
small- and medium-scale enterprises and to production of labor-intensive
manufactured goods. These are, however, only the first steps in a long and
intricate process of increased attention to social needs.
Basic External and Internal Financial Equilibria
9.        Recovery in world prices for Ecuadorian agricultural exports (mainly
bananas, coffee and cocoa) contributed to the maintenance of the overall
buoyancy of the economy during 1978-1979. They also led to substantial gains
in income, which against the backdrop of slow growth of the domestic supply of
food, resulted in inflationary pressures. A strong and decisively implemented
monetary and credit policy, price controls and heavy imports of food staples
helped to curb these pressures. As a consequence, the annual rise in consumer
prices did not surpass an annual average of 11 percent in the period 1977-1979.



10.       During 1970-79, Ecuadorian imports increased at an average rate
of 11.7 percent in real terms. The main forces behind this increase were:
(i) the high investment rates achieved during the period and the related demand
for imported capital goods, mainly for the industrial and transport sectors;
(ii) the steep demand for inputs by the industrial sector; and (iii) lately,
the growing demand for some agricultural products.
11.       Real exports of goods were increasing annually by 12.6 percent during
1970-79. Petroleum was responsible for most of this growth, since non-oil
exports remained practically constant in real terms between 1970 and 1979.
Thanks to the recovery of terms of trade, the resource gap has been negligible
in the last two years. The current account balance of payments deficit,
equivalent to 2.2 percent of GDP in 1978, decreased to 1.5 percent in 1979
despite a steep increase in factor payments.
12.       Fiscal policies in the 1977-79 period were expansionary.  The public
sector deficit peaked in 1977 at 8.7 percent and fell to 6.6 percent and 2.7
percent of the GDP during the two subsequent years. This declining trend is a
combined result of budgetary restraints imposed on public investment during
1978 and 1979 and more than a doubling of petroleum revenues during the
period 1977-79. Furthermore, to reduce the inflationary impact of fiscal
policies, authorities turned strongly to foreign borrowing and launched sales
of foreign-currency denominated bonds in the domestic capital market. Finally,
starting in mid-1977, the monetary authorities introduced restrictive monetary
policies which resulted in a declining rate of growth of money supply. Net
credit to the private sector from the consolidated banking sector followed
the same pattern of deceleration.
13.       As financing of the fiscal deficit was increasingly sought in
external financial markets, public external debt outstanding at the end of
1977 grew by 58.9 percent compared with the end of 1976. Terms, maturity and
grace periods of the newly contracted debt hardened as most of it was provided
by commercial sources. Ecuador's debt-service ratio increased from 4.5
percent in 1975 to 11.7 percent in 1978. The Government made efforts during
1978 and 1979 to soften the accumulated debt by being more careful in the
choice of foreign credits used to finance part of its deficit and, at the
beginning of 1979, was able to renegotiate US$510 million -- or about one
quarter of its foreign debt -- contracted with commercial banks on the least
advantageous terms, in order to improve the debt profile and lighten the
future debt-service burden. Pre-payment of these hard-term loans during
1979 raised the debt-service ratio for that year to 39.2 percent.  This ratio
excluding the one-time debt prepayment would have been only 17.9 percent. The
debt service ratio is not expected to exceed 15 percent in the period 1980-84.
Sectoral Developments
14.       Agriculture accounted for 19 percent of GDP in 1979, a decline from
28 percent in 1970. This sector, which had been growing at a satisfactory
rate of 5.1 percent during the period 1970-76, started to decline from 1976
with an average annual increase of 1.7 percent, and a fall in real terms of
crop production.



15.       Ecuadorian agriculture was -- and still is -- constrained by inade-
quate infrastructure, limited farm-level technical guidance, substantial price
fluctuations, erratic credit availability, marketing shortcomings, poor manage-
ment at farm level and uncertaintirs with regard to the future of the land
redistribution program. All these factors hampered farmers' investment
intentions and made productivity increases difficult.
16.       The Government intervenes in the distribution of agricultural
products by regulating the pricing and marketing of farm products. This
resulted in high-cost distribution systems, and has motivated smuggling to
neighboring countries due to low prices paid to producers on some crops. The
existing subsidy system is regressive and rather counterproductive. Wheat
import subsidies ostensibly introduced to stabilize food prices also benefit
higher income groups more than others and adversely affect incentives to
produce cereals, roots and tubers domestically.
17.       The agricultural potential of Ecuador is at present underutilized
and could be used both as an engine for medium-term growth and as a means
to alleviate social inequities. Ecuador has enough fertile land to expand
agricultural and livestock output at a reasonable cost. It also has forestry
and fisheries potential. While increases in production of crops and livestock
should mainly satisfy the domestic demand, forestry and fisheries products
could be directed to the foreign markets. In particular, the agricultural
potential of one important region of the country -- the Costa -- is very
substantial. Regional institutions have been created in order to manage
the development of th-s zone.  The use of new lands, better access to land
through broadly distributed ownership or rental in traditional agricultural
regions, and improved techniques of cultivation could slow down the rural
exodus, relieve the pressure on urban labor markets, and help to improve the
distribution of income.
18.       The manufacturing sector of Ecuador, representing 16.8 percent of
GDP, expanded in 1970-79 by 9.7 percent annually and should help to sustain
economic growth in the next several years. Ecuadorian industry, predominantly
privately owned, has been largely geared to import-substitution in consumer
goods, and has been operating in a strongly protective environment. This has
deflected entrepreneurs' interest from transformation of the country's natural
resources. Moreover, with the relative prices of capital and labor distorted
by the system of investment incentives, favoring the price of capital, produc-
tion techniques have become increasingly capital-intensive. These investment
policies in the past have been largely responsible for discouraging the
industrial sector from involvement in activities in which it could have a
strong comparative advantage. Measures to change such policies have been
discussed with the Ecuadorian Government. Their final design and implementa-
tion, to be decided by the recently installed Government, could have an
important effect on restructuring the industrial sector, and should result in
a stronger, more efficient growth pattern. This will require, in particular,
changes in tariff, price and interest policies in order to strengthen sectors
with more favorable export prospects and to reduce the incentives for estab-
lishing inefficient industries. On the whole, however, the industrial sector
has an important role to play in the future.



19.       Petroleum production on a major scale began in Ecuador in 1972.
Increases in international prices since 1973 considerably enhanced the sector's
role in the economy: it contributed 16 percent to Ecuador's GDP, accounted
for about 50 percent of export earnings and for 37 percent of current public
revenues in 1974. Production, after reaching 76 million barrels in 1973, fell
to a level of around 65 million in 1978. However, it rebounded to 77 million
barrels in 1979. Net crude oil exports (excluding those needed to pay for
imports of derived products) which attained 59 million barrels in 1973, have
been declining steadily to 42 million barrels in 1978.
20.       Domestic consumption of petroleum and of its products has been
growing at 16 percent per annum in the last several years. By 1979, one-third
of the country's petroleum output was consumed internally. Although the
growth rate of domestic consumption is expected to slow in the coming years
as a result of the lower GDP growth rate, the amount of petroleum available
for export -- in the absence of countervailing policies -- could still continue
to decline, limiting the country's import capacity. Under these circumstances,
and unless new petroleum resources are discovered and exploited, the country's
import capacity would become a serious constraint to the growth of the economy.
21.       The decline in the volume of petroleum exports may slow down if
Ecuador resumes oil exploration, which has slackened in the past few years.
Investment in rehabilitation of known oil fields will also be needed. To
accomplish improved oil exports, two main economic decisions will have to
be implemented -- first, the decision to invest substantially in oil explor-
ation -- whether with own resources or through risk-taking foreign enterprise,
and, second, the decision to increase domestic prices of petroleum. Petro-
leum prices in Ecuador are among the lowest in the world -- less than 204
per gallon of gasoline -- and this has largely stimulated the excessive
domestic consumption. The Government recently tripled prices of fuel used
in shipping and increased prices for jet fuel by about 75 percent and 60
percent for foreign and domestic carriers, respectively, but this change
covers only 8 percent of total domestic consumption. More significant raises
are expected during this calendar year. Economic decisions of this type call
for an approval by the legislative branch of the Government but frequent
stalemates occurred in the recent past in this area. An idea of a referendum
to decide on the relative roles of the legislative and executive bodies in
shaping inter alia the economic policies has been seriously discussed in
Ecuador during past months.
Outlook
22.       During most of the past decade, the overall economic management in
Ecuador could be considered moderately successful, although there were serious
weaknesses in public administration and in the use of incentives, especially
for the development of the agricultural sector. The Government has resisted
the temptation to sink oil revenues into wasteful and grandiose schemes and
has, instead, used the proceeds of petroleum exports for more modest invest-
ment projects, generally corresponding to real needs of the economy. It has
also fostered a climate conducive to increased private investment during most
of the seventies which resulted in an acceleration of the industrialization



- 6 -
process. In the future, the success of the Government would largely depend on
its resolve to make and implement sometimes unpopular decisions, such as that
regarding the domestic price of petroleum, that are necessary to relax the
constraints liable to limit economic growth.
23.       Ecuador's GDP growth rate is estimated to remain at a level of
5 percent in 1980 -- in spite of favorable oil prices -- as a combined result
of a very low rate of growth of agriculture, stagnation in petroleum production
and lagging investment. In the medium term, the Ecuadorian economy has fair
growth prospects. The external sector may not exert in the future as strong
a growth-propelling role on the economy as in the past, mainly because oil
exports are expected to continue their decline while agricultural exports may
be constrained by price trends and prospects of the international markets.
24.       The new Government has prepared a five-year plan (1980-84) whose
main goal is to combine economic development with social justice. The Plan
foresees the creation of 490,000 new jobs, or more than the new entries to
the labor force, which, if it materializes and if the productivity and wage
increases take place as planned, would raise the share of labor in national
income from 37 percent to 40 percent. The planned investment program implies
a strong shift toward rural investment, social infrastructure (which together
will account for 42 percent of total new public investment compared with 34
percent during the past five years), petroleum and, to a lesser extent,
industry. Overall, this plan considers an ambitious increase in public
investment by 70 percent in real terms over the preceding five years, needed
to sustain a rate of GDP growth of 6.5 percent over the period. To finance
this investment, increased external borrowings would be necessary.
25.       Ecuador has considerable natural and human resource potential.  To
develop it fully and efficiently, far reaching changes in its economic policies
are needed. Some were initiated by the previous Government but more remains
to be done by the new Administration. The size of the country's foreign debt
is not excessive and its recent and successful efforts to improve the debt
structure should make its debt service payments manageable. Therefore,
Ecuador remains creditworthy for borrowing on conventional terms. Its net
external borrowing needs could increase steeply by the mid-1980's in spite
of expected policy improvements, since the medium-term prospects for non-oil
exports are not impressive and the volume of oil exports will have to fall in
the immediate future even if significant domestic petroleum price rises are
undertaken.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ECUADOR
26.       Bank group operations in Ecuador date back to 1954 when a loan
was made for a first highway project. In all, the Bank and IDA have extended
24 loans and six credits to Ecuador totalling US$365.7 million net of
cancellations. As of April 30, 1980, US$197.4 million of this amount had
been disbursed. The IFC has made five loans in Ecuador. Two were for a large
textile company, and one each in a sugar mill, a cement company and a pulp and
paper firm. IFC has also purchased capital shares in COFIEC, a development
finance company. These operations have amounted to US$26.6 million in commit-
ments of which IFC now holds US$22.1 million.



- 7 -
27.        Execution of Bank Group financed projects has often been hampered
by weaknesses in Ecuador's implementation capacity. This, in turn, reflects
the insufficiency of the country's public sector managerial and technical
resources--a constraint that is still a serious obstacle to Ecuador's eco-
nomic and social development. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans, IDA credits and IFC operations as of April 30, 1980, as well as
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
28.        Bank and IDA lending in Ecuador was originally concentrated in
transport and power, where there were--and still are--substantial bottlenecks
to be overcome. To date, approximately 31 percent of Bank Group lending has
been for transport. Six of the eight loans and credits extended for trans-
port were to improve the country's road network and two to help finance the
expansion of the port of Guayaquil. Lending for power has aimed at improving
generation and distribution facilities in Quito. The first livestock develop-
ment loan, approved in FY67, marked the beginning of a diversification in the
Bank Group's lending program away from straight infrastructure. Since then,
the Bank Group has made eight loans and credits for agriculture and fisheries,
four DFC loans to support industrial development, a credit and a loan for
education, one loan each for water supply and urban development and two
technical assistance loans. Bank Group involvement in the directly productive
and social sectors has grown to the point where it now accounts for about
60 percent of total Bank Group lending.
29.       Turning to the future, Bank lending will continue to assist in
(i) the creation of a physical and social infrastructure base capable of
fostering development; (ii) the expansion of productive capacity in crucial
sectors; (iii) the strengthening of agencies to implement projects effec-
tively; and (iv) the improvement of living conditions for the urban and
rural poor. In addition to the small scale enterprise project which this
report recommends, and to the feeder roads-cum-maintenance project which has
recently been circulated to the Executive Directors for consideration, the
Bank is preparing a second rural development operation, an electrical trans-
mission project, a loan for petroleum development and a fishing port operation.
Most of these projects would have important institution building aspects and
include sizable technical assistance components.
30.        Substantial development financing has also been provided to Ecuador
by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and the Agency for International
Development (USAID) and, to a lesser extent, by other bilateral sources. IDB
has been, by far, the single largest lender to Ecuador. Approved loans from
IDB to the country as of December 31, 1979 totalled almost US$567 million
equivalent. Past IDB lending has been concentrated in the power, agriculture,
health/sanitation and transport fields. Most of IDB's loans to the country
have come from the Fund for Special Operations and normally carry 2 percent
interest, a 10 year grace period and repayment terms of up to 40 years. It is
likely that IDB will remain Ecuador's major development lender in the immediate
future with power, agriculture and socially-oriented projects accounting for an
increasingly large share of its lending program. USAID, which has lent
Ecuador US$103.6 million equivalent, made no new commitments to the country
between 1973 and 1979. Recently, however, this agency has renewed its opera-
tions in the country and proposes to concentrate its program in the rural and
urban development sectors.



- 8 -
31.       As of December 31, 1978, Ecuador's outstanding public external
debt, including undisbursed, amounted to about US$2.3 billion.  Bank Group
lending constituted about 12 percent of this amount and absorbed about 3.6
percent of the Government's external debt service. IDB lending was equivalent
to about 21  e2rcent of Ecuador's debt and USAID accounted for about 5 percent.
Assuming increased recourse to long-term bilateral and multilateral debt, by
1985 the Bank's share of Ecuador's outstanding public foreign debt could reach
17 percent and its share in debt service would climb to around 12 percent.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
General Characteristics
32.       Ecuador's industrial growth was high during the 1970's, stimulated
by the oil boom and a favorable investment climate. Industry's share of GDP,
excluding the petroleum sector, expanded from 17.5 percent to 21 percent
(in constant prices) during the 1970-79 period. Its share of exports more
than doubled, rising from 8 percent to 20 percent between 1970 and 1977.
This was largely due to the substitution of processed cocoa for raw cocoa.
Industrial employment grew about 2.7 percent p.a. between 1972 and 1977,
adding around 60,000 jobs; the sector currently employs 340,000 workers,
about 15 percent of the total labor force.
33.       Wichin the  ndustrial sector, a small modern segment of predominantly
large- and medium-sca1 e import-substitution industries co-exists with a large
traditional manufacturing sector of mostly smaller firms meeting local consumer
demand. Almost 80 percent of industries are concentrated in two urban areas:
Guayaquil, the country's largest city and main port, and Quito, Ecuador's
capital. Medium- and large-scale industries, which predominate in the food,
basic metals and minerals subsectors, import nearly half of their inputs.
Small-scale industries are more concentrated in clothing, furniture, footwear,
small metal products and final chemical products, which generally require
smaller investments per firm and less sophisticated technology.
Institutional Framework
34.       Within the Government, responsibility for stimulating industrial
development is shared by the National Planning Council (CONADE), the Ministry
of Industry, Commerce and Integration (MICEI) and the state-owned National
Finance Corporation (CFN). The first two establish the sector's policies and
development strategy. CFN, the country's largest development bank, provides
financing for industrial sector activities. A number of private sector
associations represent the country's industry. These include the Chambers of
Agriculture, Commerce and Industry of the Costa and the Sierra and the small
scale industrialist associations located in every province and coordinated
by a national federation headquartered in Quito.



-9-
Industrial Policy
35.       The Government has stimulated industrial development through fiscal
investment incentives, provision of credit, tariff protection and, to a lesser
extent, through an export promotion program. To encourage industry to invest
in less developed parts of the country, fiscal incentives are higher for firms
located outside the two main urban areas (Quito and Guayaquil). Government
policies have stimulated industrial growth, modernization and diversification,
but the incentives have also generated capital- and import-intensive forms of
production and the emergence of oligopolistic structures, mainly in import-
substituting industries. The Government is currently in the process of
modifying industrial incentives so as to promote the generation of employment
and value added, linkages with the rest of the economy, and foreign exchange
earnings or savings.
Small Scale Enterprises
36.       There are an estimated 35,000 to 40,000 small scale industrial and
artisan enterprises in Ecuador, employing about 250,000 persons. SSE firms
generate three-quarters of total industrial employment and about one-third of
industrial value-added. SSEs are generally more labor-intensive. The average
capital investment per job in small industries is US$8,700, compared to
US$23,000 in larger firms. Annual output per employee in firms with fewer
than 7 employees grew by 5.4 percent per annum during the period 1970-78,
compared to 3.0 percent for larger firms.
37.       Smaller firms are less concentrated around Quito and Guayaquil:
40 percent of SSEs are in other provinces. New firms registering as small
industries with MICEI are even more decentralized with over half located
outside the area of these two cities. SSEs make greater use of local re-
sources and produce mostly final consumer products. Only in a few cases do
small firms now manufacture inputs for general industry.
Government Support to Small Scale Enterprises
38.       Major fiscal incentives offered to SSEs include: (i) duty-free
imports of capital goods and intermediate inputs not produced domestically;
(ii) exemption from numerous small taxes and registration fees; and (iii)
income tax exemptions for reinvested profits. In addition, the Government has
been developing and leasing industrial parks for small scale enterprises to
facilitate their access to reliable power and water, transport facilities and
technical assistance services. Wlhile the import duty exemptions allowed
SSEs tend to encourage imports and capital-intensive technologies, the actual
use of the available incentives is limited. Only 2,500 firms have ever
registered with MICEI to benefit from the incentives granted by the small
scale industry law, in part because SSEs directly import very little and have
only minor tax liabilities.
39.       Promotion of small scale enterprises ranks high in the Government's
stated industrial strategy. The current five-year plan (1980-84) projects an
average industrial sector growth of 9.7 percent per annum and calls for the
generation of 72,500 new manufacturing jobs. While these projections appear



- 10 -
to be overly optimistic--particularly with respect to employment generation
given the limitation of financial resources and of skilled and semi-skilled
labor--small enterprises can make an important contribution to employment,
income distribution and regional development goals if credit and technical
constraints are overcome. On the negative side, recent increeoes in the
minimum wages decreed by Congress (50-58 percent for SSEs) may cut into profit
margins although some of these wage increases will probably be passed on to
consumers through higher prices. In the longer run, changing factor cost
relationships may result in SSEs investing more in capital goods if the new
minimum wage laws are enforced.
The Financial System and SSE Financing
40.        Ecuador's financial system includes 29 commercial banks and two
government-owned banks (the National Development Bank--BNF--and a housing
bank), a cooperatives bank, 11 savings and loan institutions, the Ecuadorian
Social Security Institute (IESS), ten development finance companies and 53
specialized institutions, mostly insurance companies and foreign exchange
houses. Banks and finance companies lend to industry, agriculture and commerce.
The housing sector is mainly financed by the housing bank, savings and loan
institutions, commercial banks and the IESS.
41.        To complement the operations of the private banking sector and
promote specific programs in agriculture, tourism, small industry and fishing,
the Government traditionally used two main public sector financial institutions:
the Central Bank and BNF. In the Central Bank, a Financial Funds Mechanism
was established in 1973. The law governing this mechanism provides that
private banks must hold 20 percent of their portfolio in priority sector
lending, including credit to SSEs. Above this quota, the banks can rediscount
these operations at low interest rates (currently 3 percent) with the Central
Bank. This mechanism now accounts for 12 percent of total industrial credit.
BNF has chanelled credit to agriculture, livestock, and small industry for
sixteen years. In 1978, it provided close to 9 percent of formal credit
nationwide. With 72 offices and agencies around the country, BNF is the main
source of credit for agriculture.
42.        Between 70 and 75 percent of credit provided by the financial system
is at the maximum nominal interest rate for lending in Ecuador, 12 percent per
annum. The effective lending rates on medium- and long-term loans rise to
14-16 percent per annum, including allowable commissions. The remaining 25-30
percent of formal credit consists of (i) loans granted by commercial banks
under the Central Bank's Financial Funds Mechanism, which carry an interest
of 9 percent per annum to ultimate borrowers; (ii) export promotion loans (8
percent interest annually); and (iii) loans to small farmers at 11 percent per
annum. Ecuador's interest rate structure has been improving through a gradual
increase of interest rates, an institution building feature of previous Bank
operations.
43.        Interest rates on savings range from 6 to 9 percent in Ecuador.
These variations, coupled with differing lending rates, result in a wide range
of spreads depending on the source, use and maturity of the operation. The
current structure of interest rates and commissions, although a considerable



- 11 -
improvement on the past, has not yet given financial institutions sufficient
incentive to mobilize significant long-term resources. The Government is
reviewing the general interest rate structure to determine ways of broadening
domestic resource mobilization and channelling of credit to priority sectors.
In this regard, it is considering increasing savings rates by 4 points and
lending rates by two to three points.
44.       One of the most serious constraints faced by small scale industries
and artisans has traditionally been the lack of adequate and timely credit.
In a recent survey of SSEs in Pichincha Province (where Quito is located),
about 74 percent of SSEs reported having some access to credit, but only 12
percent obtained long-term credit. Firms surveyed had debt-equity ratios of
as low as 0.5 to 1. They further noted difficulties in providing institutional
lenders with the required documentation and guarantees. Finally, because smaller
borrowers do not offer banks the possibility of profitable complementary
operations, such as letters of credit and guarantees, they are usually less
preferred clients. There are indications that this is beginning to change.
Within the more competitive commercial banking environment now emerging, some
banks are beginning actively to seek SSE borrowers. No separate financial
institution exists exclusively for SSE lending.
45.       Most of the credit received by Ecuador's SSEs is provided by finan-
cial institutions. In 1978, the financial sector extended US$114 million
in credit to SSEs, 85 percent of which was short term. Commercial banks
provided 67 percent of this credit, largely in response to Central Bank's
portfolio requirements (para 41), with the BNF and development finance
companies extending another 25 and 8 percent, respectively. In addition, SSEs
receive some credit from suppliers and informal sources, e.g., family members
and money lenders. Most credit still finances working capital.
Technical Assistance to SSE
46.       While the Government and private sector industrial associations
have provided a wide variety of technical assistance and services to SSEs,
such efforts are thin, scattered and generally uncoordinated. No in-depth
study of SSE technical assistance needs has been done. CENAPIA (the National
Small Scale Enterprise and Artisan Center), an agency of MICEI, seeks to
promote small industry and artisan development through seminars, technical
assistance and explanation of government incentives. CENAPIA's seminars in
management, marketing and accounting, and in-plant assistance in production
techniques and project preparation are directed to obvious SSE weaknesses.
Nevertheless, with only 26 professionals for the entire country, the agency
is unable to keep up with current requests. MICEI has added a new division to
coordinate technical assistance to industry, including a UNIDO program in
production techniques for specific industrial sub-sectors (wood, food process-
ing, clothing). More recently, a private foundation was established with the
financial and technical help of the Konrad Adenauer Foundation (a private
German organization) to explore the problems of SSEs and to set up a pilot
loan guaranty fund in Pinchincha Province.



- 12 -
Past Bank Lending and Strategy
47.       While the proposed loan represents the first direct Bank support
for the development of SSEs on a national level, the Bank has extended four
development b^"iking loans to Ecuador totalling US$93.8 million, net of can-
cellations. The DFC loans have been primarily onlent to CFN and COFIEC,
Ecuador's largest private finance company, although newly established finance
companies are also eligible to participate in the two most recent DFC loans.
48.       Both the first and second development banking projects (financed
with the help of Loan 721-EC approved on December 15, 1970 and Loan 930-EC
approved on June 26, 1973) are completed. The third project, financed by
Loan 1359-EC approved on December 28, 1976, is 88 percent disbursed and
90 percent committed and the fourth loan was signed December 17, 1979. A
Bank Project Performance Audit Report has been issued in connection with the
first two projects and concludes that both loans were successful in increasing
long-term financing to industry and in helping to build CFN and COFIEC into
strong and mature institutions with improved subproject appraisal and super-
vision capabilities. Moreover, the report's recommendations regarding long-
term mobilization of domestic resources had already been reflected in the
Fourth DFC Loan's provisions for establishing a capital market unit in the
Central Bank.
49.       Current Bank operations in agricultural credit (Loan 1459-EC,
approved in June 1977), rural development (Loan 1644-EC, approved in December
1978) and urban develo,ment (Loan 1776-EC, approved in December 1979) have
small industry credit -omponents. CENAPIA is providing technical assistance
to SSEs under Loans 1459-EC and 1776-EC. In the Guayaquil Urban Development
Project (1776-EC), the SSE credit component is based on the successful artisan
program run by the Banco del Pacifico, a commercial bank which is expected
to be an important financial intermediary in the proposed project as well.
50.       Bank strategy for the SSE sector is, in line with Government
objectives, to support employment-intensive and export-generating industries
as well as those making greater use of local resources. Lending to firms
outside of Ecuador's two major cities, Quito and Guayaquil, would also be
stressed. Furthermore, Bank strategy includes continuation of the economic
dialogue and supportive lending to eliminate undesirable subsidies to capital
(through tariff exemptions and low interest rates) and to strengthen the
country's capital market.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
51.       The project was identified by Bank missions in June 1978 and
September 1979 and was prepared by CFN with the help of Bank staff. It was
appraised in November/December 1979 and the appraisal mission's report (No.
2941-EC dated May 23, 1980) and entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - Small
Scale Enterprise Credit Project" is being distributed separately. Annex III
contains a Supplementary Project Data Sheet. Negotiations of the loan took
place in Washington from May 8 through May 14, 1980 and the Ecuadorian
Delegation was headed by Mr. Luis Veintimilla of the Ministry of Finance
and Public Credit. Representatives of CFN, the Central Bank and the Attorney
General's office also attended.



- 13 -
Project Obiectives
52.       The proposed US$20 million loan would be the Bank's first to support
small scale enterprise development in Ecuador on a national level. The project
would assist the Government to generate employment, increase the use of
local resources and expand exports (or substitute imports) by building a more
dynamic SSE sector. More specifically, it would increase available term
financing for SSEs and create, within the financial system, an improved
capacity to promote, appraise and supervise SSE lending. It would also expand
capacity to deliver technical assistance services to this sector and encourage
participation of beneficiaries in the design of such services.
Project Description
53.       The proposed project's main component would be a line of credit
of approximately US$33.3 million (including financial intermediaries' contri-
butions) in medium- and long-term resources to SSEs. The line of credit would
provide CFET with the opportunity for increased and more efficient SSE lending
through financial intermediaries and is expected to result in total investments
of about US$37.5 million by SSEs, assuming a contribution of US$4.2 million by
the SSEs themselves. CFN would also help to finance technical assistance to
SSEs under the project. Beneficiaries would be private sector enterprises
with fixed assets of less than US$350,000, which corresponds to firms of up
to 25-30 employees. Most firms of this size have had little or no access to
term financing in recent years. About 625 subloans averaging US$53,000 are
expected to be made, contributing to the generation of some 4,300 jobs.
Simplified approval procedures and wider spreads for financial intermediaries'
lending to the smallest firms are expected to result in over two-thirds
of subloans (over one-quarter of project funds) being US$40,000 or less
in size.
Project Execution
54.       CFN has operated a Fund for Small Industry and Artisan Development
(Fund) since 1964. The Fund's current assets are about US$4 million. The
volume of the Fund's operations has been relatively low, however, averaging
only around US$1.1 million in recent years. Because of its past low levels
of activity, the Fund has had no full time staff or clear policies and proce-
dures. In mid-1979 in line with the declared objectives of the new Government,
CFN management began to seek resources with which to expand the Fund's opera-
tions. Under the proposed project, CFN would expand and restructure this Fund
and assign a special unit to administer it. The Fund would have primary
responsibility for executing the project.
55.       Ecuador's Central Bank would act as the Government's fiscal agent
for the proposed loan signing a contractual agreement with the Government
satisfactory to the Bank as a condition of loan effectiveness (Sections
3.01(c) and 6.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). The Central Bank would
onlend the loan's proceeds to CFN on the same terms as the proposed loan
(Section 3.02(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). CFN would establish a specific
project account for its SSE Fund in the Central Bank. The Government would
deposit US$6 million in the project account in three installments as a capital
contribution to the Fund (Section (3.01(d) of the draft Loan Agreement). Half
of this amount (US$3 million) would be deposited as a condition of loan
effectiveness (Section 6.01(d) of the draft Loan Agreement). The second and



- 14 -
third contributions of US$1.5 million each would be made no later than
June 30, 1981 and October 31, 1981, respectively (Section 3.01 (d) of
the draft Loan Agreement). Each contribution would be a condition for
disbursing more than US$10 million and more than US$15 million of the proposed
loan, respectively (Section 2.02(d) of the draft Loan Agreemeri-). CFN's Fund
resources (US$4 million), combined with the Government's contribution, would
provide US$10 million in public sector resources for the project.
56.       The Central Bank would, for a fee of one-eighth of one percent,
serve as disbursement and collection agent for CFN's Fund. On the basis of
documented requests from the Fund, the Central Bank would rediscount approved
subloans submitted by participating financial intermediaries. CFN's fund
would, however, be responsible for managing the loan and project and for
promoting and supervising SSE lending. The Central Bank and CFN would enter
into a subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to the Bank and detailing
disbursement and collection procedures as well as responsibilities for manage-
ment of Fund resources, as a condition of loan effectiveness (Sections 3.02(a)
and 6.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). These procedures would be reviewed
and, if necessary, revised no later than six months after loan effectiveness
and from time to time thereafter to assure that they allow an efficient
resource flow (Section 3.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
57.       The Fund would, in cooperation with the Central Bank, channel project
resources through participating financial intermediaries to SSE beneficiaries
in accordance with policies and procedures acceptable to the Bank. Adoption by
CFN's Board of a policy statement, operating procedures, an organization and
staffing plan and appraisal and supervision guidelines for the Fund, all
satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Section
6.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). Any bank or financial institution
legally established and operating in Ecuador would be eligible to participate.
CFN would enter into a participation agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with
each financial intermediary and each such agreement would be a condition of
disbursement of loan proceeds to that intermediary (Section 2.02(b) (iii)(A)
of the draft Loan Agreement). The revenues from SSE operations would finance
the administrative costs of the Fund unit, grants for SSE technical assistance
(para. 59), and increases in capital for future lending, in addition to
interest payments on the proposed loan.
58.       The chief of the Fund's operating unit would be responsible for
managing its day-to-day operations and would report to CFN's Manager of Loan
Operations. CFN has appointed a well qualified Fund chief, satisfactory to
the Bank. During the first year, the Fund's staff is expected to include five
persons in addition to the chief: a loan appraiser at Quito headquarters and
two more in branch offices, one person responsible for supervision and coordi-
nation of technical assistance and one person to handle data, evaluation and
administrative arrangements. CFN would train the staff and of interested
intermediaries in the preparation, evaluation and supervision of SSE subprojects.
Technical Assistance
59.       CFN would finance technical assistance for SSE sub-borrowers
by making available as grants some of the operating revenues of the Fund or,
where an ultimate beneficiary firm desired direct consultant services, through
a subloan. CFN would organize a Technical Cooperation Committee to administer



- 15 -
the grant funds. The Committee would include representatives from MICEI, the
national Federation of Chambers of Small Industry and the CFN. CFN, MICEI and
the Federation would also enter into agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, to
govern the provision of CFN grants for technical assistance to SSEs (Section
2.11 of the draft Project Agreement). The main executors of these grant-funded
programs would be CENAPIA and the provincial chambers of small industry. These
agencies would prepare and submit to the Technical Cooperation Committee
proposals for project preparation assistance, seminars or other services. A
special program would assist very small firms in preparation of investment
projects. Between 1981 and 1984, the equivalent of approximately 32 man-years
of assistance would be financed by CFN for all of these programs. Such
technical assistance would complement that already being provided to the SSE
sector by CENAPIA and other agencies with financial assistance provided by
UNIDO, the Inter-American Development Bank and the Konrad Adenauer Foundation.
CFN's Operations and Performance
60.       CFN, the oldest and largest development finance company in Ecuador,
has been a beneficiary under all four Bank-financed DFC projects in Ecuador.
CFN's total assets as of 1979 amounted to US$266 million and its equity
stood at US$46.6 million. It has traditionally directed investment mostly to
medium- and large-scale industry and remains the single largest source of term
credit for the industrial sector. CFN's performance under the Bank projects
has been satisfactory, gaining it a reputation as one of Ecuador's most
efficient public sector agencies. CFN has developed a skilled project appraisal
staff and continues to attract quality professionals. For the past several
years, CFN's net income has been relatively low in relation to its assets. In
1979, it suffered a net operating loss stemming from four factors: (i) its
over-exposure to a deficit-ridden Government-sponsored sugar mill; (ii) the in-
creasing costs of CFN's Eurodollar resources while interest rates on subloans
financed with these resources remained fixed; (iii) its past policy of charging
less than market rates in fees and commissions on guarantee and letter of
credit operations, particularly when operating on behalf of public sector
companies; and (iv) its failure to expand aggressively profitable letter of
credit, guarantee and repeater loan operations.
61.       To help tackle some of the financial problems mentioned above, under
the FY79 Fourth DFC Loan, CFN committed itself to submit to the Bank by June 30,
1980 programs aimed: (i) at disposing of its over-exposure in individual firms
(including the sugar mill); and (ii) at reducing its foreign borrowings.
Both programs are now being drawn up.  Meanwhile, CFN's new manager has taken
additional steps to strengthen CFN's finances including: (i) using the Govern-
ment's recent US$20 million capital contribution to reduce CFN's Eurodollar
obligations; (ii) limiting further investments in equity shares to the minimum
consistent with prior commitments; and (iii) seeking to expand guarantee and
other service operations. An increase from one to two percent in fees for
such operations was approved by CFN's Board in January 1980. Further action
by CFN to charge up to the maximum allowable fees and commissions would be
taken by June 30, 1981 (Section 2.10 of the draft Project Agreement). A
computer-assisted financial information system is being installed and should
further improve CFN's ability to monitor its operations and conduct financial
planning. These measures should put CFN on a sounder financial footing.



- 16 -
Cost and Financing
62.       The total cost of the investments to be financed with the 625
subloans expected to be made under the proposed project is estimated to come
to about US$`'.5 million. The Bank loan of US$20 million would cover the
sub-projects' foreign exchange component, equivalent to about 53 percent of
investment costs. The Government and CFN would, together, finance US$10
million (or 27 percent) of the sub-projects' costs. Participating financial
intermediaries and beneficiaries could contribute an additional US$3.3 million
(nine percent) and US$4.2 million (11 percent), respectively, to round out the
investment financing package. Finally, CFN would direct a portion of its net
Fund revenues to the technical assistance program for SSEs. Between 1981 and
1984, about US$325,000 is expected to be allocated for this purpose.
Loan Features
63.       Eligible sub-borrowers would be private sector enterprises having
fixed assets (excluding land and buildings) of no more than US$350,000.
Firms this size normally employ 25-30 persons or less and have little or no
access to term financing from the banking system. Subloans would be for:
(i) working capital; (ii) the purchase and installation of fixed assets;
(iii) the construction and/or expansion of industrial and commercial facili-
ties; (iv) preinvestment studies; and (v) technical assistance. While a
variety of SSEs would be eligible for financing under the project, it is
expected that nearly two-thirds of credit would benefit food, beverage,
metal and wood processors as well as the textile, wearing apparel and shoe
industries. The maxiT,um amount in project funds which could be onlent to a
single firm would be US$300,000. This limit would be reviewed from time
to time and, if necessary, revised (Section 2.02(b)(iii)(B) of the draft Loan
Agreement). Over two-thirds of the subloans are expected to be for less
than US$40,000 and another quarter of subloans would fall between US$40,000
and US$150,000. In allocating loan proceeds, the Fund would give priority to
sub-projects which would generate employment, increase the use of domestic
natural resources and generate exports or efficiently substitute for imports.
64.       Financial intermediaries, in cooperation with sub-borrowers, would
be responsible for preparing subprojects. All subproject appraisals would be
reviewed by Fund staff and those calling for subloans above US$150,000 would
require prior CFN approval. This free limit for participating financial
intermediaries would be adjusted from time to time as appropriate (Section
2.04(a) of the draft Project Agreement). Fund review of subprojects below the
free limit would be ex post. The Bank would review and comment on the first
subloan over US$50,000 submitted by each financial intermediary.  All subloans
above US$250,000 would require specific Bank approval (Section 2.02(c) of the
draft Loan Agreement). The Bank would also supervise the project closely and
review a significant sample of the smaller subprojects during the course of
loan supervision. An economic rate of return calculation would be required
for all subprojects receiving subloans of US$150,000 or more. This ceiling
would be reviewed after the first 6 months of project execution (Section
2.03(b) of the draft Project Agreement). Finally, subject to review by the
Bank and CFN no later than 18 months after loan signature, no single financial
intermediary could commit more than US$12.0 million in project funds (Section
2.04(c) of the draft Project Agreement).



- 17 -
Relending Terms
65.       The proposed Bank loan would be made to the Republic of Ecuador at
8.25 percent interest with the standard commitment fee of 3/4 of 1 percent
per annum. It would be repayable over 17 years on a fixed amortization basis,
with 4 years of grace. Loan proceeds would be onlent to CFN on the same terms
and conditions as the Bank loan. The Borrower would assume the foreign
exchange risk and commitment fee without charge to CFN. The Central Bank
would act as fiscal agent for the Government. The Fund would onlend blended
resources (consisting of existing Fund resources, the Government's capital
contribution and the proposed Loan) to participating intermediaries at different
rates, depending on the asset size of the borrowing enterprise. To encourage
lending to the smallest SSE, six percent interest per annum would be charged
to financial intermediaries for subloans to firms with fixed assets (excluding
land and buildings) of less than US$25,000. Ten percent would be charged to
financial intermediaries in the case of subloans to larger sub-borrowers
(Schedule 1 of the draft Project Agreement). The Fund would rediscount up to
90 percent of subloans and the financial intermediary would finance the
balance. Subloans, in turn, would not exceed 80 percent of subproject costs
for new firms nor 90 percent of subproject costs in the case of expansions
(Section 2.04(b) of the draft Project Agreement). It is expected that the
Fund would receive an average interest rate of about 9.4 percent on its
onlending, allowing it a satisfactory margin of 3.7 percent over the 5.7
percent financial cost of its blended resources.
66.       The average interest rate to be charged SSEs would be about 15
percent. Subloans to SSEs with assets of less than US$25,000 would bear inter-
est of at least at 12 percent interest p.a. regardless of the subloan's terms.
Subloans to larger SSEs would bear 12 percent interest plus commissions of 2,
3, or 4 percent for terms of 2 to 5 years, over 5 to 8, and over 8 years,
respectively, resulting in effective interest rates of 14, 15 and 16 percent
(Schedule 1 of the draft Project Agreement). These rates would allow partici-
pating intermediaries a financial spread of 6 percent in the case of lending
to the smallest enterprises, and of 4 to 6 percent for other SSE lending.
The proposed interest and financial spread structure would be consistent with
structures under other Bank loans. Subloan maturities would be up to 10
years, with up to three years of grace, but are expected to average 6 to 7
years.
67.       The maximum legal interest rate in Ecuador has been 12 percent,
with commissions of 2-4 percent for medium- and long-term lending. However,
the Government is presently considering an upward revision in the interest rate
structure and the interest rates discussed in paras. 65 and 66 would be reviewed
no later than 18 months from loan signing and from time to time thereafter
to take into consideration changes in market conditions and inflation trends
(Section 2.05(c) of the draft Project Agreement). Inflation between 1977-1979
averaged around 11 percent. For 1980-1982, the Bank's preliminary estimates
are for inflation to be 14-15 percent. This would make the 15 percent
average interest to the ultimate beneficiary envisaged under the project
slightly positive in real terms.



- 18 -
Disbursement and Procurement
68.      Disbursements under the loan are expected to take place over a
four year period running from early 1981 through 1984. The closing date for
disbursements would be December 31, 1984 and the terminal date for submission
of subloan proposals would be December 31, 1983. The Bank would reimburse
67 percent of the Fund's financing of sub-projects, equivalent to the esti-
mated foreign exchange costs, on the basis of certificates of expenditures
submitted by the Fund. Specific documentation requirements were discussed at
negotiations and supporting documentation would be retained in Ecuador for
inspection during Bank supervision missions. Procurement would be in accor-
dance with standard practice for Bank DFC loans. More specifically, the SSEs
would procure most items directly from the local sources of supply, which are
generally adequate. Whenever justified, items would be procured on the
basis of several quotations. The financial intermediaries and CFN would
supervise the SSEs to insure that their procurement decisions were soundly
taken. Reimbursement of sub-project expenditures made up to 180 days prior
to receipt by the Bank of reimbursement requests would be permitted to allow
the Borrower to group a number of small subloan documents into a single
application to the Bank.
Project Benefits and Risks
69.       The proposed project is expected to make a significant contribution
to the growth of SSEs by providing the needed capital for increased output
to about 625 sub-projects. Total financing for investment projects to be
provided under the project (US$33.3 million including contributions of partici-
pating financial institutions) would add an estimated 15 to 20 percent per
annum to available term credit for the SSE sector over the loan commitment
period (1981-1983). This incremental credit would contribute significantly to
the sector's anticipated 8 percent annual growth. Given the labor intensive
nature of the industries which would receive the major share of project
resources (wood, food, textiles, metal products), it is expected that about
4,300 new jobs would be created through the project at an average cost of
US$8,700 compared to a national average of US$23,000 per job for larger firms.
70.      The project has an important institution building aspect.  The devel-
opment of CFN's Fund, one of this operation's major objectives, would enable
it to promote, assist and finance SSEs more aggressively. The capability
of MICEI and the Small Industry Federation to provide technical assistance to
SSEs would also be strengthened. Finally, financial intermediaries would also
improve their ability to promote, evaluate and supervise term lending to SSEs.
Thus, the proposed project is expected to make a significant contribution to
growth and rational development of the SSE sector and, ultimately, to the em-
ployment, income distribution and regional development goals of the Government.
71.      This would be a pilot effort for CFN and the Bank in significant SSE
lending in Ecuador and the administrative arrangements between CFN and the
Central Bank for channelling resources are as yet untested. There is, there-
fore, risk of possible disbursement delays and reduced participation among
potential private financial intermediaries if the administrative mechanisms
prove cumbersome. To minimize this risk, as a condition of effectiveness,
CFN and the Central Bank would sign a subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory
to the Bank. As a disbursement condition, each financial intermediary would



- 19 -
sign a satisfactory participation agreement with CFN. Both agreements would
spell out the project's administrative procedures. Moreover, the CFN-Central
Bank arrangements would be reviewed and, if necessary, revised no later than
six months after effectiveness and from time to time thereafter to insure the
project's implementation. Finally, Bank staff would closely supervise the
project, particularly during start-up, to reduce execution risks still further.
The importance of the objective of expanding term lending to SEEs justifies
taking the risks mentioned especially in view of the measures taken to
insure successful project implementation.
PART VI - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Ecuador and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between CFN and the Bank, and the Report of
the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
73.       The draft agreements conform to the normal pattern for small enter-
prise credit loans. The main features of the draft Loan and Project Agreements
are referred to in the text of this report and are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness would be: (i) the adoption
by CFN's Board of a satisfactory Policy Statement, operating procedures,
organizational and staffing plan and project appraisal and supervision guide-
lines for the Fund, satisfactory to the Bank (para. 59); (ii) the making, by
the Government, of a US$3 million capital contribution to the Fund (para. 57);
and (iii) the signing of a fiscal agency agreement between the Central Bank
and the Government and of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Central Bank
and CFN, both satisfactory to the Bank (paras. 57 and 58). A depositing of
two Government contributions to the Fund of US$1.5 million each by no later
than June 30, 1981 and October 31, 1981, respectively, would be conditions
of disbursement for more than US$10 million and more than US$15 million of the
proposed loan (para. 55). A special condition of disbursement of loan funds
to each participating intermediary would be the signature of a satisfactory
agreement between CFN and that intermediary (para. 59).
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. lIcNamara
President
Attachments
May 30, 1980
Washington, D.C.



Annex I
-20 -                                              Page 1 of 6
tCUADOR - SOCIAL INDECATORS DATA SWEET
ECUADOR        £          hZFERE7CE GROUPS ~A.3IJSTI D iS.CzS
LAND AREA (THOUSAND S0. It.)                                                 - .ST RECVT £S7:N.A-   -
TOTAL            283.6                                                   SAME        SAME     NEXT HIaMER
AaUIrLTURAL       73.0                                NDST RCENT       OEOGRAPRIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d   CROUP /a
GNP PER CAPITA (ISS)                    ..       370.0     910.0           1124.4     1097.7      L942.6
LIERGE CONSL-Y-ICIq P.-R CAPt-A
(KILC8.AMS OF COAL _OQUEVALZN`T)   201.C       297.0     655.0           943.1       730.7      1646.7
?07ULAT}ON rN4D VITAL STATIS7=S
7CP5LAT.CN, M.lD-YMAa (Mu:c6S)       4.4         6.0       7.3
UUAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF -OTAL) 34.4         39.5      41.9             59.3       49.0        51.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS3                      14.0
STATMONART POPULATION (2ITLLICNS)                       26.0
TMA  STATIONARY POPLL41ION Is 1E.CZD                  20J0
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. Ci.                       16.0        21.0      26.0             23.5       44.6        28.2
PER SQ. XOt. ARICULLTURAL LAND    91.0       100.0    100.0             80.5       140.1       100.3
POPULATJ79 AGE STRUCrTJ   (PERCENT)
0-1  ns.                         45.4        46.6      46.1            40.9        41.3        35.4
15-64 YRS.                         52.0        50.8      51.2            54.4       53.3         56.3
65 TRS. A.'(D ABOVE                 2.6         2.6       2.7             3.9         3.5         5.1
POPLATION GROhI'H RATE (PERCEUT)
TOTAL                              2.9         3.0       3.0             2.4         2.4         1.7
URBAN                              3.0/L       4.4       4.1             3.7        4.5          3.0
CRUDO  SIRTS RATE (PER TIOUSA.'D)   47.0        43.0      41.0            32.J        31.L        27.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER ThOUSA:.O)    17.0        13.0      10.0             8.5        9.2          9.1
GROSS RE?RODUCTION RATE               ..         3.3       3.1             2.4         2.2         1.8
FAM.LLY PLA/tI.NG
ACCEPTORS, ANbilAL (THOUSANDS)      ..         9.0      32.3
USERS (PERCENT OF  ARIED WOEN)    ..            ..       6.3            17.7        34.7
FOOD AND NL-RITION
LnDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTICN
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          89.8       101.0      98.0            9.4        104.4       102.0
PER CAPITA SUPFLY OF
O.IiS (PERCENT OF
REQUlREfITS)                    81.0        91.0      93.0           107.0      105.0        120.8
PROTEINS (cRAI-S PER DAY)         46.0        49.Q      47.4            60.4       64.4        80.9
OF WiHICH ANLOLL AND PULSE      24.0        22.0      21.9            28.3       23.5         31.3
CHILD (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RAE      Z3.0        16.0      10.0             6.7        8.6          5.1
HEALTH
LIFE LE?ECTANCY AT BIRTH (TEALS)    51.0        56.0      59.6            83.6       60.2        65.6
NFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          140.0       118.0        ..            76.1       46.7         45.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCErN OF
POPULAIION)
TOTAL                               ..        34.0      40.0            63.4       60.8         69.4
UNW                                 ..        76.0      82.0            79.5       75.7        85.1
ILXAL                               ..         7.0      13.0            38.6       40.0        43.0
ACCESS TO EXC1E-A DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        22.4      35.8            58.s        6.0         70.1
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..            77.8       46.0         98.3
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..            24.5       22.3        33.2
POPUATION PER ?9YSICLA.4          *600.0      2370.0    1570.0          1841.9     2262.4       1343.2
POPULATION PER NURSING ''RSDY     Z2S0.0      1605.0        ..           933.7     1195.4        765.0
POPU-AOIIC PER H05PITAL B'I
TOTAL                            520.0/f    410.0         ..           563.4      453.4        197.6
UR!AS                               *-       190.0        *-           279.4      253.1       260.2
W1L4L                               ..      4740.0        *-          1140.9     2732.4       1055.0
ADKISSICNS PER HOSPITAL 3E3           ..        L7.0        ..            25.7        22.;        17.3
SOU'SIN'C
AVERACE SIZE OF HNOSENOLD
TOTAL                              5.1/f       5.2       5.3             5.0         5.3         4.7
URAN                                ..          ..        ..             4.8         5.2        S.4
RaRAL                               ..          ..        ..             5.3         5.4         5.1
ATERACE  .LWER OF PERS0NS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2.5/f        ..        ..             1.3         1.9         1.1
UR8AN                              2.1/f        ..        ..             1.3         1.6         1.2
RL7RAL                             2.8/f        ..        ..             1.5        2.5          1.2
ACCESS T0 -LI-RICITT (P!R!ENT
OF DWELLINCS)
TOT rAL                           32.0/f       ,.,      41.2            54.3        50.3        66.0
URBANI                            73.5-7        .        4..)           40.1       71.7         35.1
RURAL                    ~~~~~6.0:77   L.1.6                    14.2      17..1



- 21 -                                         Annex I
Page 2 of 6
ECUADOR - SOCIAL InDICATORS OATA  s.E!'
REFER2£YCE GROUPS (AJ5USTED y.YERACZS
CCUAiDOB                     - MOST iECER TSTS."s) T
SAME        SA.E     NEXT dIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME       INCOKE
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTUIATE /b       9EGCON /C   GROUP /d    CROUP le
EDUCA'ION
ADUSTED E ROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                83.0         97.0     102.0            107.3      102.5       101.7
MALX                 87.0         99.0     104.0            109.1      108.6       110.0
PLXALE               79.0        95.0      101.0           107.4        97.1        92.8
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 12.0         26.0      42.0            40.5        33.5        31.2
MAI.Z                13.0         28.0      43.0            40.4        38.4        36.4
?DML6                10.0         24.0      40.0            39.0        30.7        43.7
VOCATIONAL CNROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)  29.0         29.0      23.0             18.5       11.5        18.3
P1IL-TEACRER RATIO
PRLIMART                          39.0         38.0      38.0            37.1        35.8        27.1
SECONDARY                         11.0         15.0      17.0             17.9       22.9        25.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       67.5/f       68.0      73.9             77.4       64.0        86.1
CONSUMPTION
?ASSENGL.R CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         2.0          3.0       6.4            29.1        13.5        53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        41.0        279.0        ..           172.1       122.7       225.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.5         25.0      37.0            67.9        38.3       102.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRC.CLATION  R
THOUSAND POPULATION                 54.0         41.0      49.0            76.1        40.0        78.5
CINEA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..           4.0       5.6              4.2        3.7         3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     1400.0       1700.0    2172.0
MLMALE (PERCENT)                  16.2         L9.1      20.1            21.5        25.0        24.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             57.4         50.9      47.0            30.2        43.5        28.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                19.4         22.2      24.0            23.8        21.5        30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               32.5         31.7      31.6            30.9        33.5        33.8
MALE                                 54.3        51.0      50.2             47.3       48.0        51.3
'EMALE                               10.5        12.2      12.8            13.3        16.8        16.3
ECONOMIC DEP6NDENCY RATTO               1.5         1.7       1.6              1.5        1.4         1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGlIEST 5 PERCENT OF fOUSEROLDS     ..          ..        ..            23.7        20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF ROUSEHOLDS    ..           ..        ..            58.7        52.1        57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..        ..             2.9         3.9         3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF SOUSE1OLfS      ..          ..        ..             9.9        12.6        11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTI.MATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..    269.0            265.6      270.0
RURAL                                ..          ..     183.0           185.1       183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..    307.0            396.3       282.5       550.0
RURAL                               ..           ..      77.0           308.1      248.9        403.4
ESTIMATED POPULATtON BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY ;NCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URRAN                               ..           ..      40.0            35.2        20.5
&URAL                               ..          ..       65.0            46.6       35.3
Sot available
.oc applicable.
NOTES
/a   'he adjusted group averages for each *ndicetor are oopulacion-aeLghced geouet-ic %eans, excluding che extreme
valueg of che indLcacor and che zost populated counc-y in each group. Coverage or countrtes arong che
Lndicators depends on  vailabilic7 of data and is noc un±*orz.
/b    Unless otherwise noced, daca for !960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, betreen 1969
and 1971; and for most Recent Estlzate. between 1974 and 1977.
/c  Latin America & Caribboan;   /d  tnCermediate Mi!dle Income (S551-1135 oar capoca. 1976);  'e  Upper
XLddle Income (31136-2500 per :apoca, 1976);  -if  1962;   a   1950-62.
Xost Recenc Estimace of CX? per capica is for 197b.
August. 1979



- 22 -                                                                          Annex I
DEFINITIONS 0? hCIAL. INDZCATORS                                               P g            o     
Sold:  "he ad!ueced group averages for each indicator are populatlon-neighted geometric mans. excluding the extreve  -alues of rhe ioOlitor~ 50  th* 000t
populated country to e&Ac  group.  Coverage of countries among the indicatere depends on availability of date aod Is mot uniform.  Due to lock of data.
groUP evarage. for Capital Surplus Oii. Exporterx &ad indicators of acceas to staer aod sectrst disposal, hou..siog. 1nc0me distribution and po-rty are
.ia,!. populatlon-waighted gaeomtric seana vichout the enclesion of extreme valuas.
laiD AREA (thecesod sq. km)                                                                Population oar hospital bed - total, urban. and rural - Population (total,
Iotl~  Total surface ares  comprising land area and icluad water..                         ..-Dn, an. rural) divined by their respective ouoer of hospital bess
Aarucult.r&a  -M.os  renc en etlesco of agricuiltural area used temporarily                 aeial   o  ulccd Private genra  sz~ opecia-od hospital and ra-
or permnety for ..cpe, pastures, earkzatnd kitchen Sardena or to                          hehi1altto   tetes    Soepitle ar   esellsents praetysafdb
li   allolw,                                                                           at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care, are net Intluded. Rural hospitala, however, include he,alth and sedi-
iN? PER  WPITA (ISO) - CO? per capita estist..at cc orrent worket prices.                    cal centesr  sot perasenswtly staffed by a phyviclian  (but by a sedical a-
tabulat;ed by saees  onvmersion watned as W'orld Lank Atlas (1975-77 beets):              slsteat. nurse. midwife. eto.) ihich offer in-patient accommodation end
1960. 1970. and 197 date,                                                                 provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per boepital bed - Total w.mber of admissions to or diechargee
ENEx   COOfE1JQ'TID  PER CAPITA - Annual cesawmption of commercial energy                    free hoepitals divided by the ameber of beda.
(coal sod lignite. potroleum. naturial gas and hydro-.  nulear and ge-
thermal electricity) in kilogram  of coal equiailent per capita.                     900SIc
A.eraze size of household (parson. per hiousehold) - total, urban, And rural -
POPLtIATIO9 AND VITAL STAT2S`TICS                                                            A bousehold consiecs of a group of individuals she ehare living  quarters
utlosouIlation. eld-eT (ailins  -As of July 1: if bat availabl.                         and thall mis male.  A boarder or lodger may or may moc be isclded in
avrgeo   t4 o-et  e ae;1.90. 170. And 1977 JIata.                                  the household for statiatical purposese.  Statistical dadfinitioas  hof  oe-
Orban population  (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to totial popeala-                    held vary.
rise: different def initions  of urbanm ares. soy effect comarability                  Averaee namber of persons Par ro-. - total. urban, and rural - Aversge am-
of dasta Ameng countries.                                                                 bar of persons por rose in all, arban, e nd rural occupied convgntional
Population density                                                                          dwellings. respectively.  Dwellings exclude onom-parmenent str,ucturee and
Per  s. km.- Midpsarpopulation por square kileestar (100 hctLares)                  eomegupied perts..
of total ares.                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~Actees to electricity (percent of dwellines) - total, urban. and rural-
Pot sq. km. agriculture land - Coeu"ted ass abov, for agricultural Land                    Conventional dwellings with elactricity tn living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                     of total, urban, And  mrarl dwellings respectively.
population see scruccture (Percent) - Children (0-li years). working-asee
(l5-6i years), *  d retired (65 yeere and "ovr) as perceatagee of aid-               EVUCATION
year population.'                                                                     Adjusted entoilsiont ratios
Population orreth rats (mecant) - mcci1. end urban - C~ouped anual                        Primary school - total, sod femasle - Inorl and femsale enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total and urba  mid-year poputlations for 1950-60.                        et the primary level ase percentages of respectively primary sc:6ool-age
1060-70. and 1970-75.                                                      -population.; normailly includee children agd h-1l years but adjusted for
Cr.do birth rece (per thousand) - Annual live birthe por thousand of                        different lengths of primary education.: for countries with univereal edu-
odd-peer population; ten-year Arithmetic everags ending in 1.960 san                      catimn enrollment may anteed 100 percent sing. so   pupils aire belom or
1970 aod five-year average endling to 1975 fo   orreetec=as                                bv  the o,ffilcial school &se..
Crude death rste (Per thousand) - Annual desthe per thousand of mid-                      Seconar   hscho  _ total, And female - Computed as above: secondary educa-
year population; ten-year aritheecic Aeyerges, ending In 1960 and 1970                    tims requires at laest four years of appro...d primary instruonlen  pro-
end five-year average ending in 1975 f or met recent estimete.                            videa  general vocational. or teacher training instructions for pupils
Gros  rerdcinrc       vrg   ee    fdsbeeawmnwl   erusually of 12 to 17 yeare of age; correspondenc*e orses are gemerally
inbr noma  oproductive period If sbe seperienctes pr"esen  age-                        scldded.
specif ic fertility rates; aesally live-year evergat"maening in 1960.                  Vocational enrollumet (percent of secondary) - vocational institutions in-
1970. end 1975.                                                                           clads technical, industrial, or other~ Programe which operat* independently
Family nlaianis - acceptors. annual (thousands) - Amenal ember of                           or AS departemenateo  secondary institutions.
ecceptors of birth-toatrol devices under enspicas cf national. fondtly                Putil-teacher ratio - pricear,, And secondery  - Total students enrolled in
planning prosren.                                                                         primary and secondary, levele divided by numbers of teacthers is the corre-
Family Planning - users   (ecnt of mairried .eeeen  - ?ercntage, of                         speeding levels.
earneod  w*me  of child-bearig age (15-iA  yesre) who use birth-control               Adult literacy rate (percen   -Literate adults fable to re"ad  nd write) ae
devices to aLL, married woe  in same age group.                                           e percentege of tota  adul  population aged 13 years sod  "ovr.
P000 ANDO NTRITION                                                                       CNUTO
Index of food prodeccio  perfc sntf (1970-100) -  eDM= wmber of per                      Pasene rscr  (per thoueand populaciool - Paseangar care compris enter care
capita annual produCtion oa  alfo  commdtlte.                                           seating loss than eight persons: ancludes embulancas, hearse. and mIlitary
Per capita anpil, of calories (percent of recuiremets) - Geepoted free                    vehicles.
energy equivalent of nec food supplise available In country per capita                 Sadio receivers (per rhousend oovulstio) - All types of receiver. fOr radio
per fey.  Available supplies  cemprime domestic predection. Impete lean,                brodcasts to guneral public per thousand of population: exicludes unlIcemsed
exprts. and chenges in etock.  Not supplies migclude amimal feed.   osad. -             receivers is countries and in years whins registration of radio eats se  in
quantities  sed in feed proc-seing. sod lessee is distribustion.  Ria-                  effect; data for recet ypare map nt be coamparble since  -ast cowetrie.
qulr~ts were eticmated by FAO henn  on physiologinal soeds for nor-                     abolished liceneing.
eel activity and health considwrniG enviroenstal toeratura, body                       TV recaivers (sec thousand oeuj.agionl - TV receiver. for broadcast to generd.
weights, ape Mid sen distributions of pepealaien. end allowing 10 per-                    public per thousnd population; sxcludee unlicmensd TV receivers in toun,
cent far wastat houehold Leval.                                                           trise And in years shen registration of TV sets wa  in affect,
Par caita cooyo   rti    re   e   a)-Poenceeof                          f  e              esae   iclto            huadPeo"  aton)    Shewe the average circnla-
capit  sotsuppl  of  oed pr da.  se  suppy effeed  s da imedus     tO~ o   dly   eealitrecnwsae   defined an a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all coentrios  established by USDA provide for                   cation devotd primarily to recording gwensral maws.  It is considered t.o
a mi.nim,i allewang" of 80 gram  Of total protein per day ad 20 grow                      ha 'daily' if it appease At least four tufts a week.
of animal and pulse Protein, of which 10 grom  --culd be antual protein.              Cinem  senxual attenidaince per capita per year -  aseed on the number of tickets
These standards are, lower ta chose te   of 75 grin  of total proesin sod                 "Id during the pear. Including admissions to drive-is cioens eaid mobile,
23 gremn of sanimal protein As as average for the world. propsue"  by                     unite.
?At in rho ThiLrd Wforld Food Survey.
Per capita procaln ounslv fre  animal and sales - Prtetin supply of food                DQLO.ThDV
derived free animals &An  pulis :  in gre    per day.                                 Total labor force (thousands) - Economically active persoma. locluoding armed
Child (.zes 1-f.) mortality rate fper thousand') - Aemal deathe per thouse-                 forces and unployed but excluding housewives. students. etc.  Deini-
seed in age group 1-i years. to children in chic age group.                               tlions in venousw  countriessear  not comparable.
Femle  nerent  -  exale labor force as percentage of total labor forte.
REmiT!                                                                                      giutr   (ou trec) - Labor forces to farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life expecctancl at birth fYsar.) - Average sensor of years of life                         to percentage of total labor force.
remneinig at birth; usually five-year syering  ending in 1960. 1970.                   industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manufacturIng aed
end 1973.                                                 electricity. voter and gas se pe~~~~~~~~rcentge of total labor force.
isf.n  wartalcrats (per thousand) - Anneal deethe of infunts under                       Part Icip.ion rer  pearcent) -ttlml,   dfeae-Total, male. and
o.a  pear of age per thousand live birbts.                                               lemale labor forts as parc-ents.s of theif respective populations.
Access to safe uscer (percent of Population) - total, urban. end rural -These are MLOes adjuted participation raese reflecting a ......
q,mber of paopia (total, urban. a"d.rural) with reseenble acaose to                       structure of the population, end ilor tins trend.
nafe s&agr supply (includes treated eurface utsrer  or untreated bug                   fccnoaic dpoundeocy rari. - Ratio  of popu.lmation  der II end hi ..d ov.ert
urc:onzetiatised water such as that from  protected borebhole. springe.                   the labor force io age group ot 13-h'6 vests.
and sanitary wells) us percentaga. of their respetive populations.
to an urban area a public fountain or scsaidpost lecaced not sore                     INCOME IISIRIBLnIToN
titan 200 meters from  a house may be considered as being within rea-                  P-rcent-g  of  Metvac  incom   (both 10 cash and kind) received hy richost S
sonable acceass of that house,  In rural areis ressomble aeccess would                    percent. richest 2i percent. poorest 20 percent. end poorest A0 percent
mply chat the, houseelfa or amebere of the household do sate have to                      of households.
upend . disproportionate, part of the day in fetching the fnily '.
wster ned.PovETy TARE   RLP
Access to esrts disosoal (percent of population) - total, urban. and                     ivsrimted abZs.jolut  ovrty income level (USS par capita) - urban, and rura.. 
rural - Number of people (total. urban. sod rural) served by ancrsta                         Absolute poverty income level to that Income lvel oslos whico . etnimal
dispoasl as percentages of their respective populations.  Excrete                         outritionally adqueite diet plus eseantial non-f eod requiremiscs is not
disposal soy include the collection end disposal, with or without                         Affordable.
:reatoenit, of human excrete 4ad waste-ust-c by wintr-borne systems                    Etcimaced rltvepvertY incom   leve  (US0 p-r capita) - urban *0 rurl1
or chs use of pit privise sod salalar instal1lations.                                      Relative poverty income level is that Income leval lees tham one-third
Population par ph-ysicia  - Population divided by n.ber of practicing                        per c.pigs personal income of the, country.
physicians qualified from a medical ecbocl at university level.              '         Estimated Popuagtion below, poverty intone level  (Percept) - urban and rural-
Population par nursing person - PopulatIon divided by number of                              Percent of population  (urban and rural) whsoer. either "absolute poor"o
practicing  eels And feomale graduate nurses. practical nurses. and                        "relative poor" whichever is greater.
useintantc nurses.
Economic end Social Data Division
tconoeic Anelysis And Projections Department



- 23 -                                           Annex I
Page 4 of 6
ZCUADOI - ECONOMIC DIDICATORS
Population        7,600  (mid-1978. thouands)
GIP Per Capita, US$ 910    (1978)
Ameunt                                Anmnul groeth rate (2) At conetant prices
(million US3
Indicator                      at current priees)                     Actual                                        Projected
1978
1974    1975    1976    1977    1978(e)          1979    1980    1981    1982    1963
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product (a)               7482           7.1     5.6   '7.1      6.1     5.3              5.0     5.0     6.0     6.0     6.0
Agriculture                            1531           6.1     6.4     4.1     1.1      1.1             3.5     3.5     3.5     3.5     3.5
Industry                               2622          4.3      3.2     9.4     5.1     9.5              9.5     9.5     9.5     9.5     9.5
Services                               3329          8.4      7.1     6.9     9.4     4.2           -13.1      1.8     4.1     3.9     3.7
Consumption                              5593          17.4     6.6     5.2    11.7     3.3             13.0     4.3     7.4     6.7     6.6
Gross investmnt                          1970          33.5    14.2   -0.2      9.5    -3.3           -10.7      6.1     6.0    11.3    11.0
Exports of CGS                           1764           1.8   -6.8    10.2   -9.2    13.5                7.7     3.7     3.6     3.9     2.8
Imports of GNFS                          1844          68.0     4.3   -2.8    10.6   -3.0               15.0     2.6     8.1    10.7     9.5
Groes  etieoml savings                   1716          26.3     2.2     4.1    15.4     0.3
.ICKs
G? deflator                                100         63.2    69.2    77.7    90.9   100.0
Iuezasge ret.                              25          25.0    25.0    25.0    25.0    25.0
Share of GOP at Market Prices (S)                        Average Amual Increase (S)
(at current prices) (b)                                (at constant Orices)
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985                 1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1960-85
Gross domestic product (a)                   100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0                    5.8      11.1       5.6       6.0
Agriculture                                 33.3   27.6  22.8   19.9   17.6                     4.0       5.4       2.4       3.5
Industry                                   19.3  23.0   34.8   38.1  44.8                      7.3       20.7       8.5       9.5
Services                                   47.4  49.4  42.4  35.7   31.9                       6.6        8.0       1.1       3.7
Consumption                                   84.6   82.0   75.2   79.9   82.4                    5.0       9.8       7.8       6.6
Gross investment                              14.0   22.5  28.4   22.6  24.9                     18.7      12.2      -0.6       8.5
Exports CGUS                                  17.2   14.9   26.0   23.9   20.7                    2.7      15.8       4.8       2.9
Imports GNFS                                  15.7   19.4  29.7  26.4   28.0                     10.9      12.6       4.8       7.3
Gross natiLeal savings                        12.9   16.2   23.3     -      -                      -         -
An Z of GDP
1960     1970     1975
PUBLIC FINANCE (f)
Current revenues                                                      11.4
Current expenditures                                 n,                6.6
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                             4.8
Capital expenditure                                                    2.5
Foreign financing
1965-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85
OlTHER INDICATORS
GMN growth rate (S)                                    5.8       9.3       5.2       6.2
GNP per capita growth rate (S)                         2.5       6.3       2.2       3.2
Energy consumption growth rate (2)                      -         -       11.7       7.8
ICOR                                                   2.8       2.6       4.8       4.0
Marginal savings rate                                 -0.4       0.3       0.1       negi. (g)
Import elasticity                                      1.9       1.1       0.8       1.2
(a) At market prices; cowponents are empr eed at factor cost end wll not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes end moboidi_e.
(b) Projected yearn at ceentaat pricee.
()  sti_mte.
(f) Central govermet only.
(g) Because of the declining contribution of petroleum to savings, from a very high level,
the marginal savings rate vould be negative in these years.



Annex I
- 24 -                                         Page 5 of 6
ECUADO! -  EXTERNAL TRADE
Pmpmistion     :  7 600   (mid-1978. t iounds)
GNP Per Capita   US$910    (1978)
Aimual Growth Rat" (X)
(at constant 1978 prices)
Amount                                                                                                --
Indicator                       (million US$  t                         Actual                                        Projected  a/
current prices)
197S            1974     1975      1976     1977    1978 e/    1979       1980      1981     1982     1983
EmIRIAL TRhADE
Merchandise *xports                        1532            -1.2    -13.7      14.0    -10.4     13.3         5.4      3.5       3.3      3.6      2.4
Primry                                   1532            -1.2    -13.7     14.0    -10.4      13.3         3.9      2.6      2.3       2.6      0.9
Manufactures                               -               -        -         -        -        -           -       6.5      6.7       6.8      7.0
Merchandis, imports                        1512            34.1      3.5       5.5     47.1      4.6         9.1      7.5      7.4      10.2      9.5
Food                                       28            62.9     125.7  -54.4    220.6       77.3        9.9       5.5      9.5       8.7      8.7
Petroleum                                  11           131.9     -66.0   -92.5      17.7     14.2      -10.9    177.6      41.9      40.9     14.0
Machinery and  quipment                   767            -6.1      42.7     4.6      73.5      9.2        10.0      6.0      5.9      11.4     11.0
Others                                    706            27.2      34.6    35.6      28.7      2.1        8.4       7.1      7.7       7.6      7.6
PRICES
Export price index                          100           100.2     86.5     98.6    U8.3    100.0         135.9    181.4    189.9    202.1    205.2
Import price index                          100           60.1      61.6     65.0     95.6    100.0        98.2    118.0    133.2    151.3    164.8
Term  of trad  indx                         100           16.7    140.4    151.7       92.4    100.0       136.4    153.7    142.6    133.6    124.5
Composition of Merchandise Trade (X)                           Average Annual Increase (Z)
(at current prices)                                    (at constant 1978 prices)
1965    1970    1975    1980    (985                1965-70    1970-75    1975-80    1980-85
fxports                                   L30.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                    4.9        33.2       -4.2         2.5
Primary                                 100.0   100.0   100.0    76.6    71.1                    4.9        33.2       -4.2         1.0
Kanufactures                               -       -        -     23.4    28.9                          -                b/         7.0
Laports                                   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                    8.3        14.9       14.2        7.7
Food                                      2.3      1.3     1.8     1.8     1.9                   0.2       22.7        39.0        8.5
Petroleum                                 8.2     6.2      1.5     1.5     0.3                  18.4      -15.8       -16.4      -27.2
Machinery end equipmnt                   28.3    29.9    46.0    50.3    51.2                    9.9        22.2       20.4        8.4
Others                                   61.2    62.6    50.7    46.4    46.5                    5.0        13.5       12.7         7.6
a/  Projected years:  1970=100.
b/ Processed food exports were reclassified as manufactures in 1980;
therei'ore 1975-1980 grouth rate would not accurately reflect changes in
export volume of these goods.
e/ Estimate.



- 25 -                                                        Annex I
Page 6 of 6
ECUADOi   -      LAINCZ OF PAKIT5, REXRAL CAPITAL MID DEBT
(dllio_  USS at current prices)
Population:  7,600  (did-1978, thousands)
GNP per Capita: US$910    (1978)
Actual                                                 Projected
Indicator                                    1970   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978(e)             1979   1980   1961   1962   1963   1965
BALANCE OF PAYIENTS
Exports of goods and services                    259   1333   1127   1432   1628   1769                2496   3374   3665   4041   4209   41.71
Of which: Merchandiee f.o.b.                   235   1225   1013   1307   1401   1532                2194-  3031   3279   3614   3758   3664
rmports of goode and services                    389   1327   1379   1469   2006   1976                2601   2968   3512   4257   4977   5432
Of which: Merchandie  f.o.b.                   250    875   1006   1048   1361   1315                1626   2101   2545   3185   3798   3949
Not transfers                                     17      31      32      31     36      44               40     40      40      40     40      40
Current account balance                         -113      38   -220      -6   -341   .163               -65    426    193   -176   -728  -1331
Private direct invetunt                           89      77      95    -20      34      40               50     60      60      60     60      60
MT lo ns (net                                     26      -7    133    161    513    267                552    -63    -18    -29    562   1315
Official                                         8      17      49     70      51      77              s0    103    161    195    214    195
Private                                         is    -24       U      91    461    190               472   -167   -179   -224    347   1120
Other capital                                      9       2    -72       39    44   -107               466      20      20      20     20      20
Change in reserves                               -10   -110       64   -174   -121    -37               -71   -443   -255.    125        87   -174
Internatioeel reserves                           179    428    364    536    650    687                 758   1201   1456   1331   1244   1358
of icbe old                                             16      16      16     17      17
Iaarees *ae              tlh irto                  4       4       3       4      4       4                3      5       5       4      3       3
KIURAL CAPITAL AM  DIST
Gross Disbursswnts
Official grants                                  -       -       _      _       _       _
Concessional loans                              12      17     40      45      31      21
DAC                                            9      12     IS      25      12       9
OPEC                                           -
IDA                                            2       4      7       3       5       1
Other                                          1       2     18      17      14      11
Non-concessional loans                          30      54    125    173    554    482
Official exports credits                       I       1      7      18      23     49
IBRD                                           2      5      10       4       a     22
other multilateral                             0       6      4      18      10      8
Private                                       26      41    104    133    514    403
External Debt (a)
Debt outstanding and
disbursed                                     213    327    457    619   1146   1563
Official                                     151    207    253    324    384    474
Private                                       62    120    204    295    762   1089
Ulndisbursed debt                              139    272    322    449    623    687
Debt service
Total service paYments                          24      94      50     82    117    204
Interest                                       7      17     17      25      45     96
Payments as 1 exports                          9.1    7.1    4.5    5.7    7.2   11.7
Average interest rate on new loane (S)           6.2    5.8    7.4    7.9    7.9    8.2
Official                                       3.0    4.8    6.6    7.7    7.0    4.4
Private                                        7.6   11.5    8.2    8.0    8.1    9.3
Average uturity of naw loans (yeare)            19.7   25.3   10.6   11.2   10.2   12.1
Official                                      37.9   28.1   15.9   19.3   18.7   27.9
Private                                       12.0    9.2    6.4    7.3    7.6    7.2
As 2 of Debt Outstanding
at End of Most Recent
Year (1978)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Principal due within 5 years                                            60.7
Principal due vithin 10 years                                          106.0
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                           7.6
(a) This table includes non-guaranteed private debt starting in 197i*
(e) Eatinate.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ECUADOR
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS* (as of April 30, 1980)
---   US$ million---------
Loan or                                                        (less cancellations)
Credit  Fiscal                                              Amount
Number   Year          Borrower         Purpose             Bank       IDA   Undisbursed
10 loans and 4 credits fully disbursed                      85.5       28.0
124     1968 (IDA)  Ecuador            Education              -        5.2         .5
555     1969         Ecuador           Fisheries            4.3          -         .5
425     1974 (IDA)  Ecuador            Irrigation             -        5.5        1.1
1030     1974         Empresa           Water Supply        23.2          -        7.2
Municipal de
Agua Potable
de Guayaquil
1157     1975         Ecuador           Education            4.0          -        3.8
1229     1976         Ecuador           Seeds                3.0          -        2.3
1230     1976         Ecuador           Technical            4.0          -        3.6
As si stance
1231     1976         Ecuador           Highways            10.5          -        4.1
1255     1976         Guayaquil         Ports               33.5          -       16.0
Port Authority
1359     1977         Ecuador           DFC                 26.0          -        3.2
1429     1977         Ecuador           Highways            17.5          -       12.0
1459     1977         Ecuador           Agriculture         15.5          -       14.2
S006      1978         Ecuador          Technical           11.0          -       10.8
Assistance
1644     1978         Ecuador           Rural Development 18.0            -       18.0
1731      1979         Ecuador          DFC                 40.0          -       40.0
1776      1980         Ecuador          Guayaquil Urban
Development       31.0          -       31.0
Total                                         327.0       38.7      168.3
of which has been repaid                    64.8        0.7
Total now outstanding                         262.2       38.0
Amount sold                           4.1
of which has been repaid            2.1      2.0       _
Total now held by Bank and IDA                260.2       38.0
Total undisbursed                             166.7        1.6      168.3
*Includes exchange adjustments.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of April 30, 1980)
Type of    -Amount in US$ Million-
Fiscal Year                                         Business   Loan    Equity    Total
1966 & 1972   La Internacional, S.A.                Textiles    3.7        0.2       3.9
1969, 1973,   Compania Financiera
1975 & 1977   Ecuatoriana de Desarrollo,
S.A. (COFIEC)                        DFC            -       0.4      0.4
1976           Sociedad Agricola e Industrial    Sugar Mill  5.0             -       5.0
San Carlos, S.A.
1978           La Cemento Nacional CEM              Cement      12.0       1.0      13.0
1980           Adamas Andina S.A.                   Pulp and
Paper      3.3       1.0       4.3
Total gross commitments                          24.0       2.6      26.6
Less cancellations, terminations
repayments and sales                         3.8       0.4       4.2
Total commitments now held by IFC                20.2       2.2     22.4
Total undisbursed                                10.7       1.2     11.9



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Credit 124-F' -  Education Project:  US$5.1 million Credit of June 27. 1968;
Effective Date: August 30, 1968; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
The project has faced difficulties from the start and is now
about seven years behind schedule. Many of the 28 schools involved still
require some work, consisting primarily in the completion of laboratories
and workshops and in the installation or completion of electricity, water
and sewerage connections. The present Government has indicated its willing-
ness to complete the project and an inventory of the work remaining to be done
has been prepared. The construction/rectification process is progressing
satisfactorily with the Government's support and should be completed by end
1980.
Credit 425-EC - Milagro Irrigation Project; US$5.5 million Credit of August 17,
1973; Effective Date: January 17, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The project aims at increasing agricultural production in an area
covering about 7,000 ha. More than 80 percent of the Credit for irrigation
and road infrastructure, equipment and vehicles has been disbursed. However,
there is need to plan and implement on-farm development, including provision
of production-support;ng services such as applied research, agricultural
extension and credit. Land titling should be completed by mid-1980. A
proposal for reprogramming of project activities by the Ecuadorian Water
Resources Institute--in consultation with the Ministry of Agriculture and the
National Research Institute and assisted by outside consultants--was presented
to the Association in early 1980, and is directed at supporting on-farm
development. The proposal, however, does not fully resolve issues related
to completion of the irrigation system, on-farm development and credit.
The balance of the Credit may, therefore, be cancelled.
Loan 1030-EC - Guayaquil and Guayas Province Water Supply Project; US$23.2
million Loan of July 23, 1974; Effective Date: January 29,
1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Project execution has been delayed by frequent managerial changes,
lack of counterpart funds and slippages in the hiring of consultants. As a
result, the project is now about three years behind schedule. Recently, project
execution has improved and construction is now underway on 90 percent of the
project components. Because of the delays, however, the project faces severe
1/   These notes are a? igned to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being eucountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Pope 4 9 6
cost over-runs and a serious problem of counterpart funds. 2Iore specifically,
the Guayaquil Water Company requires about US$40 million through 1982 from the
Government or from increased water tariffs to complete the project. In March
1980, the new Government provided a US$17 million loan to the Water Company.
An extension of the closing date will be necessary to permit completion of
civil works.
Loan 1157-EC - Vocational Training Project; US$4.0 million Loan of September 3,
1975; Effective Date: November 24, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
Project implementation is 2-1/2 years behind appraisal schedule
due to frequent managerial changes, serious financial problems and technical
difficulties with the design and space standards of the Quito and Guayaquil
training centers. A Vocational Training Law was enacted in October 1978
which is helping to resolve many of the financial and management problems
and the present Government has shown strong support. Bidding for equipment
purchase and construction of the training centers is expected to take place
shortly. The closing date was extended by two years to permit the project's
conclusion.
Loan 1229-EC - Seeds Project; US$3 million Loan of May 24, 1976; Effective
Date: October 20, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Project execution and loan disbursement have proceeded more slowly
than anticipated, but recent Government actions have reactivated the project.
The implementing institutions (National Seeds Council, Improved Seeds Company,
Department of Seed Certification and the Project Unit) have been established
and staffed. The Improved Seeds Company, however, is not yet operating at
full capacity and thus is unable to cover its expenses or amortize its portion
of the loan. Procurement for works and equipment of the seed plants is
underway, and the National Development Bank has indicated it will provide
interim financial support to the Seeds Company. An extension of the closing
date by 18 months will be necessary to pernit completion of construction.
Loan 1230-EC - Technical Assistance Project; US$4.0 million Loan of May 24,
1976; Effective Date: October 20, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
This project financed preparation of the Bank's first rural devel-
opment project in Tungurahua Province and will support final studies for
another in Esmeraldas Province. Recent amendments proposed would permit
Ecuador's military mapping institute to undertake the aerial studies of the
Guayas Basin, on the basis of which topographic and prefeasibility studies can
be done for the region. This study would absorb over half of the loan resources.
Road and land use studies for a site in Esmeraldas Province are in contracting
stages.   Selection of experts to work with the Rural Development Planning
Unit is expected to take place by late 1980.  These recent Government moves
should help to accelerate this long-delayed project. The closing date would
have to be extended to permit completion of the extensive topographical work
in the Guayas Basin.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Loan 1231-EC - Fourth Highway Project; US$10.5 million Loan of May 24, 1976;
Effective Date: October 13, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
After an initial delay of twelve months in the contracting process,
all civil works and technical assistance elements under the project are in
execution and advancing satisfactorily, although civil works are about six
months behind contract schedule. The technical assistance programs are
already showing their positive effects on highway planning, engineering and
maintenance. The project closing date has been extended to permit completion
of the preparation studies for a rural development project in the Puerto
Ila-Chone area, as well as civil works.
Loan 1255-EC - Second Guayaquil Port Project; US$33.5 million Loan of May 24,
1976; Effective Date: March 11, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Although design and price disputes initially hindered the project's
execution, works are now progressing satisfactorily and project problems
are minor. Dredging and reclamation have been completed, piling and decking
of the wharfs have advanced to about 30 percent, and buildings and other
structures on land are 20 percent complete. By April 30, 1980, 48 percent
of the loan amount (or US$16.0 million) had been disbursed. Civil works are
expected to be completed by end 1980 and the entire project by June 1982. An
extension of the closing date will be necessary.
Loan 1359-EC - Third Development Banking Project: US$26.0 million Loan
of February 18, 1977; Effective Date: August 9, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
This project is one of the Bank's success stories in Ecuador.
Project commitments have proceeded faster than anticipated and now stand
at UJS$23 million.  Since new financieras that were expected to receive the
remaining US$3 million under this loan were unable to meet the criteria
required for participation, at the Government's request the project was
modified to permit these financieras to have access to Bank funds through
CFN, Ecuador's largest finance company.
Loan 1429-EC - Fifth Highway Project; US$17.5 million Loan of September 22,
1977; Effective Date: January 10, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
Construction of the Duran-Boliche road, which represents 60 percent
of total project costs, is proceeding on schedule. Design changes on this
road have, however, generated an increase in costs. Construction of the
Puerto Ila-Doblones road is a year behind schedule and construction of its
lateral feeder roads has not yet begun, which could further delay project
execution. The study of regional secondary and feeder roads in three provinces
has been completed and is serving as the basis for the proposed Sixth Highway
Project.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Loan 1459-EC - Agricultural Credit I Project; US$15.5 million Loan of
November 3, 1977; Effective Date: June 14, 1978:
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The loan continues a program of credit for livestock development
financed under three previous loans and credits, but has been broadened
to cover crop farms, small rural industries and local consulting services.
In addition, there are applied research and technical assistance components
as well. The National Development Bank (BNF), the largest lender in the
agriculture sector, delayed participation in the project to allow time to
train staff but recently began to make commitments.  Thirteen banks and
financieras now have signed participation agreements. Arrangements have been
made with the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock and CREA, a regional
development agency, to coordinate the provision of extension services with
development credit to small farmers. Disbursements are accelerating.
Loan S-006-EC - Second Technical Assistance Project; US$11.0 million Loan of
November 3, 1977; Effective Date: March 1, 1978;
Closing Date: January 31, 1982.
This project has moved ahead at a disappointingly slow pace and
two years after effectiveness, only about US$200,000 has been disbursed.
Contracts have been signed for three of ten selected studies and work is
progressing on drafting satisfactory terms of reference and on bidding and
contracting for most of the others. The project list has undergone revision
and a final list is being prepared with the present Government. A change
of status of the experts to be hired under the project is being negotiated
with UNDP, so that experts' services would be financed with loan resources.
Loan 1644-EC - Tungurahua Rural Development Project; US$18 million Loan
of May 11, 1979; Effective Date: September 28, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
This integrated rural development project is just getting underway.
A Project Unit has been established and experts have been recruited.
Loan 1731-EC - Fourth Development Finance Project; US$40 million Loan of
December 17, 1979; Effective Date: July 15, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983.
This project, a follow-up to earlier successful loans, is expected
to disburse quickly as participating DFCs have a backlog of industrial sub-
projects under review.
Loan 1776-EC - Guavaquil Urban Development Project; US$31 million Loan
of May 9, 1980; Effective Date: August 12, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985.
This project was approved December 11, 1979 and was recently signed.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
ECUADOR
SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE CREDIT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by Country to prepare project:   7 months
(b) Project prepared by: CFN with assistance from Bank staff
(c) First presentation to the Bank: June 1978
(d) Identification of Project: September 1979
(e) Departure of Appraisal Mission: November 1979
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness: January 1981
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions:
(a) All subprojects would be reviewed by Fund staff and those
receiving subloans above US$150,000 would require prior Fund
approval. This limit would be adjusted from time to time
as needed. The Bank would review and comment on the first sub-
loan over US$50,000 from each financial intermediary and would
approve all subloans over US$250,000. Subject to review 6 months
after the project begins, an economic return would be calculated
for subprojects requiring subloans of US$150,000 or more.
Subject to review no later than 18 months after loan signature,
no single financial intermediary could commit more than US$12.0
million in project funds (para. 64). The maximum amount in
project funds which could be onlent to a single SSE would be
US$300,000 (para. 63);
(b)  CFN would take all action necessary to change the Corporation's
fee and commission structure by June 30, 1981 to permit maximum
allowable charges (para. 61);
(c) CFN would adopt a policy statement, operating procedures,
an organizational and staffing plan and project appraisal
and supervision guidelines satisfactory to the Bank for
the Fund (condition of loan effectiveness, para. 57);



- 33 -
ANNEX- III
Page 2 of 2
(d) the Government and Central Bank would enter into a fiscal
agency contract satisfactory to the Bank. The Government
would also make a US$6 million capital contribution to
the Fund in three installments. The first US$3,000,000
would be a condition of loan affectiveness. The depositing
of installments of US$1.5 million each by no later than
June 30, 1981 and October 31, 1981 would be conditions of
disbursement for the final US$10 million and US$5 million of
the proposed loan (para. 55);
(e) the Central Bank and CFN would enter into a subsidiary
loan agreement, satisfactory to the Bank (condition of
loan effectiveness, para. 56);
(f) CFN and each financial intermediary would enter into a
participation agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, as
a condition of disbursement of loan proceeds to that
financial intermediary (para. 57);
(g) a Technical Cooperation Committee--including representatives
of CFN, MICEI and the National Federation of Chambers of
Small Industry--would be established. Agreements, satis-
factory to the Bank, would be entered into by CFN, MICEI
and the Federation to govern the provision of CFN grants
for technical assistance to SSEs (para. 59).



