Docunent of
The World Bapk
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10506-BR   Type: (PCR)                           ReportNo. 10506
MACKIE, T / X31752 / T9053/ OEDD1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
MARANHAO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2177-BR)
MAKE,H 31, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfotlaance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EOUIVALENT UNITS
Appraisal:
Currency Unit = Brazilian Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1.00   Cr$100.68 (August 1981)
Cr$1.00 - US$0.009932
Completion:
Currency Unit = Brazilian Cruzado (Cz$)
US$1.00 = Cz$666.56 (December 1988)
CZ$1.O0 = US$0.0015
Cz$1.00 = Cr$.,000
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
PROJECT FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout this report



THE WORLD BANK                FOR OFMICIAL USE ONLY
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of DirectrC;eneiral
Operations Evaluation
March 31, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on BRAZIL
Maranhao Rural Development Prolect (Loan 2177-BR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Brazil - Maranhao Rural Development
Project (Loan 2177-BR)" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office. This project has not been audited by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
APCR                 -    Apoio a Pequenas Comrunidades Rurais
(Small Rural Community Project)
CAP                  -    Compra Antecipada da Produqao
(Aivance Production Purchasing Program)
CEAG                 -    Centro de Apoio a Empresas Pequenas e Medias
(Center for Support of Small and Medium Businesses)
CEASA-MA             -    Central de Abastecimento do Maranhao
(State Food Supply Center)
CEP                  -    Compra de Excedente da PrDdug&o
(Surplus Crop Purchasing Scheme)
COBAL                -    Companhia Brasileira de Alimentos
(Brazilian Food Company)
CODERMA (DERMA)      -    Companhia de Desenvolvimento Rodoviario do Maranh&o
(State Road Development Company)
COLONE               -    Companhia de ColonizaqAo do Nordeste
(Northeast Colonization Company)
COMABA               -    Companhia Maranhense de Abastecimento
(State Input Supply Company)
COPENAT              -    Companhia de Pesquisa e Aproveitamento de Recursos
Naturais
(State Company for Research and Use of Natural
Resources)
EMAPA                -    Empresa Maranhense de Pesquisa Agropecu&ria
(State Agricultural Research Company)
EMATER-MA            -    Empresa de Assistencia T6cnica e Extens&o Rural de
Maranhao
(Maranhao State Technical Assistance and Rural
Extension Company)
EMBRAPA              -    Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(Brazilian Agricultural Research Company)
BINACOM              -    Financiamer.to da Comercializaq&o
(Marketing Credit Program)
FSESP                -    Fundaqao Servigo Especial de Sadde Pdblica
(Federal Public Health Foundation)
GOB                  -    Government of Brazil



IBDF                 -    Instituto Brasileiro de Desenvolvimento Florestal
(Brazilian Forestry Institute)
ITERhA              -    Instituto de Colonizagao e Terras do Estado do
Maranhao
(Maranhao State Colonization and Land Institute)
INCRA               -    Instituto Nacional de ColonizagAo e Reforma Agraria
(National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian
Reform)
MINTER               -    Minist6rio do Interior
(Ministry of the Interior)
PMU                  -    Project Management Unit
POLONORDESTE         -    Programa de Desenvolvimento de Areas Integradas do
Nordeste
(Development Program for Integrated Areas of the
Northeast)
PROBOR               -    Programa de Desenvolvimento da Borracha
(Rubber Development Program)
SEDUC                -    Secretaria Estadual de Educagao
(State Education Department)
SESAU                -    Secretaria Estadual de Sadde
(State Health Department of MaranhAo)
SEPLAN-MA            -    Secretaria de Coordenac&o e Planejamento do Estado
do Maranhao
(State Planning and Coordination Department)
SPE/SEPLAN-MA        -    Superintend8ncia de Programas Especiais
(Superintendency for Special Programs of SEPLAN-MA)
SRDC                 -    Conselho Estadual de Desenvolvimento Rural
(State Rural Development Council)
SUDENE               -    Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
(Superintendency for the Development of the
Northeast)



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
MARANHAO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2177-BR)
TABLE Or CONTENTS
Pace
PREFACE ..                                       . ....j. . .
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..                                  .        ... . . . .ii
PART I.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . . . . .      1
Project Identity   ...  .     . . . . . . .  . .   ..........             1
ProjectBackground   ................. ..                     ... .        1
Project Objectives and Description   ... .  .  .  .  .  .   . .. . .      2
Project Design and Organization  . . . . . .                         .. .   4
ProjectImplementation   ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    ........    5
Project Costs   . . . . . . . . . .  ...... ..                 .    5
Land Regu'arization and Redistribution     .    .    .  . . .. .     5
Land Use Capability ard Plaaning Studies  .. .    .    ...   6
Agricultural Research and Seed Production   ... .  .  .  .   ..      7
Rural  Extension  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  7
Market Information, Input Supply, Cooperatives.    . . .  .  .  .   .    8
Fisheries   ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . . . . .  .   .    9
ForestryDevelopment  ................ ...   9
Small-Scale Enterprises   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
Rural Transport   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  .  .  .    . .  .   .    9
Social Services   ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . . . . . .   .  9
Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation   ...  .  .  .  .    .  10
AgriculturalCredit   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  .  .  .   .   10
Integration of Project Activities   ... .  .  .    .  .  .    . . .  .   11
Project Results  .     .    .    .     ..................... .  12
ProjectSustainability   . . . . . . .   . . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . ...  .  .   .   13
BankPerformance   ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .... .      15
BorrowerPerformance       ....  . . . .  .. . . . . . . . . . .    .   16
Project Relationship   ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ........   .   17
ConsultingServices ......... . 17
ProjectDocumentationandData   ... .  .  .  .   ... . . .  .  .  .  .   .   17
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. ts contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS
(Continued)
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . . .  19
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION ... .     . . . . . . . . .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  21
Table 1: Related Bank Loans.. .    .    . 21
Table 2: Project Timetable .       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Table 3: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements   . . .  22
Table 4: Key Project Implementation Indicators .. .... .  .   . 23
Table 5: Project Costs and Financing .         .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 8
Table 6: Project Results.. .. . . . . .  .  .  .  .   . 2-
Table 7: Compliance with Key Legal Covenants . . . . . . . . . . 30
TablS 8: Use of Bank Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Annex  1    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .3
Annexc  2  .   ..    ..    .    ..    ..   ..    ..    .    ..    ..   ..    ..      3
,): 1P.-,  l'6., ?



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
MARANHKO RMURL D)EVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2177-BR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the MaranhAo Rural
Developmeunt Project which was part of the Development Program for Integrated
Areas of the Northeast (POLONORDESTE) in Brazil. Loan 2177-BR, in the amount
of US$42.7 million, was approved on June 10, 1982 to finance the
implementation of the project, whose total cost was estimated at US$122.9
million. The Loan and Project Agreements are dated June 25, 1982. The Loan
closed on December 31, 1988 after a one-year extension of the original closing
eate o; "-*cember 30, 1987. WPndl disbursement of loan proceeds took place on
-Sptembor 1, 1989. Some US$31.7 million was disbursed and US$11.0 million was
c-oce lled.
The CR %as prepared by the Agriculture opurations Division of Country
Departmei  I in the Latin America and Caribbean Region.  Because of extensive
changes    personnel following the national and otate elections, it has not
been possible for the Borrower to provide a review of the project from its own
perspective (-tart II).
The PCR (Parts I and III) is based on a field visit in Dece-mber 1990,
the Staff Appraisal Report, the President's Report, the Loan and Project
Agreements, studies by the State of Maranhao, Bank supervision reports,
project correspondence, and internal Bank memoranda.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRARIL
MARANHAO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2177-BR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.        The Maranhao Rural Development was an integrated rural development
project designed to benefit 39,000 farmers in the Baixada, Alto Turi and
Mearim-Pindare sub-regions of the State of Maranhao in Northeastern Brazil.
The objective of the project was to improve the standard of living of small
farmers and inland fishermen by increasing production and productivity. The
project aimed to regularize and redistribute land holdings, make available
production-enhancing technology and modern inputs, carry out agricultural
research, provide marketing services and information, and help establish farm
cooperatives. The project was designed to wcrk hand-in-hand with improved
access to credit for small farmers. The project also provided support for
education and improved health facilities, and aimed at strengthening state
agencies.
Imolementation Exoerience
2.        At appraisal, project costs were estimated at US$122.2 million of
which US$42.7 million (34.9%) were to be financed out of the loan. Between
1984 and 1986, the project was included in a Special Action Program to
accelerate disbursements for ongoing projects in Brazil and Bank cost-sharing
was temporarily increased to 67% and later set at 50%. At loan closing
(December 31, 1989), total project costs were estimated at US$61.2 million, of
which US$31.04 million (50.7%) were proceeds from the loan.
3.        The number of direct beneficiaries of land regularization was 25%
of the appraisal estimate (about 9,800 compared to 39,000 families). The
capacity for agricultural research and extension was increased through the
expansion of staff, training and the construction of new facilities. The
project supported creation of farmer and inland fishing cooperatives, the
construction of facilities, and the provision of crop storage, input supply,
and marketing services. Credit services were provided to farmers through the
cooperatives, but the supply of credit, which was not financed under the loan,
was well below appraisal estimates. Facilities for health and education were
built or upgraded and recycling courses were held for health workers and
teachers. Water supply systems were built in a large number of communities.



- iv -
4.        The project was implemented as three separately administered sub-
projects. The Alto Turi sub-project was, at first, implemented entirely by a
land colonization company, COLONE. Consistent with the Bank's
recommendations, COLONE's involvement in most project activities was phased
out over the life of the project, and implementation was taken over by state
and federa) agencies under COLONE coordination. The Baixada sub-project was
implementea by a variety of state and federal agencies under the coordination
of the Special Projects Division (SPE) of the State Planning Agency (SEPLAN-
MA). The Mearim-Pindar6 sub-project cc,..sisted entirely of land regularization
activities (other activities were supported under a separate Bank loan). This
sub-project was implemented by INCRA which, after two years, passed its
responsibilities to ITERMA, the Maranhao State Colonization and Land
Institute.
Results
5.        Land titling and redistribution fell short of their appraisal
targets. However, the implementing capacity of ITERMA was significantly
enhanced by the project and the groundwork was laid for additional titling and
redistribution to be carried out in the future, particularly through the
acquisition of aerial photography. Farm production and productivity
apparently did not improve over the implementation period. Agricultural
research and extension were carried out, but were not well coordinated and did
not succeed in introducing new technology to the target population. Market
systems, crop storage and farmer organizations also received assistance, but
there were few lasting benefits. There were significant gains in educational,
health and water supply facilities, although the quality of these services has
not been consistently high.
Sustainability
6.        The project was successful in meeting targets that were means to
achieving the longer-term goals of the project. However, while the physical
tarcats were often met, the activity itself was often compromised by lack of
coordination and inadequate human resources. The long term sustainability of
the project actions depends on the ability of the State of Maranhao Government
to s!pport the activities begun under the project. This depends on an
effe-tive coordination of ---ious actions carried out by diverse agencies.
The lack of strong coord.  w an was a problem during implementation and is
likely to remain a prob''  .n the post-projoe'vt period.  Also, the current
fiscal situation does rf.  lagur well for the Zuture financing of such
activities as research ana extension. The long-term commitment of the State
of Maranhao to the project objectives is the key question on which
sustainability hinges. In the present, changing context, the level of
commitment is difficult to gauge.
7.        Findinas and Lessons Learned
°    The project was too complex for the administrative machinery that
could be put in place. The Bank should ensure that project



management ls strong enough to bear the administrative load in
future projects, and project design if necessary, should be
modifled accordingly.
The project Buffered from the lack of sound, profession&l,
autonomous project managemeuv providing constant leadership and
oversight. Weaknesses in project management could have been
identified earlier and appropriate remedial action could have been
taken. The PHUs in the project did not have sufficient authority
over the agencies whose activities they coordinated and supervised
in the implementation of this project. More attention needs to be
given to defining the role of the PMU vi^-&-uis other agencies and
levels of government in a project of    b complexity.  The
it.stitutional basis for project manage._.   L s-ould be set out
clearly in conditions for loan effectiverne s.
o    The management of the project, particularly of the -aixada
subproject, was not sufficiently insulated from political
influence. The procedures for allocating resources in such
projects need to be set up in such a way as to avoid distortions in
setting priorities.
o    The importance of titling landholders may have been overemphasized
in this project. Based on this experience, one can conclude that
secure tenure for small farmers is a necessary, but not sufficient
condition for improvements in production, productivity and standard
of living.
0    The Bank's approach to COLONE was somewhat ambiguous.  While, on
the one hand, the Bank accepted COLONF as a management and
implementing unit, on the other hand, it was intended to phase out
COLONE during implementation. Project implementation might have
been smoother had COLONE not been. made an implementing agency at
all.
o    Despite the Special Action Program from 1984 - 1986, designed to
increase the flow of resources into Brazil by temporarily
increasing the percentage of Bank financing of project costs,
counterpart funding romained a problem throughout the project.
o    Althouc  there was an explicit covenant in the Loan Agreement
enjoining the GOB to make credit available to farmerg, this
covenant was not sufficient to oblige the Government to provide
such credit. To the extent that a project's success is dependent
on credit, the loan must provide resources for it., or
alternatively, the Bank should not proceed with *e project.
o    The project failed to capitalize on pre-existing community
organizations which were able to mobilize communities seeking
benefits under the program. Project management should be sensitive
to local organization and use it to further project goals.



PRUJECT COMPLETXON REPORT
BRAZIL
MARANHAO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
{Loan 2177-BR)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE EANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.        Proiect Identity
Project Name:      Maranhao Rural Development Project
- Project Number: 2177-BR
- RVP Unit:          Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Country Department I
- Country:           Brazil
- Sector:            Agriculture
2.        Proiect Backaround
2.01      The Northeast of Brazil is predominantly rural and predominantly
poor. It has traditionally contributed large numbers of migrants to the
cities and to other regions, as smallholders and sharecroppers flee the
cyclical droughts, poverty and lack of opportunity that are endemic to the
region. For several decades, the Federal G3vernment has sought to stabilize
the economy of the Northeast, to reduce the impact of droughts, to increase
farm productivity, and to reduce migration out of the region. These efforts
culminated in 1959 with the creation of the Superintendency for the
Development of the Northeast (SUDENE) which utilized development funds, fiscal
incentives, systematic planning and other means to modernize agriculture and
to attract industry to the region.
2.02      The period 1968 - 1979 was one of unprecedented growth in Brazil's
economy. The economy of Northeastern Brazil also grew at a rapid rate.
However growth in this region was unbalanced: industry and services grew
rapidly, while agriculture generally languished.  Even where production rose,
agricultural yields remained low and relative'- few farmers used modern
inputs, farm equipment and intensive cultivation techniques.  The two oil
shocks of the 1970s and the mounting foreign debt crisis, as well as a growing
crisis in public administration, all contributed to a slowdown in Brazil's
growth rate during the 1980s.  While special tax incentives and government
initiatives favoring the Northeast remained in place, the volume of resources
moving into these states was low, and growth in output was slow or negligible.
In particular, the flow of Federal funds into the region became highly
irregular and declined in overall volume.
2.03      The POLONORDESTE program, coordinated by the Ministry of Interior
(MINTER) and regionally administered by SUDENE, was launched in 1981. Its
objectives were to raise the productivity and incomes of small farmers in
selected subregions of Northeastern Brazil. Its approach was to provide a set
of services to farming communities in such a way as to promote synergy among
various activities. These services included regularization of land tenure,



- 2 -
agricultural extension and research, production and distribution of selected
seeds, agricultural marketing credit, social, educational and health services,
and assistance to community self-help projects. The Maranhfo project was the
ninth of ten Bank-financed projects within the POLONORDESTE Program.
2.04      The setting in whtch the POLONORDESTE program was implemented was
difficult at best. Althougt. there were some exceptions throughout the
Northeast region, during the paqt several decades agricultural production
languished, and poverty and outmigration continued apace. There were very few
gains in productivity of the major regional crops: sugar cane, maize, beans
cowpeas, cassava, cotton, sisal, castor beans. Neither were there significant
improvements in livestock production. Few farmers took advantage of modern
agricultural technology, in part because they lacked the information, but also
because they lacked access to credit. These problems were magnified by the
fact that many farmers did not have legal title to the land they farmed, and
tenancy arrangements included sharecropping, renting, squatting, or untitled
possession. Property boundaries were vague or non-existent, and many farmers
lacked properly registered deeds.
2.05      The State of Maranhao, which straddles the line between the semi-
arid Northeast and the Amazon rainforest is largely imm:nne from the periodic
droughts that affect most of the interior of the other northeastern states.
Like the rest of the Northeast, however, it has a skewed pattern of land
ownership. The 1975 Agricultural Census showed that some 13% of the farmers
claimed ownership to about 64% of the land. About 85% of all rural producers
were non-owners or lacked secure title to their holdings.
2.06      At the time of project implementation, the principal crop in
Maranhao was smallholder rice and the state traditionally was a major producer
of this important food staple. Other crops included manioc, beans, maize,
squash, pineapples, and bananas. Many farmers used pesticides and herbicides
for the rice crop, but very few used farm machinery, improved seeds, chemical
tertilizers, and other modern inputs. Services important to an increase in
production and productivity, including agricultural research, rural extension,
storage and marketing facilities were also largely unavailable to small
farmers. Finally, most of the transport infrastructure and facilities were
deficient.
2.07      Social services were also generally deficient in rural Maranhao.
The quality of educational facilities and teaching were very low. Health
facilities were deficient or unavailable to rural populations. Most rural
dwellers lackced access to pure water supplies.
3.        Proiect Obiectives and Descri2tion
3.01      The Maranhao Rural Development Project was targeted to three
subregions in the northern part of the State of Maranh&o, comprising 47



-3-
municipalities at appraisal time (see Annex map).! The Baisada subregion
was an established agricultural area, with production based on shifting
agriculture and extraction of babassu coconuts. Many small farmers with
traditionally recognized land rights were under pressure from expanding cattle
ranches. Many had been transformed from farmers with de facto use rights to
their land into renters or landless laborers. The Mearim-Pindar6 subregion
was in a more advanced stage of a similar process. The third subregion
consisted of Sub-area III of the Alto Turi land settlement project. This was
a colonization project totalling 850,000 ha in largely unsettled tropical
forest. Land tenure regularization, agricultural and social servicee and
other activities in Sub-areas I and II of Alto Turi were supported under an
earlier Bank-financed project (Loan 853-BR) implemented between 1972 and 1980.
3.02      The objective of the project financed under Loan 2177-BR was to
improve the standard of living for some 39,000 small farmers in the three sub-
regions by increasing agricultural production and productivity. The project
aimed at making farmers' tenure secure by mapping and surveying landholdings
in the project area. Property boundaries would be plotted on maps and
verified on the ground. Farmers lacking title would be assisted in gaining
legal title to the land they farmed. Areas determined to be available would
be subdivided and distributed to farmers without land. The project also
provided a coordinated set of support services for production and marketing of
farm and inland fishery products. In addition, the project aimed at raising
living standards through better education, better health facilities and
community organization. The project provided for the strengthening of State
agencies perceived to be weak, through staff training, the addition of new
staff, construction of new facilities and the acquisition of equipment.
3.03      Project components fall under three major headings: (a) production
support and infrastructure, including land regularization and redistribution,
land use capability studies, agricultural research and seed production,
agricultural extension, marketing, input supply and cooperatives, inland
fisheries, forestry development, small-scale enterprises and rural transport;
(b) social infrastructure, including education and vocational training, and
health and water supply; and (c) project administration, including project
management and monitoring and project evaluation.
3.04      The Alto-Turi subproject was designed as a follow on to the land
activities supported under a previous colonization project (Loan 853-BR).
Full production support activities were provided in the Alto Turi and Baixada
subprojects, while activities in the Mearim-Pindare region were restricted to
land tenure regularization. Production support and social infrastructure is
being made available to the Mearim-Pindare subproject under the ongoing
Northeast Rural Development Project (Loan 2862-BR) approved in 1987. Other
support for land tenure regularization is provided by the ongoing Northeast
Region Land Tenure Improvement Project (Loan 2593-BR) approved in 1985.
1/ New municipalities have been added as a result of the subdivision of
political units.



-4-
3.05      The project was to be implemented over a five-year period.  Because
project activitiee were tailored to meet the specific needs of each subregion,
a separate 'roject Management Unit (PMU) was established for each of them, and
each PMU was expected to keep separate accounts of its project expenditures.
4.        Prolect Desian and Oroanization
4.01      The project was designed as an integrated who>a, combining support
for land regularization with support for technical, financial and social
services. At appraisal, about 33% of the total base costs were expected to be
used for land regularization and land use studies, about 25i of costs were
estimated for production support and 23% for rural transport. The remaining
portion of project costs were allocated to social services (12%) and project
administration (6%). The project design was based on the assumption that
secure land tenure would allow farmers to make use of credit and modern
inputs, thereby increasing productivity.
4.02      As mentioned above, the project was divided into three subregions,
each with a separate management unit. There was no centralized management of
the project. Management of the Baixada subproject was lodged in the
Superintendency for Special programs (SPE), an agency subordinate to the State
Secretariat of Planning (SEPLAN-MA). SPE set up regional offices in the
Baixada regioa from which coordination and monitoring was carried out. Actual
project activities were carried out by an array of state and federal agencies,
including the Maranhao Colonization and Land Institute (ITERMA), the State
Agricultural Research Company (EMAPA), the State Technical Assistance and
Rural Extension Company (EMATER-MA), the State Food Supply Center (CEASA), the
State Company for Research and Use of Natural Resources (COPENAT), the
Brazilian Forestry Institute (IBDF), the Brazilian Agricultural Research
Company (EMBRAPA), the Center for the Support of Small and Medium Business
(CEAG), the State Road Development Company (CODERMA), the State Secretariats
of Education (SEDUC) and Health (SESAU) (Annex 1).
4.03      The Mearim-Pindar6 sub-project was first the responsibility of the
National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian Reform (INCRA), but poor
management and lack of action led to the transfer of this responsibility to
ITERMA. Only under the direction of ITERMA was progress made in this
subproject.
4.04      Activities in the Alto-Turi subregion were managed by the Northeast
Colonization Company (COLONE), a parastatal colonization company for the
Northeast, created by the Federal Government in 1972 under the Ministry of
Agriculture to manage the federal Alto-Turi land concession. COLONE later
became a subsidiary of SUDENE. Over the twenty years of its administration,
COLONE had constituted itself as a parallel authority to the stete, providing
a wide range of services, including schools, health, water supply,
agricultural research and extension, as well as land regularization. With
financing from the federal government ar.d Bank loans, COLONE created what was
practically a parallel government within the Alto Turi subregion. However, at
the urging of the Bank's supervision missions, over the life of the project,



-5-
COLONE's functions were handed over to state agencies such as EMAPA, EMATER,
SEDUC and the Federal Public Health F-andation (FSESP).
5.        Project Implementation
5.01      Implementation of the key project components was slower than
expected. This was largely a result of the institutional instability over the
life of the project. Of the three subprojects, only the Baixada subregion
managed by SPE enjoyed a fair degree of stability.
5.02      Prolect Costs.  The total project costs of US$61.2 million were
about half of the appraisal estimate of US$122.2 million. Nearly every
component uzlerspent its appraisal estimate with the exception of Small-Scale
Enterprises and Project Management and Monitoring. The proportion of total
project expenditures for each component was roughly in line with the appraisal
estimates, except for Land Regularization and Project Administration. The
former accounted for nearly a third of total expenditures, versus the
appraisal estimate of 25%. Project Administration consumed a proportion twice
as large as that estimated at appraisal, suggesting that the efficiency of
administration was lower than anticipated. The Bank's share in project
financing was higher than anticipated at appraisal (about 50.7% versus the
appraisal estimate of 34.9%), but close to the 50% overall cost-sharing
established under the Special Action Program for this project and later
adopted as the norm for Brazil. The year of highest expenditures and Bank
disbursements was 1988 but in the two following years, less than half the 1988
total was expended (Table 1). Throughout, counterpart funding and hence Bank
disbursements were erratic and far less than originally anticipated.
Table 1 - Bank and Government of Brazil (GOB) Share of
Total Project Financing (USS million and percent)
[ FISCAL    1984  J  1985      1986   J   1987     1988       1989       1990
GOB          4.62      4.8        1.88      4.92       8.31      3.47      2.15
IBRD         1.8       5.58       3.85      5.39      9.12       3.55      1.74
TOTAL        6.42     10.38       5.73     10.31      17.43      7.02      3.89
GOB         72.0%     46.2%      32.8%     47.7%     47.7%      49.4%    55.3%
IBRD        28.0%     53.8%      67.2%     52.3%     52.3%      50.6%    44.7%
TOTAL      100.0%    100.0%    100.0%    100.0%    100.0%    100.0%   100.0%
5.03      Land Reaularization and Redistribution.  Land regularization
components experienced significant delays during implementation resulting in
serious downstream effects. In the Baixada subregion, for example, the target
set for regularization of land titles was 8,000 families, but only 2,470 (31%
of the target) were actually titled. Of a target of 4,000 families who were
to receive plots of land resulting from redistribution of discriminated land,



-6-
894 (22% of the target) were actually titled. In the Mearim-Pindar6
subregion, only 1,793, or 21% of the target of 8,500 titles, were regularized.
Similarly, only 2,021 (51%) parcels were distributed out of the target of
4,000. In the Alto Turi subregion, 2,641 new titles were issued only in
Subareas I and II, or 18.4% of the target, while in Subarea III, intended to
be the primary focus of the titling exercise, no new titles were issued
against an appraisal target of 6,800. Overall performance for titling was
about 26% of the appraisal target. However, much of the groundwork for land
titling has now been done, which may yet contribute significantly to future
land regularization in Maranh&o.
5.04      The primary reason for slow implementation of land tenure
activities were difficulties associated with the aerial survey of land
holdings. Early in the project, a decision was made to utilize aerial
photography to produce accurate cadastral maps of each subregion. At the
outset of the project, two years were lost as the contractors waited for
suitable flying weather. Delays in producing the base maps had a cascade
effect resulting in delays in the cadastral surveys, land discrimination,
demarcation and regularization of titles. In the last two years of the
project, counterpart funding slowed to a trickle and was extremely uneven.
While some work that could be carried out in state offices went on
uninterrupted, field work was severely disrupted by the lack of functioning
vehicles, lack of fuel budgets, travel per diems, and other essential
equipment and supplies.
5.05      In a number of cases, surveys were carried out by ITERMA, and plots
were laid out and distributed, but final titles were not issued to the farmers
because of the high cost of legal fees needed for drawing up and registering
formal deeds. As a consequence, these farmers received only provisional title
to land and were unable to obtain formal credit from banks.
5.06      As a result of the project, ITERMA underwent reorganization and was
strengthened through the acquisition of personnel and equipment. Its capacity
to execute land regularization activities was greatly enhanced by the project.
This agency also enjoyed strong leadership over the latter part of the project
period. However, the strengthening of ITERMA came too late in the project to
have a significant impact on the overall performance of the agency in carrying
out project activities.
5.07      Land Use Capabilitv and Planning Studies.  Studies on land use
capability were carried out, but there are no indications as to the
utilization of such studies. Extensive aerial photography and orthomaps were
made for large portions of the project area by ITERMA. Aerial photographs for
the Baixada subregion at the 1:60,000 scale were prepared for an area of
22,000 )m2, 100% of the appraisal target, and at a scale of 1:30,000 for an
area of 16,510 ki2, 75% of the appraisal target. In the Mearim-Pindar6
subregion, production of aerial photographs at these two scales exceeded the
appraisal targets for area coverage. These photographs are still available
and still reasonably up to date.



-7-
5.08      Soil surveys were conducted in all three subregions, meeting or
exceeding appraisal targets. Again, there is no evidence of the utilization
of these surveys. This data, along with the aerial photography and maps
produced, may provide valuable instruments for future land-use and planning
studies.
5.09      Agricultural Research and Seed Production.  Agricultural research
with support from the project was conducted by EMAPA and, until 1987, by
COLONE in the Alto-Turi subregion. This research, although hampered by
uncertain financing and personnel problems, was carried out throughout the
life of the project following well defined plans and fulfilling most of the
targets. However, the plans were apparently not developed in contact with the
extension service or farmers themselves. Most of the research was done on
traditional subsistence crops and involved adaptive trials for seed varieties,
experiments with different intercropping patterns, and only a limited amount
of work was done on cash crop introductions such as pineapple.
5.10      Reaearch results were not effectively communicated to farmers.
Participants in the project indicated that there were no systematic ties
between the research agencies and extension service, except, perhaps in the
early project years in the Alto Turi subregion when COLONE had an integrated
team of researchers and extensionists in the field. Of the various lines of
experimental work, the only significant contributions to agricultural
practices appear to have been some new rice varieties and a double-row manioc
planting practice that can raise yields by 20 - 30%. However, adoption of
these varieties and techniques was limited. In any case, no major new
technological packages became available as a consequence of the research
sponsored by the project. The introduction of black pepper, a high-value crop
adapted to the humid tropics in the Alto Turi area, was already underway when
project implementation began.
5.11      EMAPA established a seed production facility with 80 ha in Dom
Pedro which reached satisfactory levels of production by 1987. Up until the
end of the project, an effective system of seed distribution to farmers had
not yet been established, however.
5.12      Rural Extension.  The project provided support for expansion of
extension activities. By 1987, 22 of a planned 35 local offices had been
built and 174 new extension agents had been hired (of an appraisal estimate of
213). However, outreach to farmers was slow and relatively ineffective.
5.13      In the early years of the project, extension agents were primarily
involved in helping farmers to obtain credit. In some locations,
extensionists (through COLONE in the Alto Turi subregion) helped to
disseminate new crops such as rubber, blacl. pepper, and pineapple. The
relatively small amount of rubber planted (most of it with credit from
PROBORY) had not yet reached the production phase. Black pepper sales from
2/ A Federal Program involving credit and technical assistance for planting
domestic rubber trees.



-8-
the Alto Turi subregion reportedly reached 700 tons in 1987, but have since
declined to about 400 tons, reportedly due to lack of credit for production
costs. Agricultural extension was hampered not only by a lack of effective
technological packages, but also by a lack of sufficient vehicles and a
strategic plan for diffusion of technology to farmers. In the Baixada
subregion, 104 demonstration and observation plots were implemented, 30% of
the target number set by the technical assistance agency. In the Alto Turi
subregion, 74 such plots were implemented.
5.14      Market Information, Input Supply. Cooperatives.  CEASA implemented
a market information service which distributed price information to farmers
for several years during the project. Supervision reports noted that the
reports were often distributed too late to be of use to farmers and that the
mode of distribution (paper bulletins and radio broadcasts) was not efficient.
There are no data on the usage of the service or on its impact. The service
was discontinued with the expiration of the project. A few farmers in the
Baixada region who experimented with non-traditional crops, such as pineapple,
were not successful in marketing their crops on regional markets because of
transport difficulties and oligopolistic practices by regional wholesalers.
5.15      The project provided support for constructing new crop storage
facilities and rebuilding and equipping existing ones in the Alto Turi and
Baixada subregions. During the project, 32 grain storage facilities were
built in the Alto Turi and Baixada subregions. They were utilized for a few
years under federal crop purchase programs (CAP and CEP). However, these
facilities were never used by many farmers and fell into disuse once the CAP
program lapsed in 1988 (para. 5.16).
5.16      Six agricultural cooperatives were set up with project support,
four in the Baixada subregion and two in Area III of the Alto Turi subregion.
Although generously provided with infrastructure, equipment, operating capital
and technical assistance, these cooperatives did not become self-sustaining
and all of them are now moribund, virtually devoid of activity. These
cooperatives were to provide agricultural inputs, serve as purchasing agents
and provide storage facilities for grains. They also served as distribution
points for agricultural credit through the CAP program. The cooperatives
suffered from poor management resulting in financial losses. Once subsidized
credit and discount merchandise were eliminated, most farmers simply abandoned
the cooperatives. Farmers made little use of public storage facilities,
preferring to store rice and other grains in home granaries, and depositing
grain only when they had received credit through the CAP program. All of the
cooperatives sustained financial losses from grain transactions due to price
shifts and storage losses. Although the cooperatives were managed by elected
officials, farmers did not participate actively in the administration, nor
were they well informed about their operation.
5.17      The project provided support for construction, equipping and stock
for 18 input supply centers for farmers. These posts functioned for a time,
serving about 8% of the target population. There are indications that
financial management and stock control was inc-dequate. Eventually, all of



-9-
them closed for lack of operating capital after having depleted the resources
provided by the project.
5.18      Fisheries.  The project provided support to found an inland fishing
cooperative in the Baixada region. A number of fishing colonies and a
marketing cooperative were founded in the Baixada region and some equipment,
including refrigeration, was acquired. Six local offices of the technical
assistance agency, COPENAT, were opened, but staffing was below target levels
and there are indications that staff were not adequate2y trained technically.
Plans were laid to construct fish hatcheries and one reservoir was actually
built. There are no data available on the continuing use or impact of this
component.
5.19      Forestry Development.  This component included the setting up one
post in the Baixada region, activities related to enforcement of the forestry
code, and environmental education activities. In 1985, when the army ceded
this area to COLONE, steps were to have been taken steps to protect the area
and establish a forest reserve. However, before COLONE could act, the area
had been invaded by settlers who have now removed most of the forest cover.
5.20      Most of sub-areas I and II of the Alto Turi subregion and much of
sub-area III has now been cleared of forest by settlers. A proposed forestry
education component was not implemented. Guard posts for the former federal
Forestry Agency (IBDF) were set up, but not consistently manned. Several
private sawmills were set up to utilize timber felled in the Alto Turi and
adjacent areas. They were kept supplied by private timber operators who
travelled the roads of the area in search of specific high-value species of
tropical hardwoods. This trade diminished, especially in Sub-areas I and II,
largely because most of the timber has already disappeared from these areas.
5.21      Small-Scale Enterprises.  With project support, several training
courses were set up for small businesses. These courses were well attended,
accommodating more than four times the number originally planned. This
program also provided assistance for communities submitting projects for the
Small Rural Community Projects (APCR) program under Bank Loan 2862-BR. The
number of enterprises assisted reached 91% of the appraisal estimate of 650.
5.22      Rural Transport.  The project supported construction of 510 km of
new roads and improvements for 640 km of existing roads. Of these, 105 km
were actually constructed (21% of the target) and 135 km were improved (20% of
target). Supervision reports indicate that the technical quality of road
construction and improvement was wanting, especially in the early years.
Delays in project activities occurred due to the timing of most counterpart
funding releases (i.e., during the rainy season when many roads are impassible
and construction cannot take place).
5.23      Social Services.  The project supported construction of tube wells
with small laundry facilities and small-scale distribution systems in 320
communities, 30 schools and 15 health posts. Of the total of 365 wells
targeted for the Baixada and Alto Turi, 177 (49%) were built. In the Baixada
area, most of these wells are in operation, with maintenance provided by local



- 10 -
water-user associations adninistered--and usually subsidized--by municipal
governments. In the Alto Turi area, however, of 67 water supply systems
built, only a few are still in operation, apparently due to lack of
maintenance.
5.24      The project supported construction of schools and teacher training
in two of three project sub-areas. All of the 70 schools targeted for
construction under the project in the Baixada were built and equipped, and
several targets were exceeded for production of curricular materials. In Alto
Turi, only 21 out of the target of 37 schools were built The record for
training was mixed, and there were several problems associated with school
functioning. The Bank strongly recommended a takeover by the State from
COLONE of schools in the Alto Turi subregion. i'hile this was finally
accoLrplished in 1987, there are indications that the quality of education
deteriorated after that. The project accomplished less than had been
programmed in terms of teacher upgrading and in improving the quality of
instruction. Supervision by the State Education Department was poor.
5.25      Seventeen of the 22 health posts programmed under the project were
constructed and the targets for equipping health posts were exceeded. However,
financial and human resource constraints led to the functioning of health
services below the targeted levels and to the provision of inadequate
services.
5.26      There was only one specific activity aimed at protecting the
Amerindian populations living near the COLONE project. This was to demarcate
the Western boundary of the COLONE area as a daterrent to invasions of the
adjacent Caru Indigenous Reserve. This action was not carried out.
5.27      Proiect Manaaement. Monitorina and Evaluation.  Administration of
the project was generally capable, although there was often a lack of
consistency in carrying out of the project activities. For example, some
extension offices introduced double-run manioc planting while others, in areas
equally suitable for this technique, did not. This and other problems were
magnified by the fact that there was no overall coordination of project
activities at the level of subproject. Financial constraints and general
administrative instability made it difficult to establish lines of
accountability in project administration, and these problems were compounded
by the fact that the project had three separate PHUs. There were practically
no systematic exercises in evaluation. The primary focus was on monitoring
the attainment of specific physical targets, with little attention given to
evaluating project activities in relation to the goals of the project as a
whole.
5.28      Aaricultural Credit.  Agricultural credit was an integral par+ of
the project design although it was not financed under the loan. The Loan
Agreemement (Section 4.01) specifically requires the Borrower to "ensure
adequate and timely availability of funds for the provision of (credit] to
Project beneficiaries." Credit resources, while available during the early
years, all but disappeared during the last two years of project
implementation. This was largely a consequence of the reduction of federal



- 11 -
allocations to agricultural credit programs through the Banco do Brasil and
the Banco do Nordeste do Brasil.
5.29      Intearation of Proiect Activities.  There is every indication that
the Borrower, the State, and the implementing agencies understood and
subscribed fully to the basic thrust and rationale of the project. This
commitment was unwavering throughout the implementation period. However, this
understanding did not uniformly translate into smooth coordination among
different agencies. Some line agencies went on making decisions about how and
where to allocate resources, including project resources, without full
consideration of the broader ob4ectives of the project. This waa primarily a
consequence of the complexity of the project and the difficulty of
coordinating the activities of managers and technical personnel in all the
implementing agencies.
5.30      The scale of the project, covering 47 municipalities, or about a
quarter of the state's area, did not pose any inherent difficulties for
coordination or oversight. However, the dt.-sion of project administration
into three sub-projects made coordination L   icult.
5.31      The broad scope of the project and the roles played by a large
number of State and Federal agencies cre&ted a degree of complexity which was
beyond the capacity of the implementing agencies.   These agencies had
different relationships to the PMU, as regards authority, oversight and
budgetary control. Of the three separate Project Management Units - SPE,
COLONE and INCRA - SPE had the most difficult task of all because of the large
number of separate government units under its coordination in the Baixada
subregion (Annex 1). COLONE's task was initially easier because it was
responisible for implementing nearly all project components with its own
staff. However, over the course of project implementation, and largely at the
urging of the Bank, COLONE divested itself of control over various project
components, including education, health, agricultural research and extension.
It appears that the quality of project implementation suffered in these
transfers of responsibility, both because management was dispersed and because
the federal, state and local agencies which assumed control were less well
organized than COLONE had been. INCRA's role in the Mearim-Pindar6 region was
limited to land regularization and land-use studies. This role was assumed by
ITERMA later in project implementation.
5.32      As a consequence of the tripartite administrative structure, there
was no unified project management, making the project extraordinarily
difficult to supervise. Within the three subregion3, there were lapses in
coordination. This is particularly the case in the Baixada sub-region where
project actions were highly dispersed and not concentrated on specific
communities (Annex 2). In particular, the farmers who benefitted from
redistribution and titling of laa:d often did not receive support from
research, extension and credit, and therefore failed to receive the benefits
of the integrated project design.



- 12 -
5.33      Apart from administrative difficulties, the single most important
reason for poor performance of the project appears to have been a severe
shortage of counterpart funds that became acute during 1987 and continued
through to the end of the project. Even before that date, the supervision
reports indicate that funds chronically were released to executing agencies up
to six months late. Funds were released in nominal terms so that, as
inflation accelerated, the real value of releases eroded at an accelerating
rate.
6.        Project Results
6.01      As noted above, the project design was based on the assuinption that
small farmers were constrained from investing by lack of secure title to their
land and concomitant lack of credit. Because of delays in implementing
project activities related to land regularization and the lack of coordination
between land regularization activities and direct production suppo..t services,
it is not possible to verify the validity of this assumption. The only
evidence bearing directly on this subject appears in a report commissioned by
SPE as part of project evaluation. The study compares yields obtained by
farners owning thoir land to those of squatters, sharecroppers and other non-
owners. The data do not indicate that land owners obtained higher yields than
non-owners (Table 2).3/ However, this study did not distinguish between
owners assisted by the project, and those who were not assisted. Thus the
results are not directly relevant to the project intervention.
CROP  YIELD          (KG/HA)
TYPE OF           NO OF         RICE          MAIZE          MANIOC
PRODUCER        PRODUCERS
SURVEYED
OWNERS               103           767          462            3532
NON-OWNERS           185          1003          507            5337
Table 2 - Crop Yietds obtained by owners and non-owners in 1989 in Saixada Sub-region. Source: Pesauisa
S6cio Econ6mica da PDRI da Baixada Occidental Maranhense. Vol. I - Relat6rio Final, Sbo Luis: 1990.
6.02      There is also no evidence that the improvements in land tenure
security had a direct effect on farmers' willingness to invest in improving
their productivity. This does not mean that no such linkage exists, or that
such an effect will not appear in the future. From the information available,
it might be concluded that security of tenure is not a sufficient condition
for higher investment or yields. The lack of coordination between land tenure
2/ The data are based on a non-random sample of farmers and may not be
representative of the sampling universe. The data suggest that non-owners
obtained higher yields than owners for the most common intercropping pattern
used in the region.



- 13 -
and other actions appears to be responsible for the lack of linkage between
land actions and productivity gains. Annex 2 illustrates the problem for the
Baixada region, showing that production and social support activities were
spread over a large number of communities with little concentration in
particular sites. On balance, it can be concluded that the project design
relied too heavily on implementation of land tenure actions and perhaps not
heavily enough on well-coordinated production support activities and on
coordination between land tenure and production support activities.
6.03      With regard to agricultural production development under the
project, there has not been a systematic study, and time series data on
production and yields are unavailable. Therefore, it is not possible to
calculate the internal rate of return of this project. However, cross-
sectional data are available on the production and yields of the principal
crops of the regions in the project (Table 3). They suggest that yields have
not risen for major staples, including manioc, maize and rice. As a whole,
Maranhao's rice production declined from 2.3 million tons in 1980 to 0.6
million tons in 1987, reflecting a drop of six percent in area cultivated and
a 50 percent drop in average yields. Given this, it is unlikely that the
overall rate of return for this project was positive.
6.04      Slow and incomplete implementation of the land--tenure components of
this project had a negative effect on implementation and effectiveness of
nearly all the other components, but especially extensiorn, marketing, input
supply and cooperatives. other components, such as agricultural research,
proceeded satisfactorily, but was not oriented to providing new technology
usable by the farmers in the project area.
6.05      Some communities in the project arean benefited from several
different actions while others received only a few. The communities selected
for a higher number of production support and other activities were not
necessarily those with the most urgent needs or the highest potential for
growth, but rather tended to be those communities where social organizing by
religious groups had been most active. These communities were more successful
in presenting their demands for more services from local authorities.
7.        Project Sustainabilitv
7.01      In general, the project, particularly in the Baixeda area, can be
described as having been reasonably successful in meeting many of the short-
term targets that were means to the longer-term goals of the project. While
the physical targets of project performance were often met, the effectiveness
of the activity itself was often compromised by lack of coordination, and by
insufficient or inadequately prepared human resources. It is a truism, in
such projects, that "hardware" components are the easiest to implement, more
tolerant of delays and deviations from design, and longer lasting. The "soft"
components of any project are more difficult to implement and more sensitive
to delays and deviations. An example of this is the education component.
While most physical iargets for school construction were fully met, the
schools functioned badly due to inadequately trained teachers, low teacher



- 14 -
salaries, spot shortages of supplies, a poorly run school lunch program in
some areas, lack of supervision, and other problems having more to do with
human than physical or financial resources.
7.02      The project as a whole clearly fell short of its long-term goals,
that of improving farmer incomes, production and productivity. However, it
has helped to lay a foundation for progreos in the future. The most important
one lleu in the creation of a strengthened Land Institute (ITERMA) ir. MaranhAo
with adequate infrastructure, a devoted staff and--up to now--good management.
ITERMA also has access to considerable amounts of data, gathered under the
project, that serve as the basis for the continuation of land distrlbution,
titling and other actlvities under two other World Bank supported projects
(2862-BR and 2593-BR).
7.03      With regard to many specific components, the intermediate and long
term sustainability is open to some doubt. With adequate maintenance,
investments in school construction, health posts, cooperative buildings,
storage and other facilities, can be utilized for many years to come.
However, in most of these cases, especially as regards farmer cooperatives.
fishing cooperatives, storage facilities, etc., the institutional foundations
were not strong enough to allow these facilities to function even beyond the
termination of the project.
7.04      In the final analysis, the question of sustainability devolves on
two issues: (a) the political commitment by the State of Maranhao to continue
financial and institutional support for the activities subsumed under the
project; and (b) the ability of a state agency to manage the diverse
activities associated with it, and to coordinate the activities of other
agencies at various levels in the state and federal bureaucracies.
7.05      The first issue is beyond the scope of this PCR to evaluate but
should be a matter of concern for ongoing and future projects in the State of
Maranhao. This issue will assume even greater importance with the withdrawal
of the Federal Government from directly financing state projects. The
financial sustainability of f;ture projects will depend heavily on the state's
ability to apply resources to ouch projects.
7.06      The second issue involves an evaluation of the mechanisms within
the State for managing complex projects of this sort. This issue arose during
implementation of this project and suggestions were made, in the context of
project supervision, to strengthen the Project Management Unit (SPE) for the
Baixada sub-project. Because this unit was involved in allocating resources
to rural communities over a wide area of the State under conditions of severe
resource-scarcity, it was inevitable that the unit would be subject to
political pressures. For projects of this sort to be sustainable, they cannot
become immune to political influonce, but there must be a way of insulating
the day-to-day administration of the project from such pressures. The
consequence of not doing so is that resourceR will be dispersed to as many
communities as possible, without having an impact in any one of them and that
"hardware" components such as schools that provide opportunities for ribbon-



- 15 -
cutting ceremonies will always take precedence over less visible, but
ultimately more important, components.
7.07      Finally, the sustainability of such projects depends on the State's
administrative ability to reach into various segments of the state and federal
bureaucracies to obtain their cooperation and to coordinate their activities.
This is not easy under any circumstances, but especially not in the unstable
world of Brazilian public administration, in which each department strives for
maximum autonomy in the deployment of resources. In defining the coordinating
role of a PMU for a project of this degree of complexity, the hierarchical
position of the coordinating unit vis-a-vim other state and federal agencies,
and its ability to influence their behavior and policies, has to be
considered. One issue that arose incessantly in the project was the low
salary/incentive structure of many of the agencies involved. To get employees
of these agencies to do anything outside their normal routine would have been
a major hurdle for their own line managers. This is even more difficult for
the PMU, a small unit, which is subordinate to a state agency of relatively
minor importance.
8.        Bank Performance
8.01      Approximately 271.0 staff weeks were spent on identification,
preparation and appraisal; 15.1 staff weeks on negotiation; and 143.8 staff
weeks were spent on supervision of the project. The large amount of resources
expended on project preparation is partly explained by the project's
complexity and partly by its overlap with other proJects concurrently under
implementation. In general, the Bank's supervision was responsive to problems
as they arose. The Bank maintained a good working relationship with State
authorities throughout the implementation period. The high level of Bank
staff inputs, however in both preparation and supervision, was not sufficient
to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of implementation. The ability of
supervision missions to obtain satisfactory solutions to problems gradualy
dwindled as implementation slowed almost to a halt under the severe fiscal
constraints that plaagued this project throughout the last three years of
implementation.
8.02      The single greatest impediment to detailed supervision was the
division of the project into three separate sub-areas with separate PMUs and a
multiplicity of components. In retrospect, supervision of this project and
implementation itself, would have been simpler and probably more effective had
overall responsibility for this project been lodged in a single agency with
substantial autonomy and authority. Weaknesses in project management could
have been identified earlier and appropriate remedial action could have been
taken. The institutional basis for project management should be set out
clearly in conditions for loan effectiveness. The major lesson learned from
this project is the need to have sound, professional, autonomous project
management providing constant leadership and oversight. Bank supervision can
not substitute or compensate for inadequate project management.



- 16 -
9.        Borrower Performance
9.01      The performance of the Borrower was problematic throughout project
implementation, but especially in thd latter years. Most of the problems
related to delays in release of funds and shortfalls in project funding.
These delays and shortfalls impacted negatively on the project, mainly because
they created budgetary havoc. Administrators were constantly forced to scale
back their operating plans because funds were released too late to execute
project activities as planned. The funding problem was partly related to the
general fiscal malaise in Brazil during the 19809 in which government
expenditures exceeded revenues and inflation was high. Compounding this
problem was the complex pipeline of funding which extended from the Federal
Treasury to the Ministry of Interior which transferred funds to SUDENE which,
in turn, released funds to the State, COLONE or INCRA which, in turn,
transferred funds to agencies responsible for particular components. Because
releases were frequently lower than the amounts budgeted in annual operating
plans, and because the real value of these releases was frequently eroded by
inflation, it was often necessary to rebudget at each step along the way
resulting in losses of days or weeks compounded at each step.
9.02      With regard to the three PMUs, during the early years of
implementation, COLONE had the best record of implementation. COLONE staff
were generally of high quality, well trained and supervised. They also were
better paid than state or federal employees in comparable positions. Nearly
all of the public services available in the Alto Turi area were executed
directly by people on COLONE's payroll, greatly reducing problems of
coordination. As COLONE lost funding and influence, and as it transferred
responsibility for project components to other agencies, the quality of
implementation generally declined.  COLONE's management became concerned with
maintaining activities throughout the entire Alto Turi sub-area and actually
diverted $US2.45 million of counterpart funds to activities in sub-areas I and
II contrary to the Loan Agreement. These funds were not repaid into the loan
account despite persistent requests by Bank supervision missions that this be
done.y As a federal government autarchy, COLONE's relative autonomy was at
once its greatest strength and weakness. While it had greater capacity to
execute project components than most government agencies, it also tended to
act independently of public control, making investments in activities or areas
according to its own management plan. This independence led to accusations of
misuse of resources and of failure to submit to public authority or scrutiny.
9.03      SPE, on the other hand, was deeply entrenched in the bureaucracy
and politics of the State of Maranhao. Over the life of the project, there
were three different Secretaries of Planning, and there were six substitutions
of the Superintendent of SPE. In the numerous State and Federal agencies
responsible for implementing project components, there were similarly many
4/ The Bank decision not to extend the closing date of this loan was taken, in
part, because of this failure.



- 17-
substitutions of managers and employees. This instability was at times an
impediment to the smooth management of the Baixada subproject.
9.04      INCRA's activities were restricted to the early years of the
project. Because aerial photogrnphy was not available in the early years of
the project, INCRA carried out its work using conventional methodology in the
Mearim-Pindar6 subregion. This work we% concluded after about two years and
all pending actions were handed over t. ITERMA to be concluded under the
Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement Project (Loan 2593-BR).
10.       Proiect RelationshiL
10.01     The Bank's preparation and supervision mieaions were always well
received in Maranhao and given access to officials and information necessary
for carrying out their duties. At the level of the Federal Government and
SUDENI, there were occasionally some difficulties in communication and follow-
up on issues. Although SUDENE was responeible for financial and technical
supervision of the project, SUDENE and its parent agency, MINTER, were
sometimes not well informed on the progress of the project, leading to
occasional friction with Bank missions and lack of understanding of mission
recommendations. SUDENE and MINTER were not always attentive to fulfilling
agreements made, in the form of Aides Memoires, between the Bank and the
Borrower. SUDENE could have used its position and resources to reinforce the
PMU, but often failed to do so.
11.       Consultina Services
11.01     Relatively few consultant services were used in connection with the
project. A number of specialized studies were commissioned and carried out in
conjunction with the project, but there is little information as to the
quality of these studies or the use made of their results. Unfortunately, the
project documention and tne institutional memory of the PMU are somewhat weak
in this regard.
12.       Proiect Documentation and Data
12.01     Exteneive documentation exists on thie project in LAIAG and in the
LAC files, much of it useful in preparation of this report. However, many
different people have worked on the project, including Bank staff and
consultants. While most of their reports are available in the project files,
some are missing and some lack the background needed for full understanding.



- 19 -
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Note: This section has been requested from the Borrower, but it
has not been submitted. It is noteworthy that COLONE was virtually
inoperative during the PCR misLion in December 1990 and the SPE had
undergone several changes in administration and staff, making it
diffLcult for this agency to put together a comprehensive
evaluation.



- 21 -
PART I 1 I
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table  1: Related  gank Loans
Year of
Loan Sltle               Purpose                          a&tatsa                                 Comments
Alto Turi Land           Firat Bank-assisted              1972                                    Project execution
Settlement P-oject       agricultural development         (Completed in 1980)                     delayed by about
MLoan 853-BR)            project in Maranhao and           PPAR No. 4242)                         3 years due to
orth East Brazil  to                                                     serious implemen-
settle about S.206                                                       tation problems.
families on virgin forest                                               However, project
land.                                                                   succeeded in
raising eettler
incomes.
Northeast Region         To extend the benefits of        1985                                    Multiple changes in the
Land Tenure              secure landownership to          Ongoing                                 implementing agency and
ImProvement Project    700,000 small farmers in                                                   uncertainties about land
(2593-SR)                the Northeast.                                                           tenure policy have
subetantially delayed project
implementation, ano leI
to three 12 month exteneions
of the closing. The loan
is expected to be closed
In Sptember 1991.
Northeast Rural          To increase agricultural         1987                                    Project implementation La
Vevelopment              productivity and production   On'iing                                    not bully eatisfactory and
Prolec2t - Maranhao      In the state; generate                                                   ha   endlye  mily  s
(282ct-BR)               e ployment  apportunities for                                            result of funding problems.
low income famoilies; promote                                           The project, like aLl Northeast
water resource development                                               RD projects  is currently
and technology generation                                               being modified.  The loan
and diffueion to increase                                                is expected to be closed
small farmr productivity;                                                in March 1996.
increase community
participation in all
phases of the development
rocess; and strengthen the
Itate&s capacity to provide
efficient agricultural
services to its small farmers.



22-
Table 2: Proiect Timetable
Date      Date       Date
Planned  Revised  Actual
Identification                               --        --    04/80
Preparation                                  --        --    11/80
Appraisal                                    --        --    08/81
Loan Negotiation                             --        --    05/82
Board Approval                               --        --    06/82
Loan Signature                               --        --    06/82
Loan Effectiveness                       09/82      11/82
01/83
03/83     05/83
Loan Closing                             12/87      12/88     12/88
Project Completion                       06/87      06/88     12/89
Table 3: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(USS million)
FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90
Appraisal Estimate          3.9   9.9  16.7  25.9  37.4  42.7
Actual                      3.6   6.7  12.4  16.5  22.1  30.0  31.7
Actual as % of Estimate    93.3%  67.2%  74.5% 63.7%  59.0%  70.2%  74.2%
Date of Final Disbursement   -  9/89
ko.unt Cancelled - US$ 11.0 million



- 23 -
Table 4
Page 1 of 5
Table 4: Key Proiect Implementation Indicators
no.      ACTIVITY                      UNIT     APPRAISAL   FINAL % OF APPRAISAL
----------. .-- .-..-- ... ...--...
A.       Land Activities
1.  Baixada Sub-project
Cadastral survey             km2          16000    11076      69.2%
Land discriminated           km2          12000     5029      41.9%
Land demarcated          c   km2           4200      597      14.2%
Titles Legitimized           No.           8000     2470      30.9%
Titles redistributed         No.           4000      894      22.4%
2.   Mearim Pindare Subproject
CadastraL survey             km2          12000     7086      59.1%
Land discriminated           km2          10000     8876      88.8%
Land demarcated              km2           4375     1389      31.7%
Titles Legitimized           No.           8500      1793     21.1%
TitLes redistributed         No.           4000     2021      50.5%
3.   Alto Turi Sub-project
CadastraL survey             km2           2035      n.a.
Land demarcated              km2           2380     2009      84.4%
Land demarcated              km           12600    11900      94.4%
Boundries demarcated         km             520    101.5      19.5%
TitLes issued                No.          14325     2641      18.4%
B.       Land Use and
CapabiLity Studies
........................
1.   Aerial coverage
(1:60.000) cempLeted for:
.. .......... ..................
-Baixada                   km2          22000    22000    100.0%
-Mearim Pindare            km2          12000    36706    305.9%
-Alto Turi                 km2           8500     9390    110.5%
2.   Aerial coverage
(1:30:000) completed for:
. _. ............. .... ....... .
-Baixada                   km2          22000    16510      75.0%
-Mearim Pindare            km2          12000    12296    102.5%
3.   Ground control and aerial
triangulation completed
- 1:60 000                 km2          34000    58260    171.4%
- 1:30,000                 km2          34000    23100      67.9%
4.   Orthophotomaps completed
.......... ..................._
(1:10,0,000)               km2          28000    21008      75.0%
5    Photomosaics completed
(1:50,000)                 km2           8500     3390      39.9%
6.   Semi-detailed soil survey   km2            9750      4000     41.0%
--  ...  .-.- -- . -    .- ---



- 24 -
Table 4  (continued)                                                                              Table 4
Page 2 of 5
no.     ACTIVITY                    UNIT    APPRAISAL   FINAL X OF APPRAISAL
............  .................... ................... ........................................ ....... .............. .
C.      Agricultural Research and
Seed Production
......... ................. .. . ..
(Saixada and Alto Turi)
1.  EMAP# incremental
technical staff            No.            40        21    52.51
....... ............ ... .... .... ......
2.   Staff trained              No.             40       82   205.01
.. ... .. ........ .....
3.   Established research units  No.             2        2    100.01
.................... ¢. .
4.   Seed storage facilities
(Araguana/COLONE)          m2            300      500    166.71
......... ................. .....
D.      Rural Extension
.... ;......... .... ....... ....
I   Baixada Subproject
- Incremental ENATER
staff                   No.            84      102   121.41
- Staff trained          No.             72      85    118.1X
- Regional offices       No.             2         1    50.01
- Local offices          No.             28       15    53.61
- Families assisted
full range services  No.           7500      173      2.3%
Limited services     No.          4500    4975    110.6%
- Courses for farmers/
youth                   No.          1500      941     62.71
- Farmers trained         No.         12000    3501      29.21
2   Alto Turi Subproject
..... .......... .. . ..................
- COLONE/EMATER
fncremental staff      No.            129      72    55.8%
- Staff trained           No.           90       107    118.91
- Regional offices       No.              1        1   100.01
- Local offices          No.             7         7    100.01
- Families assisted:
full range services   No.          12000    3716    31.01
limited services      No.           n.a.    1030
- Courses for farmers/
youth                   No.          1555      n.a.
- Farmers trained         No.         12000    3568    29.71
E.      Marketing, Input Supply,
and Storage
_;;...... ..... .........
1   Baixada Sub-project
.................................... ..
- Completed marketing
studies                 No.             1        1   100.01
- Equiped CEASA/SIMA
offices                 No.             1        1   100.01
- Incremental COMABA
stair                   No.             8        9    112.51
- Operational COMABA
outLets
existing               No.            7        18   105.91
new                    No.             9      n.a.
- Farmers using
agricultural inputs    No.           7500      500      6.71
- Operational cooperative
stores
Model A                No.            24       21     87.51
Model B                No.             3      n.a.
Model C                No.             3      n.a.
- Community Grain Storage No.             42      32      76.21



- 25 -
Table 4  (continued)                                                                                 Table 4
Page 3 of 5
no.      ACTIVITY                     UNIT     APPRAISAL   FINAL % OF APPRAISAL
............................................................................ .
E.       Marketing, Input Supply,
and Storage (cont'd.)
... . ......   ... . . . .
2. Alto Turi Subproject
............       .......
- Oerational cooperative
outlets
new                  No.              3       12    400.0%
- Farmers using
agricultural inputs     No.          12000     1136      9.5%
- Operational cooperative
stores
Model A              No.             12.       9     75.0%
Model B              No.              4        3     75.0%
ModeL C              No.              1        1    100.0%
F.       Assistance to Cooperatives
1.   Baixada Sub-project
....... ..  ....    .... .....
- Functioning coops.      No.              4        3     75.0%
- office facilities       m2             645      220     34.1%
- Processing units
constructed/equipped:
flour                  No.              5        2     40.0%
rice                   m2             800        2      0.3%
2    Alto Turi Sub-project
.. ........   ... .......
F Functioning coops.      No.              2        2    100.0%
- Office facilites        No.            215      216    100.5%
- Processing units
constructed/equipped:   2             400      440    1
rice                   m               0        4       10
G.       InLand Fisheries (Baixada only)
.... .. .   .... .. .....  .
- Incremental COPENAT
technical staff         No.             19       13     68.4%
M.       Forestry Development
(Baixada and Alto Turi)
- Control posts           No.              3        1     33.3%
- R.e-rves occupied
Aith squatters          ha.          10000      n.a.
1.       Smatl Scale Enterprises
...........    .   .......
(Baixada and Alto Turi)
- CEAG-MA incremental
staff                   No.             12       20    166.7%
- Small scale enterprises
assisted                No.            650      593     91.2%
J.       Rurat Transport
(Baixada and Alto Turi)
- Roads designed:
CODERMA                km.            680      477     70.1%
COLONE                 km.            470      339     72.1%
- Constructed access
roads:
Class E:
CODERMA               km.             40        3      7.5%
COLONE                km.            157      102     65.0%
Class F.
COLONE                km.            312      n.s.
- improved roads:
Class E:
CODERMA/DER-MA        km.             80      n.a.
CLass F:
CODERMA/DER-MA        km.            560      135     24.1%
- DERMA technicians
with the project       No.              4        4    100.0%



- 26 -
Table  4  (continued)                                                                                   Table  4
Page 4 of 5
no.      ACTIVITY                      UNIT     APPRAISAL   FINAL X OF APPRAISAL
..................................................................................
K.       Education and Vocational Training
............................
1.   Baixada Sub-project
............................
- Incremental staff        No.             25       30    720.0X
- Facilities constructed/
equipped:
rural schools           No.             70       70    100.0X
warehouses              No.              2        1      50.0X
canteens                No.            300       72      24.0X
- Staff trained:
teachers (upgrading    No.             560      318      56.82
teachers (curriculum)  No.             560      632    112.92
Supervisors/
adninistrative staff   No.              82      104    126.82
2.   Alto Turi Sub-project
............................
- Incremental staff        No.             11        5      45.5X
- FaciLities constructed
Regional education
office                  No.              1        1    100.0X
rural schools           No.             37       21      56.82
warehouses              No.              1      n.a.
- Staff trained:
teachers (curriculum)  No.             231      184     79.72
supervisors/
coordinators            No.             20       10      50.02
L.       Health
............................
1.  Baixada Sub-project
............................
Health facilities
constructed/equipped:
health centers          No.              3      n.a.
health posts            No.             18       14      77.82
- Health facilities
tupgraded/re-equipped:
ealth centers          No.              4        6    150.0X
health posts            No.             20       43    215.02
- Additional supervisors  No.               4        4    100.0%
- Staff trained:
supervisors             No.              4        4    100.02
health visitors         No.             25       56    224.02
health attendants       No.             36      n.a.
midwives                No.            140       20      14.32
- Staff receiving
refresher courses        No.            868       20       2.32
2.   Alto Turf Sub-project
............................ ................................ 
- Health facilities
constructed/equipped:
health posts            No.              4        3      75.02
- Staff trained:
health visitors         No.             10       30    300.02
health attendants       No.              8        8    100.0X
midwives                No.             60      180    300.0X
- Staff receiving
refresher courses        No.            128      n.a.
N.       Water Supply
(Baixada and Alto Turf)
- Water supply
facilities constructed:
village well and pump
(ADS of Amazonas type) No.             365      177     48.52



- 27
Tablg 4  (continueP)                                                                                 Table 4
Page 5 of 5
no.      ACTIVITY                    UNIT      APPRAISAL   FINAL X OF APPRAISAL
.... ..... ............... ................................. ....... ...................... .
N.       Aclufnistration and Monitoring
1.   Higher Level PMU Staff
Baixada Sub-project
headquarters           No.              9        9    100.0%
regional unit          No.              6        6    100.0%
Alto Turf Sub-project
headquarters           No.             11        8     72.7%
regional unit          No.              6        6    100.0%
Hearim Pindare Sub-project            -
headquarters           No.              1        1    100.0%
0.       Evaluation (Baixada and Alto Turi)
1.   Evaluation study completed:
....... ............. _.. .. ..
baseline               No.              1        1    100.0%
mid-term               No.              1        0      0.0%
post-project           No.              1        0      0.0%
n.a.: not available.



- 28 -
Table 5: Project Costs and Financina
A. Project Costs (USS million)
Appraisal                     Actual
CATEGORY                                             Total        T%)            total
Production Support and Infrastructure
.........................
Land ReguLarizatfon/Redistribution                      23.10      24.5%             19.17      31.3%
Land Use Capability/Planning Studies                     8.60       8.9%              7.76      12.7%
Agricultural Research/Seed Production                    5.00       5.3%              2.86       4.7%
Agricultural Extension                                  11.00      11.7%              6.43      10.5%
Marketing, Input Supply, Cooperatives                    3.40       3.6%              2.53       4.1%
Inland Fisheries                                         1.20       1.3%              0.99       1.6%
Forestry Development                                     1.30       1.4%              0.21       0.4%
Small Scale Enterprises                                  1.20       1.3% .            1.22       2.0%
Rural Transport                                         22.10      23.5%              8.57      14.0%
Sub-Total                                     76.70      81.5%             49.75      81.3%
Social Infrastructure
...........................
Education and Vocational Training                        6.20       6.6%              3.01       4.9%
Health and Water Supply                                  5.10       5.4%              2.48       4.1%
Sub-Total                                     11.30      12.0%              5.49        9.0%
Project Administration
,...........................
Project management and Monitoring                        5.10       5.4%              5.93       9.7%
Project Evaluation                                       1.00       1.1%              0.01       0.0%
Sub-Total                                      6.10       6.5%              S.94        9.7%
Total Project
..................
Baseline Costs                                           94.1    100.0%              61.18     100.0%
Physical Contingencies                                      7
Price Contingencies                                      21.1
.....................       .............................................
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS*                                    1Z2.2                        61.18    100.0%
Excludes front End Fee on loan.
B. Proiect Financina
Appraisal                                   Actual
Source:                       US S million0            (%)           US S million0             t%)
World Bank Loan                   42.7                34.9               31.04                50.7
of BrazLt                         79.5                65.1               30.14                49.3
...........................
Excludes front end fee.



Table 6: Proiect Results
A. Direct Benefits
Indicators                                          Appraisal        Estimated at Ctosing        X Achieved
No. of Land Tenure of Beneficiaries
.......... .. .... ...... ...... ... .... ......
Baixada                                             12,000              2,470                         20.6%
Alto-Turi                                           14,325              2,641                         18.4%
Mearim Pindare                                     12,500               3,814                         30.5%
B. Studies
Study                      Purpose                                    Status                                nmpact of Study
Marketing                  Identify marketing problems                Completed in January 1984.           The study did not have an impact.
and define policies to improve
small farmer marketing.
Inland fisheries           Improve fishing technology, marketing     Completed in May 1984.                The study had a limited impact because
and tre sport.                                                                  credit shortages affected the
reconmendations of the study.
Forestry                  Define a strategy for forest               Baixada diagnostic study              The study did hot have an impact
(two diagnostic studies)   protection and reforestation activity.    was completed in May 1983,            since it was found unsatisfactory.
but was found unsatisfactory.
Water Transport           Assess the feasibility of increased        The study was not conducted.          The study did not have an impact
use of existing water transport                                                 since it was not conducted.
infrastructure.
School map study           Facilitate location of schools.           Completed in 1984.                    The results of the study
were used to determine suitable
school locations.
.. .....................--.....-....-.....--..---....-..----....-.--....-.   ......-..........-...  ..............................................................-..-..-..-...----....------------........------......---...---. .........



- 30
Table 7
Page 1 of 3
Table 7: Compliance with Key Leaal Covenants
-------------------------------------------------------------__--------------__----------
DESCRIPTION                             COMMENTS
--------------------------------------------------------__-------------------__----------
Loan Agreement
Section
3.01 (b)          Borrower to provide funds,              Chronic shortages in
facilities, services and other          counterpart funds were
resources to enabre the State and       experienced during project
COLONE to perform all their             implementation.
obligations.
3.01 (f)          Borrower to cause IBDF:
5i)    to furnish to the Bank by      Not complied with.
September 1, 1983 a plan
on forest protection and
management and a program
for on-farm woodlots;
4.01              Borrower to take all necessary
action to ensure adequate and timely
availability of funds for provision
of the following financial
assistance to project beneficiaries:
(a)    on-farm seasonal and           Very little credit was
investment credit;            available, particularly in
Baixada.
(b)    marketing credit for           Very little CAP and CEP
small producers;              credits were available,
particularly in Baixada.
(c)    marketing and working          Very little credit was
capital credit to             available.  The New
cooperatives and input        Marketing Fund (FINACOK)
supply agencies; and          set up in August 1986 did
not improve the situation.
4.08                (a)    Borrower to cause INCRA        Not complied with.
to perform all of its
obligations to allow
COLONE to comply with
provisions of Sections
2.01 (b) (i) of COLONE
project agreement.



- 31 -
Table 7 (continued)                                                         Table 7
Page 2 of 3
DESCRIPTION                                  COMMENTS
State Project
Agreement Section
2.01 (h)            'itate to:
(i)       enter into contractual            Not complied with.
arrangements with
municipalities to provide
teachers with at least
the official minimum
salary;
(iii)     furnish, prLor to                 Not complied with.
initiating construction
of schools, satisfactory
site plans and land
rights acquisitions;and
(iv)      adopt the new                     Not complied with.
curriculum before the
beginning of 1984 school
year.
2.01 (1)            State to cause SEPLAN-MA to furnish,         Partially complied with.
by December 31, 1982, 1985 and 1987          The baseline surveys were
the conclusions of the baseline,             completed for the Baixada
mid-term and post-project evaluation         and Alto-Turi sub-
surveys, respectively, and furnish           projects.
by December 31, 1983 the baseline
survey for the Mearim-Pindare.
2.07                State to, establish by April 1,              Generally not complied
1983, a credit monitoring system,            with.
and furnish by June 30 in each year,
a report an execution of credit
activities.
2.11 (a) and        State to cause the project accounts          Substantially complied
(b)                 to be audited annually, by                   with.
independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank and furnish to the Bank,
not later than six months after the
end of each POLONORDESTE fiscal
year, the report of such audit.



- 32 -
Table 7 (continued)                                                   Table 7
Page 3 of 3
-------------------------------------------------------_  - _- _______________________
DESCRIPTION                              COMMENTS
______________-________________________________________________________________________
COLONE Project
Agreement Section
2.01 (b)          COLONE to:
(i)    recover, by March 1, 1983       Not complied with.
all land illegally
occupied in Alto Turi
Sub-area I;
(ii)    recover by December 31,         Not complied with.
1983 all land illegally
occupied in Alto Turi
Sub-area II;
2.01 (c)          COLONE to:
i)       ensure avatlability of          Complied with.
agricultural inputs in an
adequate and timely
manner to the project
beneficiaries;
(ii)     furnish to the                 Complied with.
cooperatives by June 30
of each year, a detailed
estimate of the
agricultural input
requirements of the Alto-
Turi sub-project
beneficiaries.
2.01 (e)          COLONE to furnish evidence that          Partially complied with.
DERMA has entered, prior to              Municipalities did not
initiating access road works, into       fulfill their obligations.
contractual arrangements with
municipalities defining their
obligations.
2.08              COLONE to furnish to the State, not      Complied with.
later than September 1 in each year,
the proposed work program for the
following fiscal year.
4.02              COLONE to have its accounts and          Complied with.
financial statements audited each
year by independent auditors and
furnish to the Bank certified copies
of such audit and auditor's report.



- 33 -
Table 8: Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inouts
FY78   FY79   FY80  FY81   FY82  FY83   FY84   FY85  FY86  LUZ    FY88  FY89  FY90   FY91   TOTAL
Identlf1cationV
Preparation                  1.3        .1      20.3      107.7    17.1                                                                                                    146.5
Appralsal                                                              124.'                                                                                                  124.5
Negotfetlons                                                             15.1                                                                                                  15  1
SupervfsIon                                                               1.9      15.4    21.8    20.5          8.0      15.0      29.4       14.9       1.0       15.9      143.8
TOTAL                      1 3       1         20.3 3       .2LZ  158.6   154   21.8  20.5   8.0   15.0  29.4  14.9    1.0   15.9  429.9
B. Missions
StOT ES
month/ No. of  Says in  SpeciaL,  PIrforwance   Types of
purpose                     Y*ea    persons field    iation   Rating Status Probt_   Officer
............ ............ ...... .... ......... .............. .......... ........... ................   ...
Identificetion               4/80          2       20 VSIN                               CoirMoaoes
Prparatfon                   6/80          a       22 Vb/                                Cfoloto/"syqS
Preparation                  a/8D          3       25 a/ b7c/                            Co,rolo/oeyo/Oe 
pration                      lVS8         11      137 a/o b//                            Coirolo/syees/REps
f/ SIX,                   Kf~~~~tosklai/ftine*Se
/ k7                              Aquah7/8ro7er/Tendi
12SO          1       is /                                  r.p e
preparation                  1/81          2       10 b                                  eeyeR/0Seott
preparatfon                  2/81          1        *f/                                   C oaL l
Preparation                  3/81          I        3 aI                                 cOirolt
Pro epI AS/81                              7       65 0/,b/.#/                           Coirolo/Horus/V 1
J/ II IV                           Zski/grage/Andrade
Apperalsl                    8/81         13      210 6/,b/*/.                           Hierten/HY*/Lar
TchrySVBrgo7o X
iV81          3       15 aV J/                              Tchwyan/SCaroao/9o
12/81         1        3 o/                                 Beattei
Post Appraisal               1/82          7       as aflb/,                             WartenrVOi/raOVtra
Vol                       Noy~~~~~eeys/Ooeoett/Cair
3/82          1        4 f/                                 Koslakf
6/8           1        5   /            ()                  0elesate
8/8           I           7                                 Cruont
......................      ..................... .............................................................. ........ ......
Supervision                10/82         2        12.    /          (2l)     V          O loalle/Plh er
11/82         1        5j,/              (-)                Asuel
4/83          2       10 b,f/           (2)      2/         Selliiletthe
6/83          1          t/             C- Cront
M      1                         -1:1                Raaw-eo
8/83          1         g               ()                  Saac
-/a7          2       10 b/,o          (2)       3/          Oiisaettesttif
3/78          1       12                (2)3     3/         bTsatte
6/8           2        4 i/,lt/         ()                  Komi ki/Cramont
9/84          1       106/              (2)      4/        0Sels ae
11/84         1        4I/              (                    Ginovsky
12/84         1        4 1S             (Na-saco
3/68          1          ' f            (M)                 tovlki
6/I8          1       10 b/             (2)      57         SelSalls
6/88          1        5 V/             (-                  Cocnt
8/83          2       10 f/             t-l                 AUndl/Koltakl
IVtS          I        7 17             ()                  Teq
1/86          1        48/              (*)                  R-Seo
9/86          2       12 b/             (3)      6/          seioalle/C dJw
11/86         1        8 C              (*) 1S5 co
1/8?          2        A   . /          C) 
6/87          1       1s b              (3)      6/         Detsts
10/87        3        12 *171.bP8       (2)                 DelSalleH/roaaSr
11/87         8       13 fTI/           C)                  CIttati/1uivivar
3/U           1        8 8/             ()                  RaSovoSco
4/80          6       385 *    Mbl tf   t2)                 Suivivar/Citati/C
9/rV          (C)                  SerbouaCrou
9/88          1        5  l .Q/lw
N/89          s       235/. rV          (2)                 ¢fnh       b..dp
5ev to Spciaistion:r>
/Sco,noniSt. WAgrIcultulitfat.  f Soitl Spcialist d/ tociologist.
5/ Marketing Specialist, f/aural Tronaport Speciellet 8/Iducation spclialist.
hl Credit Sc *lln I      44leth Specialit,. J/Loan Officer, k/Division Chilef,
t/d   tpelaist. w1Ru I Indstrelt SDpaCItitt. 6/Lel Offic&r,
I=olfear. p/Anthropotoist q Opeations Officer. rwater rearcn  spoeiatit.
Perfornce RStinre laiproing; 2etatfcongry; SWete foreting; eioc Rated (partial  auprvisfon only)
12 Loan effectiven  codition of lad recory In Alto turl I Still not mC.
2/ C&aMtrpert fwfdin delays; disSursant conditions not act.
3/ Comterpart funding delays- coordinatn and ieeInteclon probl_ dAe to
InStituttipsl Nd swonasarlat weakneesa.
4/ Politial,t teohnical Nd firwcl  probl '      iedig ipltntatfon.
51  Scarcity of lnerant credit Ndpoor instiutonal perfof_nn
SI No progSrea in agricultural estenasin nd reearch services nd W  eaprlpraticn activities.
l~~~~~~~~~~1c n mw wa



- 35 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 3
Proiect Components, Implementing Agencies and Activitieg by Sub-Recion
BAIXADA
No         COMPONENT       I AGENCY              ACTIVITIES
1   Land Regularization    ITERMA  Cadastral Surveys                    l
and Redistribution              Land Discrimination
Land Demarcation
I______________________         Land    Titling
2   Land Use Capability    ITERMA  Aerial Photography
and Planning Studies            Production of Orthomaps, and
Photomosaics.
_______________________ l_______  Soil   Surveys
3   Agricultural Research  EMAPA   Establish new research units
and Seed Production             Conduct experiments
l_______________l______         Seed  multiplication
4   Rural Extension        EMATER  Build New Offices
Establish demonstration plots.
Provide TA to farmers
5   Marketing, Input       CEASA,  Market Studies
Supply, Cooperatives   SIMA    Establish CEASA/SIMA Offices
Open Input Supply Outlets
Establish and Equip Agricultural
_________________l_______       cooperatives.
6   Inland Fisheries       COPENAT Establish COPENAT Offices
Build Cold-Storage Units
Establish Fisherman Cooperatives
7   Forestry Development   IBDF/   Establish Control Posts
l ______________________  EMBRAPA Establish Forest Reserve
8   Small-Scale            CEAG-MA Open CEAG Offices
Enterprises                     Provide training courses
9   Rural Transport        CODERMA Design, Build, Improve and Maintain
Roads
10  Education and          SEDUC   Build New Schools and Ancillary
Vocational Training             Facilities
Upgrade Teachers and Supervisors
11  Health                 SESAU   Build and Upgrade Health Facilities
Train and Recycle Staff.
12  Water Supply                    Construct Water Supply Systems
13  Project Management     SPE      Incremental Staff
and Monitoring                                                      l
14  Project Evalvation     SPE      Conduct Baseline and Evaluation
.EIl                                 Studies



- 36 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 3
ALTO TURI
No |      COMPONENT         AGENCY               ACTIVITIES
1   Land Regularization    COLONE  Cadastral Surveys
and Redistribution              Land Discrimination
Land Demarcation
_ _____________________ |_______    Land     Titling
2   Land Use Capability    COLQNE  Aerial Photography
and Planning Studies            Production of Orthomaps, and
Photomosaics.
l _______________________  ________ Soil     Surveys
3   Agricultural Research  COLONE/  Establish new research units
and Seed Production    EMAPA   Conduct experiments
Seed multiplication
4   Rural Extension        COLONE  Build New Offices
EMATER  Establish demonstration plots.
Provide TA to farmers
5   Marketing, Input       COLONE,  Market Studies
Supply, Cooperatives   COAGRIM Establish CEASA/SIMA Offices
COMALTA Open Input Supply Outlets
Establish and Equip Agricultural
cooperatives.
7   Forestry Development   COLONE/  Establish Control Posts
IBDF    Establish Forest Reserve
8   Small-Scale             CEAG-MA Open CEAG Offices
Enterprises                     Provide training courses
9   Rural Transport         CODERMA Design, Build, Improve and Maintain
COLONE  Roads
10  Education and          COLONE  Build New Schools and Ancillary
Vocational Training    SEDUC   Facilities
Upgrade Teachers and Supervisors
11  Health                 COLONE/  Build and Upgrade Health Facilities
FSESP   Train and Recycle Staff.
12  Water Supply            COLONE  Construct Water Supply Systems
13  -roject Management     COLONE  Ir-remental Staff
and Monitoring                                                      l
14  Project Evaluation     COLONE  Conduct naseline and Evaluation
Studies



- 37 -
Annx A
Page 3 of 3
PINDARt-Y~EARIM
No         COMPONENT         AGENCY              ACTZVZTXE5
1   Land Regularization    INCRA/   Cadastral Surveys
and Redistribution      ITERMA  Land Discrimination
Land Demarcation
.______ Land Titling
2   Land Use Capability    INCRA/  Aerial Photography
and Planning Studies   ITERNA  Production of Orthomaps, and
Photomosaics.
Soil Surveys
_          &m 



Annex 2
Distribution of Project Activities by Location
COMPONENTS  N .   RURL  SO A        -  SALL                     RKETING                     WATER RESOURCES COPLEETARY ACTIONS
BENEP. EXTEN- SYRA- NON-
VILLAGES                           SION    TION   ACRIC. STORAGE MARKET-N1W   INPUT  FAR     O          WA       ERY         RADs          EDUCA-
FARMS  EUTERP.         FRASTRUCT. SUPPLY CREDIT TIVES    SUPPLY          SUPPLY                TION
01. SOROROCA                  |       X                      - -  -                          -         -                                      -
02. WURITIZAL                  23
03. ESPIRITO SANTO              3
04. OITEIRO DE PAULO NACACO    15    X
05. S. JOSE                    11
06. BARROS                     28
07. CENTRO DOS PEREIRA          9
08. PEREIRA                     4
09. CANPINUHO                  49     X                                                                X                X      X
10. S. FRANCISCO               11
11. NATA                       15
12. OITEIRO DOS DOUJRADOS       2
13. NANIVAL                     1
14. OLHO D'AGUA DOS COWES      48     X
15. OLHO DAGCUA DOS MARTINS    33
16. SAO JERONINO               38     X
17. OITEIRO DE MA. JUSTINA     35     X      X                X                                X                       X      X
18. OLHO D'AGUA DOS MORAIS    15
19. RUNG                       13
20. STA. ROSA                  19
21. BELEM                      34
22. STA. EULALIA              124     X
23. LARANJAL                   30
24. STA. MARIA                  9                                                                                                             x
25. STA. BARBARA               48     X
30. IGUARAPIRANGA              38     X       X                                                X                        X             X
COMPONENTS  N      A         CT   PEIl                        NARKEi                        WTR   SOURES                      ONS
SENE F.__ _ _                                                                            ____ _ _
VILLAGES                                                   STORAG. EARKET IWy                    RA- FU    FISHERY WEATER  |ROAS  HEALTH E
FRASTRUCT. SUPPLY CREDIT TIVES   SUPPLY          SUPPLY                 TION
01. INABUZINHO                                -               - _
02. S. MIGUEL                  12
03. JADE                        S
04. MARNORAL                   15     X                                                                                 X
05. STA. BARBARA                4
06. TATU                        I
07. SIBERIA                     I
08. RUMO                       1S     X                                                                                 X
09. OITEIRO DOS CRENTES         5
10. S. JOSE DA NATA             I                                                                      X
11. CARUGUEIJO                  6
12. S. JOAO DOS PENHAS          9                                                                                                             X
13. KATO GROSSO                11
14. CRUZEIRO                   19    X       X                x                                x
15. CUMUARANA                   3
16. CURACIABA                   2
17. S. ROGUE                    3                                                                                       x
18. IARUORANA                   4
19. S. PEDRO                    7
20. BACURIZEIRO                 3
21. S. MIGUEL                   1
22. CENTRO DOS FIDELIS          1
23. S. RAIMUUDO                 2     X                       X                                X
24. CENTRO DOS ANAROS          10
25. STO. ANTONIO                9
26. SAO LUIS                    5     X                                                                X
27. MACAPAZINIO                10     X                                                                                 X
28. S. JOAQUIN                 16                                                                                       N
29. JAPAO                       1
30. NACAXEIRAL                  2     X                                                                 X               X
31. URUCUZAL                    2     X                                                                                 X
32. CAFLMOOCA                   4
33. PASSAGEN                    1
34. CAMPINHO                    a
35. CAUACU                     67     X       _                                                                                X



B R A Z I L                  4-0                      '                 adoir8do     ;         450 COLOMBiAS t? At}a,:r ....................................|di d  COOM.
Cruttop ~rao~       (o                                   /A/n.
MARANHAO  RURAL                                                         / X                                                                                                                         o Mop
DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT                                                                             TU                                 ;Lu tI '.
POPULATION DENSITY                                                          f/BaeO
AND  PROJECT WORKS                                                                                     Cururup2                                                                   A               RAZNAO
-   Project Area  Boundory                                 / ~ ~ oCrWSnaHl    B*Baii 
.- =     Sub-protect Boundryie                                                                         XAsA   a H                                        BOLIVIAB
A     Agricultural Services Offices                                       orJ [aI                                                  iamiJ
Poposed  Research  Substations                              A   T                                                              do ,t  PPfo
*     Existing  Resercuc   Substotions                               /        o-             ih~    P~m              ~           ~a~~~
Rivers                                                         P-T U  area            PoIMefranot  K                     cRibtmor                        .
Municipality Boundaries                    (9                      tWA.            MAR         , , ,,   i                    tc              - )               U
State  Boun'daries                                              Aau         - aoVicenvek de FeeWrWA      ~       4ai/Mrs                          ARGETN 
Rural Populotion Density.                                 /                          S6-oao  lstcj0             AOnt_ 3-
1-5  Persons per sq. km.                                                                       Aw~
6-10                                     z.           -   ?e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aI~~~~~aA        Va~~~-Oio  t g%qs JucNina             430                                42'
1 1                                  / 20         /                                                      A      uba  Pio    o Banedo 4o Rio Proo                         Mvlntsddeo|
21-~ 50                          ;(      0                                     MoncaoO   tr Ji  g be                            o' 0Anopurus                                  laCtouit,riaz do Maranhiao
over 50                       S                                  rn                          Mr im     :Cano           Pivdda
t t  t  ;   (:<,> 4t   -  = - *                <         ,Aindurx              ~~~~~~~~~~Ch2padinha°Bej'
0 5C IL100I                                                                     - 2 ;; \* kEfk + <>MEPiO >- sa M d.                                Buriljh
_4.                    KILOMETERS 110                 <       :                       Santa Luz'io     Vi?                      ds 1otaj                                                                                      4e
Altamira do Moronq    VirIv\hDgaMeu
S. Li t                   I Timbiras         AQCoeNo Mo|
/efN Pa¶nos,,omaf/                                                        ado3   i  S. 1Uis   nC,ozgC                                       ' K
Compois      co                             j
-*                                                               I,q          oaps Grdnde0s   ,     L     ;/                            deros Altos0        I
at                                                                                                                    A,; ,.Porno do dnZs$ pfan;¢ ds Lvpe5  Catias ,
,\qAssoilondic                                                      Espero ispoIis0           nq  vGonedce         s ArchJ  Thimap lhhas hsbeen pepared  t the
Assailondic                               Esperorqi;;~~~~~~~~~~poliso         d~~'o?lo Arci*                                 Wrid an k's staff axclusivtlY for
5,  yP                                                                                      diAdmi /                                                 Sr   The e;nve~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8flc~~~~~~ of ihe eiohs ia  tlecovdiees ahte Sr o 
5.   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~GvJ   ~Tirn.on0,  the report to which it is attached-
*'                                                                                     Governodrzr Eu9enio 8rJrros                      boundaries shown on this mflo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oudaresshon n tisMO
TunhJtun  Pr'dente Dutra                                           d J    itnPar DOtPar O    y
2Wartd sarnk and its affhnatex. any
Graca Aronho                         ~~~~~~~~~~~udgment on the legal statun Of
)joao Lisboan8rltro do Cordo                                                               O5rocr Aroniho c,                                   any Ierritory, of any endorsement
-,    Lisdoar ao    acceptance  o f S -Oh bo ,ndyr?8s
45_                            44



