Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3845a-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
MARANHAO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 21, 1982
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Region Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. |



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit               =     Brazilian Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1.00                     =     Cr$100.68 1/
Cr$1.00                     =     US$0.009932
Cr$1 million                =     US$9,932.46
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout the report.
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Brazil        =     January 1 to December 31
POLONORDESTE Program        =     April 1 to March 31
Project Year                =     April 1 to March 31
1/ Exchange rate at time of appraisal (August 1981). The exchange rate on
April 30, 1982 was US$1 = Cr$154.8.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
BB               Banco do Brasil
(Bank of Brazil)
BNB              Banco do Nordeste do Brasil
(Bank of Northeast Brazil)
BNCC             Banco Nacional de Credito as Cooperativas
(National Bank for Credit to Cooperatives)
COTERMA          Companhia de Coloniza,ao e Terras do Maranhao
(State Land and Colonization Company)
CEASA-MA         Centrais de Abastecimento do Maranhao
(State Food Supply Centers)
COMABA           Companhia Maranhense de Abastecimento
(State Input Supply Company)
COPENAT          Companhia de Pesquisa e Aproveitamento de
Recursos Naturais
(State Company for Research and Use of Natural Resources)
CODERMA          Companhia de Desenvolvimento Rodoviario do Maranhao
(State Company for Road Development)
COLONE           Companhia de Coloniza,ao do Nordeste
(Colonization Company of the Northeast)
CEAG-MA          Centro de Apoio a Pequena e Media Empresa do Maranhao
(State Center of Support for Small and Medium Enterprises)
DERMA            Departamento de Estradas e Rodagem do Maranhao
(Road Construction and Maintenance Agency of Maranhao)
EMATER-MA        Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural-MA
(Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Agency-MA)
EMAPA            Empresa Maranhense de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(State Agricultural Research Company)
EMBRAPA          Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(Brazilian Agricultural Research Agency)
FCAP             Faculdade de Ciencias Agrarias do Para
(Agricultural Faculty - Para University)
FSESP            Fundacao Servico Especial de Saude Publica
(Foundation for Special Public Health Services)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FUNAI             Fundac,ao Nacional do Indio
(National Indian Foundation)
ICM               Imposto sobre Circula,ao de Mercadorias
(Tax on product circulation)
ITERMA            Instituto da Terra do Maranhao
(State Land Institute)
INCRA             Instituto Nacional de Colonizagao e Reforma Agraria
(National Institute of Colonization and Agrarian Reform)
IBDF              Instituto Brasileiro de Desenvolvimento Florestal
(Brazilian Forestry Development Institute)
POLONORDESTE      Programa de Desenvolvimento de Areas Integradas do
Nordeste
(Development Program for Integrated Areas in the
Northeast)
REPEMIR           Reflorestamento em Pequenos e Medias Imoveis Rurais
(Reforestation Program for Small and Medium Farms)
SUDENE            Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
(Northeast Economic Development Superintendency)
SIMA              Servigo de Informacao de Mercado Agricola
(Agricultural Marketing Information Service)
SUCAM             Superintendencia de Campanhas Medicinais
(Superintendency of Public Health Campaigns)
SERNAT            Secretaria de Recursos Naturais do Maranhao
(State Secretariat for Natural Resources)
SE                Secretaria de Educa,ao
(State Secretariat for Education)
SES               Secretaria de Saude
(State Secretariat for Health)



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
MARANHAO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ................................    1
Agriculture in the Economy .............................   1
Rural Development in Northeast Brazil ....     ..............   1
Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector ....   ........   2
II.  THE STATE OF MARANHAO AND THE PROJECT AREA ....     .........   3
A. The State  ..........................................    3
Location and Natural Features ..............         3
Social and Economic Conditions ..............        3
Agricultural Production and Land Tenure .........    4
Rural Development ...............................    5
B.  The Project Area ......    ......................       5
Location and General Features ................. ..   5
Socioeconomic Conditions .... ...................    6
Land Distribution and Settlement ................    6
Agricultural Production .........................   7
Production Support Services .....................    8
Social Services .....   ......................       8
Physical Infrastructure ....   ..................    8
III.   THE PROJECT ............................................   9
A.  Origin .......     ......................................*    9
B.  Objectives and Strategy .....     .......................  10
C.  Brief Description .....      .............................  12
D. Detailed Features ......      ............................  13
Land Regularization and Redistribution Activities   13
Land Use Capability and Planning Studies ........  16
Agricultural Research and Seed Production .......  17
Rural Extension   .................................  18
Marketing, Input Supply and Cooperatives ........  20
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in August/
September 1981 composed of G. Hayes, A. Hartmann, L. Coirolo, D. Dowsett,
S. Kowalski (Bank) and E. Andrade, D. Braga, J. Landers, D. Larson, T.
Ramos-Saco, J. Strasma and F. Yepes (Consultants).



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
Inland   Fisheries   ................................                                                 21
Forestry   Development   ............................                                                 22
Small   Scale   Enterprises    .........................                                              22
Rural   Transport   .................................                                                 23
Education and Vocational Training  ....                                           ...........    25
Health   and  Water   Supply   .........................                                              26
Project   Administration   ..........................                                                 27
E.      Complementary   Activities   ...........................                                                    27
Credit   ..........................................                                                   27
Amerindian   Protection   ...........................                                                 28
Agricultural Development in Mearim-Pindare ......   28
IV.        PROJECT   COSTS   AND   FINANCING   ............................                                                    29
Project   Costs   ..........................................                                                       29
Financing   ..............................................                                                         31
Procurement   ............................................                                                         32
Disbursements   ..........................................                                                         32
V.       PROJECT   IMPLEMENTATION   .................................                                                        33
Organization   and  Management    ............................                                                      33
Planning   and   Operating   Procedures   ......................                                                   35
Accounts   and  Auditing   ..................................                                                      37
Monitoring   and  Reporting   ...............................                                                      37
Evaluation   .............................................                                                         38
VI.    PRODUCTION,  DEMAND,  MARKETS AND PRICES  .................    38
Agricultural   Development   Strategy   ......................                                                     38
Production   .............................................                                                         39
Demand,   Markets   and   Prices                       ............................                                40
VII.          FINANCIAL   ANALYSIS   .....................................                                                       41
Illustrative   Farm  Models   ...............................                                                      41
Farm   Producer   Income   ...................................                                                     42
Small   Scale   Enterprises                      ...............................                                   42
Fiscal   Impact   ..........................................                                                       42
VIII.    ECONOMIC  BENEFITS  AND JUSTIFICATION  ....................    43
Economic   Rate   of  Return   ................................                                                    43
Employment   .............................................                                                         45
Environmental   Impact   ...................................                                                       45
Impact   on  Women   ........................................                                                      45
Project   Risks   ..........................................                                                       46
IX.   SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ........  47
APPENDIX.  List of Documents Available in Project File..   51



Table of Contents (Continued)
MAPS
1.   Project Area and Rainfall (No. 16151)
2.   Population Density and Project Works (No. 16152)
3.   Agricultural Aptitude and Rainfall (No. 16153)
VOLUME II - TECHNICAL ANNEXES AND CHARTS*
ANNEXES
1.   Land Regularization and Redistribution
2.   Agricultural Development
3.   Farm Models and Project Outputs
4.   Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
5.   Institutional Responsibilities
6.   Key Indicators for Monitoring and Evaluation
7.   Supporting Tables and Charts
* Available upon request






NORTHEAST BRAZIL
Maranhao Rural Development Project
Staff Appraisal Report
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agriculture in the Economy
1.01      Though its relative importance in the Brazilian economy has
gradually declined, agriculture remains an important sector, employing 36%
of Brazil's labor force, contributing over 10% of the total GDP, and about
half of total export earnings. Some 36% of Brazil's 1980 population of 119
million now live in rural areas, compared to 39% in 1970. The average
annual agricultural growth rate in the decade to 1980 was just over 5%.
Brazil is the world's largest exporter of coffee and orange juice, the
largest producer of sugar cane, and the third largest producer of
soybeans. Other major agricultural exports include meat and fish products,
cotton, peanuts, cocoa, castor oil, and sisal. In most years Brazil is
self-sufficient in basic food production, except for wheat.  Bad crop years
result in periodic imports of basic food crops such as maize, rice and
beans. Natural rubber is also imported. Most of the productivity gains,
expanded production areas, and increased market integration experienced in
the recent past have occurred in the south and center-west of the country,
while the north and northeast have largely continued to use traditional
agricultural practices with rudimentary technology. Constraints on
increased agricultural production, particularly in the less developed
Northeast, are discussed below (paras 1.03-1.04).
1.02      Agricultural development has been assigned a high priority in
Brazil's 1980-1985 development plan. It is given a key role in the
Government's efforts to reduce inflation, through expanded food production,
and, to improve balance-of-payments, through increased production of export
crops and energy substitutes. To help achieve these objectives, the
Government has continued its support for special regional programs, despite
high inflation and public sector deficits which have caused restraint in
public expenditure elsewhere.  The Government is also trying to reduce its
use of the very high agricultural credit subsidies, an instrument used
extensively in the past decade; however, the subsidy on regular rural
credit remains high.
Rural Development in the Northeast
1.03      The nine states of Northeast Brazil have a population of about 35
million (1980), of whom about half are rural. The region's total
population increased at a net rate of about 2.2% per year between 1970 and
1980, although the rural population growth was slower. Much of the region
has a semi-arid climate with serious periodic droughts, and there are
extensive areas of poor soils. Nonetheless, the Northeast is a significant
agricultural region, with about 30% of Brazil's harvested area and 45% of



- 2 -
its agricultural workforce, which produce a major share of the national
production of cocoa, cotton, beans, rice and sugar.
1.04      Although some crops such as sugarcane are grown predominantly on
large farms, basic food crops are produced mainly by small farmers,
employing rudimentary technology and obtaining low yields. Development of
the agriculture of small farmers has been hampered by: limited access to
improved seeds and other inputs, to rural extension services, and to
working capital and investment credit; market isolation and weak linkages
within the regional economy; and, in some areas, by a relatively
unfavorable physical environment. Insecurity of land tenure and lack of
access to land have compounded these difficulties and, in many areas,
constitute the basic constraint to increased production and productivity of
small farmers.l/
1.05      Various Government programs have been directed at speeding
economic development in the Northeast. The Government operates a special
agency, the Northeast Economic Development Superintendency (SUDENE), and a
special development bank for the Northeast, Bank of Northeast Brazil
(BNB). Substantial fiscal and monetary incentives have been made available
over the past two decades for both industry and agriculture. Programs to
generate jobs in the industrial sector have not, however, kept pace with
the population movement to the cities and to the more industrialized
Center-South and Center-West of Brazil. Prior to the mid-1970's,
Government programs directed to the rural population of the Northeast
concentrated on public works, with substantial efforts in drought-prone
areas to develop dams and ponds. Subsequently, efforts were initiated to
strengthen the institutions offering the support services required to
develop more productive farming systems. Such efforts include the
POLONORDESTE program (which the Bank has helped finance), Sertanejo, and
irrigation programs. POLONORDESTE, the most ambitious of these efforts, is
a wide-ranging program aimed at raising living standards through a series
of area-based integrated development projects where a comprehensive range
of measures is introduced.
Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector
1.06      The Bank has so far made 23 loans, totalling US$895 million, for
agriculture and rural development in Brazil. These include two, amounting
to US$119.2 million, for agro-industries; two, totalling US$60.5 million,
for livestock development; one for US$18.2 million for grain storage; two
amounting to US$100 million for agricultural research; one for US$100
million to improve agricultural extension services; and 15, totalling
US$497.1 million, for various settlement, irrigation and rural development
projects, 11 of which are located in the Northeast. In addition, there
have been three loans totalling US$196 million for fertilizer production; a
/   For more detailed discussions of land tenure issues in Northeast
Brazil, see "Rural Development Issues and Options in Northeast
Brazil", Report No. 665a-BR, June 23, 1975, "Piaui Rural Development
Project", Report No. 3398-BR, May 22, 1981, and Kutcher and Scandizzo
"The Agricultural Economy of Northeast Brazil", A World Bank Research
Publication. Washington, D.C., 1981.



- 3 -
loan of US$19 million for a nutrition research and development project; a
loan of US$32 million for a Northeast basic education project; and two
loans, totalling US$165 million for secondary and feeder roads. An
agricultural development project in Amazonas state was recently appraised.
Recent rural development projects with land regularization activities
include: the Bahia Rural Development Project; the first Ceara Rural
Development Project; and the Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba and Sergipe Rural
Development Projects. The second Ceara and the Piaui Development Projects
provide support for land discrimination, titling, and development of new
state land institutes.
1.07      The Completion and Project Performance Audit Reports issued for
the grain storage livestock development projects reveal significant
differences which developed between the Government and the Bank regarding
interest rate policy, leading to some cancellation and/or early repayments
of the loans. Project Performance Audit Reports are currently under
preparation for an agro-industry credit project and the Alto Turi land
settlement project, for which Completion Reports were recently issued. A
brief summary of the Alto Turi project experiences is given in paras 2.10
and 3.01.
II. THE STATE OF MARANHAO AND THE PROJECT AREA
A. The State
Location and Natural Features
2.01      Maranhao is the second largest state in Northeast Brazil with a
total area of 328,663 sq. km. It is bordered on the north by the Atlantic
Ocean, on the west by the States of Para and Goias and on the east by the
State of Piaui. In contrast with the rest of the Northeast, most of the
state lies outside the "drought polygon" and drought is rarely a problem.
Lying in a transition zone between the semi-arid Northeast and the tropical
Amazon, its average annual rainfall varies from 2,500 mm in the northwest
through 1,600 mm in the northeast and center, to 1,200 mm in the south.
Reflecting the rainfall pattern, the vegetation ranges from equatorial
tropical forests in the northwest, through native palm (babassu) in the
central area, to stunted vegetation of the "cerrado" in the south.
Social and Economic Conditions
2.02      Maranhao has a total population of about four million (1980) of
which slightly more than 70 percent is rural. Average population density
is only 12/km5. Sao Luis is the state capital and largest city with
approximately 460,000 inhabitants. Eighty percent of the economically
active population--which is estimated at 1,400,000--is engaged in
agriculture and agriculture-related activities. Agriculture generates 32
percent of the state's GDP, industry 8 percent and services 60 percent.
The state has plans for the processing of bauxite to produce alumina with



-4 -
facilities to be established in Sao Luis. The port of Itaqui, close to Sao
Luis, has been selected as the export terminal for iron ore and other
minerals to be mined at the vast Carajas development in the neighboring
Para state. Both these developments are expected to contribute
significantly to Maranhao's economic development over the next decade.
Average per capita income in 1981 for the state as a whole was estimated to
be roughly US$320, as compared with US$760 for the Northeast and about
US$1,690 for the whole of Brazil.
2.03      Access to basic services is limited.  Only 36 percent of the
urban population has access to potable water, and sewerage is limited to
the capital of Sao Luis. Medical services are inadequate--the state has
only 0.94 hospital beds per 1,000 inhabitants. Infant mortality during the
first year after birth is high, at 88.4 per thousand, and general mortality
is 10.3 per thousand. Malnutrition and illiteracy are especially prevalent
in rural areas. Some 60 percent of the work force is illiterate and only
56 percent of the total rural school age-population are enrolled in
schools. Drop-out rates are among the highest in the Northeast.
Agricultural Production and Land Tenure
2.04      Maranhao's primary sector income is the third highest in the
Northeast, after Bahia and Pernambuco. The State is Brazil's largest
producer of babassu nuts, the second largest of cassava and the third
largest of rice. Agriculture is dominated by extensive livestock
enterprises (primarily beef cattle with some buffalo) and the production of
traditional food crops--cassava, rice, maize, beans and bananas. These
crops (except bananas) are usually intercropped in a mixed pattern
(consorciado) although rice, cassava and maize are also grown separately in
small areas. As a result of low technology levels, poor soil management,
lack of rotation and incomplete land clearing, productivity levels of
almost all crops have been slowly declining, despite the considerable
agricultural potential of the state.
2.05      Maranhao has the most highly skewed pattern of land ownership in
the Northeast of Brazil.  According to the latest (1975) Agricultural
Census, some 85% of all recorded rural producers are non-owners or lack
secure title to their holdings. Overall, of the total recorded holdings:
15% are owner-operated farms on 88% of the recorded area; 39% are farms
operated by renters working 3% of the area, and 46% are farms operated by
squatters (posseiros) on 9% of the land. Eighty-eight percent of the
recorded holdings are less than 10 ha and account for 6% of the total
recorded area, while the 1% of the farms occupying 1,000 ha or more account
for 41% of the total recorded area.  (It should be noted that the recorded
area represents only 38% of the geographical area and that privately
claimed land represents only 32% of the total geographical area of the
State of Maranhao.) The smallness of the plots and the insecurity of land
tenure cause severe problems especially for the small farmer. Smallholders
without proper land documentation generally cannot obtain investment credit
and are unable, and often unwilling, to invest in their farms. Access to
credit is made more difficult by the limited extent of the credit network.
Consequently, few modern inputs are used by these farmers who continue to
practice a low-input-low-output form of shifting cultivation which, while



- 5 -
adequate in the past, is now threatened by increasing population and
removal of land for grazing.
Rural Development
2.06      The Federal Government's POLONORDESTE program, coordinated by
SUDENE, represents the largest single source of federal funds for the
state, accounting for about 65 percent of all public resources going to
rural areas. Apart from the proposed project which started receiving
POLONORDESTE funds in 1981/82, there are currently two ongoing POLONORDESTE
rural development projects in Maranhao: one located in the Vale do Medio
Mearim and the other in the Baixo Parnaiba. In addition, POLONORDESTE
provided counterpart funding for the first phase of the Bank-financed Alto
Turi Land Settlement Project which was completed in 1981 (paras 2.10 and
3.01). The State Government has recognized that improvements in the land
tenure situation leading to improved small farmer access to land and
consequently to credit and rural extension, are prerequisites to efforts to
increase the income of small farmers and agricultural production in
general, and to thus counteract the present trend of migration from
depressed rural areas to urban centers, where job prospects are extremely
limited. The proposed project would thus constitute an integrated attempt
to address land-related issues as part of the state's overall rural
development effort.
B. The Project Area
Location and General Features
2.07      The project area, located in central-northwestern Maranhao,
consists of 50,666 km2 (15% of the State's total) and includes 47
municipalities (see Map Nos. 16151 and 16153). The project itself
comprises three sub-projects with specific adjacent sub-project areas,
described briefly below. In the northwest, the Alto Turi sub-groject area
includes part of five municipalities. It covers some 8,500 km and
comprises the area set aside in the 1960s for the implementation of land
settlement projects. The area is sub-divided into three sub-areas; the
bulk of the sub-project activities would take place in the northernmost
sub-area III, the other two sub-areas having been the focus of the initial
Alto Turi settlement project. The area was originally dense tropical
forest, much of which has now been cleared through organized and
spontaneous settlement. Soils are predominantly of sandy texture,
extensively leached, acid, and of relatively low natural fertility.
Rainfall is high (2,200-3,000 mm annually) with a marked dry season from
August to December. The Baixada sub-project area occupies 21
municipalities covering some 22,686 km' in the central-north of the project
area. Topography ranges from undulating in the central northwest to
low-lying on the coastal plains. Vegetation is predominantly secondary
growth with babassu (a local palm) predominating in lower areas. Soils are
similar to those in Alto Turi, mainly low fertility podzols and latosols
with some extensive areas of alluvial soils periodically inundated.
Rainfall is in the range of 1,800-2,800 mm annually with a four to five
month dry season. The Mearim-Pindare sub-project area includes 20
municipalities covering 19,480 sq. km in an area regarded locally as the



- 6  -
"filet" of Maranhao. Topography is undulating to flat and the area is
drained by several large rivers. Soils are of medium texture and moderate
fertility, and rainfall varies from 1,600 mm in the south to about 2,200 mm
in the north.
Socioeconomic Conditions
2.08      The population of the project area is about 1.2 million (1980
census) or 30% of the State's total population. Population density varies
widely from 1.1/km2 in the northeast of the Alto Turi area to 64.2/km2 in
the center of the Mearim-Pindare area (Map No. 16152). Some 77% of the
population is rural and the average annual population growth rate for the
decade to 1980 was 2.3% compared with 2.9% for the whole state and 5.4% for
the state's capital, Sao Luis. The three sub-project areas show distinct
differences in annual population growth rates--the Baixada (2.0%) and the
Mearim-Pindare area (1.8%), are both below the state's average, reflecting
emigration to centers outside these areas owing to the increasing scarcity
of land, while the 5.5% growth rate for the Alto Turi area reflects the
continuous influx of settlers into the settlement areas from within and
outside the state, and the demand for secure access to land. Precise data
on incomes in the project area are unavailable, although most of the rural
population is estimated to have incomes below Brazil's relative poverty
level of about US$330 per capita.
Land Distribution and Settlement
2.09      Land distribution in the project area varies somewhat by
sub-project area, but overall is extremely concentrated. Some 13% of the
farmers claim ownership to about 64% of the land, 37% of the farmers are
renters occupying 4% of the land, and 50% of the farmers are squatters
occupying 32% of the land. Based on the 1975 Agricultural Census, which is
the latest comprehensive information available, the average size of holding
was 13 ha. Some 83% of farmers occupied less than 5 ha and the 2.5% of
farmers with holdings above 100 ha accounted for more than 70% of the
area. (See Annex 1, Tables 1 and 2, and Annex 7, Table 1 for further
details.) The Census coverage is incomplete however, since it accounts for
only 49% of the geographical area. Although some 13% of the farmers claim
ownership to the land they occupy, some of the land claimed is state land
which has been irregularly occupied and for which no valid title has been
issued. In addition, many of the squatters have acquired ownership rights,
under existing State and Federal land legislation, to at least part of the
land they occupy, but they have rarely attempted to obtain title to their
land owing to the cost of privately contracting demarcation and titling
services and the complicated bureaucratic and legal procedures involved,
which are unknown to small farmers.
2.10      The differences in the land tenure situation between sub-project
areas reflects differences in development patterns. The Baixada is a long
established agricultural area based on shifting agriculture with
well-established land-use rights but, until recently, little land ownership
per se. Owing to the availability of large areas of un-titled state lands,
the area has attracted large operators who have fenced (enclosed)
significant areas of these lands and developed large scale extensive cattle
rearing operations. This has led to the displacement of many squatters who



- 7  -
had previously occupied the land or to their transformation to tenants or
salaried laborers. Most of the larger operators have used tenants to clear
the land, plant crops, and subsequently to establish cattle pastures, with
the result that cropping land has become increasingly scarce. In the
process, tenants have been required to pay exorbitantly high rents, often
equivalent to as much as 50% of the land value.  The situation in the
Mearim-Pindare sub-project area has been comparable, but the transformation
of small farmers into tenants and laborers is somewhat more advanced since
the process started earlier in this region. Land scarcity is consequently
an even greater problem in this area and has led to numerous land
disputes. The Alto Turi sub-project area has, in contrast to the rest of
the project area, been developed mainly during the last 10 years.  The
basis for its development has been the Alto Turi Land Settlement Project
which was co-financed by the Bank (Loan 853-BR), and which was completed in
1981. An area totalling 850,000 ha was given to the Colonization Company
of the Northeast (COLONE) in 1972 by the State of Maranhao to execute the
colonization project. Some 6,000 settler families now live in the two
initial sub-areas on holdings of 50 ha and some 4,400 registered settlers
also live in an expansion area.  It is estimated that an additional 5,000
unregistered settlers, cultivating on the average about 5 ha each, live in
the area.  Currently, 875 of the 6,000 settlers have received titles to
their holdings, and demarcation has been completed on 1,750 holdings and
initiated on a further 5,800. The slow rate of titling resulted from
uncertainties and challenges to COLONE's rights to issue title. Partly as
a consequence, during the last few years the Alto Turi area has also been
increasingly threatened by irregular occupiers who have established
holdings considerably larger than the 50 ha allocated by COLONE to each
registered settler family. Some 105,000 ha of land is presently being held
by 360 of those irregular settlers in sub-area I. (Comparable data for
sub-area II and III are not available.) The proposed project would
directly address land tenure uncertainties in the Alto Turi area through
the implementation of existing Federal and State legislation to ensure that
Alto Turi is used mainly for its original intended objectives, as a small
farmer settlement area.
Agricultural Production
2.11      The project area produces a slightly higher share (32%) of the
State's agricultural output than its share of agricultural area (27%). It
accounts for 25% of the rice, 34% of the cassava, 23% of the cowpeas, 35%
of the babassu nuts and an estimated 37% of the beef produced in the
state.  Apart from beef, most of the agricultural output is produced by
small farmers operating on rented or state land using rudimentary
techniques associated with shifting agriculture, with virtually no modern
inputs such as improved seeds, pesticides or fertilizers. Yields of the
major crops are declining, reflecting accelerated depletion of soil
fertility and use of marginal land owing to increasing population
pressures and the enclosure of lands for grazing. The 6,000 settlers in
sub-areas I and II of Alto Turi now cultivate about 20,000 ha producing
annually about 16,000 metric tons of rice, 12,000 tons of cassava flour,
2,500 tons of beans (cowpeas), 2,200 tons of maize, 800 tons of black
pepper and 150 tons of beef. Details of the area, production, and value of
major crops in the project area, and their relation to the state totals are
presented in Annex 7, Table 1.



-8 -
Production Support Services
2.12      Although the production services available to small farmers vary
considerably amongst and within the sub-project areas, the overall
situation is poor. Settlers in sub-area III of Alto Turi, the portion to
receive the bulk of investments under the proposed project, have to date
been without extension services, credit agencies, marketing support, or
research services owing to the settlement agency's limited resources which
have been fully absorbed in sub-areas I and II. Those small farmers in the
Baixada, located near the skeletal network of extension offices, have been
marginally better off, although very few have had access to credit which
has been directed primarily to land-owners or to those with secure tenure.
Research and marketing services have been virtually non-existent for the
Baixada. The situation in the Mearim-Pindare sub-project is somewhat
better, largely as a result of the on-going POLONORDESTE rural development
project which has strengthened extension, credit and marketing services.
Nonetheless, the small farmer's capacity to benefit from these services
remains limited by insecure access to land.
Social Services
2.13      Education facilities and programs are generally deficient,
especially in the rural areas. The quality of education is very low
because of the inappropriate curriculum, the high proportion of unqualified
teachers (92% in 1979), the lack of teaching and learning materials, and
the poor supervision and management of the rural education programs.
Dropout and repetition rates are high; only 1.5% of the children who enter
first grade complete fourth grade in four years. The access of rural
children to education is limited (52% net enrollment rate in the project
area in 1979); according to the 1970 census, 64% of the total population
never attended school, and 29% were educated only to third grade. In the
Alto Turi and Baixada areas, there are a total of 20 health centers, 53
health posts and 20 hospitals with 333 beds, but these are concentrated in
only 15 of the area municipalities. Some 50% of all physicians are
concentrated in four municipalities. Mortality is estimated at 11 deaths
per 1,000 inhabitants, and infant mortality at 93 per 1,000 newborn.
Almost half of all children suffer from malnutrition. It is estimated that
70% of the deaths occur without any previous medical care. A good network
of health services exist in sub-areas I and II of the Alto Turi
colonization project but improvements are needed for the outreach
activities. In the Baixada, the existing service level is minimal.
Maintenance of buildings and equipment is poor, training and continuing
education of personnel deficient, supervision limited, staffing and
equipping standards not complied with, and systems for distribution of
supplies almost non-existent.
Physical Infrastructure
2.14      Apart from the northern part of the Mearim-Pindare area and the
narrow corridor associated with the federal highway (BR-316) through the
Alto Turi area, the transport infrastructure within the project area is
little developed, and much of the road system becomes impassable during the
wet season. The 6,805 km road network (14% of the state total) comprises



- 9  -
231 km of federal highways, 1,274 km of gravelled and earth state roads,
and about 5,300 km of municipal roads.  The difficulty of providing road
access to low-lying areas may be partly circumvented by development of a
network of waterways and roads.  The project area has 1,938 km of navigable
waterways (40% of the state total) and almost half of the Baixada
municipalities have some docking facilities for water transport.  Clean and
reliable supplies of drinking water are scarce, there being only 19 systems
in the Baixada, all of which are urban and reach less than 40% of this
area's total urban population.  There are no sewerage and few garbage
disposal schemes in operation. Electricity distribution is limited to the
larger urban centers.
III.   THE PROJECT
A. Origin
3.01      The project originated as a follow-up to the Alto Turi Land
Settlement Project which was the first Bank-assisted agricultural
development project in Maranhao and Northeast Brazil. The original Alto
Turi project aimed to settle some 5,200 families on largely virgin forest
land in the Pre-Amazon area in the northwest of Maranhao. The project
faced, and ultimately largely overcame, a range of inter-related
implementation problems stemming from some weaknesses in the original
design (regarding inter-institutional relationships, recommended farming
systems and environmental protection); lack of full and maintained
agreement on objectives amongst the various state and federal authorities,
and the Bank; lack of consistent state support for the implementing agency;
continuing funding delays and shortfalls; and irregular or unauthorized
occupation or invasion of the area. Despite these difficulties, the
project's revised goals were substantially achieved by end-1980.  Some
5,600 families had been settled, and 54 schools, 15 health centers, and 240
km of roads constructed. The overall economic rate of return was estimated
after completion at 13%, compared with an anticipated 16% at appraisal.
The project also revealed the need for close collaboration between the
settlement agency and the state, to ensure the state's support for its
activities, and to facilitate transition of implementation responsibilities
from the settlement agency to the various state agencies, after the initial
development phase was completed.
3.02      The proposed project emerged from talks between state and federal
authorities and a Bank identification mission in April 1980, which agreed
to broaden the project concept to include rural development activities in
the Baixada Occidental Maranhense region adjoining the Alto Turi area to
the east. The Baixada is one of the most densely settled and least
developed rural areas in the state, and its stagnant rural economy has
encouraged emigration to the state capital where the migrants have very
limited employment opportunities. As one of the original areas of
settlement in Maranhao, the Baixada's population is largely integrated into
communities which have remained, until recently, fairly stable. These
communities developed and preserved use-rights to land with the result that



- 10 -
private land ownership per se has, until recently, been rare. The
increasing pressure for land in Northeast Brazil, and the various
government-sponsored schemes to promote agricultural development, has led
to use of large areas of state land in the Baixada for cattle and buffalo
rearing, leaving communities with land shortages and declining productivity
as the fallow period for shifting agriculture was reduced.
3.03      The need to provide secure access to land focussed attention on
the need for a greatly strengthened institutional capacity to deal with the
range of legal, administrative, technical, and social questions associated
with the implementation of an ambitious land regularization program.
Although the state did have an agency (COTERMA) responsible for land
activities, the agency was too constrained in the range of its
responsibilities and in its charter to adequately deal with these
problems. Further, it became apparent that a piece-meal approach whereby
land tenure issues were dealt with on an ad hoc basis would be, at best, a
stop-gap measure. The state therefore created a new State Land Institute
(ITERMA) to replace COTERMA, and the National Colonization and Agrarian
Reform Institute (INCRA) agreed to provide technical and financial
assistance to ITERMA both in the implementation of the land regularization
work in the Baixada, and in the development of overall state policies and
priorities for resolution of land issues. INCRA and the state further
proposed that the project include land regularization, not just in the
Baixada, but also in the adjacent Mearim-Pindare area, another priority
area for land regularization in the state where other POLONORDESTE rural
development activities had begun previously but were being hampered by the
need for land tenure regularization. The project emphasis on land
regularization, reflects both the inherent needs of a settlement project
and the fundamental importance of secure land access to the development of
small farmers. While this emphasis is similar to that of the recently
approved Piaui project (2015-BR), somewhat different means would be used.
In Maranhao, the project would concentrate on the identification, recovery
(through discrimination), and subsequent redistribution and regularization
of state lands, whereas the Piaui project is more involved with the
purchase and redistribution of privately held lands.
3.04      After several Bank preparation missions, the project was
appraised in August/September 1981, followed by a brief post-appraisal
mission in January/February 1982.
B. Objectives and Strategy
3.05      The proposed project would have the following primary objectives:
(a) to increase production and productivity and to improve the living
standards and incomes for:
(i) some 7,500 direct beneficiaries in the Baixada through
provision of secure access to land, essential support
services and infrastructure, and a further 4,500
beneficiaries who would receive access to land but a lower
intensity of support services;



- 11 -
(ii) some 14,325 direct beneficiaries in the Alto Turi area who
would receive titles to their farms of 35-50 ha, and of
whom some 12,000 would also receive essential production
services and infrastructure;
(iii) some 12,500 beneficiaries in the Mearim-Pindare area who
would gain more secure access to land, with essential
support services and infrastructure being provided by an
on-going POLONORDESTE project for part of the area; and
(b)  to improve the capacity of the state executing agencies and of
COLONE to serve current and future farmer beneficiaries elsewhere
in Maranhao (or in the Northeast for COLONE) through staff
recruitment, training, technical assistance and the provision of
equipment
3.06      The project would also aim to:  assist in the state's effort to
slow rural-urban migration by improving conditions in the Baixada through
the expansion of employment opportunities and social amenities; improve the
physical environment of the project area through introduction of more
productive and stable agricultural production systems, soil conservation,
better adaptation of land use to aptitude, reforestation efforts, and the
development and protection of forest reserves; and improve the state's
capacity to meet recurrent costs, through systematic encouragement of
community participation in maintenance (and construction), and through
clear definition and agreement on responsibilities for recurrent cost
funding among the entities assisted.
3.07      The project would establish the institutional capacity to provide
to small producers a more secure access to land mainly through the issuance
of titles to existing occupiers of suitably sized and endowed holdings, and
to a lesser extent through the redistribution of state lands, some of which
are currently occupied but under-utilized. The project would also provide
the support services and infrastructure necessary to ensure that the newly
available land was used more efficiently, and to ensure that the population
of the project area had access to health and education services sufficient
to provide for the future economic and social development of the area. The
main aspects of the production development strategy--centered initially on
available productivity improvements in traditional food crops, a modest
increase in areas cropped, and, gradual introduction of several new annual
and perennial cash crops--are outlined in paras 6.01-6.02. Agricultural
development would be complemented by reinforced assistance to inland
fisheries and small scale rural industries. In recognition of the limited
implementation capacity of the state's agencies, the project would place
major emphasis on staff training and the provision of technical assistance,
in addition to providing equipment and field office facilities.  It would
also strengthen collaboration amongst service agencies through the
establishment of coordinating mechanisms at the state level. Finally, the
fundamental importance of land access to project beneficiaries provides the
project with a built-in opportunity to elicit community participation both
in the setting of project goals and in the execution of project activities.



- 12 -
3.08      The project strategy provides for a degree of flexibility in
planning and implementation to enable response to difficulties which may be
encountered. While the overall project has clearly defined goals, it is
expected that the timing for achievement of goals and even aspects of the
strategies through which they would be pursued, would need periodic
revision. The POLONORDESTE program planning system, based on the
preparation of detailed annual operating plans with each involved
agency, and the monitoring of project achievements, provides a useful
framework for this flexible approach. Its weakness has tended to lie in
the timing, appropriateness, and thoroughness of its monitoring activities;
consequently, the proposed project would place special emphasis on
monitoring as a tool to facilitate the periodic readjustment of project
activities.
C. Brief Description
3.09      The proposed project would comprise three sub-projects:
(a) the Baixada sub-project, an integrated rural development project
aimed at reaching some 12,000 low income farmers, would provide:
secure access to land through regularization of occupancy, and
redistribution and settlement of state land; a greatly
strengthened agricultural production capacity through the
provision of research and extension services, seed and other
input distribution systems, storage and marketing facilities and
support to cooperatives; support for strengthening and expanding
existing small scale industries, inland fisheries and forest
protection activities; an improved physical infrastructure of
roads and waterways; and an improved social infrastructure of
schools, health posts and village water supply.
(b) the Alto Turi sub-project would complete the settlement in the
Alto Turi area, consolidating activities initiated under the Alto
Turi Land Settlement project (settlement sub-areas I and II), and
extending the settlement support to the remainder of the Alto
Turi area (sub-area III). It would provide: secure access to
land (with farm size ranging from 35-50 ha) for some 14,325
families of whom some 1,725 require only titling, 5,800 require
only demarcation and titling, and 6,800 would be settled on
currently unoccupied land in sub-area III and on some land in
sub-areas I and II which has been irregularly occupied in the
past; strengthened production support infrastructure comprising
research and extension services, seed and other input
distribution systems; storage and marketing facilities; technical
support for cooperatives and support to small scale enterprises;
forest protection activites; a basic physical infrastructure in
sub-area III, including construction of access roads; and
improved social infrastructure comprising schools, health posts
and sanitation facilities.
(c) the Mearim-Pindare sub-project would provide priority land
regularization activities in support of on-going or planned
complementary rural development activities in 20 municipalities



- 13 -
adjacent and south of the Baixada where agricultural development
is constrained by considerable land tenure uncertainties which
otherwise would probably worsen with land pressure generated by
the various development projects, including construction of the
Sao Luis-Carajas railroad through the area. The sub-project
would regularize and title 8,500 farms averaging 35 ha, and
identify about 156,000 ha (some of which is irregularly occupied
and some of which is public land) for re-distribution in titled
lots of about 35 ha to about 4,000 families.
3.10      In summary, the three sub-projects would provide:  more secure
land tenure for almost 39,000 small farmers2/ in Maranhao which in and of
itself would be an important step towards providing the incentive needed to
make productive on-farm improvements; direct project-financed production
support services to some 24,000 of these farmers of whom 19,500 would
receive relatively more intensive support (the balance of the 39,000 would
receive such services from on-going support to earlier settlers in Alto
Turi and from other on-going or planned projects in the Mearim-Pindare);
and an improved social and physical infrastructure serving the larger rural
communities in the project area.
D. Detailed Features
Land Regularization and Redistribution Activities
3.11      Progress in provision of secure access to land would, to a large
extent, determine the location and rate of implementation of other project
activities. In overall terms, the project would: (a) provide titles to
about 16,500 existing occupiers of state lands with holdings ranging from
10 to 100 ha in the Baixada and Mearim-Pindare, thus "regularizing" their
present occupancy; (b) redistribute and title land (averaging about 35 ha
per holding) to about 8,000 small farmers, also in the Baixada and
Mearim-Pindare, who would settle on state lands recovered through the
process of "discrimination" (verification of the validity of existing
claims) or, in some cases, on private lands which would be purchased or
expropriated by the Government; and (c) provide titled lots of 35 to 50 ha
for about 14,325 settlers in the Alto Turi area. To achieve these targets,
the project would provide for: (i) cadastral surveys of some 3.4 million
ha or about 66% of the project area; (ii) discrimination of claims to some
2.2 million ha; (iii) demarcation of some 1.0 million ha; and (iv) the
planning and management of settlement on land recovered through
discrimination. In order to avoid overloading any one agency, implementing
responsibilities would be shared amongst the responsible agencies. The new
State Land Institute (ITERMA) would be responsible for these activities in
the Baixada and would receive technical and financial assistance from
INCRA; COLONE would be responsible for land tenure activities in the Alto
Turi area; and INCRA would handle the Mearim-Pindare area. The project's
land capability and land use studies component (para 3.18) would provide
the technical inputs for the land distribution and settlement activities.
2/  The services ranging from simply titling many of the farmers on
their current demarcated plots, to redistribution of state and COLONE
land.



- 14 -
3.12      Land Regularization.  Almost 65% of the project beneficiaries are
expected to have their tenure "regularized" on the land they are curently
occupying. The regularization of the land tenure situation and the
identification of land for redistribution in the project area would
generally be based on a process including:  initial cadastral surveys to
identify the present occupancy of the area; the legal review of claims to
land by Special Commissions; consultations with the involved communities
and parties to reach agreement on siting of boundaries; demarcation of
holdings; and the issue and registration of titles. Legal challenges to
the findings of the Special Commissions would be transferred to State
courts. Details of the procedures to be followed, which have been
established by INCRA and ITERMA, are presented in Annex 1. Various facets
of the cadastral survey and demarcation work would be contracted out to
specialized firms. Basically complete cycles of the above-mentioned
general process for land discrimination and regularization would be carried
out in the Baixada and Mearim-Pindare areas. The project would help
introduce a new method in the land regularization process through the use
of orthophoto-maps which would be used to locate holdings, mark boundaries,
and complement the data base of title and cadastral records, thus
facilitating future land transactions (including identification of state
lands for future distribution) and improving land taxation efficiency.
3.13      The procedure in the Alto Turi area would exclude the
discrimination step, including instead a special process of negotiations
with irregular occupiers following a Protocol established between COLONE
and the State. The negotiations would define the area of land the
irregular occupiers would be permitted to retain and the amount of
compensation to be paid to the settler for improvements made on the land
returned to COLONE. Registration of irregular occupiers in sub-area I of
Alto Turi has been completed, about 50% of the irregular occupiers of over
300 ha have been evaluated and steps are being taken by COLONE and INCRA to
declare the Alto Turi area a priority area for purposes of agrarian
reform. A condition of loan effectiveness would be that an area of at
least 10,000 ha including at least three of the fifteen largest plots
irregularly occupied in the Alto Turi area had been recovered by COLONE in
terms satisfactory to the Bank. Assurances were obtained that agreements
to settle the claims of irregular occupiers over 60 ha would be reached not
later than March 1, 1983, for those in sub-area I, and not later than
December 31, 1983, for those in sub-areas II and III. Both ITERMA and
COLONE would seek active community participation in all stages of the
regularization process.
3.14      The general areas within which discrimination and land regulari-
zation activities would be carried out have already been identified,
including priority municipalities for the first year.  Selection criteria
used included the apparent availability of under-utilized state land, the
relative concentration of low-income producers, and the present and
potential agricultural production. Owing to the poor records currently
available, it is not possible to determine the exact availability of state
land which could be regularized or redistributed until the process is
substantially advanced. Consequently, while the component targets have
been established in the light of reasonable implementation rates, the
specific locations for land actions within municipalities remain to be



-15 -
determined. To ensure that other project activities can be located in
support of the land component, and as part of the annual project planning
update (para 5.08), the annual operating plan prepared and presented by the
state for the land regularization and redistribution component would
specify quarterly plans and targets, satisfactory to the Bank, for:
cadastral surveys, discrimination proceedings, and demarcation, all
measured in area to be covered; annual targets for titling; and specific
locations within municipalities where these activities were to take place.
Assurances have been received that the coverage (ha or km, as appropriate)
of cadastral surveys, discrimination proceedings and demarcation completed
would be no less than agreed minima (Annex 1, Table 9).
3.15      Land Redistribution.  State land identified in the discrimination
process, and land which may be obtained through expropriation or purchase
(if such needs arise), would become available for redistribution.
Assurances were received that such land would be used exclusively for small
farmer participants or for environmental protection under the project.
Though the exact amount of public land available would be known only after
discrimination had taken place, a reasonable estimate, based on the limited
data currently available, would be about 400,000 ha or 18% of the
discriminated area. Land would be distributed to renter or sharecropper
families residing in the area or to very small owner-operators with
insufficient land. The distribution process would be preceded by
socio-economic and land use surveys carried out in the specific areas
(paras 3.18-3.20). The redistribution process would be carried out by
specialist consultants contracted by ITERMA, INCRA and COLONE, following
procedures to be discussed and agreed upon with the communities. About one
year would be required to carry out the redistribution program, during
which time the area would be protected from invasions by squatters using
measures to be agreed with the communities, and would be farmed
productively under interim management arrangements between ITERMA, INCRA
and the selected beneficiaries. Assurances were obtained that the state
would provide to the Bank by November 30, 1982, a detailed plan,
satisfactory to the Bank, for interim management of land to be
redistributed, such plan to have been prepared in consultation with INCRA.
3.16      Land recipients would pay for land services received under the
project and the monies received would be used to help finance similar land
activities elsewhere in the area or state. Owing to the limited
availability of land purchase credit, and the absence of an adequate
marketing infrastructure to accept payment in kind, beneficiaries would pay
for their land services in installments and in cash. The provisional title
issued when land is allocated or redistributed, would specify terms of
payment and restrict transfer rights of holders. Assurances have been
received that the state would furnish to the Bank, not later than November
30, 1982, satisfactory plans prepared in collaboration with INCRA and
COLONE for the repayment options, these options to recover in real terms
not less than 20% of the actual cost of recovering and redistributing the
land, or the market value of such land, whichever is the lower, and the
plans specifying the criteria for cost estimation and arrangements for
payment collection. A condition of loan effectiveness would be that the
state would cause ITERMA to establish a Land Fund for the Baixada and that
COLONE would establish a Land Fund for Alto Turi, with initial deposits of



- 16 -
not less than Cr$20 million and Cr$100 million respectively. These funds
would be used to meet the costs of compensating previous irregular
occupiers for improvements made to state and COLONE lands, or acquiring
land, solely in the project area for the duration of the project.
Assurances were obtained that ITERMA and COLONE would have deposited in the
land funds by March 31, 1983, totals of Cr$40 million and Cr$200 million
respectively; these land funds would be maintained for the duration of the
project; and all payments received from land beneficiaries in the case of
the Baixada and Alto Turi would be placed into such funds, along with other
replenishments which may be needed. INCRA would assure the availability of
adequate funds for the Mearim-Pindare.
3.17      The State Land Institute.  In order to implement project
activities in the Baixada and Mearim-Pindare areas, and to increase the
state's institutional capabilities in land related matters, the project
would strengthen the State Land Institute (ITERMA), created in November 9,
1981, to replace the previous land company, COTERMA (para 3.03). Under the
project, ITERMA would be staffed and equipped to enable it to carry out
(partly through contracting of specialized consultancy or surveying firms)
all phases of land regularization and redistribution, including interim
management. The senior management of ITERMA has been appointed; its
enabling legal instruments have been approved; staff transfers from COTERMA
have been agreed; and positions requiring outside recruitment have been
defined. ITERMA and INCRA have signed an agreement which governs the
undertakings and responsibilities of the two parties in the Baixada and
Mearim-Pindare sub-projects. In addition to the establishment of efficient
cadastral and titling services, and information retrieval systems, ITERMA
would expand its land policy development capability which would, by
establishing criteria, procedures, and priorities, permit the state to
address broader land issues elsewhere in Maranhao in the future. In order
to assist in this policy development role, as well as in the execution of
the project, INCRA would enter into an agreement with ITERMA to provide
ITERMA with technical assistance, training and equipment, in addition to
financial assistance in the Mearim-Pindare sub-project. The overall land
regularization component would include about 95 manmonths of consultancy
services for ITERMA, COLONE and INCRA, in the fields of cadastral surveys,
land use planning, demarcation, legal services, record storage and
retrieval, and administration and finances. Assurances were received that
the state would at all times maintain in ITERMA adequate staffing levels
and qualified and experienced managers and would exchange views with the
Bank prior to making any changes in this management. It was also agreed
that ITERMA would: (i) employ consultants as needed on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) enter into, and thereafter
maintain, a collaboration agreement with INCRA satisfactory to the Bank;
and (iii) establish and maintain a centralized cadastral record system
based on information to be provided promptly by the State's land registry
offices.
Land Use Capability and Planning Studies
3.18      In order to assist in the definition of the areas for land
regularization and redistribution activities and to provide a sound base
for subsequent regional planning and agricultural development, land use



- 17 -
capability studies would be carried out under the project by consultants.
These studies would be based initially on new aerial coverage of the three
sub-project areas, followed by production of orthophoto-maps. The latter
would provide an accurate basis for planning the location of roads,
schools, health centers, and other infrastructure. They would also be
required for the regularization of existing occupancies. Land
redistribution activities, unlike regularization, would require a
conventional topographic survey to mark out redistributed property
boundaries where none existed previously.
3.19      With regard to soil studies, these would be based initially on
photo-interpretation, which would permit the identification of areas
unsuitable for agriculture because of slope (terrain) and of those areas
where complex soil relationships warranted more detailed field survey.
Within the potentially useful agricultural area (estimated to be about
three million ha or 70% of the total), some 975,000 ha (or about 23% of the
total area) would be subject to semi-detailed studies with limited field
work to prepare land capability maps and provide the basis for preparing
agricultural layouts for redistributed land. The areas found to be
unsuited for agriculture would be set aside as reserves (para 3.31).
Specialized consulting firms would be contracted for the land use studies
and aero-photogrametric work.
3.20      The project would also finance a socio-economic study to identify
feasible development strategies for the "campos" area of the Baixada so as
to ensure that the long-established communities in this area could
participate in future development. The present pattern of communal land
use and combination of crop production, grazing, and fishing, is threatened
by the relatively recent establishment of ranches and the enclosure and
subsequent alienation of large areas of land. In the future, it is likely
that the area could be developed for irrigation and, hence, it will be
important to devise a development strategy which would preserve these
communities whilst permitting them to benefit from future developments.
ITERMA would therefore restrict further land transfers in the "campos"
pending the results of the study to be carried out by consultants working
with its staff and the Project Management Unit for the Baixada sub-project.
Agricultural Research and Seed Production
3.21      The project area includes the main research station (Bacabal) of
the State Agricultural Research Agency, EMAPA, two small sub-stations at
Arari (irrigated rice research) and Pinheiro (buffalo research), and some
demonstration plots on the COLONE farms in Alto Turi.   These existing
facilities do not, however, provide an adequate research coverage of the
area, owing to considerable variations in soils, topography and land use.
The research has suffered from meagre funding, and undue emphasis with
modern mechanized agriculture and large scale livestock enterprises.
Although funding remains a major constraint, there has been a significant
change in research priorities over the past three years. The French
agency, Institut de Recherces Agronomiques Tropicales (IRAT), has worked
with EMAPA researchers in the development of several modified production
systems. These involve gradual introduction of new inputs (seeds,
herbicides and fertilizers), different plant spacing and times of planting,



- 18 -
and different varieties which together result in large increases in labor
efficiency and yields leading to substantial (up to five-fold) improvements
in returns per workday. Further work, however, is required to adapt the
systems to the project area's slightly higher rainfalls and less fertile
and poorly drained soils. There is also an urgent need to initiate
research on new crop possibilities for these areas.  The first steps in
improving agricultural productivity will require timely supplies of high
quality seeds which would require the strengthening of EMAPA's capacity to
produce foundation seed and the development of a seed multiplication
capability within the project area. These various matters would be the
subject of the proposed component.
3.22      The project would strengthen EMAPA by providing incremental
staff, training, equipment and some research facilities. More
specifically, it would:  (i)   assist in the establishment, equipping and
operation of two Research Units, one of which would add to the existing
facilities in the Alto Turi area (Araguana), and the other serving the
Baixada (Pinheiro); and (ii) provide for incremental staffing of 40
researchers and support staff who would be recruited and trained gradually
over the first three years of project implementation.  The research
component would aim to improve the existing systems of production; test new
crops; introduce animal traction; develop crop rotations to restore soil
fertility and reduce soil erosion; and improve the linkages between
researchers, producers and extensionists.
3.23      EMAPA would be the executing agency for the research component
and for the production of foundation seed. EMAPA would produce sufficient
foundation seed to meet project requirements (for rice, beans and maize)
and these seeds would be multiplied to produce certified seeds by COLONE
and COMALTA (the existing cooperative in the Alto Turi area) and possibly
other cooperatives to be established under the project. COLONE would
also provide planting material for rubber and various fruits. The project
would finance the costs of establishing a small commercial seed production
facility in COLONE. The national research agency, EMBRAPA, would assist
the state, through its normal collaborative research arrangements whereby
results and breeding material from its commodity-specific and regional
stations are made available to state agencies, and by participating in
periodic reviews of research activities. EMAPA would also collaborate
with the Agricultural Faculty of Para State University (FCAP) which has a
research program underway to improve rubber production in Maranhao. The
project would establish advisory or review committees at each research
station with representatives of researchers, extensionists and farmers for
the purpose of reviewing research findings and proposing future research
activities.
Rural Extension
3.24      The projected improvements in agricultural productivity expected
to flow from the project would require substantial strengthening and
expansion of extension activities. At present, the State Technical
Assistance and Rural Extension Agency,EMATER-MA, is responsible for
extension throughout the project area with the exception of Alto Turi,
where COLONE has been providing such services. In the Baixada, EMATER-MA



- 19 -
operates from 11 offices and its professional staff of 13 reach only
perhaps 4,000 (6%) of the 70,000 producers located in the 21
municipalities. Extensionists have tended to concentrate on the larger
producers and on the provision of credit rather than technical advice, and
have been limited by the lack of locally proven technical packages and also
by their relatively poor training and support. Within Alto Turi, the
situation has been better with some 34 professional staff providing advice
to about 3,800 producers, although extenionists have concentrated on the
use of credit for new crops at the expense of possible improvements in the
production of traditional crops.
3.25      The project would provide a full range of extension services to
some 12,000 settlers in the Alto Turi area and 7,500 families in the
Baixada. In addition, a further 4,500 families in the Baixada would
receive less intensive extension services--a service level of about one
extensionist per 1,000 farmers compared with an average of about one per
140 elsewhere under the project (the ratio would decline from 1:100
initially, to 1:300 after four or five years).  Project beneficiaries in
the Mearim-Pindare sub-project would benefit from extension services
already provided by EMATER-MA within the on-going POLONORDESTE project
and expected State expansions of extension services in that sub-area. The
project extension services would be provided by EMATER-MA apart from the
service to be provided by COLONE to new settlers in the Alto Turi area
during their first year of settlement in respect of annual crops and up to
their third year in respect of perennial crops. Extension would be based
on a group approach, although producers developing new crops would be
provided with individual guidance as required.  Group activities would
follow a regular schedule which would provide for regular training and
support from regional subject matter specialists.
3.26      The project would finance:  (i)  construction of two regional and
28 small local offices in isolated communities, where rental accomodation
is unavailable (these new offices would also to be used to accomodate local
staff of other state agencies providing services under the project); (ii)
equipment and vehicles; (iii) salaries of incremental staff; (iv)
incremental operating costs (supplies, materials and services); and (v)
training costs for extension staff and farmers. Technical level extension
staff (including agronomists and social extensionists as well as higher
level subject matter specialists and supervisors) in the Alto Turi and
Baixada areas would be increased from 47 now to 180 by the fourth year of
the project and thereafter would decline to stabilize at 102 by year nine.
3.27      New staff would receive pre-service training using EMATER-MA
facilities (to be constructed and partly financed under Loan 1568-BR for
the national extension program) and existing staff would be re-trained to
better orient extension efforts towards small farmers and to improve
extensionists' technical and communication skills. Field level
extensionists would receive regular in-service training and technical
support from a strengthened regional group of subject matter specialists
(for annual and perennial crops, and for credit) and selected local
extensionists would be trained in technologies associated with new crops
and with soil conservation and land use practices including agro-forestry.
Those project beneficiaries in the Baixada receiving less intensive



- 20 -
extension would be served basically by about four visits per year to
selected sites where a mobile unit would be used to show films and
distribute simple diagramatic printed pamphlets demonstrating new practices
as well as small quantities of improved seed. Specialized social
extensionists would encourage expansion of home gardening, assist in
formation of users' groups for water facilities, provide advice on health
services and nutrition and, most importantly, would work in collaboration
with the community development section of ITERMA to prepare communities for
their participation in land regularization and redistribution activities.
Marketing, Input Supply and Cooperatives
3.28      The broad objectives of this component would be to improve the
small producers' bargaining power and hence income. In pursuit of this
objective, the project would support five related sub-components: (i) a
marketing study would be conducted in the first year by the State
Agricultural Planning Commission (CEPA) with assistance of a consultant
to identify the current marketing problems in the project area, and help
define policies and operational avenues for a coordinated approach to
market improvements for the area's small farmers; (ii) the expansion of
the Agricultural Marketing Information Service (SIMA) of the Government's
Food Supply Centers (CEASA), to cover the Baixada and Alto Turi areas in
order to improve both the collection and dissemination of market
information, by establishing a sub-agency in Pinheiro and servicing offices
located in three other centers, which would together make market
information available to EMATER-MA and the cooperatives; (iii) the
improved supply of inputs including seeds, tools, agricultural chemicals,
fertilizers, draft animals and breeding stock, where timely access to such
inputs is still difficult, through the provision of technical assistance,
training and equipment to strengthen the state's input supply company,
COMABA, the re-equipping of 17 existing and the establishment of 12 new
outlets (nine in the Baixada operated by COMABA, and three in Alto Turi
operated by cooperatives); and (iv) an increase in the storage capacity
available in the project area from its present level of about 3,200 tons to
about 11,000 tons (equivalent to an estimated 18% of the marketable surplus
expected by the end of the project), construction of the stores to be
contracted by the cooperatives and pre-cooperative groups meeting criteria
on supply volume and managerial and operating cost recovery arrangements;
and (v) the provision of technical and administrative assistance from the
state Secretariat of Interior to help strengthen three existing
cooperatives and assist in the establishment of three new cooperatives
following successful development of pre-cooperatives. Although past
experiences with cooperatives in Maranhao have been generally poor, much of
the difficulties have stemmed from a lack of training of cooperatives'
staff in administration and management. The staff of existing and new
pre-cooperatives and cooperatives would therefore receive training and
technical assistance in administration and financial management from a
strengthened support group in SECINTER. Cooperatives have also encountered
financial difficulties associated with defaults on loans passed on by
cooperatives to their members. Under the project, the expansion of the
formal credit network of banks (para 3.44) would enable cooperatives, not
well-equipped to provide credit, to focus instead on other services to
their members.



- 21 -
3.29      The project would finance:  the study and consultancy costs; the
construction of minimal facilities for the cooperatives and stores; the
equipping of the market information agencies, input supply posts and
storage units, and cooperatives; the initial operating costs for input
supply and storage for one year, and a declining share, totalling 80%, of
the incremental operating costs for the first three years for cooperatives;
and selected salary costs with the project financing only salary
supplements and some incremental operating costs of the market information
service.  Assurances were received that:  (i)  the state would take all
necessary measures to ensure that sufficient supplies of farm inputs would
be made available on a timely basis and at reasonable prices to enable
project beneficiaries to carry out their farm development programs; (ii)
by June 30 of each year, the Project Management Units (see paras 5.04 et
seq) would provide the input supply agencies with estimates of input needs
for project beneficiaries for the following crop year; (iii) the State
would provide, not later than September 30, 1982, detailed criteria and
guidelines, satisfactory to the Bank, for the management and cost recovery
arrangements which would pre-condition construction of stores; and (iv)
COMABA would hire a consultant not later than September 30, 1982 to advise
and assist in improving its administrative capacity.
Inland Fisheries
3.30      The project component would help maintain and improve artisanal
inland fisheries in five municipalities in the Baixada, largely through the
provision of technical assistance to re-dress the current depredation of
fish stocks through over-fishing. By encouraging the preservation of
breeding stocks, it would permit subsequent increase in fish catches and
increase incomes as well as protein supply for the protein deficient
population of the Baixada, and generate small quantities of fish for export
from the region. The component would provide for: (i) an increase in the
technical assistance capacity of COPENAT, the state's Company for Research
and Use of Natural Resources, through establishment of five local offices
and a reinforced COPENAT coordinating unit, and the incremental staff,
equipment and materials to operate these offices and unit; (ii) training
courses for fishermen and women, including those engaged in fish processing
and marketing; and (iii) studies of potential improvements in fishing
technology directed towards increasing fish stocks, and of improvements in
the marketing and transport of the catch. The technology studies would be
expected to generate recommended changes in fishing practices (times of
fishing and size of nets, etc.). A marketing study, complementing the
overall marketing study above (para 3.28), would aim to identify
opportunities for increased income through use of alternative marketing
channels and possible sales contracts. COPENAT staff would also provide
advice to fishermen on more efficient drying and salting methods for
preserving fish and the availability and use of credit. The project would
finance the salaries of the incremental staff of 11 persons, costs of
equipment, and incremental operating costs of five local offices and of the
strengthened COPENAT coordinating unit over five years. Some 15 manmonths
of consultancy services would be needed for the studies.



- 22 -
Forestry Development
3.31      Centuries of shifting cultivation and the more recent
organized, as well as spontaneous, settlement of previously unexploited
parts of the project area, have removed much of the natural forest. One
forest reserve has already been established and the land use studies
proposed under the project would identify further areas which should remain
under, or be returned to, forest cover. The component would include: (i)
the establishment of a post to maintain, protect, and manage the existing
forest reserve of 12,000 ha in sub-area II of Alto Turi; (ii) the carrying
out of a diagnostic study in the Baixada and Alto Turi areas, based
initially on land use maps prepared under the project (para 3.18) and
supplemented by limited field work, to define an overall strategy for
subsequent forest protection and reforestation activities in the project
area; (iii) the identification, protection and management of two new
forest reserves expected to total about 100,000 ha in sub-area III of Alto
Turi and in the Baixada; (iv) the establishment of two new posts to
maintain, protect and manage these new reserves; (v) the expansion of
agro-forestry research in the area directed towards the identification of
species suitable for reforestation; and (vi) the promotion of farm
woodlots on a pilot scheme basis through participation in the Federal
Government's on-farm reforestation program, REPEMIR. The study and forest
reserve activities would be carried out by the Brazilian Forestry
Development Institute (IBDF) which would also coordinate the REPEMIR
program contracting through the State Secretariat of Natural Resources
(SERNAT) and possibly to COLONE for the production of planting materials,
and assisting EMATER-MA with the promotion of on-farm woodlots. An
agreement would be reached with EMBRAPA to expand its forest research
activities in the project area. The component, overall, would finance:
(i) the costs of the diagnostic study including some technical assistance;
and (ii)  the construction, equipment and staffing of three new posts to
service the existing and new forest reserves. The operation of the REPEMIR
scheme would be financed by the Federal Government although provision for
training of EMATER-MA staff in agro-forestry has been included as a project
cost under extension (para 3.27). Assurances were received that
satisfactory detailed plans for the protection and management of forest
reserves already existing and those identified through land use studies,
and for the implementation of the pilot farm woodlot scheme would be
presented to the Bank by September 1, 1983. This plan would be prepared by
IBDF in consultation with the state and COLONE. The State and COLONE would
enter into an agreement with IBDF by April 30, 1983, to confirm respective
responsibilities for forest development in the project area.
Small Scale Enterprises
3.32      The component would aim to improve the productivity and revenues
of small non-farm enterprises, and enhance employment opportunities within
the Alto Turi and Baixada sub-project areas. These existing small
businesses provide a variety of services and goods which are largely
locally consumed and include bricks, tiles, furniture, hammocks and food
processing. Many are carried out by farm families as complements to
agricultural activities. The project would provide for: (i) managerial
and technical assistance to about 650 small scale enterprises and
cooperatives with the objective of introducing new management techniques,



- 23 -
accounting procedures and, if possible, improved technologies in the
production processes; (ii) the carrying out of around 390 specific
training courses for small business operators; (iii) technical and
financial feasibility studies on the processing of rice, maize, cassava and
fruits; and (iv) a survey of the industrial sector including the
processing activities of women working at home with the objective of
identifying prospects for expansion.
3.33      Currently, technical assistance is not available to small
non-agricultural enterprises located in the project area. Credit use is
limited to informal channels, with existing credit programs unused owing to
unfamiliarity with the system, requirements that the enterprise be
registered, and stringent financial demands on the part of the banks. The
assistance provided under the project would concentrate on the improvement
of technical and managerial skills, and of product quality, in order to
respond to existing local demand. Criteria for the selection of
enterprises to be assisted would include market demand, expansion
opportunities, employment generation and regional concentration. Suitable
enterprises would be identified through the planned survey. In addition,
assistance would be given in the preparation of financing proposals
presented to the local banks. CEAG-MA, the State Center of Support for
Small and Medium Enterprises, would execute the component. It would enter
into an agreement whereby the Center for Research and Development (CEPED)
of the State of Bahia, which has successfully developed improved small
scale technologies for the processing of agricultural products, would
conduct initial feasibility studies in this field for CEAG-MA. The
component would finance equipment, incremental staffing, and other
operational costs for two regional offices to be established in Pinheiro
and Ze Doca, and expenses for training courses. Assurances were received
that the results of the industrial survey, based on terms of reference
satisfactory to Bank, would be presented to the Bank, not later than
December 31, 1982, for its review and comment. Credit for investments and
working capital to the small scale enterprises receiving assistance under
the project would be provided through the PROMICRO program.
Rural Transport
3.34      The proposed transport component would provide financing for:
(i) the construction of about 510 km of new access roads and improvement
of about 640 km of existing roads to Class E/F standards (Annex 7, Table
5); (ii) purchase of road maintenance equipment and spare parts for
state-provided mechanized maintenance services; (iii) training of
municipal staff and purchase of hand tools for municipal crews for
labor-intensive maintenance works; and (iv) technical assistance by
consultants for road design, supervision of civil works, and for a study of
the technical and economic feasibility of possible means to increase use of
the existing water transportation infrastructure as part of the transport
network. Based on the criterion of user-cost savings associated with the
use of existing waterways as links to existing or planned roads, part of
the funds initially allocated to road construction and maintenance could be
reallocated to waterway improvements. Benefits from the proposed road
improvements in the form of user-cost savings are expected to be passed on
to project beneficiaries in the form of better prices since the transport
industry in the area is highly competitive.



- 24 -
3.35      The design and construction of the roads would be contracted out
by CODERMA (the State Company for Road Development) for the project in the
Baixada, and by COLONE in the Alto Turi area. During negotiations, model
terms of reference for road maintenance and civil works supervision would
be agreed. As part of the overall project annual operating plans (para
5.08), CODERMA and COLONE would provide: (i) a list of plans for roads to
be constructed or improved using project funds for the coming year; (ii)
their staffing plan for construction supervision of the roads included and
a list of consultants to be considered by CODERMA and COLONE for
preparation of engineering designs. Roads constructed and improved under
the project would be chosen on the basis of their capacity to serve land
beneficiaries under the project and hence these works would be phased to
follow progress in the land component. The first year program of works
would consequently be modest in scope (about 13 km). Assurances were
obtained that before the start of any project financed roadworks, DERMA,
the State Road Construction and Maintenance Agency, would enter into
contractual agreements with the municipality concerned requiring the
municipality to maintain such roadworks and outlining the administrative
and financing arrangements for such maintenance, such agreements to be
entered into not later than September 30, 1982, for roadworks initiated
during 1982 calendar year. The state would, in parallel to the project,
include in its overall annual program for road improvements and construct
priority secondary or feeder roads not included in the project but which
need works to the standards adopted by BNDE/DNER/IBRD in the Second Feeder
Roads Project Manual.
3.36      In view of the susceptibility of project area roads to
deterioration through inadequate maintenance, the component would direct
specific attention to measures to ensure such maintenance is carried out.
While there is considerable experience in labor-intensive maintenance
practices and adequate labor available in the project area, there is a need
for improved supervision and management of these activities. Accordingly,
DERMA would train municipal foremen in the planning, organization,
implementation and supervision of road maintenance. Assurances have been
received that: (i) by not later than September 30, 1982, the state would
provide to the Bank, detailed plans, satisfactory to the Bank, for DERMA
training of municipal foremen and for preparation and execution of annual
programs for road maintenance; (ii) DERMA would assign three qualified
maintenance technicians to DERMA residencies in the project area for three
years to assist municipal foremen and assign one qualified engineer to
monitor progress of training and to assist the technicians as necessary;
and (iii) by March 31, 1983, DERMA would prepare and furnish to the Bank
for its review and comment, a program to strengthen DERMA's maintenance
capacity. Tools for municipal workers engaged in labor-intensive
maintenance would be provided to municipalities which would continue to be
directly responsible for executing this part of the maintenance program.
DERMA would provide mechanized assistance to the municipalities and the
project would finance maintenance equipment which would be placed with
DERMA. Assurances were received that equipment procured under the project
would be used solely for the maintenance of municipal and state roads in
the project area in accordance with a maintenance program acceptable to the
Project Management Units of the sub-projects (paras 5.04-5.07),
complementary equipment would be made available by DERMA as required and



- 25 -
DERMA would provide personnel and workshop support to operate and to
maintain the project financed equipment.
Education and Vocational Training
3.37      The education component would seek to improve the quality of the
rural formal education program for grades I to 4, and increase the
efficiency of the school system by upgrading school facilities, teachers
qualifications and curricula, providing teaching materials, adjusting the
school calendar to the local agricultural cycle, and improving the
nutrition level of school and pre-school students. The component would
also provide accelerated primary education for youths who dropped out of
schools at an earlier age, and would gradually expand the non-formal adult
education program.  The project would finance:  (i)  the completion of a
school map study; (ii)  t4ie construction, furnishing and equipping of 107
rural schools, three small warehouses to support the school-lunch program,
and one regional supervision office in the Alto Turi area; (iii) the
provision of construction materials and equipment for 300 canteens; (iv)
the training or retraining of 790 teachers, 102 supervisors and administra-
tors and 21 staff responsible for project implementation at the central and
regional level; (v) the acquisition of teaching aids and textbooks; (vi)
the expansion of non-formal education programs for adults; and (vii)
salary supplements (or salaries for incremental staff), office equipment
and transportation for core members of the Secretariat for Education (SE)
project management unit, the municipal and regional supervision units, and
teachers involved in the non-formal education program.
3.38      Some 50% of the schools constructed would substitute existing
schools that operate as one classroom schools or are located in unsuitable
buildings such as teachers' houses, and the balance would be new schools.
The location of the schools would be determined according to the school map
study. Assurances were received that: (i) schools would be constructed
only at sites selected on the basis of criteria satisfactory to the Bank;
and (ii) prior to construction of any school, a satisfactory site plan and
evidence that the site had been acquired, would be provided to the Bank
and, the state had secured the municipality's agreement to give priority to
the continued employment of trained teachers and to pay at least the
minimum salary set forth by the current legislation to such teachers.
Teachers' training would include the upgrading of 560 teachers to a level
equivalent to that achieved under a new rural primary curriculum which is
being introduced to rural schools in the state of Maranhao under the
Bank-assisted Northeast Education EDRURAL project (Loan 1867-BR). The
project would increase the supervisory guidance available to teachers and
would provide training to improve supervision and management functions at
the municipal level.
3.39      The component would be managed by a project unit within the SE,
which would coordinate the execution of project works and with a small unit
in COLONE for the Alto Turi area. SE would contract assistance from: the
National Institute of Food and Nutrition (INAN) for the pre-school meal
program, the National School Meal Campaign (CNAE) for the school lunch
program; the National Center for School Construction (CEBRACE) for the
school mapping study, the preparation of the architectural designs of the



- 26 -
schools, and for the supervision of the construction of schools; the Joao
Pinheiro Center for Human Resources in Minas Gerais for the monitoring and
supervision of the teacher training programs; and the Brazilian Literacy
Movement (MOBRAL) for implementation of the non-formal adult education
programs. Assurances have been received that the new curriculum developed
under the Government's EDRURAL program would be adopted not later than at
the beginning of the 1984 school year.
Health and Water Supply
3.40       The health sub-component would concentrate on improving the
capacity of the State Secretariat for Health (SES) to provide simple but
cost-effective rural health services, by renovating and re-equipping the
existing health post network together with some additions, and by improving
the administration of health services in the project area. The
sub-component would comprise: (i) the building, equipping and staffing of
18 health posts and three health centers and the renovation and
re-equipping of 20 existing health posts and nine existing health centers
in the Baixada; (ii) the establishment of tuberculosis, syphilis and
schistosomiasis diagnostic facilities in the Baixada where schistosomiasis
is hyperendemic in eight municipalities; (iii) the building and equipping
of four health posts and one small hospital with 20 beds in Alto Turi
sub-area III; (iv) the provision of vehicles to transport patients and
health service personnel and for distribution of medical supplies; (v) the
building and equipping of two regional supply depots; (vi) the provision
of 20 months of consultancy assistance to SES to improve supervision and
administrative procedures, and to develop in-service training materials and
performance evaluation procedures; (vii) the financing of the salaries of
an additional 29 supervisors for the local and regional supervision teams;
and (viii) the provision of training courses for 413 functionaries and 200
local midwives, including refresher courses which would be attended by all
health personnel of the Baixada. SES would be responsible for the
planning, coordinating and monitoring of component execution in the Baixada
and sub-area III of Alto Turi, and would use the existing regional offices
at Pinheiro and Santa Ines for these activities. The Foundation for
Special Public Health Services (FSESP) would be responsible for incremental
health service activities in sub-areas I and II of Alto Turi, where FSESP
is already active. The Superintendency of Public Health Campaigns (SUCAM)
would collaborate in the project's endemic disease campaigns in the Baixada
and would, in parallel to the project, continue its existing program of
activities to control malaria, schistosomiasis, tracoma, yellow fever and
leishmaniasis.
3.41       The component would provide a minimal level of health services to
the project area population. The project would include evaluation
activities to assess the impact of the proposed activities on mortality in
quantitative terms. Assurances were obtained that the state would: (i)
employ, not later than September 30, 1982, suitably qualified consultants
to advise SES on required improvements in the administration of health
services in the project area; furnish to the Bank, not later than March 31,
1983, for its review and comment, the recommendations of the consultants;
and (iii) implement, not later than June 30, 1983, the recommended
measures for improving health administration as agreed with the Bank.



- 27 -
Conditions of disbursements for the component would be that: SES had
completed the staffing of the existing regional offices and health units in
accordance with agreed staffing norms; and (ii) diagnostic facilities for
leprosy and tuberculosis had been established in all municipalities in the
Baixada.
3.42      The water supply sub-component would complement health activities
by improving the supply of good quality drinking water at selected schools,
health posts and villages. Contaminated water supplies have been
identified as a major cause of infection from water-borne disease
organisms. The project would finance the construction of some 365 village
well and pump systems, about 30 wells at selected schools and some 20 at
health posts.  Selection of sites would be carried out to maximize the
beneficiaries served and to give priority to those most in need.  However,
in order to ensure that water supply systems were adequately maintained,
assurances were received that no such system would be constructed until the
expected beneficaries had formed a water users' association with
satisfactory arrangements for managing and financing operations and
maintenance, including collection of user charges to cover part of such
costs. In addition, in view of the difficulties experienced with the
continued maintenance of water supply systems in other rural areas in the
Northeast, it was also agreed that the state would, not later than March
31, 1984, provide to the Bank for its review and comment, an interim
evaluation of the systems installed under the project, and would take into
account these findings in the preparation of subsequent annual operating
plans to be agreed for the sub-component.
Project Administration
3.43      The project would be administered by Project Management Units
(PMU) for each of the three sub-projects. Details of the administrative
arrangements are presented in Chapter V. The project would finance
equipment and vehicles, PMU staff salaries, travel costs, and incremental
operating costs for project coordination, monitoring, and evaluation,
including consultant fees.
E. Complementary Activities3/
Credit
3.44      The project would generate credit requirements for on-farm
development; marketing credit for small producers; marketing and working
capital credit for cooperatives, and input supply agencies; and investment
and working capital credit for small scale enterprises and fishermen. The
total incremental credit requirements are estimated to be some US$69
million over the five year project as detailed in Annex 7, Table 2. This
credit would be provided by the Federal Government under its existing
POLONORDESTE credit line or through its "normal" rural credit program for
Northeast Brazil. The local participating banks have agreed to open new
3/ These activities would support the project but would be financed
separately and without Bank participation.



- 28 -
facilities in the project area and would adjust their loan processing
capacity based in part on annual estimates of to be provided by the
administrators of the sub-projects. Producers establishing rubber
plantations under the project would use the special credit line of the
Federal Government known as PROBOR III (Natural Rubber Development
Program). Owing to the continued subsidy element implicit in the
prevailing interest rates (which range from 12% to 35%, with inflation in
1982 expected to be about 80%), credit would not be included in items
subject to World Bank financing for the proposed project. Assurances have
been received that the Federal Government would take all necessary steps to
ensure the timely availability of the estimated total of US$69 million of
incremental working capital and investment credit to the project's
beneficiaries. It was also agreed that the State Government would
establish a Project Credit Statistics and Monitoring System not later than
April 1, 1983 and would ensure that the sub-project administrators evaluate
the implementation of the credit component and provide a report, no later
than June 30 annually, to the Bank for an exchange of views.
Amerindian Protection
3.45      Although the project area does not include any land set aside for
Amerindian reserves, there are two such reserves situated sufficiently
close to the project area to be potentially influenced by development
within the area. Both these reserves lie within the influence area of the
Carajas-Sao Luis railroad now under construction.  In conjunction with the
proposed Bank support for the Carajas project, a Special Program has been
formulated by the Federal Government to protect Amerindians in the
influence area of the railroad in addition to the provision of basic
services to the Amerindian population.  The proposed Maranhao rural
development project would complement these activities with the provision of
supporting health care on request as has been the case in the past in the
Alto Turi area, and collaboration in the demarcation of one of the reserve
boundaries shared with the Alto Turi sub-project area. Assurances were
obtained from the Federal Government that it would take all necessary
measures to put into effect the actions included in the Special Program for
protecting the Alto Turi and Rio Pindare Amerindian reserves, to ensure
that the provisions of the Indian Statute (Law 6001) were observed.
Agricultural Development in the Mearim-Pindare Sub-Project
3.46      The project-supported activities in the Mearim-Pindare
sub-project would be limited to land regularization and redistribution.
Some 70% of the sub-project area municipalities are, however, already
benefitting from an on-going POLONORDESTE rural development project (Vale
do Medio Mearim). The remaining area largely lies within the influence
area of the planned Carajas-Sao Luis railroad and is expected to benefit
from various development efforts targetted on this area.  In order to
ensure that project assistance on land regularization and redistribution is
complemented by the continued provision of supporting services and
infrastructure, assurances were received from the Federal Government that:
(i) rural development activities under the Vale do Medio Mearim
POLONORDESTE project would be maintained and coordinated as far as possible
to support a common group of beneficiaries under the proposed sub-project;



- 29 -
and (ii) the annual operating plans for the ongoing Vale do Medio Mearim
project would be provided to the Bank for exchange of views prior to
implementation.  It was also agreed that, in its other plans and programs
for expanding the provision of support services and rural infrastructure,
the State would give priority to the sub-project area municipalities not
covered by the Vale do Medio Mearim project.
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Project Costs
4.01      The total project cost (net of the US$0.7 million front end fee),
over the investment period of about five-and-a-half years beginning in
November 1981, is estimated at US$122.2 million of which US$18.4 million or
15% would be foreign exchange and about US$1.6 million equivalent, duties
and taxes. Base costs were estimated at appraisal (August 1981) prices and
adjusted for inflation to prices of mid-April 1982. The estimates reflect
recent actual costs for comparable goods and services in Northeast Brazil.
The physical contingencies amounted to 7.4% of base costs and include 15%
for civil works, and 5% for equipment, training, technical assistance and
other operating costs. Contingencies for price escalation over the project
period amount to the equivalent of 20.9% of base costs and physical
contingencies, and were calculated in US dollar terms, based on
international inflation ratprojected at 8.5% for 1982, 7.5% for 1983
through 1985, and 6.0% for 1986 and 1987. Project costs are summarized
below in Table 4.1 and presented in detail with annual phasing in Annex 7,
Table 3.



- 30 -
Table 4.1 Total Project Cost Summary
(US$ Million)
Foreign   % of
Exchange Baseline
Local   Foreign  Total        %        Costs
Production Support and Infrastructure
Land Regularization/Redistribution         22.1      1.0      23.1       4.4     24.5
Land Use Capability/Planning Studies        6.8      1.6       8.4     18.7       8.9
Agricultural Research/Seed Production    4.6         0.4       5.0       8.0      5.3
Agricultural Extension                     10.3      0.7      11.0      7.2      11.7
Marketing, Input Supply, Cooperatives    2.8         0.6       3.4     17.6       3.6
Inland Fisheries                            1.2      0.0       1.2      4.0       1.3
Forestry Development                        1.2      0.1       1.3      4.1       1.4
Small Scale Enterprises                     1.2      0.0       1.2      1.0       1.3
Rural Transport                            14.5      7.6      22.1     34.3      23.5
Social Infrastructure
Education and Vocational Training           5.6      0.6       6.2       9.4      6.6
Health and Water Supply                     4.3      0.8       5.1     15.7       5.4
Project Administration
Project Management and Monitoring           4.8      0.3       5.1      6.3       5.4
Project Evaluation                          0.9      0.1       1.0      3.0       1.1
TOTAL BASE COST 1/                         80.3    13.8       94.1     14.6    100.0
Physical Contingencies                   5.5      1.5      7.0      22.8       7.4
Price Contingencies 2/                  18.0      3.1     21.1      14.5      22.4
TOTAL EXPECTED PROJECT COST               103.8    18.4    122.2       15.1    129.9
Front End Fee on Loan                       -        0.7       0.7
Total Financing Required                  103.8    19.1    122.9
1/ Totals may not reconcile due to rounding.
2/ Based on unit costs measured in Cr$ of August 1981 converted to US$ at the rate
of Cr$100.7 = US$1.0 with adjustment for inflation to mid-April 1982
prices.



- 31 -
Financing
4.02      The proposed Bank loan of US$42.7 million to the Federative
Republic of Brazil would include US$0.7 million to cover the cost of the
front end fee assessed by the Bank, capitalized at the request of the
Government. It would be for 15 years including three years of grace and
would finance 34% of total project costs, or 35% net of taxes. The loan
would cover the full foreign exchange cost (US$18.4 million) and US$23.6
million equivalent, or 23%, of local costs. The balance would be financed
by the Federal Government through its POLONORDESTE program (59%) and
through INCRA (7%). The proposed project financing is indicated in Table
4.2. In addition, the Federal and State Governments would finance
agricultural, small rural industry and fisheries credit (about US$69
million) and various essential complementary items including construction
of additional roads and road maintenance costs not included under the
project, teachers' and health service staff salaries, and payment of
compensation for improvements on lands to be recovered from previous
irregular occupants in the Alto Turi sub-project area. Assurances were
received from both the Federal and State Governments that adequate
counterpart funding would be made available promptly as needed to ensure
efficient and timely implementation of the project and adequate maintenance
thereafter. It was also agreed that the state would arrange for the timely
acquisition and necessary financing of additional land or rights-of-way
required for the project.
Table 4.2 Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Government of Brazil
Sub-Project               POLONORDESTE   INCRA         Bank        Total
Baixada                     40.14            _       21.00         61.14
Alto Turi                    31.91           -       15.00         46.91
Mearim-Pindare                 _            8.15      6.00         14.15
Sub-Total                 72.05          8.15      42.00        122.20
Front End Fee                         -      _        0.70          0.70
Total Financing Required   72.05            8.15     42.70        122.90
4.03      Timely implementation of the project would require that certain
key activities be initiated prior to loan signature. These essential
start-up activities, initiated after October 31, 1981, include inter alia:
part of the initial work on land use studies, demarcation, and titling
services in the project area; staffing, training, and consultant services
for the establishment of ITERMA; pre-service training of extensionists;
production of basic seed for the first year's requirements; and the
pre-project training of staff by the project management unit. Retroactive
financing of up to US$700,000 equivalent is proposed to help cover eligible
expenditures on project activities prior to loan signing.



- 32 -
Procurement
4.04      Farm inputs and equipment for small scale enterprises and
fisheries would be procured by individual producers through local trade
channels or through the state input supply agencies. Civil works (about
US$19 million, excluding contingencies) associated with the rural transport
component would be procured following local competitive bidding procedures
with construction packages sized to allow bids from small and medium
contractors. Although the bidding procedures do not exclude foreign firms,
it is anticipated that none are likely to be interested given the size,
nature and remoteness of the works. Brazil's construction industry is
competitive and capable of carrying out such works. Civil works involving
the construction of offices, research facilities, storage units, schools,
health posts and water supply facilities would be geographically dispersed,
individually small, and phased over time. Such works (totalling about US$7
million) would largely be executed under contracts awarded following local
competitive bidding although some of these works (about 20%) would be
executed by a combination of force account and self-help. Most of the
vehicles (US$2 million) and materials and equipment (US$5 million) required
for the various project executing agencies are locally produced and readily
available and would be procured over the project period by the respective
agencies following local procurement procedures which are acceptable.
Various services such as cadastral surveys and demarcation (US$13 million)
associated with the land component would be procured following local
competitive bidding procedures with contracts packaged to allow bids from
small and medium contractors. Finally, the various technical assistance
consultancy services (US$1 million) would include a total of about 16
manyears at an anticipated cost ranging from US$1,500 to US$7,000 per
manmonth. About 45% of such services would be for technical and
administrative aspects of the land component which could be carried out by
local or foreign consultants while the balance would be smaller, scattered
assignments to largely local consultancies for various aspects of project
administration, health administration, marketing, forestry, fisheries and
small scale enterprise development.   Assurances were received from the
Federal and State Governments and COLONE that consultants would all be
contracted on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Disbursements
4.05      The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed against all
project expenditures except compensation for improvements on lands
recovered from irregular occupiers under the land component. The
disbursement would be equivalent to 100% of expenditures net of taxes for
priority aerial photography and photo-restitution work needed to complete
land use planning within the project area prior to commencing land
redistribution, and 31% of actual costs of all other eligible
expenditures. Disbursements for works carried out by force account and
operational expenses would be made against withdrawal applications covering
statements of expenditures initiated by the various implementing agencies
and certified by the PMU. Supporting documentation would be retained by
the agency responsible for certification and would be made available for
inspection by the Bank during project review missions. Standard
documentation covering civil works, vehicles, equipment and technical



- 33 -
assistance would be submitted through the Central Bank of Brazil to the
World Bank.
4.06      In order to reduce the interval during which the Government would
finance the Bank's share of project costs with its own resources, a Special
Account would be opened in the Central Bank with an initial deposit of up
to US$3 million. The Government may request the Bank to make advance
payments in dollars from the loan account into this Special Account.
Withdrawals in cruzeiros from the account would be made on the basis of the
statements of expenditures forwarded to the Central Bank. Conversion from
dollars into cruzeiros would be made at the exchange rate that prevailed on
the date the expenditures were made. The Central Bank would send the
statements to the Bank, which would then replenish the Special Account.
4.07      Disbursements are expected to occur over about five years and the
estimated disbursement schedule shown in Annex 4 reflects the disbursement
profile for previous agricultural projects in Brazil, with some adjustments
to take into account the improvements expected from the operations of the
Special Account, and the particular characteristics of the proposed
project, including considerable consultant studies expenses in the early
years. The closing date of the loan would be December 31, 1987.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Organization and Management
5.01      The three sub-projects would each have a separate administration
and coordination unit to allow better matching of the administrative
structure to the particular needs of the sub-project. Collaboration and
coordination between the various particiapting agencies responsible for
providing the services under the project and appropriate coordination in
the planning and execution of the three sub-projects, would be achieved
through a Project Coordination Committee (para 5.03). The participation of
target groups in the formulation, execution, monitoring, and evaluation of
project activities, would be encouraged and facilitated through the
proposed specialized training of participating agency staff, and through
location of staff in the field to maintain closer contact with
beneficiaries. Execution responsibilities have been assigned largely to
existing agencies which would be suitably strengthened under the project,
and their improved functioning should generate additional benefits outside
the project area. The proposed overall administrative structure of the
project is presented in Annex 7, Chart 1.
5.02      The State Management Council of POLONORDESTE (Conselho Diretor)
would continue to function as the guiding body for all POLONORDESTE
activities within Maranhao, including the proposed project. It is chaired
by the State Governor with the State Secretary of Planning as the executive
secretary. It also comprises the Secretaries of Planning, Agriculture,
Interior, Finance, Transport, Education, Health, the President of COLONE,
and representatives of INCRA, the Ministry of Agriculture, SUDENE, Bank of



- 34 -
Brazil and other collaborating banks. The state POLONORDESTE Coordinator
participates as an advisor to the Council. The Council meets quarterly in
addition to extraordinary meetings as required.
5.03      The Project Coordination Committee would be the key forum for
coordinating of the project and would consist of senior representatives of
each executing agency, the project managers for each sub-project, and the
state POLONORDESTE Coordinator who would serve as the executive secretary
of the Committee. It would normally meet bi-monthly with the Secretary of
Planning as chairman. Its routine functions would include review of
monitoring information and agreement on appropriate responses, discussion
and planning of operational details to integrate services from involved
agencies, and development of operational procedures to respond to
directives from the State Management Council. In addition, the committee
would meet as required to deal with implementation problems involving
inter-relationships between executing agencies and to review draft annual
operating plans for consistency and integration.
5.04      Project Management Units (PMU) would be responsible for the
day-to-day coordination, administration and monitoring of each
sub-project. The PMU for the Baixada sub-project would come under the
direct administrative responsibility of the state's POLONORDESTE
Coordinator and would be one of three such units within the POLONORDESTE
Technical Unit (TU) in the State's Secretariat of Planning.4/ The internal
structure of the Baixada PMU is presented in Annex 7, Chart 2. It would be
headed by a Project Manager and would comprise: two headquarters sections,
(an administration, accounts, and support section, AASS, and an operations
monitoring, ongoing evaluation and planning section, MEPS); and a Field
Unit in Pinheiro with a Coordinator, five Field Monitors, and
administrative support staff and drivers. The headquarters operations
section (MEPS) would be headed by an Operations Coordinator supported by
five technical specialists (for land activities, community development,
production services, infrastructure, and social services). The five Field
Monitors would have specializations matching their head office
counterparts. The technical specialists, both in the field office and in
headquarters, would function by maintaining close and continued contacts
with the executing agencies, each of which would nominate a specific
Liaison Officer for the project. The technical specialists would report
their monitoring findings in the form of monthly and quarterly progress
reports in addition to ad hoc reports on problems and special studies.
They would also assist in project evaluation activities although most of
this work would be carried out by an external evaluation group (para
5.13).   The Field Coordinator would be the local representative of the
Project Manager and, apart from supervising the Field Monitors, would
establish and maintain contacts with municipal authorities and beneficiary
groupings, including rural labor unions, churches, social groups and
community leaders. The Field Monitors would travel extensively spending
time with beneficiaries and collecting both formal and informal monitoring
information. The field staff would share office accomodation with other
executing agencies.
4/ The other two units coordinate on-going POLONORDESTE projects in the
Baixo Parnaiba and the Vale do Medio Mearim.



- 35 -
5.05      The PMU for the Alto Turi sub-project would have similar internal
structure and staffing as the Baixada PMU, but its staff would be employees
of COLONE and report to the President of COLONE. Copies of progress and
other special reports would be provided to the POLONORDESTE Coordinator in
addition to SUDENE. COLONE would focus on coordinating activities
"sub-contracted" out to state and other participating agencies rather than
direct execution of works itself. The PMU for the Alto Turi sub-project
would form an integral part of COLONE's overall administration which would
have continued responsibilities associated with the maintenance of
activities initiated under the first Alto Turi project in addition to
activities in land regularization, initial extension services for new
settlers, input supply, contracting construction of schools, roads and
other works in new settlement areas, and collaboration in studies and
technical assistance for small scale enterprises under the proposed
sub-project. Assurances were received that COLONE would employ consultants
by September 30, 1982 to prepare a proposal and assist in implementation of
a reorganization plan consistent with project and COLONE objectives, and
would furnish this plan to the Bank by March 31, 1983, for review and
comment.
5.06      Arrangements for the coordination and management of the
Mearim-Pindare land regularization and redistribution sub-project, reflect
the distribution of responsibilities between INCRA and ITERMA. As the lead
executing agency, INCRA would be responsible for the day-to-day
administration of the sub-project establishing for this purpose a small
management unit in line with its normal procedures. ITERMA's Planning
Division (see Annex 1, Chart 1) would collaborate with the staff of the
INCRA management unit in the preparation of annual operating plans and the
review of performance as well as arranging for the participation of ITERMA
staff in selected implementation activities. This division would receive
all reports from INCRA and would be responsible for liaison with the
POLONORDESTE management unit for the on-going Vale do Medio Mearim project
to facilitate coordination of the development activities under that project
with the land activities included under the proposed project.
5.07      Assurances were receiuved that:  (a)  all project management
units would be appropriately staffed by September 30, 1982 and their
staffing adequately maintained for the duration of the project; and (b) the
Project Managers and Field Coordinators would have appropriate
qualifications and experience and would be appointed following exchange of
views with the Bank.
Planning and Operating Procedures
5.08      Experience with rural development projects in Northeast Brazil
has revealed the need to incorporate mechanisms for continued review and
iterative planning in the administration of such projects, to ensure that
they are able to respond flexibly to changing circumstances.  The proposed
project has specific overall targets and objectives whose achievement would
be pursued through detailed annual operating plans. Given the need for
extensive consultations between the PMU's, the executing agencies, the



- 36 -
beneficiaries, and the local funding agencies, the annual planning exercise
would start in May for the POLONORDESTE year commencing in the following
April. The MEPS of each PMU would prepare preliminary targets with
indicative budgets for each component and would review these with the
Sub-Project Managers before being further discussed and developed with the
state POLONORDESTE Coordinator by early June. The staff of the MEPS would
assist the responsible staff in each executing agency to produce final
draft plans by September 1 of each year. These plans would then be
consolidated for each PMU and adjusted for consistency with guidelines from
the Project Coordination Committee.  Assurances were obtained that:   (a)
the draft annual operating plans for each sub-project would be provided to
the Bank not later than October 1 of each year and would be satisfactory to
the Bank; (b) the Bank would be provided, before the beginning of each
project year, satisfactory final plans and opportunity to comment before
any subsequent substantial modification of these plans.
5.09      The operating procedures through which the project would be
implemented vary somewhat by sub-project reflecting the varying
responsibilities and modus operandi of the executing agencies. In common
with past rural development projects, the proposed project would use
written agreements (convenios) between the state and participating agencies
to specify the responsibilities of each party and to thus formalize what
otherwise may have been a loosely formed intention of cooperation and, in
the process, to greatly assist in integration of project activities.
These convenios are listed in Annex 5. Assurances were received from the
Federal and State Governments and COLONE that they would enter into and
maintain agreements satisfactory to the Bank for the duration of the
project implementation period. Signature and maintenance of such
agreements would be conditions of disbursement for the respective
components.
5.10      In the Baixada sub-project, all project activities would be
carried out by State agencies or private contractors acting under convenios
to the State Government through SEPLAN-MA (represented by the PHU).  For
this sub-project, ITERMA would receive technical and financial assistance
from INCRA under the terms of an agreement. The operating procedures for
the implementation of the Alto Turi sub-project reflect the transitional
role of the main coordination agency, COLONE, which would transfer
responsibility for all project activities to appropriate state agencies or
cooperatives no later than the end of the implementation period, and many
much sooner. Project activities other than seed production, supply of some
farm inputs, initial extension activities, and contracting of works in new
settlement areas, would be carried out by the appropriate state agencies
contracted by COLONE, which would receive funds from POLONORDESTE and pass
these on to the agencies for execution. COLONE would thus maintain a
degree of control over settlement implementation while the state agencies
develop implementation expertise and take on maintenance and operation
responsibilities. Assurances have been received that COLONE would furnish
to Bank, not later than July 31, 1983, a program satisfactory to the Bank
for the transfer of project-related responsibilities, facilities and staff,
to the state or other appropriate entities and complete the program by June
30, 1987.



- 37 -
Accounts and Auditing
5.11      Each participating agency, including the three sub-project PMU,
would maintain separate accounts of its project expenditures which would be
audited annually by the Central Secretariat of Internal Control (SECIN) of
the Federal Secretariat of Planning following standard government practice
which is satisfactory to the Bank. The PMU would retain copies of all
documentation of project-related statements of expenditures. The
procedures to be used by executing agencies in preparing and verifying
statements of expenditures were found to be satisfactory. Assurances were
received that:  (i)  the audited statement of the project accounts for the
three sub-projects would be provided to the Bank within six months of the
end of their fiscal year; and (ii) the audit report would contain a
specific reference as to the adequacy of the procedures used for the
preparation and verification of statements of expenditures used for
disbursement requests. The Special Account in the Central Bank would be
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
Monitoring and Reporting
5.12      Each PMU would include an internal monitoring system to provide
project administrators with timely implementation information for
decision-making and annual planning. Monitoring activities would be
directed by the MEPS Operations Coordinators (para 5.04), supported by the
technical specialists located at headquarters and in the field. In
addition to information from the Field Coordinators, monitoring information
would come from the executing agencies and beneficiaries. Whereas the
field staff would be largely concerned with collecting local level
information from beneficiaries and executing agencies, the headquarter
level staff would be more concerned with the collation of information into
reports and collection of information from the executing agencies'
head-offices. Standardized forms would be filled in quarterly by the
executing agencies and submitted to the respective MEPS for consolidation
into sub-project quarterly reports. The state POLONORDESTE Coordinator
would collate these into an overall quarterly progress report for the
project which would be distributed to the Bank,  executing agencies, the
State POLONORDESTE Management Council, SUDENE and to federal agencies. The
report would document project implementation progress and expenditures with
comparisons to forecasts in Annual Operating Plans using selected key
indicators to the extent possible. A list of key indicators is presented
in Annex 6. Field staff would also submit monthly reports on a smaller
selection of key indicators. In addition to their routine monitoring
activities, staff of the PMTJ's would carry out selected case studies of a
small sample of project beneficiaries to assist in problem diagnosis by
providing detailed information which may reveal causes of observed
deviations from expected results. Assurances were received that: (a)
prior to September 30, 1982, the state, INCRA and COLONE would submit to
the Bank proposals outlining the procedures and reporting format to be
followed in each sub-project, and for the overall project, these proposals
to be satisfactory to the Bank; (b) the quarterly monitoring reports would
be provided to the Bank promptly following their completion and not later
than three months after the close of each POLONORDESTE quarter; and (c)
the Borrower would provide the Bank with a completion report not later than
six months after the Closing Date of the Loan.



- 38 -
Evaluation
5.13      The project's performance would be evaluated to determine whether
the expected effects and impacts, implicit in the projects objectives, are
being achieved. By their nature, these effects are lagged. The evaluation
under the project would include a longitudinal study consisting of
baseline, mid-term and post-project surveys of about 300 producers within
each sub-project. The evaluation would be carried out by a small
independent team including staff of the State Agricultural Planning
Commission (CEPA-MA), and the State Center for Data Processing (CETEMA).
This team would receive technical assistance from UNDP which is currently
assisting with similar work in Maranhao. The Operations Coordinators from
the three PMUs would maintain close contacts with the evaluation team but
the team would remain administratively independent and would report to the
state POLONORDESTE Coordinator. Assurances were received that the results
of the baseline, mid-term and post-project surveys would be provided to the
Bank not later than December 31, 1982, 1985 and 1987, respectively, with
the exception of the results of the baseline survey for the Mearim-Pindare
to be furnished to the Bank not later than December 31, 1983.
VI. PRODUCTION, DEMAND, MARKETS AND PRICES
Agricultural Development Strategy
6.01      The primary income foundation of the project would be
agriculture, and its improved productivity would be promoted in a three
stage process. The first stage would be based on improvements to
traditional food crops (rice, cassava, maize and cowpeas) using minimal
purchased inputs, and techniques already identified by research in
Maranhao. The second stage would be based on a modest expansion of the
cropped area through use of varieties which better distribute labor demand,
use of herbicides to reduce the weeding constraint, use of some fertilizer
to restore and maintain fertility, use of animal traction, and the
introduction on a limited scale of some new crops and livestock activities
(pigs and cattle). The third stage would expand the area of the new annual
and perennial crops (peanuts, banana, pineapples, other fruits, urucu,
guarana, and rubber). The third stage would also involve greater use of
fertilizers and agricultural chemicals. The overall objective of the
agricultural development strategy would be to develop a stable and more
productive form of agriculture and would concentrate on improving soil
fertility and reducing soil erosion. The adoption of new practices is
expected to be slow and it has been assumed that by year five of the
project only 10 to 15% of project farmer beneficiaries would reach the
third stage, 35 to 40% the second stage, and 50% only the first stage. The
annual phasing of project beneficiaries and the expected adoption of new
technologies is presented in Annex 3, Table 3. Only land judged to be
suitable for agriculture, based on the land use planning studies (para
3.18), would be developed under the project, with parts of the remaining



- 39 -
area set aside as protected reserves. Extensionists would receive special
training to enable them to advise farmers how to best use their land from
an ecological viewpoint, and how to use contour cropping to reduce soil
losses. Further soil conservation would be brought about through the
planting of farm woodlots to supply lumber and posts.
6.02      The immediate development potential of the project area
undoubtedly lies in its upland agriculture; however, in the longer term,
there is considerable potential for irrigated lowland agriculture,
particularly in the Baixada. Although this irrigation potential cannot
be exploited on a large scale without the construction of extensive dikes
and polders, there is scope at present for exploiting existing permanent
water sources using small pumps. In order to help introduce irrigation
technology to small farmers and to ensure that small farmers can
participate in the likely future exploitation of this potential, the
project would aim to assist some 500 small farmers in the Baixada in
developing one to two ha irrigation plots through the provision of
technical assistance by EMATER-MA, through some applied research by EMAPA,
and through arrangements for the provision of credit for the purchase of
pumps. Further details of the agricultural development envisaged under the
project, including a summary of the expected costs and returns for
illustrative farm models, are presented in Annexes 2 and 3.
Production
6.03      The proposed project activities are expected to lead to
significant increases in agricultural production as well as modest
increases in output from small scale enterprises and fisheries. By full
development (year 10), the annual value of incremental crop production is
projected at US$40 million equivalent in 1981 prices. This production
increase would be derived, roughly, from: an increase in area planted (by
about 30%), reflecting inter alia changes in land tenure, use of animal
traction, and expanded marketing opportunities; gradual increases in crop
yields resulting from the use of improved seeds, selected labor-saving and
yield-enhancing inputs, and from the adoption of better cultural practices;
some introduction of new crops such as rubber, banana, guarana, urucu,
peanuts, sugarcane and pineapple (which together are expected to account
for about 29% of the increase in cropped area); and from improvements in
labor productivity owing to the removal of non-productive tasks associated
with annual fencing on rented land, to the adoption of cropping systems
which spread labor demand more evenly, and to the use of labor-saving
inputs, notably animal traction. The project would also generate annual
incremental livestock production valued at roughly US$2 million at full
development through the introduction of small cattle herds (or comparable
livestock activities) on about 13% of the beneficiary farms as part of an
overall crop rotation scheme which would include a pasture phase.
6.04      The contribution of various commodities to the value of
incremental production at full development is estimated as follows:
cassava, 40%; rice, 17%; beans, 3%; rubber, 9%; and bananas, pineapples or
other alternative high-value new crops, 30%. The incremental output from
project assisted small scale enterprises is estimated at about US$0.4
million annually. The expected contribution of increased fish production



- 40 -
to incremental project production has not been estimated owing to the pilot
nature of the operation and the need for further work to identify the most
fruitful methods of improved production and productivity. Although some
project beneficiaries are expected to develop small scale irrigation
enterprises based on the use of low lift pumps and permanent natural water
sources, no specific estimates of the value of such increased production
has been made. Vegetables, including tomatoes, would form the major output
from such irrigation enterprises.
Demand, Markets and Prices
6.05      Incremental project production would be relatively insignificant
in relation to total production in the state and none of the products are
expected to be subject to demand contraints, given Brazil's periodic
shortages of food crops. Table 6.1 indicates current state production of
major project crops and the projected project area production with and
without the project.
Table 6.1 Relative Production Share of Project Beneficiaries
Estimated              Project Beneficiaries Estimated
Current State Production   Share of Current State Production (%)
('000 tons)           Without Project      With Project
Rice              1,281                       6                   9
Cassava           2,616                       4                   6
Maize               237                       4                   7
Beans                44                      13                  17
Maranhao produces about 15% of Brazil's rice; incremental production would
be sold within Brazil, where there is a ready market, or exported. Cassava
is a major export from Maranhao to other parts of Brazil, and a main source
of food energy for the low income population of the project area and the
Northeast. Although the low price-elasticity of demand for cassava
indicates that significant increase in supply would lead to lower prices,
the projected incremental project production is not expected to be of
sufficient magnitude to have a significant effect. Cassava and rice would
be marketed through the traditional marketing channels and through
cooperatives, both to be strengthened under the project. Incremental
production of maize and beans (cowpeas) would be marketed and consumed
locally. Rubber would be not be produced for some six to eight years
during which time marketing channels would be developed. The demand for
natural rubber is strong since all output would be used in Brazil, which
is a substantial net importer. Beef, milk, and other animal products
produced under the project, would be marketed within the project area or in
Sao Luis where there is a strong demand. Although the representative
production models (para 7.01) include for illustrative purposes only three
other new crops, it is expected that a wide range of crops would be grown
in response to market prospects.  Bananas and pineapples would be marketed
locally as fresh fruit. Guarana (a beverage base native to the area),
urucu (a red vegetable food coloring agent), and passionfruit would be sold



- 41 -
for consumption in Brazil, or for export. Although the project's crop
output is not expected to face demand limitations, several products would
benefit from market development efforts, and the State's Marketing
Commission within the Secretariat of Agriculture would assist in this
function.
VII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Illustrative Farm Models
7.01      The impact of the proposed changes in on-farm practices on
producer costs and incomes were analyzed using 11 illustrative farm models
to illustrate the probable range of incomes consistent with resource
availabilities and likely beneficiary adoption rates. Details of the
assumptions used in the models are presented in Annex 3. The key
characteristics of the farm models together with the number of farmers
expected to be roughly represented by the various models is presented in
Annex 3, Table 1. The without project situation reflects present practices
in the project area and its future projection is based on maintenance of
current cropped area and yields. Each of the models reflect fundamental
changes in farm input-output relationships expected to be generated by the
project-induced change to a more secure form of land tenure. For one of
the models (D), these are the only changes from the without project
situation. The changes expected to result from more secure land access
include:  (i)  an increase in labor availability resulting from the removal
of the necessity to construct fences annually around the cropped area; and
(ii) small (around 15%) increases in cropped area made possible by the
additional labor available as a result of (i). The models A/L and B/L for
both the Baixada and Alto Turi, illustrate the situation where project
beneficiaries choose to develop livestock enterprises rather than
establishing new crops. The analysis has been based on cattle, although
sheep, goats, or swine would be less capital intensive and somewhat more
profitable.
7.02      The estimated financial rates of return after financing range
from about 32% to greater than 50%. In all cases however, since the
expected levels of on-farm investment are low, this indicator is felt to be
of little value as an indicator of the attractiveness of the proposed
developments to small farmers. Possibly more appropriate indicators are
the Net Income Increase (NII) and the net return per workday at full
development. Values for these indicators are presented in Table 1,
Annex 3. With the NII ranging from 11% to 255%, all models are expected to
provide adequate incentives to producers; however, only the more
progressive and less risk-averse farmers are expected to reach the higher
technology levels implicit in models A and B.  The farm budgets used to
calculate these values include on-farm investments (land clearing, fencing,
perennial crop establishment, draft animal and equipment purchases, other
livestock and tools), and crop operating and maintenance costs including
seeds, fertilizer, other agricultural chemicals and hired labor. Prices
for inputs and outputs were based on prices prevailing in August 1981 with
adjustments for seasonal variations and are summarized in Annex 7, Table 6.



- 42 -
Farm Producer Income
7.03      The project farm family beneficiaries are estimated to have
current family incomes in the range of US$900-1,300 in 1981, equivalent to
a per capita income of US$150-220 for a family of six. This is
considerably below Brazil's rural poverty level of US$330 per capita. At
full development, the weighted average per capita income is expected to
reach US$1,937 (in 1981 dollars) for participating farm families, an
increase of some 67% over the pre-project situation. The returns to family
labor would increase on average about 36%. Despite these substantial
improvements, at the end of the project implementation period, only about
17% of project beneficiaries would have incomes above Brazil's relative
poverty level. It is, however, anticipated that the provision of research,
extension and marketing services after the five year implementation period,
would result in continued improvement in the productivity of those
beneficiaries making only minimal changes during the first five years.
Hence, it can be reasonably expected that most beneficiaries would have
incomes exceeding the rural poverty level within ten years. In practice,
there is expected to be a significant range of incomes reflecting inter
alia the individual farmer's choices both to the type of crops and to the
area cultivated. The estimated farm family income from agricultural
activities is summarized in Annex 7, Table 7.
Small Scale Enterprises
7.04      The project would support a number of small scale enterprises
which are important in providing off-farm employment and in generating
local value added. These enterprises are involved in the processing of
agricultural products and in the manufacture of tiles, furniture, hammocks
and various textiles. The project would provide technical assistance to
such enterprises resulting in estimated rates of return ranging from 20% to
over 50%. An illustrative model is presented in Annex 7, Table 4.
Fiscal Impact
7.05      The costs of project investments per benefitting family would
range from US$5,800 for families receiving full production and social
services together with titled re-distributed state land, to US$730 for
families receiving only land regularization services. It is not the
Government's policy to require full cost recovery for production support
services or rural infrastructure investments directed towards low-income
families. However, the state's existing fiscal devices could raise
sufficient revenues to offset, not only the incremental recurrent costs,
but also a share of the investment costs. The marketing tax (ICM), levied
on incremental marketed production, could generate some US$4.9 million
annually by full development compared to project-related recurrent costs of
about US$3.0 million. Rural social security revenue (FUNRURAL), levied at
2.5% on the value of incremental marketed production, would provide a
further US$1.0 million at full development. Furthermore, road maintenance
costs would be recovered through the various license fees, road user
charges and taxes. Water supply systems would be largely maintained by the



- 43 -
communities through user associations and user charges. Land beneficiaries
would be required to contribute towards the costs of land they receive in
addition to payments of land tax (ITR) which could generate about US$2
million annually, further improving the fiscal impact of the project. The
overall level of cost recovery is difficult to estimate however, in view of
the judgements which must be made about the efficiency with which existing
fiscal devices would be applied. To help reduce the risk of
discontinuities in financing, responsibilities for operation and
maintenance for each component would be subject to commitments in the
operating agreements between participating entities (para 5.09).
VIII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS
Economic Rate of Return
8.01      The estimated economic benefits from those aspects of the
project with quantifiable returns, whose costs total some 78% of the
overall project costs, generate an overall economic rate of return estimate
of 22%. Various aspects of the project, such as the health, rural water
supply, and education components, would have an important impact on
improving living conditions but since their benefits are not readily
quantifiable, their costs were excluded from the economic rate of return
calculation. Also, the costs and benefits of the forestry and fisheries
components, both of a pilot nature and with benefits difficult to
meaningfully quantify at this stage, were not included.
8.02      The costs used in estimating the economic rate of return
included: (i) all farm and small scale enterprise investments and
incremental operating costs; (ii) all off-farm investment and incremental
operating costs directly related to production development during the
project period; and (iii) recurrent costs of services, infrastructure and
of certain project services (e.g., extension, marketing, research), which
would be necessary post-project to sustain the projected development. In
respect to "off-farm" investment, the cost-stream included: 100% of the
project costs (baseline plus physical contingencies) for land
regularization activities, research and seeds, marketing and input supply,
roads, and cooperative development; 60% of the land related studies (since
the results of the studies would be used extensively also for subsequent
regional development and infrastructure planning); 75% of rural extension
service costs (since part of the rural extension services are directly or
indirectly related to social development activities); 90% of costs for
administration and monitoring (since part of these costs are related to
social activities of the project); and 50% of the costs of evaluation
component (since lessons learned from the evaluation would benefit mainly
subsequent projects).
8.03      The benefit stream used in the economic rate of return analysis
includes all of the incremental production above the "without project"
situation of the farmers who are expected to receive direct technical



- 44 -
assistance through the project. The benefit stream includes only
conservative estimates of the benefits derived from increased agricultural
production resulting from the more secure land tenure situation which would
be created. It does not take into account increases in agricultural
production to be achieved by rural producers not included in the group of
direct project beneficiaries. Such increases would hopefully occur as a
result of the demonstration effects of the agricultural extension and
research programs, through the participation of non-project beneficiaries
in the improved input supply and cooperative system, and through use of the
improved storage facilities. The road-user savings from the improved road
system (benefitting whole population by improving access to services, and
facilitating and reducing the cost of transporting inputs and outputs) were
not quantified. The details of the cost and benefit streams used in the
economic analysis are presented in Annex 7, Table 8.
8.04      The prices used in the economic analysis for those goods traded
on the international market are border prices adjusted to take into account
quality differentials and farm-to-border transportation costs. Traded
goods include rice, rubber and beef. Brazil is a net exporter of rice,
although it occasionally imports small quantities; it is a net importer of
natural rubber, and a small net importer of beef. Non-traded goods were
valued at local farmgate prices. They include: beans, which are consumed
entirely locally and are of a lower quality than those traded in Brazil;
maize, which is consumed locally, mainly as a livestock feed; cassava
flour, which is consumed locally and exported to other parts of Brazil; and
banana and pineapple, which are consumed locally and are generally of a
lower quality than those traded in Brazil. The prices of these non-traded
commodities are expected to remain stable or to increase only slightly over
the next decade. Labor was valued at a seasonally adjusted wage rate
ranging from 60-100% of the peak market value, in order to reflect the
prevailing unemployment and underemployment in the project area. Details
of the prices used in the economic analysis are given in Annex 7, Table 6.
In arriving at the border prices and in deriving economic values for
project costs, the foreign exchange component expressed in local currency
was revalued by 20% to reflect trade distorting tariffs, subsidies, advance
import deposits, export taxes and quantitative restrictions.
8.05      To measure the impact of possible changes in the economic
environment on the project's stream of costs and benefits, a range of
sensitivity tests were performed. The results of the most significant ones
are as follows:
Table 8.1 Sensitivity Test Results on Internal
Economic Rate of Return
Best Estimate:              22%       Benefits lag 2 years:                 16%
Costs up by 20%:           18%        Costs up 10%,
Project Benefits                        benefits down 10%:                  18%
down by 20%:             18%        Costs up 20%,
project benefits down 20%          14%



- 45 -
8.06      The overall project exhibits a moderate but acceptable degree of
sensitivity to possible variations in key parameters as shown in Table 8.1.
A 20% reduction in the value of the already conservatively estimated
incremental production, would decrease the return to about 18%. However,
even with a 20% cost overrun, and a 20% decrease in project benefits, the
return would be 14%. Analysis of switching values reveals that the project
benefits would need to fall 41%, or the project costs to rise 68%, to bring
the return down to a 12% opportunity cost of capital.
Employment
8.07      The project would provide additional agricultural employment
equivalent to about 11,000 worker-years at full development. Some 85% of
this increment would be provided by family labor with the balance met by
hiring. This substantial demand for labor, together with the improved
profitability of farming operations, part of which could be passed on to
employees in the form of higher wages, should significantly reduce the
current trend of emigration from the project area. Additional employment
would be generated in the processing, marketing, and service industries as
a result of increased agricultural input demand and production. Project
assistance to some 650 small scale enterprises is expected to generate
about 1,000 new jobs by full development.
Environmental Impact
8.08      The project would have a significant beneficial impact on the
project area environment. The project-sponsored land use studies should
lead to more rational use of the project area resources both at a regional
level and within farms. The areas found to be unsuitable for agriculture
would be protected and/or eventually reforested, thus reducing soil erosion
in watersheds and siltation in watercourses. The gradual shift from slash
and burn agriculture to sedentary cultivation incorporating crop rotations
and restoration of fertility through use of fertilizers, would help
stabilize land use whilst generating greater incomes. The change to secure
tenure in itself could be expected to lead to more careful stewardship of
the natural resources. Within the farms, the encouragement of practices
such as contour farming, rotation of crops with pasture including legumes,
and the establishment of farm woodlots, all would contribute to
environmental protection, though it must be accepted that their adoption
would be slow. Although the project would encourage use of inorganic and
organic fertilizers, the levels of application would be so low in relation
to plant needs, as to avoid significant runoff losses. The envisaged
minimal herbicide use under the project would be carefully monitored by
EMATER-MA extensionists and its use tested by EMAPA prior to
recommendation.
Impact on Women
8.09      Women contribute significantly to the project area workforce
being involved in all but the heaviest agricultural operations in addition
to substantial off-farm work, most notably, the collection and breaking of
the nut from the babassu palm. Nonetheless, they receive lower wages than
men and remain limited in their employment opportunities. The project



- 46 -
would provide women with expanded employment opportunities on family farms,
both in terms of time and quality of work. To a lesser extent, through its
small scale enterprise component and through its generated demand for hired
labor, the project would provide greater off-farm employment for women.
The impact of this would be monitored as part of the overall project both
by analyzing women's participation in project activities and by trying to
assess changes in earnings and employment. In general, women in the
executing agencies were actively involved in the preparation of the project
and would continue this involvement in execution.
Project Risks
8.10      The proposed project represents an ambitious attempt to redress
some of the most obstinate and long-standing constraints to the development
of a significant portion of the rural popultion of one of the least
developed states in Northeast Brazil. The constraints involved--land
tenure, infrastructure, support services and economic options--reflect not
only scarcity of financial resources, inadequate staffing and
administration of service agencies, and mediocre resource endowments of the
area, but also long-established political and cultural traditions inimical
to change. Thus, perhaps the greatest risk the project faces is the
possibility that the State will not be able to sustain its determination to
bring change to those political and cultural traditions which have hampered
effective small farmer development. Problems of this nature cannot be
avoided in view of recurring changes in administration; however, the risk
has been minimized firstly by trying to ensure that the project reflected
the State's own desires and self-assessment of what would be feasible, and
secondly, by trying to ensure that some of the most politically sensitive
land-related decisions were taken prior to project start-up, thus giving
tangible evidence of the State's commitment to the project.
8.11      The remaining problems which the project would face are no less
serious but can be more readily addressed by project design and are common
to most rural development projects in Brazil. Firstly, there is a risk
that the project would overload the administrative capacity of the State.
This should be partly offset by the establishment of separate
administration units for the three relatively discreet sub-projects such
that the workload of each is reasonably balanced. Although this solution
potentially weakens overall project coordination, the use of State-level
rural development program coordinating mechanisms will lessen this
tendency. The provision of technical assistance by consultants and various
collaborating federal agencies will further reduce the administrative
burden by avoiding the need for initially large staff in some of the key
executing agencies.  Secondly, there is the risk that there could be
inadequate coordination between executing agencies, resulting in less than
optimum complementarity of project activities and even conflicting actions
at the beneficiary level. As in other rural development projects, this
risk would be minimized by: the functioning of the Coordinating Committee
and the Project Management Units; the designation of liaison officers in
each executing agency; the joint preparation of annual operating plans; and
by the continual monitoring and evaluation of project activities. Thirdly,
there is a risk that land regularization activities may be delayed with
consequent delays in other activities. This risk would be reduced by the



- 47 -
annual establishment of goals in the light to progress to date, by the
requirement that annual operating plans are compatible with progress in
land activities and by the provision of technical assistance to ITERMA to
help speed implementation. In view of the crucial nature of the land
interventions, it is considered essential that these activities remain as
the pacemaker for the project even if this means some slowing of activities
in other sectors. Fourthly, there is the risk that farmers will not adopt
the new practices proposed, either because they remain unaware of the
possibilities or because they are not perceived as sufficiently
profitable. This risk has been addressed by giving particular emphasis to
the strengthening of the extension service and research agency, and by
improving marketing opportunities. Finally, there is the risk that project
activities may not be adequately maintained (road maintenance may be
neglected for example) during and after the implementation period. This
has been addressed by directing specific attention to maintenance
activities, supported by explicit assurances to be sought.
8.12      Overall, the risks associated with the proposed project are
acceptable in view of the expected magnitude of project benefits and the
anticipated role of the project in providing experience for similar
projects directed towards resolving the pervasive problem of insecure land
tenure as a key pre-condition for productive investment in rural
development.
IX. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED
AND RECOMMENDATION
9.01      Assurances were obtained from the Federal Government that:
(a) it would take all necessary steps to ensure the timely
availability of credit (para 3.44);
(b) it would take all necessary measures to protect Amerindians in
the Alto Turi and Rio Pindare reserves (para 3.45);
(c) POLONORDESTE activities under the Vale do Medio Mearim project
would be maintained and coordinated with the proposed project
(para 3.46);
(d) it would ensure timely availability of adequate counterpart
funding (para 4.02);
9.02      Assurances were obtained from the Federal Government, the State
of Maranhao and/or COLONE that:
(a) agreements to settle the claims of irregular occupiers in Alto
Turi would be reached by March 1, 1983 for sub-area I, and by
December 31, 1983 for sub-areas II and III (para 3.13);



- 48 -
(b)  the annual areas for which cadastral surveys, discrimination
proceedings, and demarcation would be completed would be no less
than agreed minima (para 3.14);
(c)  land obtained as a result of the project would be used just for
the project; by November 30, 1982, a detailed plan would be
provided for interim management of land to be redistributed (para
3.15);
(d)  satisfactory plans would be provided for the repayment options to
help recover costs of land services, not later than November 30,
1982; the state and COLONE would, by March 31, 1983, have
deposited not less than Cr$40 million and Cr$200 million
respectively to Land Funds for the Baixada and Alto Turi areas
to meet the costs of recovering land in these areas; these land
funds would be maintained for the duration of the project; and
INCRA would assure adequate funds for recovery of lands in the
Mearim-Pindare (para 3.16);
(e)  by September 1, 1983, satisfactory detailed plans for forest
reserves and for the farm woodlot scheme would be provided (para
3.31);
(f)  consultants would be contracted on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (para 4.04);
(g)  all project management units would be staffed by September 30,
1982, their staffing satisfactorily maintained for the duration
of the project, and key appointments made following exchange of
views with the Bank (para 5.07);
(h)  annual operating plans satisfactory to the Bank would be provided
by October 1, and the Bank would be provided, before the
beginning of each project year, satisfactory final plans and
opportunity to comment on subsequent substantial modifications
(para 5.08);
(i)  the State, COLONE and INCRA would enter into and maintain all
necessary inter-agency agreements (para 5.09);
(j)  project accounts would be satisfactorily audited (para 5.11); and
(k)  satisfactory progress reporting formats would be provided by
September 30, 1982, and the quarterly monitoring reports and a
completion report would be provided to the Bank (para 5.12).
9.03      Assurances were obtained from COLONE that it would:
(a)  by September 30, 1982, employ consultants to prepare a proposal
and assist in implementation of a reorganization plan and furnish
this plan to the Bank by March 31, 1983 for review (para 5.05);
(b)  provide the Bank, by July 31, 1983, satisfactory programs for
transfer of project responsibilities, facilities and staff to



- 49 -
state or other entities and complete the program by June 30, 1987
(para 5.10); and
(c) collaborate with the State of Maranhao in execution of the
conditions set forth in para 9.04(b), (d) and (f) below.
9.04      Assurances were obtained from the State of Maranhao that:
(a) it would ensure that ITERMA would be at all times adequately
staffed and directed; consult with the Bank prior to changes in
the management of ITERMA; and establish and maintain a
centralized cadastral record system (para 3.17);
(b)  it would ensure sufficient supplies of farm inputs; the PMUs
would annually provide estimates of input requirements to supply
agencies by June 30; satisfactory criteria for construction of
storage would be specified by September 30, 1982; and COMABA
would hire a consultant by September 30, 1982 to assist in
improving its administrative capacity (para 3.29);
(c) the report on small scale industries would be provided by
December 31, 1982 (para 3.33);
(d) before starting any project financed roadworks, DERMA would
obtain municipal agreements to maintain such works; and the state
would construct additional roads as needed (para 3.35);
(e) road equipment procured under the project would be used only for
construction and maintenance agreed with PMUs; DERMA would
provide additional equipment and support as needed, and plans for
DERMA training of municipal foremen and for road maintenance
would be provided by September 30, 1982; and DERMA would assign
maintenance technicians to the project area and, by March 31,
1983, would prepare a program to strengthen its overall
maintenance capacity (para 3.36);
(f) schools would be constructed at sites selected with criteria
satisfactory to the Bank, after presentation of adequate site
plans and evidence that the site had been acquired, and after the
State had secured municipal agreement on employment of trained
teachers and payment of adequate salaries; and the new curriculum
would be adopted not later than the school year starting in 1984
(paras 3.38 and 3.39);
(g) consultants would be appointed by September 30, 1982 on health
service administration; the Bank would be provided with the
consultant recommendation by March 31, 1983, and the state would
implement the agreed recommendations by June 30, 1983 (para
3.41);
(h) water systems would be installed after arrangements were made
with benefitting communities for their maintenance, and the State
would evaluate these systems and submit its findings by March 31,
1984 (para 3.42);



- 50 -
(i) it would establish a Project Credit Statistics and Monitoring
System by April 1, 1983 and would provide by June 30 annual
evaluations of the credit activities (para 3.44);
(j) it would provide support services and rural infrastructure in the
Mearim-Pindare sub-project area (para 3.46);
(k) it would arrange for adequate counterpart funding, operation and
maintenance, and the timely acquisition and necessary financing
of additional land or rights-of-way required (para 4.02); and
(1) the results of the baseline, mid-term and post-project evaluation
surveys would be provided not later than December 31, 1982, 1985,
and 1987, respectively, except for the results of the baseline
survey of the Mearim-Pindare which would be provided by December
31, 1983 (para 5.13).
9.05      Conditions of disbursement would be that: for the health
component, the State Health Secretariat had completed the staffing of
existing regional offices and health units, and diagnostic facilities for
leprosy and tuberculosis had been established in the Baixada (para 3.41);
and, for all components, the respective written agreements between
executing agencies were in effect (para 5.09).
9.06      Conditions of loan effectiveness would be that an area of at
least 10,000 ha including that of at least three of the fifteen largest
plots irregularly occupied in the Alto Turi area had been recovered in
terms satisfactory to the Bank (para 3.13) and that the Land Funds for the
Baixada and Alto Turi sub-projects had been established with appropriate
initial deposits (para 3.16).
9.07      With these assurances and conditions, the proposed project would
be suitable for a Bank loan of US$42.7 million equivalent. The term would
be for 15 years including a three year grace period.



- 51 -                           APPENDIX
Page 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
MARANHAO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Documents Available in Project File
A. Background Material
A.1   State Preparation Group Proposals.
A.2   Sinopse Estatistica dos Municipios - Maranhao 1979 (SEPLAN-MA).
A.3   Indicadores Economicos - 1980,
SISPLAN - Fundacao Instituto de Pesquisa Economicas FIPES.
A.4   Baixada Occidental Maranhense - Diretrizes - 1978,
Joao Gualberto, SEPLAN-MA.
A.5   Prelazia de Pinheiro, Aspectos Rurais, Vol. 6 - 1976,
Martine Droulers, SISPLAN.
A.6   Shifting Agriculture, Land Gradding, and Peasant Organization on
Brazil's Northeast Frontiers: COLONE's Alto Turi Project and the
Baixada Occidental in the State of Maranhao. Judith Tendler
(consultant), 1980.
A.7   Project Completion Report - Alto Turi Land Settlement Project,
Loan 853-BR, July 1981 (World Bank Document).
A.8   Projeto de Colonizacao do Alto Turi PCAT, "A Agricultura na Area
PCAT", Jose Alencar Carneiro de Freitas, SUDENE, 1970.
A.9   Comportamento de Alguns Clones de Hevea, em Acailandia, na Regiao
Pre-Amazonica Maranhense (Dados Preliminares).
A.10  Land Tenure and Productivity in Maranhao.  Some Empirical
Evidence. John Strasma (consultant), 1981.
B.  Staff Working Papers
B.1   Agricultural Development.
B.2   Land Component.
B.3   Marketing, Input Supply and Cooperatives.
B.4   Inland Fisheries.
B.5   Forestry Development.
B.6   Small Scale Enterprises.
B.7   Rural Transport.
B.8   Education.
B.9   Health and Water Supply.
B.10  Component Costs and Phasing.
B.11  Economic Analysis.



APPENDIX
- 52 -                           Page 2
C. Documents Received During Negotiations
C.1   Act creating ITERMA (Lei No. 4353, de 9 de Novembro de 1981, Cria
o Instituto de Colonizacao e Terras do Maranhao - ITERMA) in
Diario Oficial, Estado do Maranhao, Sao Luis, 24 de Novembro,
1981.
C.2   Act governing the regulation of ITERMA (Lei 4408 de 19 de Abril
de 1982, Altera a estrutura organizacional basica do Instituto de
Colonizaao e Terras do Maranhao - ITERMA).
C.3   Draft convenio between INCRA and the State for the land component
in the Baixada sub-project.
C.4   Draft convenio between INCRA and COLONE for the land component in
the Alto Turi sub-project.
C.5   Draft convenio between INCRA and the State for the land component
in the Mearim-Pindare sub-project.



48'              '           4                 V                                         4'i                           44'                           43'                           42-
BRAZIL
CJ-V&/  MARANHAO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
G7-'H.d. oj,<-'f  7V                          PROJECT  AREA  AND  RAINFALL
Project Area Boundory                                       '      .,            K                 a
Sub-project Boundaries                                                       u       B,c5ri -
LI    Indian Reserves                                                                             C
Auerage Annual Rainfall  rsa                   &n      C                                BA IXA  A                                  /a. /                ,6 ,a/2
2-                 Main  Roads                                            /                                        - J ,                                                                                        2'
B ivers                                                  ,Sisb -r^a at    .                                  GU!cuinaaa
- -   Municipality  Boundaries                                  .                                Helena
State Boundaries                                                      "    to'   V      CD          I
4,000                     O= t CXX                                                                                                                            med
9caurara   t . . saz  >    ffi<d,cn. e
5' ~      ~        /  .'-       uSiInd                     4/ A44B0A                                                                                                                                      5'rP  r n G U/   le=  l=
54   /   X b   (E/d,=                      f     i      <                           -       .g                               CA=/ oorpk/5
i  A   -12~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                     .
3>>\; g J $ *8 t vz X 'Aa g sPa5oe rnaia                                                                                                        020
ma nay Oar(.  linjt c-uru SaaoirOa                                                                                                                                                       /dvof ,5
a'                                  '~ ha               r-nO/.. rr-u=On pu urO1ngndmn/ On                        4/.Y                                                                           A. 
sk iSt L.  T
i I | tV EJt P , fk ~~~~~..., 
9't teitty  are atotnttr                                                                                                                      Io                             S      yrau
us' ~  ~       ~      ~        S 4/                                                                          44                 BOeuouA                                            'A.5,i 
ihisAfph bf pr4s afDVth           \                  .                                                                   s      -  /U                              /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
;   -- e                        (\           \ }                                                          O           | u)             ?2          j                       in _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A,h.
woratneodwsefdAps m                                      '.\                                                                              o | -ARENINA,                       OI-dE- C
0/ DCC p(d ce of SUch tf undanes   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ i;   L                                           3--t   ge*                                                                 m C
L   4do                     47-                           4f '    7-' \                 45'                           44'            2 \              zURUGUAf                           y2, _O






IBRD 16152
BRAZiL                         470                               4t         4odofredo5                                              440                7VENEZUEL    .g-            R.G IANA           DECEMBER 1981
MARANH 0A   RURAL                                                       CarutZoIrdored                                                                         COLMBI                            URAloni/ Ocn/antic
MARANHAO                 RURAL                                   P~~~~~/ omin9e    /AOO    Area a/ Map
DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT                                                                            Mens Turjou                                  Ocean                                                      _
POPULATION  DENSITY                                                                                                        Bacuri
AND  PROJECT  WORKS                                                                                            'cururupu    A                                                          B R                        MARANHAO
Project Area  Boundary                                     /                 c-me                      MirinzolA                          2          U
--       Sub-project Boundaries                                     :rai\?    Sano Hele  A BAt XADA  -uImrBes:
A      Agricultural Services Offices                                 -      Lchrecl2z    -                                                                         BOLIVIA                          Brasilla
*     Proposed  Research  Substations                                    A L T 0        -cl '                euimao A                c0Alcontora  Paco                                                             1
Sub-       *A                          LUI~~r,fNLuia
* Existing  Research  Substations                                                    -                                                       2 PihLes ir Cl   N L  SA  0
-'.---Rivers                                                           '.-J   raPalmeircrtipaia
Municipality  Boundaries                                                                            Bn.oSta.   za4A  \    BS%O  /tu 
State  Boundaries                          *NovR Olinda0A                               d ARA        ENSEA                              7aO
C              -~~~~~~Araguano      a   cntdeerr0Cao'                   osaro   MOrros0                                                            ICENlN , ~Ala   o   Ocean
A               ~~~~~~0
Sao- Joei Bd~lsta'anto
-3t  Rural  Population  Density               *             *,                               S&OJOooBata0k                  Rita0         30       
1-5  Persons per sq. km.                                                Su-,eo                             
610                                                                  ZeD00    <          eav            0Vi.n       naiub           0Pe.Juscelino                   do     4'30                                 4'20
11-20                                                 21 A  50  It~e~uru  rim                                                                            SoS   Benedit o do Ro Preto     Benorador 0
over 50                                                      M          V1t13/I~~~~~~~~~~~      ~      ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~OAo    tapro ur  Varg~  0Ninc Rodrigues       0~auei            ootS
o In       Canto hnde0                 Groede              Rornoaglhaes /
~~~~~~21- 50                         I                                              onJri0           oncoo0                  AAl ogmMoo                                                 nprsmeid
aver 50  {                               Borri Jardim    ,,tre           im    ;   Canta hedeO  \              Varaem               Mata  A ~~~ri             Santa Ouiteria do Maranhdo
S rines                                PtXv '| windare    Chopadinhao               Brejo                                 4
50                   100            150    t                                                 0,        ,oP  Xll,I-                                        
-4            KILOMETERS                150                                    Altannira da0                   Pa MIO   0Lo2o,erdeS   Mafeus CooooBuri 0/ 4,
.                             .? &                 - ^ J                        Wo~~~~            ~           ~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~roata 
.~0                                              do PMSo RO       m        - -  MEARIM   -    -                 SkTimbiros              Aue0sM-Coelho Neto
,0)                                    Par~~~~~~~~~oRamos   Lo~~~~~~~~go do  OS. Luis Tranogo
/  Llogo do Pedro   .Junco0 .       SIrrja Campos         odo
/. ........                                                                 arape Grande,          0Pedreirs                             Adeis Altas.
0Pcode Pedras 
Assailondia                                                               Esperdrii7apolis           m  A     ios Lopes CoAxiasr                                   This map has been prepared by the
-5           /                                                                                                              'g  elardiaO       Pedr        rnaot  Archer                                       World Bank's staff esclush'ely fol
Tirri\  rhe report to which it is attached.
*Governador Eugenio Barros                            The denommnations used and the
Tuntum.    Presidente DutrJ    boundries shown on this map
0 ,n e Dutra                                                  do not imply, on the pert ef the
/ World each an,d ts ayfil,tes, any
Groco Anontro                      /    ~~~~~~~~~judgment'on the legal status of
0Joao Lisboa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Grc Aah                                                                                     any terntor or any endorsement
0 JoaoAmoaite do                                               Barra do Cordoa                                                                         or ac. eptarncoe of such bourndories.
0mmperatriz  47         Amorante o            45                                  5                                 40/3                                                                      3






r~~~a ~~45.", O
Tuiaqu,                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~BRAZIL
4                                   b,-~  6 /                                                                                                      MARANHAO
~' RURAL DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
>ik~fNAGRICULTURAL APTITUDE
-~~~                                                                 * ~~~~--~~~~> ~AND  RAINFALL
/                        ~~~~~~Project Area  Boundary
"~~~~~~'~~~~~~' ~~~~Sub - poiect Boundcry
~~2  /  y~~~~~~~  4        -~~~~~~ 6                                              1    A ~~~~~~~~~  ~Average Annual Ra,nfou  (mm.)
2'00                                                               -Municipality Baoundarres
6                                        /                    _~~~~~
7                                                                                                             CLASS I.L nd   Aptaude Classes
S~~~oH                           . .~~~~~~~~.-<   ~~~~~J47-P  .d -
7  ~~~-XP5                                      "'~                                 n g LL-d
4                                                                 P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~er qurmo0,     J~CLASS Z
7iSarreble for peena,smpo.d      -O   n  ocsool  o
6  .rr'X, ~~~~~~~~~~       4                                    onnee]~~~~9L-                          u,pi and pesr-res
6  r~~~         *Penr  sane>                            - ~~~~~~~CLASS al
4                                                                  0.S L.rral  o  arcad  occenona... I  orc--n acrp
6.Sro   1 ai-aairo  20orocro  an   oosoal0 oiae
&                         -~~~                       Scriob.o or coninew and co~~~~~~~K11 C onuTEs,oaeoclforerearn
S. Vicente ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     la0Ir  abo  o   ocrus  cdfr cisrsre
4 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~                                                       r            r~~aLr  rl  rraepolrr   cerlrsrbefrrc   n
-,>                                                                                      KILOMETERS~~~~~~~~~CLOBI
-3'00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
4~~~~~                         ~~nO   ecclcrc,crcWcanrrarrrrnrrrconooc
n-CS                               I                                                   cc'~~~~~~                                      N
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ci thrpotecc rcrna -ednrocnrcrriO
6   Al                                                        JI:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ooc.rnrrorc;raaornrr.a narare Ordar  rdo
yOa fotoba              LO     BIA   AV/unrB - i.                                 e
nn                                                                         r    r       S         O~~~~~~~~~~~alr
<Pecalpo - - ~ ~ ~         ~         ~        ~         ~       ~         .~IN



